Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - SUNTRUST BANK Fort Meade, MD • More than six years of experience in the IT industry as an Oracle Database Administrator (DBA), having extensive experience in production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, cloning, space management and database security management with Oracle Software on Red Hat Linux, Solaris, IBM AIX, and Windows platforms.  • Possess high competency in advanced DBA skills such as backup, recovery and performance tuning.  • Good exposure with Configuring Single Instance, Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Experience in installing and patching Oracle RAC with ASM on IBM AIX, Solaris and Linux platforms.  • Expertise in setting up Data Guard Failover, Switchover and Read-Only scenarios. Fabricated multiple Clone databases using the traditional method and Recovery Manager (RMAN) utility for high availability configuration.  • Good exposure with Oracle DBA tasks like Installation, Patching, Cloning and Upgrading of Oracle Databases and Grid Infrastructure.  • Extensive knowledge of database backup and recovery strategy using RMAN and configuration of Recovery Catalog for multiple databases.  • Performed periodic backups, both full and incremental, and restoration recovery of database using the RMAN utility.  • Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines, SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11g RAC software with ASM and Oracle Cluster File System, Version 2 (OCFS2) on RHEL and HP-UX.  • Experience in migration of Non-RAC database to RAC, RAC to Non-RAC using RMAN, RCONFIG and DBCA.  • Experience with adding and deletion of Nodes in RAC.  • Experience with upgrading databases from 10g and 11gR2 to 12c.  • Work with Oracle Advanced Technologies like Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Oracle Streams, Data Guard and Real Application Clusters.  • Implemented and configured replication technology using Data Guard installation, configuration and troubleshooting on Linux and UNIX Platforms.  • Implemented different Backup and Recovery strategies using RMAN, Complete and Incomplete Recovery of databases during database crash, disk/media failure, etc.  • Extensively used RMAN DUPLICATE to clone/duplicate target database and restore Tablespace Point-in-Time Recovery (TSPITR).  • Efficiently implemented logical backups using tools like Oracle Data Pump Export/Import and Classic (Original) Export/Import.  • Experience with applying security and quarterly (PSU & CPU) patches to the databases.  • Cloning Oracle Application from PROD to DEV, TEST, and UAT environment.  • Installation, configuration, patching, upgrading and maintenance of Oracle Applications and Oracle Databases.  • Experience in replication using Materialized Views.  • Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling and Authentication.  • Hands-on experience with the new Oracle FLASHBACK Technology like enabling Flashback feature, configuring FLASH RECOVERY AREA (FRA) and implementing Flashback recovery strategies like FLASHBACK Drop, FLASHBACK Table, FLASHBACK Query and FLASHBACK Database.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning of databases using tools like SQL Tuning Advisor, Sales Performance Management (SPM), Segment Advisor, STATSPACK, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH) and ADDM reports.  • Experience working with SQL Tuning tools like SQL Trace, Explain Plan and SQL Profiles.  • Oracle GoldenGate knowledge.  • Configured and maintained unidirectional replication in GoldenGate.  • Creating and maintaining Oracle Wallet and remote authentication.  • Good understanding of System Development Life Cycle, Automatic Undo Management, RAID concepts and advanced features of Oracle 11g.  • Expertise in Tuning memory, I/O and CPU utilization, Disk usage and Space utilization.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle Database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, Data Pump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL packages, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and Materialized Views for Oracle Database.  • Hands-on experience with Logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using RMAN, SQL-BackTrack, Veritas NetBackup.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and capacity planning for new applications.  • Expertise in configuring RMAN with Catalog/Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and Flashback.  • Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross-Platform Transportable Tablespace utility.  • Collected performance statistics using STATSPACK/AWR and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM).  • Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables and SQL*Loader.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Hands-on experience in tuning mappings, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings, and sessions.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills.  • Highly effective in communicating with engineers and technicians.  • Skilled in detailed work, redefining a wide range of operational difficulties.  • Strength in analyzing and improving electronics and administrative methods.  • Committed to maintaining quality and efficiency.  • Enjoy the challenge of providing high quality direct service to clients.  • Proven ability to effectively facilitate communication between management and project personnel.  • Highly inquisitive, creative and resourceful; goal oriented, and enthusiastic quick learner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator SUNTRUST BANK - Tampa, FL February 2015 to Present • 24x7 database administration, support and monitoring to ensure proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Migration of Oracle Databases from Windows to Linux.  • Apply patches to Oracle Databases and Oracle Applications.  • Upgrade development and production databases to Oracle 10g.  • Proactive database monitoring using Oracle 10g grid monitoring tool.  • Database tuning using SQL Trace, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN and TKPROF.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, NetBackup, EMC (TimeFinder and SRDF), RAID and RAW Devices.  • Perform database cloning to set up test and development databases.  • Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  • Perform SQL Tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL.  • Provide support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.  • Use RMAN for backup and recovery. Perform Hot, Cold and Logical backups. Perform backup validations using RMAN.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using KornShell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, and granting required privileges to users.  • Perform other DBA activities such as space management and performance monitoring.  • Experience in Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshooting and resolving issues.  • Have implemented two types of standby databases supported by Data Guard, Logical standby and Physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two-node RAC.  • Hands-on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with Veritas NetBackup and Commvault.  • Implement Active Data Guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11g & 12c environment for the Production databases.  • Configure and manage Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  • Performance Tuning - Gathering stats, creating indexes and tuning memory settings for optimal performance.  • Work with 11gR2, 12c multi-node RAC/Non-RAC environment on LINUX, ASM, SCAN, and GIS.  • Set up and configuration of Standby Databases, Active Data Guard, Snapshot Standby and Data Guard Broker.  • Involvement in timely database and application releases for Oracle Applications in conjunction with the Development Team, Application Team, System Administrators and Release Teams.  • Tuning of Oracle Database, tuning memory, I/O, Resource contention, Database operation and performance diagnostic tools (TKPROF, SQL Trace utility, Oracle Expert and Oracle SQL Analyze).  • Frequent interaction with Developers, working with them in developing the applications using SQL Trace and Explain Plan utilities.  • Implement partitioning on huge tables to improve performance and reduce maintenance to finite window operations.  • Monitor databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager and Toad. Monitoring at the OS Level and monitor backups using the OASIS tool.  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle Audit Vault for auditing all of the databases at the same time.  • Set up and Maintenance of Oracle Advanced features like Oracle FLASHBACK and Flash Recovery Area, Data Guard (Physical Standby) and Failover procedures.  • Experience on OEM 12c installation.  • Knowledge in the architecture design of OEM, Oracle Database and application monitoring.  • Implement and configure GoldenGate in RAC environment.  • Implement 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables.  • Develop RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and work on RMAN Active-Active Duplication.  • Experience with logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using GoldenGate. Worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10g.  • Schedule RMAN backups, purge jobs, maintenance jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $Universe.  • Design and implement different backup strategies like Hot, Cold, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handle Chained Rows and Row Migration, and solve the database performance issues.  • Experience with ASM, adding, and deleting disks to the disk group.  • Support development teams for all the database-related issues and handle the critical issues like network failures and ASM Disk Group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generate STATSPACK/AWR reports using OEM 12c from Oracle 11g database and analyze the reports for Oracle Wait Events, time consuming SQL Queries, tablespace growth, and database growth.  • Use Explain Plan, Oracle Optimizer Hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provide tuning recommendations to application jobs, and time/CPU-consuming queries.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Data Pump, SQL Trace, TKPROF and EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator ESTES-EXPRESS - Richmond, VA March 2013 to February 2015 • Cloned and migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump Export/Import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases using RMAN if the database crashed or media/disk failed.  • Scheduled the Physical backups (Hot & Cold) in Crontab using RMAN and monitored the scheduled jobs.  • Performed configuration changes using Autoconfig.  • Pre-Patch Analysis for the patches and document preparation with pre- and post-patch steps.  • Applied patches (Maintenance Pack, Interoperability Patch, Release Update Patches (RUP), and Family Pack).  • Created application users, user profiles, responsibilities, menus, and functions.  • Validated and created grants & synonyms on APPS schemas. Performed JAR file/forms generation as a post-patch step, and Relinking the Oracle APPS programs.  • Performed Application Tracing for various user sessions and for various concurrent programs.  • Monitored the alert log and trace files for errors.  • Performed cloning of Production database to TEST environment to provide user live data for testing purposes.  • Managed OLTP databases, RAC and Non-RAC having 24x7 activities, handled all aspects of databases including administration, tuning, backup and recovery in Production, Test and Development environments.  • Provided the database dumps and schema level dumps to DEV and TEST database environments.  • Performed reorg of the schema/tables and data archiving at regular time intervals.  • Planned and Scheduled Backup/Restoration Strategies and made backups of the database using RMAN.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and granting necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24x7 support for all production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch Set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using “runInstaller” and Perl based utility “OPatch”.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2, 10.2.0.3 and 10.2.0.4.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data Pump Export/Import of Oracle 10g and 11g allowing users to quickly move a user tablespace across Oracle Databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes at database, schema and table level using RMAN utility and Data Pump conventional Export/Import of Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Performed installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on the HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application Cluster) database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non-CDB (Container Database) on 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c non-CDB databases to Pluggable Databases (PDB).  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented tablespace level Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) security.  • Constantly monitored the performance (Dynamic Performance (V$) Views) at peak load of the databases and viewed the alert log files and trace files.  • Ran scripts to check the database status, such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime. Performed Switchover and Failover using Data Guard Broker and manually performed this operation when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical Standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized Views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.    Tools Used: Oracle Streams, RMAN, Data Pump, Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11i, Sun Solaris 10.0, SQL Trace, TKPROF and Explain Plan Field Service Representative / Technician ROCHE DIAGNOSTICS FOR ADECCO TECHNICAL - Columbia, MD October 2009 to March 2013 • Provided routine technical support to Roche Diagnostics' customers on installation and maintenance aspects of molecular diagnostics system equipment and robotics.  • Performed service, repair and installation of company products, including mechanical/system hardware and networking/wireless networking, sometimes working with the primary technical specialist.  • Performed hardware updates on medical equipment using standard and specialized hand tools.  • Performed software updates of medical devices.  • Performed electrical safety tests on medical devices using an electrical safety analyzer.  • Recorded test results.  • Input and manipulated data in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet.    Tools Used: Roche Diagnostics' Molecular Analyzers (Ampliprep, LC480, TaqMan48, TaqMan96, MagNa Pure 96, MagNa Pure Compact, Hamilton Star, Cobas 4800) Education School of Professional and Graduate Studies/Technical Courses BAKER UNIVERSITY - Overland Park, KS General/Business/Science Courses UNIVERSITY OF ALASKA - Anchorage, AK Skills Please see 'Additional Information' section. (6 years), Oracle DBA (6 years), DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Oracle Databases  Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c    Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, and DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Data Pump Exp/Imp, LogMiner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, BMC Remedy, Erwin and Quest QDesigner    Operating Systems  LINUX, UNIX (Solaris 8, 9 & 10), IBM AIX, Windows 7, 8 & 10, MAC OS 9 and OS X    Hardware  Red Hat Linux 6.2, Dell EMC Servers, HP-UX 9000, Hitachi, Sun Fire 15K, Sun Storage 6320, Sun Enterprise Servers (890, 880, 420 & 450), Sun StorEdge 6320, Compaq Servers (6000, 3000, 1600 & 800), IBM PC and Compatibles    Software  Microsoft Word, Mail Merge, Excel, Power Point, Outlook, Exchange and various others    Other Technical / Computer Skills  Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I  ETA International Computer Service Technician Certification / A+  Hardware Break Fix Technician  CompTIA Network+ (Accredited Course Certificate / Industry Certification Pending)  ETA International Wireless Network Technician Certification  ETA International Fiber Optics Advanced Certification  ETA International Customer Service Specialist Certification  Other office, electronics, business and industry related equipment  Web Design / Graphics Design