Amazon Redshift Administrator and ETL Developer, Business Intelligence Amazon Redshift <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and ETL Developer, Business Intelligence ETL Developer and Database Administrator Plantation, FL To work as database administrator, implementing this role appropriately and effectively in the organizations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Amazon Redshift Administrator and ETL Developer, Business Intelligence MSP Recovery - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2018 to Present Maintain multiple database environments (Redshift, RDS) in AWS.  User management and group in Redshift.  Design and Developed ETL jobs to extract data from RDS and load it in Redshift Matillion ETL and python script).  Experience working within the AWS Big Data Ecosystem (S3, RDS, and Redshift).     Expertise in development of various reports and prepare the data for the utilization with tableau.  Expertise Query Tuning and Performance optimization and Implementing Work Load management.  Managing Amazon Redshift Snapshots using the console. Database Administrator CEAACES - Quito, Provincia de Pichincha November 2014 to December 2015 QUITO ECUADOR  • Designed of Conceptual Logical Model and Physical Model.  • Implemented, supported and managed the database.  • Kept data integrity and availability.  • Designed, deployed and monitored database servers.  • Managed user administration  • Migrated different databases in SQL Management, PostgreSQL and Oracle  • Migrated and created new database structures, such as tables, indexes and stored procedures from development to the production environment.  • Created and tuned query, stored procedures, triggers, views and added/changed tables for data load and transformation, and data extraction.  • Created backup and restored strategy of production, development and test environments.  • Executed recovery databases and created the documentation to provide the disaster recovery processes. Database Administrator Ceige - Havana, IL September 2007 to October 2014 CEIGE, LA HAVANA CUBA  • Produced entity relationship & data flow diagrams, database normalization schemata logical to physical database maps, and data table parameters.  • Installed and managed Database Server  • Created and monitored user accounts, user permissions, database extents and table partitions.  • Implemented robust backup and recovery procedures based on data volatility and application availability requirements  • Monitored and optimized system performance using index tuning, disk optimization, and other methods.  • Monitored the size of the transaction log. Managed databases on multiple disks using Disk Mirroring technology.  • Collected, stored, managed, and enabled the ability to query the organization's metadata.  • Ensured data availability using administration tactics  • Designed, debugged, implemented, and maintained stored procedures, triggers, and user-defined functions that are stored in the DBMS Education Bachelor in Computer Science University of Informatics June 2007 Skills SQL management (5 years), PostgresSQL (7 years), Oracle (1 year), MySQL (4 years), microsoft office (10+ years), PHP (3 years), .NET (2 years), ETL, Data Warehouse, Datastage, Data Stage Additional Information • Proficent in data modeling and database design  • Skilled at Metadata management and repository usage  • Experienced to manage large databases  • Able to organize the procedures that affect the database, such as backup and recovery procedures  • Able to solve technical problems that are caused by database design or malfunction  • Good communication skills to provide database help  • Procedural skills  • Ability to focus on deadlines and deliverables  • Able to work with SQL Management, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft Office