SQL Database Administrator/Developer SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer - Avant Network Alexandria, VA Over 5+ years of experience in SQL Server Database Administration, Performance Analysis, Database Design, Development and Support of SQL server 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016 in Production, Test, Development environments, Replication and Cluster Server Environments.  Detail-oriented, Reliable, Responsible, self-motivated team player with success implementing solutions to create optimal efficiency. Strong interpersonal and communication skills with the ability to collaborate with diverse individuals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator/Developer Avant Network - Richmond, VA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Providing 24x7 dedicated production and Technical Database support for SQL Server Database System.  • Installing, configuring and maintenance MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2014.  • Designed and Developed Databases, Tables, Views, Stored procedures, Triggers and Indexes.  • Involved in Database Log Backups and Restoration, Planning Backup Strategies and Scheduling.  • Rebuilding Indexes for better Performance.  • Verify Backups and Error Logs on the Servers and Troubleshoot any Failures or Alert Problems.  • Responsible for Installing, Configuring, Managing and Maintaining SQL Fail over Clustering.  • Involved in Creating Logical & Physical Database Design using Data Model Tool.  • Responsible for Configuring and Maintaining Snapshot, Transactional and Merge Replication in the Production Environment.  • Using Third Party Tool Red Gate ensuring all Databases are Backing Up on the regular basis and then restoring the Database on requests.  • Involving in Improving Database Performance using SQL Profiler, Trace Flags and Execution Plan.  • Working with Installation, Configuration and Creation SSRS.  • Managing Security (User and Login creation, Grant and Revoke Access using Database and Server Roles).  • Creating and Monitoring SQL Server Agent Jobs and Troubleshooting as required.  • Performing regular Backups and Scheduling Tasks.  • Migration of Databases between Servers.  • Configuring Database Mirroring and ensuring High-Availability to the Database by Testing the Failover.  • Monitoring of Database Size and Disk Space.  • Deploying SQL Databases in cloud Azure/AWS.  • Configure Cloud Computing and Migrated Databases from SQL Servers to Azure Cloud Environment.  • Configuring Log Shipping for multiple Database as part of Disaster Recovery. Database Administrator/Developer ITSC PLC - Addis Ababa, ETH September 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Database Development and Business Intelligence Technologies with expertise on Integration, Analysis and Reporting using MS SQL Server.  • Extensive experience with SQL Server and T-SQL in constructing tables, triggers, user defined functions, views, indexes, user profiles, relational database models, data dictionaries, and data integrity.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL.  • Substantial knowledge throughout Database development for both OLTP (Batch Processing, Online Processing) using SQL.  • Creating ETL packages involving various data sources (SQL Server, Access, Excel source files) using MS SSIS.  • Develop data quality solution using SQL Server data services (DQS) as part of ETL.  • Analyze data using SSAS, Excel, Tableau and Power BI tools for decision making process  • Built Self Service Business Intelligence dashboards using Power BI tools in Excel.  • Wrote T-SQL queries to manipulate data for data analysis and reporting.  • Developed reports using MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Performed query optimization using SQL Trace, SQL Server Profiler and SQL Server Extended Events. Graphics Design Assistant SEMS STUDIO PLC - Addis Ababa, ETH October 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Downloading Images from Web based Application into Adobe.  • Scanned, cleaned up, Recolored image Files and Prepare for Design.  • Helped Graphic Designer in Preparing Designs and Contents.  • Done Restoration of Pictures useful for Graphics.  • Think Creativity and use Innovation Ideas to come up with new Concepts and Design.  • Responsible for Solid design fundamentals (typography, composition, layout, color, etc.)  • Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite. Education Master's in science University of Trento - Italy Master's in Science Addis Ababa University, - Ethiopia Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATA MODELING, T-SQL, SSRS, Sql Server, ETL, SSIS, MYSQL, Performance monitoring Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional: MCP