Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - First Tennessee Bank Work Experience Database Administrator First Tennessee Bank - Charlotte, NC July 2016 to Present Oracle Database Administrator Clusterware and ASM - Chicago, IL August 2012 to July 2016 ORACLE  • Supported multiple databases for production, development, test, and staging, including upgrading databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2  • Planned maintenance activities and implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases using Dataguard Broker  • Performed Goldengate heterogenous replication to SQL server and DB2 and worked on a unidirectional Goldengate for real time data replication  • Utilized Goldengate configuration to monitor and troubleshoot gaps between source and target databases  • Utilized Goldengate and EXPDP/IMPDP to develop logical backups and migrate data from 10g to 12c  • Managed 24x7 on-call support for 12 database of 2.0 TB  • Utilized Oracle 12c Cloud Control for alert monitoring of 3 node production of 10g and 11g RAC databases  • Utilized RMAN extensively to schedule and monitor hot and cold physical backups in Crontab, and to recover database information in the case of crashes, media, and disk failures  • Used RMAN Active Duplication to create and build physical standbys and disaster recovery sites  • Expertly migrated 12c non-CDB databases to pluggable databases to increase functionality  • Migrated systems from Oracle Database to PostgreSQL using AWS migration initiatives with minimum downtime and no loss of operability  • Created and managed USER MANAGEMENT and SPACE MANAGEMENT, including creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users  • Developed and applied all upgrade, maintenance, and interim (opatch) patches on all databases as needed  • Utilized data from production regularly to refresh development and test instances  • Improved performance and streamlined space management through defragmenting tables and indexes  • Implemented physical standby database using Oracle Dataguard and Active Dataguard for high availability configuration in an RAC environment  • Installed all aspects of RAC including grid infrastructure (Clusterware and ASM) and Oracle rdbms software on 3 node RAC architecture  • Used OEM to create notifications including cluster activities, tablespace utilizations, and listener alerts, and to monitor and troubleshoot database issues  • Performed database recovery using Guarantee Restore Point  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented strict Tablespace level TDE security  • Achieved optimum database uptime through skillful management of database maintenance activities  • Allocated system storage and planned future storage requirements as well as configured grid infrastructures and software to meet current and future expansion needs  • Developed database link between local and remote databases using distributed database feature  POSTGRESQL  • Managed all aspects of PostgreSQL databases, including backups, creation of users, tables, roles, and managed privileges, and documenting and implementing the data migration from Oracle to PostgreSQL Cloud  • Installed and configured9.4, 9.6 and 10.8 versions  • Implement security measures such as crypto.  • Managed databases through the use of pgadmin and psql  • Perform Migration using goldengate and MTK tool  • Installed pgbouncer and pgtool to resolve connection pooling issues  • Refreshes on same server and across servers using pgdump  • Utilized pg-restore, and Point in Time Recovery to manager restoration techniques  • Managed databases using pgadmin and psql  • Utilized pg-restore, and Point in Time Recovery to manager restoration techniques  • Increased performance through tuning tools such as pghero, analyze, and pg_stat_activity  • Performed backups, restoration, and compressed backups using pgbackrest, and used vacuum, vacuum all, and auto vacuum to perform additional maintenance  • Performed all database administrator responsibilities including performance tuning, tablespace and user monitoring, and problem solving  • Wrote SQL scripts to create database objects  United Airlines Chicago, IL  Oracle Database Administrator Aug. 2012 - July 2016  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11g on Linux and headed upgrade from 11g to 12c  • Managed tablespace growth, monitored data file growth, and extents  • Exported and imported database objects to copy them between databases and for table backup  • Continuously monitored CPU usage, I/O contention, memory paging, and identifying performance bottlenecks to ensure high performance  • Defragmented data blocks to optimize performance, partitioned large tables to increase performance  • Managed user, space, and database security, and all other database activities  • Resized online redo logs in production and standby databases  • Cloned and migrated databases through the use of RMAN and traditional datapump export/import utilities  • Utilized SQL and PL/SQL to automate database refresh from Host to Oracle  • Utilized Dataguard and Active Dataguard to implement logical and physical standby databases for RAC clusters including high availability configuration in a 3 node RAC environment  • Installed ASM to migrate databases from non-ASM to ASM  • Installed, configured, monitored and tuned Goldengate Unidirectional for real time replication.  • Utilized RMAN and implemented recovery strategies to perform full and incremental cumulative and differential backups  • Extensively utilized OEM Grid Control to set up rules for alert notifications and scheduled RMAN backups with failure notifications  • Performance tuned and diagnosed DBMS and individual production databases  • Used application team requirements and data from migration review meetings to develop an effective migration strategy  • Honed skills at applying security patches using "run installer" and Perl based utility Opatch Education Bachelor's Degree University of Yaoundé II Skills AWS (2 years), Database (6 years), databases (3 years), Linux (6 years), ORACLE (6 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Postgresql Certifications/Licenses OCA OCP SCRUM Leadership and Management Additional Information Areas of expertise include:    ? HP-UX 10.x, 11.x  ? Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10  ? AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1  ? RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x  ? Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10  ? Windows 95/98/NT/2000  ? Database monitoring  ? Backup & recovery with RMAN and Point-in-Time Recovery  ? Cloning from Multi-Node to Single-Instance and vice versa  ? Troubleshooting prod issues  ? Explain analyze, pgdump  ? Physical database design  ? Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12C  ? PostgreSQL databases 9.6, 10.7  ? On-call 24x production support  ? OEM Cloud Control 12c  ? Pgadmin, Pgbackrest,  ? Vacuum  ? Transparent Data Encryption  ? Turnkey Encryption Platform  ? Goldengate 12c  ? Installation and configuration of unidirectional Goldengate 11g  ? Database and application patch deployment  ? Oracle Financial Services Lending and Leasing  ? Monitoring/Health Check Alert Scripts  ? Grid Control (OEM)  ? Oracle 11g RAC  ? Clusterware and ASM  ? OLTP and OLAP systems  ? Oracle Primary and Standby (Dataguard) Database  ? Transportable Tablespaces (TTS), Data Pump and Export/Import Utilities  ? ADDM, SQL Tuning and Access Advisors, AWR, and ASH, Explain Plan  ? Shell Scripts, Crontab, and SQL Scripts  ? SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader  ? AWS Migration Initiatives  ? TKPROF, Explain Plan, STATSPACK  ? Bilingual - French