Database Administrator (contractor) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (contractor) Database Administrator (contractor) - ISHGLO-ONE Corporation Alexandria, VA i In-depth understanding of database security, backup and recovery procedures to ensure database integrity.  i Highly organized with focus in prioritizing workload and scheduling follow-ups.  i Extensive experience in Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g Administration.  i High level of energy, integrity and ethics with the exceptional ability to deliver outstanding bottom line results with short deadlines.  i Analytical approach to problem solving and detail specificity.  i Excellent writing and organizational skills.  i Team-oriented approach to co-workers.  i Experienced in planning and implementation of backup and recovery strategy, used physical backup and logical backup using EXPORT/IMPORT, Expert in disaster recovery. Work Experience Database Administrator (contractor) ISHGLO-ONE Corporation - Frederick, MD February 2010 to Present i Performs regular health checkup of production and test databases and performance of Oracle application system.  i Performs backup and recovery using RMAN, Flashback Technology and user managed backups.  i Use Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and table spaces that contains PII data.  i Use Oracle flashback technology to restore databases and tables as needed.  i Apply Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches on our databases every quarter.  i Use RMAN duplicate command to clone/refresh development database from production.  i Use RMAN to perform database recoveries and migration when necessary.  i Installed and configured Oracle 10g/11g software on Linux.  i Upgraded several databases from Oracle 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4 and later to 11.2.0.1.  i Performed various DBA maintenance task such as rebuilding indexes, validating constraints, reorganizing tables using the move command.  i Installed and verified the database software on the database server. Planned, prepared and scheduled software installation.  i Performed database design tasks such as enforcing referential integrity standards; create database tables and table dependencies such as indexes, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, views, materialized views etc  i Setup backups and performance monitoring scripts using croon jobs.  i Cloning Oracle databases from production to development environments. Junior Database Administrator The Kidz Docs - Alexandria, VA January 2009 to February 2010 i Documented migration process, database creation, monitors, and load scripts.  i Altered, modified and created tables, views and sequences.  i Created users and assigned them privileges and roles as requested by application developers.  i Exported data from old systems and imported them into new databases using expdp and impdp.  i Modified table spaces and object storage as needed.  i Created Oracle instances with appropriate initialization parameters as requested.  i Managed archives logs and redo logs.  i Created databases based on requests of sponsors.  i Oracle 10g/11g installation and upgrading software and database. Education Biology HOWARD UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC 2006 Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Microsoft Windows (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Visio, Oracle10/11g, Oracle Enterprise Linux, UNIX    DBA Training: Oracle Database 11g Administration 02/2009-02/2010