Volunteer Volunteer Atlanta, GA Experience with SQL server database with excellent client skills seeking a junior position where I can utilize my technical knowledge, skills, and abilities in a dynamic organization. Also, learn and further advance my skillset with a highly motivated company. Action-oriented with strong ability to communicate effectively with technology. Work Experience Volunteer The City of Augusta Ga's Cyber & Robotics Camp 2019 to Present Database Administrator, Intern City of Augusta - Augusta, GA May 2017 to August 2019 * Experience as a production support MS SQL Server database administrator; Junior technical skills in MS SQL Server 2016 and 2017 including system installation and upgrade, backup and recovery, database maintenance and support, release management, troubleshooting, performance tuning, configuration and support of DTS, SQL Server Agent jobs and maintenance plans  * Monitor, optimize, and allocate physical data storage for database systems.  * Documentation of SQL servers builds and dependencies  * Develop, implement, and maintain change control and testing processes for modifications to databases.  * Perform database transaction and security audits.  * Establish appropriate end-user database access control levels.  * Develop routines for end users to facilitate best practices database use.  * Experience with continuous integration build systems and tools. (e.g. Boss)  * Data Protection transition from HP UX to Linux/Unix  * Physical backups, daily disk to disk, monthly to tape long term recoveries for file systems, SQL, and Oracle DBs  * Net gear ReadyNas 4260 to manage the law enforcement body cam storage  * Created jobs, alerts, and SQL Mail Agents.  * Installed and configured multiple SQL Server instances in production environment.  * Backing up, restoring the data base manually and also by scheduling jobs and Maintenance Plans.  * Familiar with Veeam backup and replication software Client Support, Intern City of Augusta - Augusta, GA May 2016 to August 2016 * Maintained the monitoring of all data communications systems.  * Set up computers and install software  * Entered entire support activities and client details in tracking system.  * Effectively and clearly communicated with customers in their language.  * Responded to customer email and telephone IT concerns and issues.  * Analyzed customer computer requirements to meet user needs.  * Continually updated personal knowledge of computing hardware operating systems and software.  * Maintained confidentiality and discretion when working with passwords or sensitive materials.  * Imaged new PCs for clients.    Leadership Experience  * Bronze Medal Academic Recipient, 2013 - 2015 National Society of Black Engineers 2015 to 2016 Math Club 2013 to 2015 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Savannah State University - Savannah, GA December 2017 Skills MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, CLUSTERING, DISASTER RECOVERY, C++, PERFORMANCE TUNING, SHIPPING, AUTOCAD, MICROSOFT OFFICE Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pmusoko6id3glz1s Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Relevant Skills  Clustering MS SQL Server Management Studio 2016 2017 Disaster Recovery Data Protector Backup and Restore Mirroring Log Shipping High Availability  C++ Computer Network & Design Microsoft Office Suite Network and Design AutoCAD Performance Tuning