Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Jelani Consulting LLC Minneapolis, MN Mrs. Killen has Six years overall experience as a Seasoned Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with strong emphasis in Database Security. Mrs. Killen is a Proactive Database Administrator (DBA), providing excellent Oracle Database Production Support work such as: Software Installation, Data Migration using Data Pump, Monitoring and Trouble-Shooting Performance issues, Backup and Recovery using RMAN, Replication of data, implement Database Security using the Cisco AAA+ model and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Applying the (OPatch), Memory Allocation Management, Performance Monitoring and Tuning database. I possess a strong written, verbal, and organizational skills and as well as proven leader with self-motivational management style. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Department of Education:Osseo School District ISD 279 - Minneapolis, MN May 2014 to Present • Responsible for the upkeeping, configuring, troubleshooting, and support of Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c in both production, development and testing environment  • Proactively Monitor database and OS related issue in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Coordinate system support and run performance tuning day-to-day database administrating tasks like, tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Responsible for ensuring availability and performance of the databases that support the enterprise applications  • Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL and SQL Servers for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Applied Oracle Quarterly patches (CPU and PSU) databases  • Proficient in Migrating data and transportable tablespace using Data pump utilities like Export/Import, Sql*Loader.  • Perform full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implement recovery strategies.  • Good knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS)  • Monitoring and Trouble-shooting database performance issues by generating, interpreting and using OEM, Optimizer Statistics/Explain Plan, ASH, AWR, ADDM, and TOAD.  • Experience in installation and configuration of oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  • Troubleshot network connectivity to ensure availability for users.  • Support application and professional services to manage their data ranging from GB to TB in oracle database, solving of space problem, data loading problem.  • Providing all round DBA support to resolve application and database outages on production, development, test and staging customer environments across the region. Oracle Database Administrator IBM - Fargo, ND March 2013 to May 2014 • Responsible for Database Administration on production databases with Oracle releases 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Administered and monitored infrastructure to support the oracle database environment using SQL*PLUS, SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager Express 12c and OEM 12 cloud control.  • Installed and configured databases using OUI and DBCA and performing database upgrades using DBUA from 10g through 12c following upgrade path.  • Ensured optimum Oracle database performance by using Explain Plan, Tkprof, Stats Pack, and SQL Trace to optimize SQL queries.  • Proficient in RMAN technologies for Backup and Recovery, cloning/duplication, refreshing and disaster recovery.  • Worked on high availability and scalability solutions using Real Application Clusters (RAC), Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Data Guard.  • Defined & executed backup & security strategies, tested backups periodically for consistency.  • Created database objects such as tables, views, synonyms, sequences, and triggers  • In-depth knowledge of database manipulation (create new tables, modify existing tables, create new indexes, create/ modify schema, role, privileges, data files and table space and other DB related tasks).  • Define and applied the required Oracle patch level (based on Oracle support and our Company requirement).  • Database Partitioning and Implementation. Education Bachelor of Science North Dakota State University - Fargo, ND December 2013 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, Oracle Database, Sql Database, Sybase, Rman, RAC Links http://linkedin.com/in/larwuo-harris-killen-2ba770177 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  CORE SKILLS/COMPETENCIES  • High-Availability / Disaster Recovery Methods, including RAC, Data Guard and ASM  • Backup and Recovery Strategies, using RMAN, Data Pump, and RMAN Catalog  • Technical Documentation for Capacity Planning and Change Management in Enterprise Domain  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning/Troubleshooting  • Created, Configured and Maintained Physical and Standby Databases  • Performing Upgrades using Manual method and Data Pump  • MySQL, RDBMS, and Oracle Database Architecture  • Database Cloning/Refreshes/Replication  • Use of SQL and PL/SQL  • Software Installations and Configurations per company SLA's in Environments  • Database Modeling and Database Design/Creation using OUI, DBCA, and others  Technical Skills:  Database Tools/Utilities and other Software: SQL * Plus, SQL Developer, SQL * Loader, SQL Tuning Advisor, Data Pump, RMAN, PuTTY, TOAD, VMWare, Enterprise Manager, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAIN, ADRCI, AWR, ADDM, ASH, AWS, SSIS, SSRS, ASM, RAC, Data Guard,  Databases: Oracle 10gR2, 11gR2, 12c, and MySQL