Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Woodbridge, VA I am an Oracle Database Administrator with over 6 years of experience, Working on Installing and configuring different Oracle versions like Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g, running on different platforms including Linux, HP-UIX and Unix. I have monitored and managed databases of varied sizes ranging from 40GB to 2TB across the SDLC. I have worked for Production support on performance tuning, backup and recovery, database security, data migration, managing/monitoring databases, database/schema refreshes, cloning, data Replication. I have done Project work on Patch/Upgrade Installation, configured a Physical Standby Data guard, 2 node RAC and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability Solutions and attended seminars on Data warehouse and data modeling. I have also supported some applications like PeopleSoft HR, FN and CRM. I have also worked with ETL.    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    A.) Experience as 24x7 production support DBA working on:    ? Experienced in Performance Monitoring, Tuning and Troubleshooting where I tune the Network, OS, Instance, application and the database using tools such as TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, Optimizer, ASH, AWR, ADDM, SQL Trace, SQL Access advisor(SAA), SQL tuning advisor(STA).    ? Experienced Doing User Managed backups (Hot/Cold), db. Recovery using RMAN, Logical Backups using data pump and RMAN db. cloning using multiple backup strategies like full db. backups, level 0 db. backups, level 1 db. backups, incremental differential db. backups, incremental cumulative db. backups and tuning backups to meet recovery needs. Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques like performing recovery of full database, PIT recovery, critical and non-critical datafile recovery and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.    ? Implementing Advanced Database Security using auditing, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Data Redaction and data masking. Creating/managing profiles, users, granting and revoking roles and privileges.    ? Experienced with Data Migration of Oracle Databases across same and different platforms using DataPump, Export/Import, Transportable Tablespaces(TTS), RMAN Cloning and Schema Refreshes.    ? Managing/Monitoring databases using OEM, ORACLE GRID CONTROL, Multitenant Architecture, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listener, AGENT Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Stats Pack and tuning of initialization parameters and Using custom scripts made by SQL developers.    B.) Experience with project work, working on:    ? Experience the application of database Patches and Upgrade from 10g to 11g to 12c using "uninstaller" and DBUA including testing and applying security Quarterly Patches for security and bug fixes using PSU, PS, OPATCH UTILITY.    1.) High Availability Solutions  ? Configuration and Implementation of Data Guard Physical / Logical Standby Database and Monitoring / Resolving on and off Gap or lagging issues.  ? Configuration and installation of Bi-directional GG on 11g/12c for Oracle databases to enable real-time data replication, integration and continuous data availability and synchronization across heterogeneous environments. Capture, Propagation, apply using Golden Gate and fixing issues such as extract, or replicate rebuild and abend.  ? Configuration and Installation of RAC for few instances to promote high availability, improved performance and scalability and on RAC systems did CRS upgrade, ASM upgrade, DB Upgrade and OEM Agent Upgrade. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Vectren - Evansville, IN August 2015 to June 2019 • Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer and other OS related utilities like top, vmstat, iostat and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 12c to monitor single instance and RAC databases.  • Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  • Performed oracle Software's Installations, Creation of new standalone and clustered databases.  • Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements and design indexes to improve response of queries.  • Automated monitoring of Golden Gate process and heart beat monitoring.  • Provide support for Oracle RAC, including applying patches, performance tuning, Backup and recovery issues with RMAN, trace analysis, service creation for the apps to fail over, cluster and system management.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Installed and Managing Oracle, 11gR2 3 nodes of cluster (RAC) on Solaris 11.  • Configured and Managing Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard (Active Physical Standby on 2 nodes RAC )  • Design and Maintaining Physical standby maintenance (Switch over - using Data Guard Broker).  • Installed and currently Managing Oracle 12c Grid Control (OEM) for monitoring Production, Active Data guard (DG Broker), Stage and Dev systems.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Implemented 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables.  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/RAC tuning using Dictionary views, AWR, Stats pack, ADDM, ASH reports, OEM Grid Control, Fine tuning of SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and table spaces at performance standpoint.  • Performance tuning - Tune SQL statements, I/O, Memory, latches etc. Worked extensively on SQL Profiler, Explain Plan and Stats Pack for tuning top wait events, high cost SQL's.  • Database structure changes, table/index sizing, SGA sizing, SQL, I/O and Application tuning, transaction monitoring, detecting lock contentions, tuning sort operations.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries. Oracle DBA Admiral Insurance Company - Austin, TX November 2012 to September 2015 • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC) / ASM on Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.x boxes.  • Implemented 11g Data Guard Physical using DG Broker, and experienced with 11gR2 Data Guard new features Active Data Guard and Snapshot Standby.  • Worked on Golden Gate 12c Replication configuration like unidirectional as well as bidirectional as per the requirement and addition of tables for the existing Golden Gate configuration.  • Performed Data Guard switchover/failover as per the requirements.  • SQL Queries/Application and Database performance monitoring and tuning using various tools like ADDM, AWR, Explain Plan and Statspack reports.  • Database Growth and Space management, capacity planning; distributing the tables, redo logs, archived redo logs and rollback segments on different disks to optimize data retrieval.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year-old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Modified database structures including tablespace, tables, views, triggers, stored procedures as well as configuration and storage allocation to support application enhancement.  • General DBA daily jobs such as disk usage monitoring, table/index rebuild and reorganization as needed. Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Worked with latest 10g/11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Bachelor's Skills AIX, LINUX, SOLARIS, Oracle Dba, DBA