Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst - Wells Fargo, New Jersey Jersey City, NJ • Around 8 years of work experience in all aspects of Software Development lifecycle with specific emphasis in business analysis as part of Waterfall and Agile (Scrum) methodologies.  • Solid understanding in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, testing and deployment.  • Strong facilitation and project management skills to negotiate priorities, escalate and resolve conflicts among project stakeholders, coordinate with cross functional teams, and conduct status and checkpoint calls.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills, strong analytical skills, desire and ability to research and formulate appropriate analytical technology and resolve complex problem situations and document results.  • Experience of working with Business Owners, Analysts, Product Managers, and technical teams to define requirements and identify dependencies across finance, auto and retail industries.  • Actively worked on metrics, Process improvements for cost saving, Risk Tracking, Coordination with other vendors, stream-lining the process between Onsite and Offshore and People Management.  • Experience in PL/ SQL & Oracle Database and Application support with expertise in handling database backup, health checks and supporting Web Applications in production environment for different technologies.  • Experience in IIS Web applications hosting ITSM applications, ASP.Net related applications  • Worked on debugging/load balancer tools like HTTP Analyzer, Windows Network load balancer  • Handled multiple activities as part of database support including Db upgrade, applying quarterly CPU patches, handling space issues in Oracle and MS- SQL databases, meeting the Service level Agreements as per business standards.  • Worked on monthly work status reporting and updating technology specific documentation.  • Experience in supporting applications hosted in shared infrastructure for different customers.  • Experience in production support in resolving major application issues related to ITSM (OTRS/ CA Service Desk) applications, IIS/ Apache web-based applications, standalone applications, and server capabilities.  • Expertise in in and out flow of chatbot tools like Bold chat and LogMeIn.  • Handled application issues in bold chad and worked on tool enhancements.  • Strong on working with Notifications, problem incidents, Change and incident management process.  • Creation of Standard Operating procedure & Best Practices documents as per Business standards.  • Got appreciation for developing a framework for server space optimization  • Got recognized from the higher management and from the customer for designing interactive screen using FWI tool.  • Thrives on responsibility and challenge and is committed to customer service excellence. Work Experience Sr. Business Analyst Wells Fargo, New Jersey November 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Acted as a liaison between business stakeholders and software development team to gather requirements.  • Facilitated (JAD) Joint Application Development sessions to identify business rules and requirements and then documented them.  • Worked with business to analyze Trade transactions, Positions, Valuation, PNL Attribution, Accounting, Collateral etc. across asset classes in Listed/OTC derivatives and Cash products  • Worked on requirements for data sourcing and ingestion from Systems of Records to the Hadoop based data lake  • Created mapping and transformation design to meet the defined data model on the data lake  • Supported analysis of Data quality, Metadata and Data Governance requirements and integrated them with the overall system requirements  • Prepared functional test cases along with use cases for appropriate evaluation of the application that is being developed  • Analyzed the quality of data for further downstream usage by building framework for data quality checks  • Utilized technical expertise to manage multiple assignments, including large and critical projects to assure timely and cost-effect objectives delivery  • Scheduled and prioritized work and plan a sequence of development activities that accomplish the planned targets  • Assisted in the creation of project plans by interacting with the various stakeholders viz. IT and Business leads and prepared presentations for the group  • Simplified the existing processes by identifying the routine procedures / complex mechanisms and made these easier through automation and best practice sharing.  • Standardized the list of elements and their business description, by closely interacting with different functional teams.  • Conducted GAP Analysis for training purposes between existing application and proposed integration of new system.  • Assisted in building transformation logics for source to data mapping of business elements  • Prepared functional specification document (FSD) and data dictionary as part of documentation for downstream consumption.  • Assisted in QA through development of quality assurance artifacts and developed PL/SQL queries for testing, implementation and user acceptance testing.  • Conducted functional walk through with dev, QA and UAT teams to ensure smooth translation of requirements and minimal defects during SIT/UAT. Sr. Business Analyst Federal Mogul, Bold chat - Atlanta, GA November 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Identified, assessed, and documented business requirements, recommended business priorities and advised business on options, risks, and costs with various alternatives as part of building SQL Server based CRM application.  • Conducted requirement elaboration sessions and documented business requirements and business solutions.  • Worked closely with IT teams, Operations, vendors and other client departments to co-ordinate systems testing, application deployment, and training and support activities.  • Maintained Compliance tracker, roadmaps, dashboards and overall inventory.  • Actively tracked metrics during sprints and shared results with scrum team to measure progress and plan for upcoming projects.  • Developed use cases, workflows, screen mock-ups and conversion requirements.  • Interacted directly with stakeholders to identify and evaluate improvement opportunities and explained issues.  • Worked closely with the application development and design team to resolve technical issues and interacted with them to ensure overall quality of the project.  • Participated in design review meetings and translated the requirements to the developers and guided the team during issues with business requirements occur.  • Worked with the users to prioritize and schedule the enhancement requests with the business needs.  • Interacted with clients to discuss better UI features that can be provided through the application to the clients.  • Identified project resource needs, obtained necessary resources, defined project team roles, and ensured effective team dynamics.  • Worked with the testing resources and business owners to formulate test scenarios and user acceptance test cases.  • Having experience in supporting the application issues chatbots like bold chat and LogMeIn.  • Based on the customer requirements enhanced the changes to the chatbot, made sure the changes done accordingly and was responsible to deploy the files from Dev. to Prod. system. Business Analyst Chrysler - Detroit, MI February 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities  • Collected requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, business process descriptions, use cases, scenarios, business analysis and task / workflow analysis.  • Formulated business requirements, created / updated business requirement and functional design documents and assisted with implementation, and testing plans.  • Liaised between stakeholders, business units and technology teams  • Utilized agile methodology to complete sprints and tasks included in daily standup meetings / reporting.  • Created standard operating procedures (SOPs) and software specifications documents.  • Assisted operations manager for weekly reporting / related documentation as required.  • Worked with SME's and Users to elicit actual and underlying needs of the Business and System.  • Worked on delivery of documentation and presentations, participating in project teams and providing regular status reporting.  • Translated business requests and all subsequent change requests from the client/Users (processes, rules, requirements, acceptance criteria) into functional and Non-Functional requirement Documents.  • Facilitated analysis workshops with internal and external resources to draw out stated/Unstated details of business and product requirements  • Collaborated with functional users and IT staff to troubleshoot problems identified in testing, resolved issues during systems upgrades, translated requirements into UAT / functional test plans, and ensure proper testing of system functionality.  • Prepared workflow charts and diagrams to specify business processes supported by proprietary financial systems.  • Coordinated / delivered training for departmental end users and central users of system modules.  • Developed effective reporting tools to support business unit information requirements.  • Assisted and supported QA team in understanding and creating manual and automated test plans, testing efforts, root cause analysis.  • Assisted and supported Development team to understand the actual system requirements of the clients/Users.  • Maintained updated, accurate, and clear stories for the scrum teams to ensure Customer satisfaction and facilitated UAT.  • Continuously facilitated Meetings and Sessions to pinpoint the actual Requirement Specifications from the Clients and reach the session/teams to consensus.  • Performed Gap Analysis, created and maintained various BA artifacts. Business Analyst Dollar General - New York, NY June 2012 to December 2013 responsibilities  • Was accountable for the product/project releases on time through close collaboration with agile product development teams and the extended client organization  • Worked on building platform for data-informed decisions for the product and the business using retail analytics  • Conducted quantitative and qualitative analyses including customer behavior, retail trends  • Responsible for building SQL server-based ticketing application which was used for retail merchandise planning, demand forecasting, inventory management and product performance analysis  • Ensured that issues logged into defect and incident reporting and tracking tool (Team Foundation Server) are accurate, complete, and ensure there is no existing ticket on the same issue.  • Investigated new requests for work to determine high level business requirements and assess feasibility.  • Supported the creation of robust and compelling project proposals and business cases.  • Ability to interact effectively with non-technical, functional user community while being able to translate customer needs and business requirements into features and high-level functions.  • Supported the on-going development and implementation of business analysis and business solution design methods, tools and practices.  • Carried out analysis of impact, risks, technical dependencies and review/validate expected benefits.  • Worked as a connector and a facilitator for Test Team, Development, Production team and Clients.  • Updated the daily status and participates in the Daily and Weekly status meetings.  • Documented detailed Business Requirements Documents (BRD), Technical Requirement Specifications (TRS) and Functional Requirements Specification (FRS).  • Developed test plans, test cases and conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Facilitated requirement gathering sessions with the business team to collect the business standards, security and service level requirements and studied the business process.  • Create and execute SQL queries to find clues on what may be causing the opportunity.  • Perform root cause analysis on production issues.  • Action upon ad hoc tasks requested by business partners to support day to day operations.  • Worked with SQL, functions to test the database integrity.  • Worked closely with the Dev team and assist them in producing a quality code.  • Assisted with risk assessment, mitigation and re-planning efforts when necessary. Sr database administrator Miller Coors, Irvin oil - New York, NY November 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities  • Worked in a role which involved 24 X 7 Production Oracle database support and administration and on-call rotation.  • Involved in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 10g/11g RAC.  • Converted a single instance database to Oracle RAC.  • Performed backups and recoveries using RMAN/conventional hot & cold backups.  • Worked on Upgrade/Migration of databases from Oracle 9i/10g to Oracle 11g.  • Involved in Creating and refreshing materialized views.  • Used SQL* Loader and External Tables to Load data from flat files to database and implemented different Partition methodologies.  • Worked on taking periodic Backup of the Database and the software using RMAN and VERITAS Netback up.  • Monitored databases using OEM and worked on Oracle Database and Oracle Applications cloning/refresh.  • Participated in other database admin activities like applying RDBMS patches, security patches, proactive monitoring of databases and applications.  • Conducted multiple "dry runs" (test runs) to gather timings for production upgrades  • Worked on incident/problem and change management. Database administrator Avis Budget Car Rental - Houston, TX December 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities  • Was responsible for daily production support of all databases.  • Analyzed and Resolved problem tickets as per the Service Level agreement lines.  • Created user accounts and assigned roles & privileges as per the requirement.  • Worked on reorg and rebuilding the indexes.  • Maintained scheduled backups of all the databases and re-running the backups if any failure.  • Worked on tablespace management and configuring the monitoring alerts for tablespace health check.  • Maintained 100% SLA and in resolving the incidents, done DPP and proactively handled archive space.  • Worked on Space issues, configurations and fixing all types of ORA-errors.  • Monitored scheduled jobs and resolved any failed/broken jobs.  • Generated/Prepared AWR, ADDM reports for performance analysis.  • Worked on data files movement from one drive to another drive, health checks - Identifying violations and giving business justifications.  • Developed overview documents on database installations. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad 2009 Skills Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Jira, Itil, Maximo, Tivoli, Aix, Linux, Ux, Hp-ux, Hummingbird, Service desk Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, ITIL  Agile Tools JIRA  Database Oracle 10g/9i, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server 2008,2010  Third-party Tools Putty, VNC Viewer Hummingbird, Tivoli monitoring  Operating Systems IBM-AIX, HP-UX, Linux (4.0), Windows 2008  Chatting Tools Bold chat, LogMeIn Rescue  Interactive dashboard Tools Four Winds Interactive  Incident/ Change Tools IBM Maximo, ITSM (OTRS/CA Service Desk)