Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cotiviti White Plains, MD • Certified Oracle Database Administrator over 6+ years of experience with strong emphasis on delivering world-class solutions across corporate  • DBA (OCA-Oracle certified associate) and well versed with SQA(Software quality assurance) life cycle, requirement gathering, deploying test cases development, also with Oracle EBS(E-Business Suite).  • Hands on experience in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation)  • Performed upgrade In RAC environment from 11. 2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and perform rolling upgrade using data guard  • Good experience in RAC Clusterware administration, Configuration and Patching Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups.  • Implemented various backup strategies for Large / Medium sized databases using RMAN  • Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.  • Experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing implementing Databases.  • Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  • Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 11g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  • Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine tuning those sql's for better performance.  • Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, Or debug and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  • Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  • Implemented LINUX HUGE PAGES on OEL 5.5 and Red hat Linux 6.x for Clustered Environments.  • Extensive experience in shall and batch scripting on Red hat Linux 6.x.  • Design and write T-SQL and scripts to automate database management tasks.  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Managing RDS instances and EC2 in AWS  • Migrate standalone database to AWS  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler.  • Experience in using 11g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 11g&12c Grid Monitoring.  • Skilled in cross platform migrations from Windows to Linux, Solaris to Linux.  • Strong knowledge on troubleshooting Networking issues TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet protocol)  • Excellent Experience in installing and maintaining Oracle Dataguard to implement physical Standby Databases for Disaster Recovery.  • Experienced in Installation of high availability RAC environment (2node clusters) and upgraded standalone databases to 11g RAC environment.  • Proficient in setting up Standby Database using shell scripts and RMAN utility tool, activating and Re-building Standby Databases both Physical and Logical supported by DATAGUARD.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and materialized view for Oracle database.  • Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and capacity planning for new applications.  • Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /No catalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  • Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.  • Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).  • Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.  • Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation  • Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pools like Recycle pool, Keep pool.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace management, maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Experience in Golden Gate upgrade from 10.2 to 11.2.and Installing Oracle patches  • Configure Migration, Replicate and Extract processes and implement unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Scripting.  • Hands on experience in tuning mappings, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings, and sessions.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cotiviti - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to Present • Create documentation to support the business and satisfy regulatory requirements.  • Plan and execute disaster recovery for company production systems.  • Research and solve Oracle and product errors (external client and internal).  • Managing RDS instances and EC2 in AWS  • Migrate standalone database to AWS  • Plan and implement backup and recovery strategy and write scripts to do nightly RMAN backup.  • Installed, patched, and managed Oracle Database versions 11g on Red Hat Linux  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g,11gRAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 2GB to 20TB  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c and 13c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Implemented Golden Gate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal impact to online systems.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes.  • Also, worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Migrated OLAP databases close to 8TB with minimal downtime using GoldenGate and verified data integrity using Goldengate Veridata tool for Linux 3 Node RAC.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Implemented 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables.  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Converted Goldengate Classic Replicat to Co-ordinated Replicat to improve the throughput of golden gate apply.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  • AWS EC2 instance creation and management. Including configuration and provisioning of instance for deployment of oracle db's  • Deployed RDS on EC2 instance including oracle and mysql.  • Coordinated maintenane activities including shutdown and startup of db's and ec2 instances  • Completed RDS backups before and after maintenance activies including upgrades and patching  • Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11. 2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Production Support Database Administrator FIU College of education - Miami, FL March 2012 to May 2015 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Worked on Installation and maintenance of Oracle 11g, 12C RAC databases including Golden gate, ASM and CRS.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Performed upgrade In RAC environment from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and perform rolling upgrade using data guard  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Performed Initial load, Extract, Replicat, trial files and exporting data onto Repository Database using Golden Gate tool.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Masters of Science in Chemistry Douala University Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman, Hp-ux, Ux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Aix, Linux, Sun, Remedy, Erwin, Oem, Loader, Emc, Oracle Dba, DBA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Database Tools: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, Service now, Remedy  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2