SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - PenFed Credit Union US Citizen with seven (7) years of professional hands-on experience working as a Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database- Administrator (DBA) strong knowledge on SQL Server Installation, Configuration, Data Modelling, Backup-Restore, Disaster Recovery, Monitoring, Troubleshooting, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Replications, AlwaysOn, Mirroring, Clustering, Log-Shipping and proficient in writing SQL/T-SQL scripts - Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Constraints, and Views. I have in-depth knowledge and experience with Database Security, Dynamic Data Masking, TDE and Column level Encryption, Creating login and provide permissions in SQL server and Active Directory. Also hands-on experience in native tools such as Execution Plan, Profiler,  Extended Event, DTA, and ER-Diagram. Third party tools like RedGate, Idera, SolarWinds, JIRA, Service Desk and ER-Win. Hands-on experience in SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.    I have communication/social skills and the ability to manage multiple complex projects being innovative. Also I am a creative problem solver, results oriented. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirement gathering & analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, & maintenance.  I am self-motivated, team player with excellent verbal, written, and communication skills with business analysis and technical knowledge. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator PenFed Credit Union - Chantilly, VA February 2019 to Present • Installation and Configuration: Building up SQL Server from scratch such as Installation, Post Configuration with Automation, and job setup with Automation script for new build servers.  • Creating appropriate documentation for new installations.  • Applied Service Pack (SP) and Hot Fixes stand-alone and clustering environment, and in AlwaysOn servers.  • Migration: Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server 2005, 2008 /2008 R2 Databases into SQL Server 2016 and 2017.  • Migrating AlwaysOn Servers and Databases to updated versions.  • Upgrading SSIS package to updated versions and deploying the SSIS Package.  • Database High Availability: Installed, Configured, and Managed AlwaysOn Solution in SQL Server 2016 and 2017. Also configured and managed Clustering, Replication, and Log-shipping.  • Performance Tuning, Query optimization, Execution Plan, identifying slow running queries and troubleshooting, I/O, memory, CPU bottle necks, lock, blocks and deadlocks, monitoring sessions. Performance Tuning, Query optimization, Execution Plan, identifying slow running queries and troubleshooting, I/O, memory, CPU bottle necks, lock, blocks and deadlocks, monitoring sessions.  • Used DBCC to check database conditions, and rebuilding indexes and other database maintenance purposes as well.  • SQL/ Backup/Recovery: Recover Database from Suspect mode, working with disaster recovery, Restore and Recover databases using backups. Also troubleshoot any Job failures or Automation failures.  • Security Design: Create AD Group based on different environments such as DEV, QA and PROD, creating Multiple AD groups based on permissions such as Read, Read Write, ADM and DB Owner etc. Identify PII Data, create Dynamic Data Masking on PII Data also I create login and give them permissions based on the requirements.  • Creating TDE in AlwaysOn Databases, Dynamic Data Masking in PII Data, and Column level encryption.  • Work Environment: SQL Server 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008, 2008r2, 2005.  • Windows Server: Windows Server2016, 2012R2, 2008 R2, AD (Active Directory), and VM Ware.  • Ticketing Tools: JIRA and Service Desk.  • Monitoring Tools: SolarWinds, Logic Monitor and Dynatrace. SQL Server Database Administrator Dep of Health and Human Services, MD February 2015 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  AlwaysOn Configuration: I have installed and Configured AlwaysOn in multiple replicas end-to-end on my AlwaysOn configuration  Applied TDE: I have Created TDE in 130 Databases on my TDE Creation project.  Migration: I have Migrated Databases from SQL Server to Azure SQL on my migration project.  • Database Administration and Managing: Managed Development, Test and Production Servers/Instances and Databases.  ? Migrated Oracle Databases into SQL Server 2012 and 2014.  • Database High Availability:  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed Database AlwaysOn, Clustering, Replication, Mirroring, and Log Shipping.  • SQL/ Backup/Recovery:  ? Have work experience and strong knowledge in disaster Recovery, Restore and Recover databases using backups, also troubleshooting any job failures.  • Automation: Setting up maintenance plans, creating automation jobs, setting up the schedule using SQL agent.  T-SQL, Triggers, Stored Procedure:  ? Wrote T-SQL such as Constraints, Indexes, Stored-Procedures, function, View and Triggers.  ? Optimized SQL queries, Stored Procedures and Functions Trigger, also supported developers to execute and optimize query.  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning:  ? Performance Tuning, Query optimization, Execution Plan, identify and trouble-shoot I/O, CPU, Memory bottle necks, lock, block and deadlocks, monitoring sessions, and Monitoring SQL server performance using Activity Monitor, profiler to find performance.  • Index/Constraints:  ? Created and managed Indexes (Cluster/Non-Cluster), and Constraints.  • Security Management:  ? Created and Managed login, roles, security at object level, data encryption, TDE and Dynamic Data masking.  • ETL Tools: Used ETL tools SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS. Create SSIS Package, create reports.  Work Environment: AWS, Azure SQL, SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012R2, 2008 R2, AD (Active Directory), Financial Applications, Enterprise Reporting System, IIS, Dot Net. MS SQL Database Administrator Department of Labour - Washington, DC August 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  Migration: I have Migrated Oracle into MS SQL Server 2012 on my Migration Project.  Database High Availability: Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server2012 creating cluster environment.  • Database Programming: Wrote T-SQL, Trigger, and Stored-Procedures. Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Database High Availability: Configured and Maintained Database mirroring, Log-shipping and Replication.  • Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning: Strong on database Monitoring and Performance tuning. Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, and backup verification. Monitor SQL Server Error Log, and space usage  • Backup/Recovery: Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery. Having experience in Point-in-Time Recovery. Restored Database from backup.  • Data Modelling: Worked on Data modelling and generated E-R Diagram. Data modelling tool using SQL Server Data Diagram.  • ETL Tools: Used ETL tools like DTS, SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS.  • Export & Import: Data from/to Oracle, MySQL, and Access Database including flat files like text, Excel, and CSV files to SQL Server 2005/2008r2 and 2012.  • Report Development: Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services. Develop and Deployed Reports.  Work Environment: SQL Server 2012, 2008 r2, 2008, 2005, 2000 Windows Server 2012R2, 2008, 2003r2, AD (Active Directory), and Applications in .Net Platform. Skills Database, Sql server, Replication, Sql, Stored procedures, Active directory, Clustering, Dns, Encryption, Iis, Solarwinds, Optimization, Vmware, Data masking, Disaster recovery, T-sql, Security, Share point, Jira, Application server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Databases: SQL Server 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008, 008r2, 2005.  • Windows Server and Active Directory: Experience in administering Windows Server 2016, 2012r2, 2008, 2003, AD (Active Directory), Domain, DNS, File server, Share Point and VMware.  • SQL Server Tools: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Execution Plan, Activity Monitor, Extended Event, SQL Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor.  • Third Party Tools: JIRA, SolarWinds, Erwin, Service Desk, Idera.  • Programming: SQL, T-SQL, Scripting, debugging, constraints, stored procedures, Functions, View and Triggers.  • Performance Tuning: Server Optimization and Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Experience in resolving lock, block, Dead Locks or long/slow running  Query, Task Manager, Performance Monitor.  • Database High Availability: Strong knowledge/experience in configuring and administering High Availability Database Solutions like AlwaysOn, Replication, Clustering, Mirroring, and Log-shipping Database.  • Backup/Recovery: Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery. Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery. Restored Database from backup.  • Security: Experience with Security and Audit Management like Security, Encryption, TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), Column level Security, Dynamic Data Masking, AES, and 3DES.  • Creating Login and User: Creating login and giving permissions in SQL server and Active Directory based on Server level, Database level and object level.  • Application Server: Administered IIS application server, and deployed applications.  • Service Pack: Applied Service Pack (SP) and Hot Fixes for Standalone, Clustering, AlwaysOn Instances, and Operating System.  • Development Tools: Visual Studio2010/2012, 2015, 2017, BIDS, and SSDT.  • VMware/Virtual Box: Knowledge and experience of Installing, and working on VMware/ Virtual box.