SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Comcast Cable Hanover, MD Versatile and Resourceful Database Administrator (DBA) with a wealth of hands-on experience with in-depth knowledge of the entire spectrum of Microsoft SQL Server, looking to acquire more knowledge and share knowledge with my team and explore while growing in my career as an IT professional.  Extensive experience in designing, implementing, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Enterprise MS SQL Server environments including Windows Server 2012/2008 R2, SSMS, SSIS, and SSRS. Provides full life cycle of SQL Server database support across global enterprises. Creates high-level analyzed findings reports for management and clients specifically identifying database issues that leads to overall database health improvements. Proficient in technologies comprising MS SQL Server and Windows. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work collaboratively with other team members, juggle multiple priorities while enjoying sharing knowledge.  Always have a desire for self-development, continuous improvement and learning new things because no knowledge is lost. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Comcast Cable - Baltimore, MD January 2017 to Present • Responsible for SQL Server Physical Database design, implementation, maintenance and capacity planning  • Using IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager to quickly pinpoint and predict database issues before they happen, from query monitoring to transactional application monitoring, getting built in tuning advise and best practices and guidance to address problem issues.  • Installed SQL Server 2014 and 2016 on WindowsServer2012Enterprise Edition Environment as well as virtual machines.  • Linked Server configuration and troubleshooting.  • Database Backup, Backup Testing, retention policy and restore via network share drive.  • Initiated Database Migration from source server to destination server (our newly acquired SQL server 2017). Setup migration check list and migration plan for future migrations. SQL Server DBA Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC November 2013 to December 2016 • Performance tuning, maintaining and troubleshooting database problems  • New Server build and migration as part of Get-Well Project.  • Used Unattended Installation of SQL server for the installation of multiple SQL instances to save time.  • Backed up databases using Full, Differential and Transactional log backup methods.  • Restored Database from database backups and file backups. Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery.  • Ran DBCC statements to check physical and logical consistency of the database and rebuild indexes.  • Performed and monitored Database Backup and other jobs in the maintenance plan Restoration and Point-in-Time Recovery.  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage etc. during capacity planning, and solved problems as needed  • Maintained server level, database level and object level security best practices by creating logins and users, configuring permissions and assigning different roles to users.  • Experience with Active Directory.  • Configured database mirroring as part of the disaster recovery solution.  • Configured Database Mail and SQL Server Agent. Created operators and proxies.  • Created SQL Server Event, Maintenance Plans and Performance Condition Alerts.  • Schedules and automates maintenance plans using SQL Server job agent  • Performed database integrity checks using DBCC utilities and maintenance plan configuration wizard.  • Created, reorganized and Rebuilt indexes and constraints.  • Performed database migration and upgrade from SQL Server 2008 to 2012, 2014, 2016.  • Install and apply Service Packs (SP) as necessary. SQL Server Migration Assistant SSMA 2014 to 2016 • Upgraded data to a modern data platform using DMA ( Database Migration Assistant)  • Applied Patches and Service Packs to keep the databases and OS at current patch level  • Develops SQL Server Logins, Groups, Users and assigning roles and authentication modes as a part of Security Policies for Various Categories of User Support  • I use PowerShell scripting for my automation and deployment of services.  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including Backup, CPU usage, Monitor Database health, Disk space and Backup verification with my scripted performance tuning jobs that run every day as part of my performance tuning steps to optimization of the environment.  • Implemented troubleshooting of SQL Server performance issues using SQL Tools, execution plans, Trace, statistics, index tuning wizard, SQL profiler, DTA ( Database Tuning Advisor).  • Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user permissions and space issues on Production and Development Servers and handling maintenance Jobs  • Performance tuning by analyzing execution plans, creating and maintaining indexes (rebuild/reorganize), Statistics, partitions, Client/Server Connectivity and structure modification.  • Facilitated Data Migration to and from various sources using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS and SSMA)  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Created, scheduled and monitored scripted SQL jobs, making sure jobs run successfully every night SQL Database Administrator 2014 to 2016 • Installed, configured, and administered MS SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 Integration Services (SSIS) and Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Developed a detailed designed document of the environment after stabilizing it.    SQL Database Administrator Cisco Systems - Lagos, NG March 2010 to September 2013 • Designed the backup and recovery strategies for SQL Server databases to meet SLA requirements.  • Managed and maintained production Microsoft SQL Server 2008R2 on which the databases are hosted  • Recommend and implement best practices for SQL architecture  • Conducted database optimization and allocation of database resources for optimum configuration and performance  • Implemented the methodologies and technologies that determine the flow of data within and between the various business systems and databases  • Responsible for the identification and resolution of information flow and content issues  • Monitored SQL servers and made necessary changes to optimize their performance  • Installed, upgraded and migrated SQL server as necessary  • Performed security checks on the databases and SQL servers  • Assisted in the maintenance of the SQL user accounts; i.e. creations, changes, deletions, etc.  • Assisted in providing a stable backup structure for the SQL databases and SQL servers  • Documented the SQL server configuration, connectivity, function, reboot requirements, etc.  • Assisted in troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose database and SQL server related problems Education Bachelor of Science in Economics University of Uyo 2012 Skills Database, Database design, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Etl, Disaster recovery, Information security, Ms sql server reporting services, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Visual studio, Reporting tools, Rdbms, Security, R2, System analysis, Problem solving, Performance analysis Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • RDBMS: MS SQL Server, MS-Access  • Performance Tools: SQL Profiler, System Monitor, Performance Monitor, Database Tuning Advisor, Index Tuning Wizard, Extended Events, IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager, Database Performance Analyzer  • ETL Tools: SSMA, SSIS, Import and Export Wizard  • Reporting Tools: MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008/2012, Windows 2008/2012  • Microsoft SQL Servers: SQL Server 2008/2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016  • Migration: Detailed Migration and Mitigation plans  • Documentation: Design Document of SQL Architectural design of the whole environment  • Cloud: Microsoft Azure Cloud, AWS  CORE COMPETENCIES  • Migration and Upgrades  • Security & Database Permissions  • Database Backup & restore  • Disaster Recovery  • Database Performance Tuning  • Database Monitoring  • Microsoft Azure cloud    • Performance Analysis  • Project Management  • Database Design  • System Analysis  • Always-On Technology  • Visual Studio  • AWS    • Troubleshooting  • Critical Thinking & Problem Solving  • Information Security Policies  • Process Improvement  • Meticulous Attention to Detail  • Capacity Planning