Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Edison, NJ Work Experience Senior Database Administrator AppLab Systems Inc - Edison, NJ October 2015 to Present ? Installation and Configuration of DB2 environment in LUW.  ? Upgradation of database from v9.5fp7 to V9.7 fp11 from v9.7fp11 to V10.5 fp6.  ? Actively Involved in design/configuring databases on HADR-TSA/HADR-VCS and VCS clusters.  ? Apply the db2 patches by using zero down time Approach.  ? Setting up the Q-Replication as per customer requirement by using Bi-Directional strategy.  ? Experience in managing Table space Capacity Management, Archival logs and DB Backups.  ? Extensive work experience in DB Tuning, Performance issues and Query Optimization using db2batch & db2advis  ? Having experience on DPF environment servers.   ? Setting up the Zero Down Time server as per customer requirement by using database WRITE SUSPEND/RESUME mode.  ? Strong knowledge in Database Physical Support and Design  ? Hands on experience on DB Backup and Recovery strategies.  ? Hand-on experience in Migrating Databases from DB2 V9.x to V10.x  ? Extensive experience in working with db2 specific tools such as db2pd, db2dart, db2support, db2top, db2inspect, db2advise,db2explain, db2diag,db2look, db2move & db2relocatedb.  ? Ensure availability of databases through database backups, verifying backups, ensure proper functioning of Jobs  ? Improve security by controlling user privileges/roles and implement profiles to meet the Security Standards.   ? Create and maintain DB2 UDB instances and databases for development, test, and production environments within AIX operating environment.   ? Implemented backup compression techniques and can support Time finder backups   ? Having good knowledge of AIX and Linux Operating System  ? Monitor security breaches, error log(s), database and log space, user activity and resource utilization of production environment. Work with application programmers to ensure that application problems do not adversely affect production operations  ? On-call 24x7 production support and Training guidance to offshore DBA's Senior Database Administrator Infinite Computer Solutions - Edison, NJ July 2013 to October 2014 ? Installation and Configuration of DB2 environment in LUW.  ? Stabilizing the DB2 environments and streamlined the systems.   ? Identifying key milestones and deliverables.  ? Upgradation of database from v9.5 fp10 to v9.7 fp7.  ? Configuring the High Availability techniques like HADR& HACMP.  ? Installing and configuring the databases to IBM OPM tool for proactive monitoring of DB2 databases.  ? Extensive experience in fine tuning of long running queries.  ? Extensive experience in loading large volumes of data across DB’s.  ? Backup & Recovery of Database, Online database backup, archived log files and Offline.  ? Granting / revoking various authorizations to different Users/Groups.  ? Capture and analyze Explain and Visual Explain information.  ? Usage of tools like DB2 Load, Import, Export and Reorg, Run stats, Reorg Check, Backup, Restore, Db2move and Db2look  ? Creation and management of both system level and object level roles and privileges for various users. Killing sessions and granting/revoking user privileges and roles.   ? Exposure on DR test & strategies like Failover Clustering/HADR.   ? Cataloging Databases on various nodes.   ? Involved in physical database layout design.  ? Working with apps team to deploy the releases on time and more accurately.  ? Snapshot monitoring was done to detect deadlocks, buffer pools and lock escalations.  ? Provide assistance to the development team on performance tuning, resolving locking situations, assist data modeler with SQL scripts.  ? Responsibilities include disaster recovery, capacity planning and Real Time monitoring, troubleshooting and proactive maintenance.  ? Perform file system copy from production to non-production using TSM backup and recovering DB2 databases in non-production environment.  ? Implemented Database partitioning and Archival logging in DB2 UDB.  ? Troubleshoot the issues as and when required.  ? Attending Weekend calls with offshore and onsite teams.   ? Setup and maintain documentation and standards. Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating system: AIX (UNIX), Linux, HP -UX & Windows 98/XP,  Languages: SQL, UNIX, Shell Scripting  RDBMS: DB2 UDB v8..x & v9.x, V10.1 & Oracle 9i & 10g.  TOOLS: Manage Now, Maximo, Remedy Tool and ICCM.