DATABASE AND SYSADMIN CONSULTANT <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> AND SYSADMIN CONSULTANT DATABASE AND SYSADMIN CONSULTANT - US Airforce Military veteran with an honorable discharge from the United States Navy. Professional experience as a Database Administrator (DBA). Worked on Oracle12c, 11g, and 10g versions. Work areas include production and development and test support, installation and configuration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, cloning and refreshes, security, database upgrades and patching, database migration. I hold and maintain an active US government Secret security clearance and a COMPTIA security+ certification. Work Experience DATABASE AND SYSADMIN CONSULTANT US Airforce - San Antonio, TX March 2019 to Present • Advise and train personnel on vulnerability assessment and remediation to include ACAS Scan and HBSS software on windows software. This includes both application and OS patching and system tightening.  • Advise on key oracle database functionality like patching, upgrades, encryption and other security components on the database.  • Advise and train personnel on storage management and handling backups and other heavy system jobs.  • Advise and train personnel on key database and middleware design and functionalities.  • Managed APEX applications  • Advise on Risk Management Framework (RMF) set up and execution along with applicable documentation.  • Advise on system accreditation and compliance. DATABASE ADMIN US Airforce - San Antonio, TX December 2017 to Present • Helped in the implementation of Risk Management Framework (RMF). Coordinating with other Information Assurance stakeholders to ensure maximum security and well defined and auditable procedures for database.  • Automated tasks using window's server manager event and tasks schedule to achieve maximum performance and save man power and time.  • Performed Oracle's PSU/CPU patches and some other interim patches to ensure optimal security and performance of different database components.  • Assisted in the drafting and documentation of tasks and procedures to enable and facilitate execution and operation.  • Partake in change management to include the creation of an incidents response plan, and an audit plan to ensure data availability, integrity and maximum security.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Performed troubleshooting of Server 2008 and other platform issues and helped ensure business continuity and availability.  • Helped with setting up a business continuity documents to assist continuity of business processes in the event of a tragic even. This includes: well documented manuals and documents stored in backup locations that can be retrieved in case of a disaster.  • Performed both proactive and reactive tuning on database. Using tools like SQL developer, explain plan, ADDM, AWR, indexes etc.  • Supported web-based service maintenance and support using apex and other tools to help maintain website applications and ensure 24/7 availability.  • Performed system administration task on windows server 2008 to include: backup and restore, software installation and configuration, managed users, managed storage and processes, active directory and domain management to name few. SQL DBA Wurth - Billings, MT September 2014 to December 2016 • Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Install client/server Oracle software, setup and configuration of Data guard  • Wrote scripts to create tables, views, indexes and synonyms required meeting developer needs.  • Good experience working with Cluster Server Management and have successfully completed projects on Oracle RAC - Install, Configure, implement, and support.  • Resizing and reorganization of database objects: Tables, Indexes, Rollback segments and Redo log files of existing production and development systems.  • Backup / Recovery methodology specification for mission critical databases  • Performed hot and cold Backups.  • Scheduled daily Exports/Imports to serve as temporary backups.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle11g and 12c Enterprise Editions, OEM with Oracle Diagnostic and Tuning packs  • Worked on different platforms, load user data to reproduce the problem, apply new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import.  • Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Creating physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model  • Prepared scripts to tune developer SQL codes to maximize result return time  • Worked on large databases in Oracle 11g with multiple instances using Veritas Cluster.  • Performed cold and hot backup using Oracle's Data pump.  • Provided remote technical support using SSH and terminal services  • Troubleshooting, Restructuring and tuning for optimal performance of existing databases.  • Cloned databases using scripts as well as RMAN.  • Involved in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import  • Setup Oracle 11g Golden Gate for replication needs.  • Capacity planning and creating databases for development, staging and production.  • Performed proactive and reactive tuning/managing database space utilization and growth  • Implementing oracle ASM and resolving ASM related issues.  •Experienced in designing and developing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using PL/SQL.  •Experienced in designing and developing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using PL/SQL  •Worked on Production Support, attending production calls, troubleshooting the application and resolving bugs.  •Effectively made use of Table Functions, Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views.  • Provided On-Call support. Oracle/SQL Database Administrator USS BATAAN, US NAVY - Norfolk, VA June 2011 to May 2014 • Extensively involved in installing the oracle RDBM software, creating and configuring the databases (PROD, DEV, and TEST)  • Extensively used BMC Remedy, Citrix ticketing systems for resolving user request associated with database issues.  • Provided On-Call support. Extensive experience in controlling the user privileges, monitoring the security and Audit issues.  • Created logins using different security models like Windows, Standard and certificate authentications.  • Highly experienced in creating Jobs, Schedules and Alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Strong Communication and Time Management skills and excellent team player.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments.  • Worked on administering 10 Production databases and more than 40 non-production databases of size ranging from 100GB to 5 TB on Solaris/AIX/LINUX servers.  • Performed high level Troubleshooting and Tuning, Written Shell Scripts for monitoring performance and health checks using scripts, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL tuning advisors and OEM.  • Applied Patches including PSU and Bug fixes for database performance issues.  • Configured Physical Standby for Production databases and converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby and ACTIVE data-guard.  • Evaluating and performing the Backup and Recovery Procedures periodically using RMAN.  • Restored backups from tapes and disk and validated the backups, performed day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  • Worked on a 24x7 Production database and applications support on an onshore/offshore model.  • Analyzed the user requirements, designed partitioned tables and created indexes for improving performance and manageability because many queries can prune partitions.  • Performance tuning and testing stored procedures, indexes and triggers using SQL server profiler, execution plans and SQL Tuning advisor.  • Performed hot fixes on sql server and other patches.  • Hands on experience in enabling auditing and finding the schemas failed login attempts, created and dropped users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Assisted IT Analysts on technical database issues and features.  • Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once. Able to thrive in a fast-paced, time compressed and dynamic environment. Solid skills and discipline for Change Management practices processes.  • Performed timely database refreshes at schema and table level based on the requirement.  • Supported multiple services and multiple databases of medium complexity with multiple concurrent users, ensuring control, integrity and accessibility of data.  • Installed Oracle 2c database in the test environment and tested the upgrade from Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Extensive experience in controlling the user privileges, monitoring the security and Audit issues.  • Created logins using different security models like Windows, Standard and certificate authentications.  • Highly experienced in creating Jobs, Schedules and Alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Strong Communication and Time Management skills and excellent team player.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments. Education BBA in Management Information Systems University of Houston - Houston, TX Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 May 2010 to May 2014 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2018 to May 2022 Additional Information Holds an Maintains an active US government Secret Security Clearance.