Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Jelani Consulting LLC Dedicated Database administrator with 8 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in security implementation, backup & recovery, high availability and disaster recovery solutions, upgrades, patching, performance monitoring and tuning, migration, and database cloning. Proficient in various platforms such as Linux, Unix, Windows, and various database systems such as Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c. Enthusiastic problem solver who is able to adapt quickly to a fast-paced environment. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - Washington, DC February 2017 to Present • Provide day-to-day support of Oracle 11.2.0.4 and 12.2.1.0. databases as part of database team.  • Implement database security strategy by applying password complexity, and granting the appropriate roles and privileges, as well as database auditing.  • Configure Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt sensitive data; employ Oracle Data Redaction and Data Masking to further protect sensitive data.  • Design backup strategies in compliance with business SLA; implementation of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and Data Pump utilities respectively. Also applied block change tracking (BCT), decreasing backup time from 4hrs down to 30mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle databases environments (10.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.4), upgrades, patching for security vulnerabilities (CPU and PSU).  • Support 11g and 12c RAC and single-instance production databases  • Database migration from 10 to 11g and 12c using cloning for storage, tablespaces transportable and duplicate database using RMAN.  • Administered use of RMAN scripts for backup, restore and recovery and export/import to move data between 10g, 11g and 12c in production, test and development environment.  • Troubleshooting issues related with Oracle databases, applications and development tools, and support for incidents, services required and troubleshooting for different fails of security.  • Review and monitor system and instance resources to ensure continuous database operations (i.e., database storage, memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention).  • Configuring the Database in Archive log mode and take backups incremental, full backup and hot backup for different database 10g, 11g, 12c in the following environments TEST, DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION using RMAN script and export/import data pump.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Perform data refreshes of test and development databases from production backups by using RMAN and Data Pump.  • Responsible for identifying problematic SQL statements and suggesting appropriate solutions using SQL Tuning Advisor.  • Administer physical standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery utilizing Oracle Active Data Guard.  • Conduct performance tuning of Oracle 11g and 12c databases utilizing Explain Plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM reports.  • Generated statistics AWR, ASH, ADDM and reports snap shots for Oracle database 11g in development, testing, and production environments.  • Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain logins, users and roles, assign privileges).  • Performance tuning and health monitoring on Oracle database, OS and application.  • Provide detailed documentation of DBA procedures/operations for proactively maintaining databases.  • Generated shell scripts to automate batch jobs and backups.  • Maintain high reliability for 24|7|365 Linux production servers.  • Part of the 24/7 on-call production support team. Project Manager (National TB Project) Somali Health Initiative for All Trust October 2015 to January 2017 • Managed 5 TB centers located throughout Somaliland and all 35 qualified staff members  • Coordinated internal resources and third parties/vendors (Ministry of Health, World Vision, Global Fund and WHO) for the flawless execution of projects.  • Ensured that all projects are delivered on time, within scope and within budget.  • Assisted in the definition of project scope and objectives, involving all relevant stakeholders and ensuring technical feasibility.  • Ensured resource availability and allocation.  • Develop a detailed project plan including the project work plan and monthly action points to monitor and track progress.  • Managed changes to the project scope, project schedule, and project costs using appropriate verification techniques.  • Measure project performance using monitoring and evaluation tools. Provided technical guidance, supervision and support to staff to integrate approaches to strengthen the overall health system between MCHs and TB centers.  • Successfully managed the relationship with the client and all stakeholders.  • Performed risk management to minimize project risks.  • Created and maintain comprehensive project documentation and presented information at quarterly and annual reviews with funders.  • Represented organization at public-sector and community outreach events. Technical Adviser Republic of Somaliland Ministry of Health September 2015 to January 2017 • Provided technical expertise, leadership and collaboration in the designing, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of activities and projects the Ministry funds with a particular focus on the WHO health systems framework.  • Provided technical expertise and guidance in capacity building, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation to key governmental and non-governmental partners.  • Assisted implementing partners in the development of achievable, measurable plans and objectives for implementation of innovative interventions.  • Coordinated with other technical staff activities contributing to program objectives to ensure they are synergistically working to achieve objectives. Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - Reston, VA August 2014 to September 2015 • Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 11.2.0.4 databases in 24/7 production environment on Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers, as well as Microsoft SQL Server 2012 databases on Windows Server 2012.  • Managed database authorization and database roles/privileges, and enabled database auditing for database security.  • Configured Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt sensitive data.  • Monitored space utilization and optimized performance of Oracle 11g databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Provided and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using Oracle Data Guard.  • Performed backup and recovery of Oracle databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Created logical backups of Oracle databases using Data Pump utility.  • Cloned databases using RMAN.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Performed bulk load into databases SQL Loader.  • Provided troubleshooting and support for user issues.  • Analyzed complex SQL queries, and provided data analysis and interpretation.  • Enforced business rules and maintained data integrity via the use of constraints using DDL statements.  • Assisted developers with application related problems. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - Glen Allen, VA August 2012 to August 2014 • Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 10g and 11g databases in test, development, and production environments on Unix servers.  • Automated system tasks using DBMS_Scheduler.  • Implemented cold backups and hot backups for production and development environments.  • Restore and recover different backups on production and test environment in case of disaster.  • Created stored procedures, views, and triggers.  • Performed capacity planning for future projects and initiatives.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Creation and administration of users, roles, privileges and profiles to control access permissions and privileges of users and/or applications.  • Resolved Oracle related errors/issues assigned through Remedy ticketing system.  • Planned, implemented and monitored backup and recovery strategies for production databases using RMAN.  • Configured Oracle databases using DBCA and networking tools such as NETCA.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users, and auditing user activity. Education Bachelors of Science in Global and Community Health George Mason University Skills SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, RMAN, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, REMEDY, PERL, SCRIPTING, T-SQL, BASH, JIRA, RDBMS, STORAGE MANAGEMENT, AUDIT, MS WINDOWS SERVER 2008, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, DBA