SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - SouthCoast Health Savannah, GA Database Administrator with 8 years' experience in the design, implementation and maintenance of SQL Server solutions in an Enterprise environment. A highly motivated, self-directed, detail-oriented, reliable, responsible, self-motivated leader, team player, and an avid listener with excellent interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator SouthCoast Health - Savannah, GA January 2018 to Present • Oversaw the day-to-day operation associated with database performance across various applications (i.e. HRMS, EMR, PM, Merge, etc.) with focus on Performance & Tuning, Production Support, & Project Delivery.  • Assisted in developing a more cohesive backup & recovery strategy for the organization.  • Analyzed tables in the database to establish knowledge of data for accurate retrieval and use in reports and other business processes.  • Exhibited deep understanding of how the SQL Query process works related to indexes and execution plans related to SQL statistics.  • Executed Microsoft SQL maintenance standards and plans with the backup and recovery options.  • Utilized available SQL Server tools, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SSIS, SSRS, & Excel to provide technical feedback and reports for additional operational support/decision making.  • Assisted in planning, coordinating and consulting with vendors and clients for hardware/software purchases, product services and support.  • Utilized Solarwinds to conduct Database Performance Analysis to ascertain the health of databases & review error logs.  • Created and aligned a stable database environment with a solid storage plan and operation.  • Proactively monitored space usage and other resources specific to SQL database environment  • Provided expert counsel on capacity planning and monitoring database growth  • Managed all databases using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and other third-party tools.  • Identified, clarified, and resolved project activity issues and risks, escalating them as needed.  • Technically versed with configuring a Citrix environment  • Facilitated and instituted the creation of standard operating procedures & best practices of all database services group within the organization  • Reviewed technical documentation to verify compliance/alignment with company's infrastructure.  • Responsible for database design and implementation, including all elements of database security implementation, user management and maintenance  • Remained current regarding hardware/software products for system and support improvements.  • Employed my pro-active and reactive performance analysis, monitoring, and troubleshooting skills in ensuring the timely resolution of issues at all times.  • Made an effort to understand all application (SQL & Non-SQL) requirements within the SouthCoast Health enterprise  • Experienced with Business Intelligence Solutions  • Assisted and provided support to technology department staff leadership and staff, as needed to ensure customer care is achieved at the highest level - system monitoring, special projects, user support, & specialized trainings.  • Ensured primary support personnel is updated in real time when there is a disaster or system updates/upgrades that causes a down time that impacts the user community.  • Communicated with and assisted physicians, coworkers & all staff members in a professional and courteous manner  • Attended staff and additional required meetings, training, conferences and workshops beneficial to organization's goals.  • Maintained confidentiality of corporate information as seen in normal course of job performance.  • Performed or assist with other tasks or projects as assigned by supervisor.  • Participated in team round-table meetings and discussions about technical issues within the environment and pioneered appropriate solutions to those issues.  • Always open to new knowledge and research on best practices in the database management industry SQL Server DBA ATC Healthcare Services - Upper Marlboro, MD April 2012 to January 2018 • Provided sole 24x7 global, technical and data leadership support and troubleshooting for 50+ instances of Microsoft SQL Server version 2005, 2008 R2 and 2012 to the data operations group team and the organization.  • Architect, installed, configured, optimized and managed enterprise-wide SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2 and 2012 instances and ensured peak efficiency of all data-related activities for MS SQL RDBMS environments.  • Experience managing small to large scale SQL implementations. Ranging from small departmental systems to large scale mission critical SAP SQL Server implementations. Including multiple 1.5TB+ databases with high resource and high availability requirements.  • Upgraded SQL environment of 50+ instances on multiple occasions. From SQL 2005 to 2008 in 2012 and from SQL 2008R2 to SQL 2012 in 2014 and SQL 2012 to SQL 2016 in 2017.  • Restored database from backup files.  • Routinely maintained compliance by completing all company required trainings by the established deadline.  • Routinely worked with system developers and other members of IT to coordinate current and future plans and activities as it relates to providing technical assistance needed to facilitate development projects that involve the computing environment, the coordination of software upgrades, periodic operating system and software patching/updates and the installation of new products.  • Applied SQL Server Service Packs and Cumulative Updates as required.  • Setup and managed Windows and SQL Server clustering for mission critical physical systems and Symantec's Application HA for virtual SQL Servers to ensure high availability.  • Maintained database performance and availability by identifying and resolving production and application development issues.  • Implemented and managed SQL Server disaster recovery solutions using native and Quest Litespeed SQL backup and log shipping. Performed point-in-time database restores as needed. Performed successful annual SQL Server disaster recovery test for the past 5 years - failing over mission critical SQL Server databases from Maryland to Syracuse, NY.  • Consolidated the corporate SQL environment from 50 SQL instances down to 35 SQL instances. This reduced administrator management overhead and SQL licensing requirements.  • Supported SQL Server virtualization project. Resulting in a 60% SQL Server virtualization rate and much greater server resource utilization without noticeable performance degradation. Budget constraints for host resources stopped this project from achieving 100% virtualization.  • Performed routine database migrations to support database refreshes from production to test and database consolidation efforts.  • Monitored systems and captured performance data to look for tuning opportunities using the following tools - PolyMon, Perfmon data collection sets, PAL, SQL trace, SQL Nexus, Clear Trace, diagnostic DMVs, SQL Sentry's Plan Explorer, Idera's SQL diagnostic Manager for critical systems, homegrown monitoring for systems without budget for a vendor solution.  • Setup automation with SQL Agent and Database Mail for maintenance, error alerting and job failures by using best practice techniques as currently applicable industry-wide.  • Experienced in setting up and managing transactional replication.  • SSIS experience - Developed and managed a SSIS data import/export solution for a data logging application which captured the local ATC Healthcare telemetry data. Use SSIS for data import/export operations. Help developers troubleshoot SSIS package issues. Upgraded developer SSIS packages from SQL 2005 to 2008 R2 to 2012.  • Set up and configured SSRS. Created and deployed reports from BIDs. Provided access to SSRS reports.  • EMC storage experience on CX3-80, CX4-80 and VNX 5500: Setup host connectivity to SAN. Designed overall SAN storage with a focus on SQL Server performance. Worked with storage pools, virtual provisioning, FAST and FAST Cache. Created luns and assigned to hosts according to best practices. Monitored overall SAN performance and capacity using Navisphere Analyzer.  • Experienced with Vmware: Creating virtual machine templates, deploying virtual machines, assigning/editing guest hardware resources, setting guest reservations, v-motion guests, updating Vmware tools, setting host into maintenance and shutting down to perform hardware maintenance, monitoring guest and host utilization. Work with Symantec's Application HA for SQL high availability in a virtual environment.  • Provided data center support - hardware vendor support, swapping server and storage hardware, racking servers, cabling, building maintenance management.    ENVIRONMENT Education CERTIFICATE IN INFORMATION ASSURANCE University of Maryland University College - Largo, MD December 2020 MASTER in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY University of Maryland University College - Largo, MD May 2020 BACHELOR OF HEALTH in HEALTH CARE MANAGEMENT Howard University - Washington, DC May 2017 Skills Sql server, Sql, Citrix, Vmware, Server administration, Sql Dba, ETL, DBA, Ssis, RAC, Sql Database