Data Engineer Data Engineer Data Engineer - UnitedHealth Group, MN Woodbury, MN • Full responsibility and expertise in Oracle database administration, performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.  • Good communication and cooperation skills with an aptitude to learn quickly take responsibility and work under pressure.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Clone, Data pump export/import and RMAN.  • Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating Systems with different sizes.  • Experience in Installation of Oracle Databases 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c versions.  • Experience in the Upgrade of Oracle Databases in patch set Level and also in version Level (9i to 10g), (10g to 11g) and (11g to 12c).  • Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and performing periodical backup, restoration and recovery using RMAN(full and incremental)  • Testing and implementing different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, and data pump export/import.  • Worked actively in configuring and maintaining Oracle Physical Standby/Active Data Guard Database oracle 11g.  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance and maintenance.  • Performing Fault Injection Test Cases for verifying the High Availability at each layer of RAC stack like port failover, instance failover, ASM failover and Node failover.  • Upgrading and migrating Oracle 11gR2 RAC Databases running on legacy infrastructure to Oracle 12c Pluggable Databases running on the latest platforms.  • Configuration and Management of Data Guard on RHEL, OEL.  • Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.  • Extensive experience in installation and implementing OEM and TOAD and setup of Oracle Grid Control.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage Area Networks (SAN) /Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Proactively monitoring the database's health and taking preventive or corrective actions.  • Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup and Recovery, cloning of databases using RMAN, Veritas NetBackup and IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler (TWS).  • Used expdp & impdp to take backup at database level or table space level and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  • Proficient in using various database Utilities like expdp & impdp, Data Pump, and TOAD.  • Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including Backups, exports and imports.  • Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates , Patch Set Updates as per the Oracle recommendations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer UnitedHealth Group, MN April 2019 to Present • Applies CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.  • Clones of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Creates the database, table spaces, Quotas, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Provides System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Analyzes SQL queries causing performance problems in the database  • Creates, Configured, Upgraded and Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on UNIX, VMware and bare-metal environments.  • Executes an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.  • Creates and configures new database server and database environments.  • Performs Monthly Re-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Executes Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.  • Performs DR switchover and failover operations.  • Participates in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically  • Maintains database and middleware/SOA layer performance by identifying and resolving production and application development problems; calculating optimum values for parameters; evaluating, integrating, and installing new releases.  • Supports Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and Linux scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshoots installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My Oracle Support or metal link)  • Maintains Oracle11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM, file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on UNIX environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import.  • Database Administrator supporting three major projects from Dev to Prod through Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Database sizes range from 2GB to 24 TB.  • Creates oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Manages, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on Linux command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools like TOAD, SQL Developer  • Monitors and performs database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration.  • Carryout Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Provides valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Linux/Unix platform using AWR , ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.  • Involves in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Refreshes schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Works on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Monitors database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed Linux shell scripts.  • Add, edit as well as making the necessary modifications to our SOP's.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g ,OEM Grid control 13c ,Secure,ESC,PPM,ServiceNow,Swift Kanban,Sharepoint,Data pump,IPswitch,Cisco jabber, Cisco AnyConnect,AWR,SQL TRACE,BI Publisher,Redhat cygwine,Secure CRT 7.0, TWS,Appstore,Cisco webex, and Cyberark. Oracle Database Administrator SUBARU AUTOMOTIVE - Lafayette, IN October 2015 to March 2019 • Creating the database, table spaces, Quotas, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Provides System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Ability to support working outside of normal business hours to provide after hour or "on-call" support when necessary to solve high profile issues.  • Database Administrator supporting three major projects from Dev to Prod through Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Database sizes range from 2GB to 5 TB  • Analyzes SQL queries causing performance problems in the database.  • Creates, Configured, Upgraded and Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on Linux Red Hat and Cent OS on VMware and bare-metal environments  • Executes an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.  • Creates and configures new database server and database environments.  • Performs Monthly Re-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Executes Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.  • Performs DR switchover and failover operations.  • Participates in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically  • Maintains database and middleware/SOA layer performance by identifying and resolving production and application development problems; calculating optimum values for parameters; evaluating, integrating, and installing new releases.  • Supports Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and Linux scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshoots installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My Oracle Support or metal link)  • Creates oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Manages, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on Linux command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools like TOAD, SQL Developer  • Monitors and performs database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Carryout Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Applies CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.  • Clones of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Maintains Oracle11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM, file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import.  • Provides valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Linux/Unix platform using AWR , ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.  • Involves in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Refreshes schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Works on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Monitors database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed Linux shell scripts.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2),OEM Grid control ,Data pump, AWR,SQL TRACE,BI PUB , Redhat cygwine,Secure  CRT 7.0,TWS,Cyberark. Oracle Database Administrator MATERIAL IN MOTION (MIM) - Fairburn, GA June 2012 to September 2015 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Worked on disaster recovery of a Data guard physical standby Failover/switchover/loss of service /rebuild/corruption/loss of data file testing.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Provided System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Executed Database replication from prod to test/dev environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually.  • Responsible for network config and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNSnames, Listener, Net CA and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using metal ink.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Table space feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Data pump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used run blocks to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Successfully performed data replication using Snapshot, Clone, Data pump export/import and RMAN in Oracle 10gR2.Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.    Tools Used: AWR, Oracle TOAD, RMAN, Data pump, SQL TRACE, OEM Grid control. Education Bachelor's University of Buea Skills Database, Ms access, Oracle, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Rman, Swift, OEM, Kanban, Emc, Loader, Sftp Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/j-salle-a63960156 Awards ICDL 2010-07 SQL 2017-10 OCA 2018-02 Oracle Certified Associate CSM 2019-08 Certified ScrumMaster(CSM) SASM 2019-08 SAFe Advanced ScrumMaster (SASM) Certifications/Licenses OCA,SQL,ICDL Certified February 2018 to Present OCA Certified Scrum Master August 2019 to August 2021 SASM Certified August 2019 to December 2020 SAFe Advanced ScrumMaster Certified (SASM) Groups TCOUG October 2013 to Present