Sr. Oracle, PostgreSQL Database Administrator/ Database Security Engineer Sr. Oracle, PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ <span class="hl">Database</span> Security Engineer Sr. Oracle, PostgreSQL Database Administrator/ Database Security Engineer - Marsh & McLennan Companies Jersey City, NJ 6+ years of experience as an Oracle & PostgreSQL Database Administrator and Database Security Engineer for transforming business strategies of various organizations into efficient and integrated global business solutions.  • Installation and Administration of Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i on OEL, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Sun Solaris in OLTP and OLAP environment.  • Expertise in building and supporting PostgreSQL 10/9.5/9.1 Databases on Windows and Linux.  • Experience in secure policy development implementation and enforcement.  • Expertise in assisting the implementation of change control process in production environments and Audit control process for Oracle/PostgreSQL Databases.  • Review information security controls to ensure maintenance of SOX & SOC compliance.  • Encryption of PII & PCI containing applications in accordance with NYDFS Cybersecurity regulations.  • Expertise in configuration and implementation of encryption solutions for encrypting the data-at-rest and data-in-transit.  • Experience in creating Azure Database for PostgreSQL server.  • POC performed for migration of on premise PostgreSQL Database (Version 9.5.18) to Azure Database for PostgreSQL using export/import, dump/restore and Database Migration Service.  • POC is in progress on Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL and Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL.  • Experience on Oracle 12c/11g/ASM/RAC and upgradation of standalone databases to 11g RAC environment.  • Performed Migration and Upgradation of databases from 9i,10g to higher versions 11g,12c.  • Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and performing periodical backup, restoration and recovery using RMAN (full and incremental).  • Extensive experience in installation and configuring OEM , Quest Foglight 5.5/5.8 versions for monitoring Oracle /SQL Databases  • Implementation of Flashback Technology.  • Experience in Database/SQL performance tuning using diagnostic tools like AWR, ADDM, ASH, STATSPACK and tuning Database performance parameters accordingly. Experience in using Explain plans, SQL Baselines, SQL Tuning Sets, SQL Profiles and SQL hints with or without OEM.  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL TRACE.  • Configuration and Management of Data Guard on RHEL and OEL.  • Experience with Data guard broker configuration and switchover.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, import/export.  • Experience in Data replication using Oracle Goldengate.  • Solid experience in disaster recovery, Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without recovery catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full back up, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Experience on Oracle monitoring tools including Oracle Application Server monitoring and Oracle Linux monitoring using NMON and TOP commands.  • Vulnerabilities Management for Databases in accordance with NIST - NVD CVE score information.  • Worked on 24x7 environments including but not limited to follow the sun support models and on-call rotational support models for overnight and weekend production database support.  • Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills combined with strong customer service attitude.  • Proven abilities in establishing effective task priorities, working independently, and participating as an integral part of a team in fast-paced and multi-tasking environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle, PostgreSQL Database Administrator/ Database Security Engineer Marsh & McLennan Companies - Hoboken, NJ February 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Provide Day-to-Day Production and non-Production support for more than 1000 Databases including Oracle and PostgreSQL Databases with 24x7 on-call rotation model.  • Provide support on DB service outage calls due to Infrastructure slowness or failures, which includes and not limited to IO slowness, Network slowness, Server resource bottleneck and perform end to end diagnostics and provide immediate fix following by RCA.  • Assisting the implementation of change control process in production environments and SOX Audit control process for Oracle/PostgreSQL Databases.  • Review Iinformation security controls to ensure maintenance of SOX & SOC compliance.  • Implementation of Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (Oracle TDE), Network Data Encryption and Integrity, Thales Vormetric Transparent Encryption for encryption of the data.  • Strong experience in encryption/decryption of ASM disks, filesystems on Linux and Drives on windows servers for encrypting the data using Thales Vormetric Transparent Encryption.  • Solid experience in encryption/decryption of Network Attached Storage (NAS) filesystems using Vormetric.  • Knowledge on HPE Microfocus-Voltage Secure Data encryption.  • Experience in creating Azure Database for PostgreSQL server.  • POC performed for migration of on premise PostgreSQL Database (Version 9.5.18) to Azure Database for PostgreSQL using export/import, dump/restore and Database Migration Service.  • Knowledge on creating and managing replicas in Azure Database for PostgreSQL-Single Server.  • POC in progress on Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL and also  • Creation of VPC's, EC2 instance in Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Managing AWS Access with Users, Groups and Roles (Identity and Access Management (IAM)) in AWS.  • POC is in progress on Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL and Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL.  • Performed PostgreSQL DB upgrade from version 9.1 to 9.5 in accordance with Application compatibility.  • Extensive experience with building the Warm Standby and Host Standby for PostgreSQL 9.5/9.1.  • Configured Write Ahead Logs(WAL) archiving, Base Backup on the warm PostgreSQL DB servers.  • Backup and Restoration of PostgreSQL Databases across DEV/QA/UAT/PROD environments.  • Implementation of LDAP authentication for PostgreSQL Database Connectivity.  • Maintenance of Annual/Quarterly Audit Remediation activity for PostgreSQL DB Service Accounts.  • Implemented pgAudit for session and object audit logging on PostgreSQL Databases.  • POC is in progress for implementation of Zerto Replication for DR Setup of PostgreSQL Database Servers.  • POC is in progress for migration of applications from Oracle to PostgreSQL Databases.  • Patch/Upgrade RAC Grid Infrastructure and databases to current latest versions.  • Monitoring SQL Plan changes, Analyzing SQLHC and SQLT reports and implementing the best practices for plan stability using SQL Profiles and SQL plan baselines.  • Diagnosis of AWR/ASH/ADDM reports and checking Instance activity, wait events and taking necessary actions to improve database performance.  • Proficient in using OS tools for Server performance stats like top, vmstat, iostat, pidstat, ps, netstat, OSWatcher.  • Upgrades Standalone/Clustered databases from 10g - 11g and 11g - 12c.  • Refreshing NON-PROD environments using RMAN, DATAPUMP backup tools.  • Monitoring SQL Plan changes, Analyzing SQLHC and SQLT reports and implementing the best practices for plan stability using SQL Profiles and SQL plan baselines.  • Diagnosis of AWR/ASH/ADDM reports and checking Instance activity, wait events and taking necessary actions to improve database performance.  • Proficient in using OS tools for Server performance stats like top, vmstat, iostat, pidstat, ps, netstat, OSWatcher.  • Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.  • Maintenance of Quarterly/Annual audit remediation activities for both Database & Application service accounts.  • Installation and hands-on experience with Ansible 2.2/2.4 for automation of DBA activities.  • Organization code review analysis in Github and BitBucket if any exposed to public to avoid exploitation.  • Implementation of Static & Dynamic Application security testing (SAST & DAST) using WhiteHat Security for Vulnerabilities.  • POC in progress for Threat Modeler, Black Duck secure tools.  Environment: Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), PostgreSQL 10/9.5/9.1, Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, ,Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Windows, SQL Developer, Toad, PGADMIN-III/IV, RMAN, OEM, Foglight, STATSPACK, AWR, Explain Plan, SRDF, Jenkins, JIRA, jFrog Artifactory, Ansible, Thales Vormetric Tool (DSM -Version 6.0.2.5114/ 6.0.3.8098), HPE Microfocus - voltage SecureData v6.5.1 , LogRhythm, WhiteHat Security Sentinel, Black Duck, ThreatModeler, GitHub, BitBucket, Postman. Oracle/PostgreSQL Database Administrator DirecTV - El Segundo, CA January 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle Databases 11g/10g/9i on Real Application Cluster (RAC) with ASM and without ASM.  • Provide support on DB service outage calls due to Infrastructure slowness or failures, which includes and not limited to IO slowness, Network slowness, Server resource bottleneck and perform end to end diagnostics and provide immediate fix following by RCA.  • Monitoring SQL Plan changes, Analyzing SQLHC and SQLT reports and implementing the best practices for plan stability using SQL Profiles and SQL plan baselines.  • Backup and recovery using RMAN, Datapump and Export/Import.  • Created and managing the database objects such as tables, indexes and views.  • Performed day-to-day activities such as creating users, roles, schemas, tables, views, indexes and rebuilding of Indexes and running scripts given by the clients.  • Granting roles and privileges to end users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Monitoring alert log/system log and managing Database Locks and blocking sessions.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and efficiency.  • Table Partitioning, creating Index Organized tables, Creating Locally managed Table spaces.  • Applying patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Performed Same Platform, Cross-Platform, Little - Big and Big - Little endian format database migrations using RMAN, Export/Import, Transportable tablespaces and Transportable database technologies.  • Configured and Maintained database replication using Oracle DATAGUARD technology.  • Performed Yearly/Quarterly DR(DATAGUARD/SRDF) exercises by Switch over and Failover methods using oracle data guard broker.  • Configured Golden Gate replication for schema and database level.  • Installed VERIDATA tool for comparing data synchronization between SOURCE and TARGET.  • Configured EXTRACT and REPLICATE pumps for Golden Gate replication.  • Troubleshooting golden gate replication issues using LOGDUMP.  • Backup and Restoration of PostgreSQL Databases across DEV/QA/UAT/PROD environments.  • Maintenance of Annual/Quarterly Audit Remediation activity for PostgreSQL DB Service Accounts.  • Perform PostgreSQL DB upgrade accordance with Application compatibility.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, PostgreSQL 9.1, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Data Guard, Golden Gate, SQL Developer, PGADMIN-III, RMAN, OEM, Foglight, STATSPACK, AWR, Explain Plan, SRDF. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Engineering & Management in Information Systems Engineering & Management Harrisburg University of Science and Technology May 2019 Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering State University of New York at New Paltz - New Paltz, NY December 2012 Skills Dbms, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Rdms