Oracle database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Picayune, MS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle database administrator Mutual benefits assurance Ltd. - Abuja February 2011 to April 2014 • Upgrading database to Oracle 11.2.0.2 from Oracle 10.2.0.2. Creating, configuring both standalone & RAC databases.    • Installation, configuration of grid including ASM to provide shared storage to RAC databases. ASM administration including creating diskgroup, adding, dropping disks.    • Worked in 24x7 production environment and provide on-call and day-to- day support.    • Backup and recovery using Oracle’s RMAN software; used offline/online for recovery in a production environment via shell scripting.    • Ongoing proactive database-level performance tuning, with a good working knowledge of Oracle internals.    • Helped team to use existing infrastructure to achieve Maximum benefit to reduce cost and maximum performance.    • Changes were made dynamically whenever possible to fulfill high-availability requirements. Enforced need of regular data purging processes from production, design and fail-over purposes.    • Installation of RAC and Managing RAC Environment efficiently. Proficient in RAC Performance Tuning.    • Implementing and maintaining security (create and maintain users, role and assign privileges). Database tuning, application Tuning & performance monitoring.    • Fine tuning Initialization parameters, I/O, Memory.    • Managed appropriate use of free space within tablespaces, reclaimed space whenever possible.    • Reorganized tables and indexes within databases when needed. Monitored the production Oracle alert logs for database errors. Monitored system resource availability and responded to system memory and data issues. Oracle database administrator World Access Cybercafé - Ibadan February 2009 to February 2010 • Installed and maintained Oracle Applications in complex environments such as Single-node and multiple-node installations.    • Applied latest releases of patches to resolve few applications issues.    • Cloning the instances from production to test, development instance to test and simulate few technical challenges, coordinate with testing and development teams.    • Participate in a team to maintain and support for multiple oracle database and applications in high availability 24x7 heterogeneous environment.    • Worked closely with team including Applications development, database development, Oracle support, and business continuity process.    • Installation of RAC and Managing RAC Environment efficiently. Performance tuning the RAC environment.    • Refreshing the test databases to a point in time as per the developers request using RMAN Duplicate.    • ASM to NON-ASM datafile conversion using Transportable tablespaces.    • Creating services names for the newly created databases and updating the TNSNAMES.ORA file in other database with the entries of the newly created database.    • Monitoring the log file shipping for the physical standbys and to make sure the dataguard environment is up to date with the primary. Education B.Sc. in Computer Science University of Ilorin - Ilorin 2005 to 2009 S.S.C. in Science St Gabriel Comm. Sec. Sch 2003 to 2007 Raftad Computer School - Ibadan 2004 Additional Information • Experience of working in 24x7 Production Environment.    • Experience in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Erwin.    • Worked mostly with but not limited to Production servers along with development and testing servers.    • Expertise in installation and configuration of Oracle Financial and large databases on Linux Operation System.    • Usage of Datapump of oracle 10g,11g & 12c for exporting and importing logical data of the databases.     • Taking Hot and Cold backups using RMAN, along with Online and Offline backups and recovery     • Significant experience in using the RMAN and Flashback technologies for backup and recovery purposes.     • Proficient in use of Oracle Tools such as AD Utilities, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, SQL*Net and Enterprise    • Involved in multiple projects that required installing, upgrading and quarterly patching with the help of Opatch utility for the databases assigned under my applications.     • Experienced in taking cumulative and Incremental backups.     • Extensive experience in handled data migrations with the aid of expdp, impdp and RMAN utilities.     • Dealt with performance issues in previous projects, which involved managing the size of table spaces, redo log files and archived redo log files according to the production environment.     • Successfully delivered resolution ideas for critical database conflicts involving user roles and privileges, database network connectivity etc.     • Strong experience in creating user, roles, privileges, accounts and profiles in the database.     • Authoritative grasp on Oracle database architecture.     • Experienced in upgrading Oracle databases from 9i to 10g and from 10g to 11g.    • Experienced in effectively troubleshooting issues concerning network problems, instance startup, taking backups and recovering database files etc.    • Hands on experience in implementing 11gr2, 12c & Oracle Golden Gate.    • Worked with PL/SQL procedures, cursors, functions, triggers and materialized views.     • Excellent communication skills, a good team player and punctual in meeting project deadlines.     • Worked on multi platforms AIX, HP-UNIX and linux.     • Manage RAC environment for Day to Day Database administration, Performance Tuning.    • Add or Remove Node from Rac.    • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction.