Application, Database & Security Administrator Application, <span class="hl">Database</span> &amp; Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application, Database & Security Administrator - ORIENTAL BANK Carolina, PR Applications, Security and System Administrator with more than 10 years experience in various industries. Challenge Seeker with strong problem solving and personal skills. bilingual: Spanish and English. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application, Database & Security Administrator ORIENTAL BANK - San Juan, PR January 2016 to Present • Manage servers in VMWare and Microsoft Azure as well as design and configure snapshots and other servers. Administer and maintain the database on SQL 2012.  • Manage Moveit application; verifying all data movement is processed correctly. Create FTP workflow while solving problems from the application.  • Customized phone calls reports from Variphy application extracting data from the Cisco Unified system. Update auto collection data files and workflows into the Akcelerant system.  • Power Bi Reporting creator and Change audit monitoring  • Collaborate with the team to ensure continuous maintenance is performed on MacAfee EPO Server console using different systems and tools such as BigFix.  • Azure cloud administration, create VM machine, security center, budget monitoring and all cloud system  • Oversee the Intranet administration by making changes and installing plugins with confluence platform. Desktop Support Specialist ORIENTAL BANK - San Juan, PR May 2012 to January 2016 • Maintained and repaired hardware, software, technical equipment (cell phones and iPads) and domain servers to support users at all levels of the organization.  • Managed the 10 IBM X Serie and Dell domain servers with local and web applications  • Configured, installed and maintained the Lyricall Call Center Server, the Cisco VOIP system and the NACAR Branch server.  • Troubleshot and resolve network issues, email system issues and all bank operations applications and systems issues. Education BBA in Business Administration and Information Systems UNIVERSITY ANA. G MENDEZ - Piedras, PR, US AD in Electric and Industrial Electronic Technician & Electrical Technician Assistant License LICEO DE ARTE Y TECNOLOGÍA - Piedras, PR, US Skills cloud administration (2 years), Microsoft Azure (2 years), System Administration (6 years), It Service Management (10+ years), Sql Server Additional Information Certifications / Trainings    u  NPP Certified Nutanix Platform Professional         u MCP Microsoft Certified Professional      u Citrix Xen App 7.5 Training                                    u MCST Microsoft Certified System  u Cisco CCENT-CCNA Training                              Technology Server 2008                       u Microsoft Azure Training                                   u CNDP Certified Network Defense Professional  u VMware vSphere 5.5 VCP5-DCV Training          u CCFI Certified Cybercrime Forensic Investigator