Oracle Database Senior Technical Engineer Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Senior Technical Engineer Lehi, UT Over 8 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous  system environment including Solaris, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of  mission critical applications with Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c. Including 2 years as a  Senior Technical Support Engineer at Oracle GCS. Proven technical knowledge of  infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability  and creative problem solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent  communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve  problems. Ongoing Masters in Cybersecurity Technology Class of 2020.    • Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g & 12c RAC,  Standby Database Data Guard.  • Management of schemas, objects & Partitioning the tables & indexes, USERS and  PRIVILEGES 10g OEM Grid Monitoring.  • Experience in Upgrading databases and applied patch sets to multiple databases.  • Expertise in Database Space Management, Expertise in troubleshooting and performance  tuning.  Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills, Sound judgment and use of initiative.  • Backup of Databases (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily  Backup, weekly Backup etc.) using RMAN and other backup techniques.  • Recovery of Databases (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped  accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption etc.)  • Experience in using OEM, TOAD, Data Migrations using export/import.  • Experienced in using 10g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM,  ADDM, Grid Monitoring.  • Database performance tuning using STATPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, ASH.  • Experience on working with data guard physical standby databases.  • Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in tuning, Oracle9i and 10g RAC  tuning, Load balancing.  • Created 12c multitenant container database using DBCA  • Configured non-pluggable 12c database into pluggable container database.  • Applied various patch sets released through critical patch updates.  • Expert in configuration and Installation of RAC on Linux and Solaris using ASM and  RAW devices and Oracle CRS.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using security compliance auditing, expertise  in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*LOADER.  • Excellent work experience in developing applications using ORACLE SQL Scripts,  PL/SQL, Shell Programming.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 10g to 11g as well migrating experience  over cross platforms from Linux to Solaris, AIX to Solaris and from windows to Linux.  • Skilled in dealing with RAIDs on local server (Via RAID card BIOS) in ASM environment  such as installation, taking backup, migration of database from Non -ASM to ASM  environment.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, Cloning of databases using  RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Experience with mid-tier architectures, OEM, TOAD, Oracle grid-control.  • Excellent Written and verbal Communication skills with a customer service oriented  attitude. Knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests with Metalink. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Senior Technical Engineer Oracle Corp. September 2015 to Present Managed and resolved Service Requests logged by customers (internal and external) on Oracle products and contributed to proactive support activities  according to product support strategy and model.  • Owned and resolved problems and managed customer expectations through the Service Request lifecycle in accordance with global standards.  • Maintained product expertise within the team.  • Maintained an up-to-date knowledge of new processes and tools (diagnostic  methodology, health checks, scripting tools, etc.)  • Contributed to Knowledge Management content creation and maintenance.  • Worked with development on product improvement programs; testingBETA  • Research of Product Documentation, internal Development Bug reports, and Knowledgeable articles  • Database AWR report analysis Oracle Database Administrator United Guaranty - Greensboro, NC July 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installation and Maintenance of Oracle 9i, 10g, on IBM-AIX, LINUX and Windows  platforms.  • Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment. Load balancing of RAC instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports  generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking  Logical Backups (with Export and Data pump utilities).  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocation, Table/Index  segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the  migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Applied Patches on RAC, Standalone, Standby databases based on the requirements.  • Evaluated mix of backup and recovery methods based on organizational needs.  Implemented, tested and documented various backup/recovery scenarios for knowledge  base.  • SQL tuning using explain plan, tkprof.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of RAC, Stand by database.  • Upgrading development and production databases to Oracle 11g.  • Migrating from Oracle 10.2.0.4 on Solaris databases to Oracle 11.2.0.2 on Linux.  • Installed and applied various patches which includeCritical Patch Update (CPU), Patch  Set Update (PSU) and One-off patches using OPatch and runinstaller, also involved in upgrade oracle database 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  • Experience with data movement using Oracle utilities like Export/Import, Data pump  and SQL *Loader.  • Involved in Monitoring, Optimizing Oracle database for Performance Tuning & system/modules for Application Tuning using tools like AWR, ADDM, ASH,  STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, and UTLBSTAT.  • Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  • Experience on working with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and  implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database  metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Performed Table Partitioning, created Index Organized tables and Locally Managed  Tablespaces.  • Monitored and provided weekly reports on the server's memory, disk and CPU I/O using  HP tools and UNIX command-line utilities.  • Planned and configured disk layout, mount points and capacity requirements for servers.  • Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 9i to 10g, Cross platform migration  from different platforms.  • Administered (11g RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.    Environment: IBM-AIX, Windows 2003/NT, Oracle 9i, 10g, RAC, TOAD, OEM, DATAGUARD, RMAN, Data Pump, Diagnostic and Tuning Advisors. Oracle Database Administrator Hanes Brands, Inc - Salem, NC May 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure Proactive  problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Installation of 2 node 11g RAC on ASM feature of oracle and Linux.  • Proactive database monitoring using 11g grid monitoring tool.  • Knowledge in handling large database environments (Data warehouse) using ETL tool  Informatica, Business objects and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis  observing the performance of the production database.  • Provided support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery, Implement Hot and Cold backup plans.  • Customization and development of Korn shell scripts.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using Korn shell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users.  • Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance  monitoring.  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations / Upgrades/Patches,  • Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security  Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real  Application Clusters, Oracle Standby.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, RAID, RAW  Devices.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped  accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  • SQL statement Tuning using Explain Plans and SQL Trace using TKPROF utility  and AUTOTRACE utility.  • Analyzing tables and indexes for performance tuning. Optimizing database objects and streamlining applications.  • Taking Periodic Backup of the databases and the software using RMAN.  • Flash Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped  accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  • Performance tuning which includes creating indexes, analyze, explain plan, optimizer hints.    Environment: Sun Solaris 9.0/10.0, Oracle 10g/11gRAC, TOAD 9.0, sql developer 1.3, Informatica 8.6, Business objects 11.5, Database Tools/Utilities, Enterprise Manager,  TKPROF, Explain plan, ERWIN 4.x, DBArtisan, RHEL 4.2, Windows 2003 with Active  Directory, OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, TOAD, Erwin, STATSPACK Education University of Maryland University College September 2020 B.S. in Psychology University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD June 2015 Skills Database, Odbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Shell scripts, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, C++, Html, Perl, Xml, Rman, Erwin, Tcp/ip, Ms-dos, Tcp, Java, DBA, Oracle Dba