DEVOPS DBA DEVOPS DBA Charlotte, NC Looking for new opportunities: Senior Data Engineer/ Database Specialist/ Database Manager    DATABASE SYSTEMS  MS SQL Server (2017-2000), MS SQL BI Stack (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS), MySQL, TSQL, Replication (Snapshot, Merge, Transactional), data modeling, data warehouse design and implementation, ETL processing, TDE, data ingestion. SQL Server Active/Passive clustering (2000-2005). Multi-node fail-over clustering (2008). High availability groups (2012). VLDB. Microsoft Master Data Services.    SOFTWARE/SCRIPTING/TOOLS  MS Power BI, PowerShell, Python, PERL, Visual Studio, Cacti, Red Gate SQL suite, SQL Sentry, BI Sentry, MS Extended Events, MS Visual Studio/Team Foundation Server, Git    OS/PLATFORMS  Windows 2008/2012/2014 Server, MS Clustering, NetApp Snap Manager, EMC SAN/replication manager, Active Directory Services, AD Management tools, WSUS, VMWare, Azure Work Experience DEVOPS DBA XPO Logistics - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to May 2019 Leading database development operations for large-scale business intelligence effort. Participate and define change management (methods and deliverables) to document and audit Devops process execution. Supporting a diverse AGILE team across the globe while providing precision technical guidance in triage situations. Institute and manage industry best practices and standards to increase performance of large multi file SQL Server 2016-17 data repositories. Enforce data governance, regulatory, security, and compliance protocols. Recommend and participate in the analysis, evaluation, and collaboration of strategic plans to ensure DevOps Architecture objectives are consistent with the enterprise's long-term business/technical objectives. Shared oversight during large production migration; division SSAS and MSSQL (2016) to individual instances increasing concurrent performance and multi-threaded processing. Administration and optimization of slowly changing dimensions (type 2), ETLFramework, and complex multi path SSIS solutions. Design and maintain Entity/Hierarchies within Master Data Services to catalogue cross unit and newly acquired business meta data. Independent SQL Consultant January 2017 to June 2018 Promoted industry best practices and standards to increase performance, security, and availability of databases. Create, maintain, and execute SQL Server jobs (ETL, automation, data ingestion, encryption). Critical feedback to design solutions with extensibility and scalability to support future needs. Provide post-implementation support, including, but not limited to, monitoring application performance and debugging existing code. Extensive DBA systems experience with high availability databases utilizing clustering, replication, log shipping and real-time monitoring. Contract DBA OIT- State of Colorado - Denver, CO August 2016 to November 2016 Build and test Azure VMs, IaaS(Infrastructure as service). Plan and manage production upgrades from 2008 to MS Azure. Design and implement AD security model for HCPF (health care policy and finance) department. Administration of code, schema updates for state benefit application. Optimizing SSRS reports, SQL queries. Database Specialist Medtronic - Boulder, CO July 2015 to May 2016 SQL Server SME, SSRS, Replication. Develop and manage remote installation process of Vital Sync (Clinical Respiratory Monitoring Platform). Interface with prospective customers in a presale capacity. Support the delivery of HL7 interfaces for ADT. Encryption, decryption, ingestion, and collection of data points from clients across the US (and the world) in accordance with requisite industry standards for electronic data exchange (ANSI X12). Manage alert reporting and results reporting for Vital Sync with various EMR system. Create and customize reports (SSRS), adhoc. Remotely audit client hardware and software to comply with the Vital Sync application's pre-requisites. Implement new tools and technologies that in the RPM space. Train junior team members to install, implement, customize the Vital Sync platform. Troubleshoot client production issues; resolve or escalate them as appropriate. Communicate with software architects, director, and client partners daily/weekly project status and planning updates. Test and tune hardware/software to keep pace with the healthcare industry standards including HIPAA. Senior Database Administrator LenderLive - Glendale, CO, US February 2015 to July 2015 Supporting six lines of business within the mortgage sector- production, UAT, development. Design, maintain, and troubleshoot divergent, transactional replication streams across local and national data centers. Utilize PowerShell to automate and augment OS and SQL Server functionality. Architecture and scalability design leader. Database Contractor Ball Aerospace - Lafayette, CO February 2014 to June 2014 Responsible for the administration of development and production SQL Server with version ranging from 2000 to 2012. Performed troubleshooting, disaster recovery, and database refresh across environments. Managed the security model, change control, and emergency release patches. Performed in place SQL engine and data repository upgrades. Automated code deployment via PowerShell scripting. Supported the Business Intelligence team to implement and manage the nightly ETL. Designed and managed a number of SSRS instances including a 2012 load balanced platform to support both Oracle and SQL data sources. Coached report designers on best practices while troubleshooting data quality concerns. Lead resource in support of sector Northrop Grumman - Newport News, VA April 2013 to February 2014 wide project to develop a new Command and Control platform for USAF. Designed, implemented, and maintained SQL Server 2008 R2 multi-node, virtualized clusters. These active nodes housed 60+ databases: Sharepoint content, COTS, and custom internal repositories. Advised the application and java teams across deploying unique project builds (versioning). Participated in the AGILE development life-cycle including sprint planning, story writing, task planning and project coordination. Applied and documented DISA standard security measures (STIGs) on classified/unclassified machines. Implemented virtualized desktops using VSphere; administered VMware virtual servers. Database consultant/BI Architect Polypore, Inc - Charlotte, NC May 2012 to September 2012 Developed an enterprise 'job' architecture with the Active Batch tool-set. Supported the primary DBA ands provided SQL administration/advice on diverse projects including SQL Analysis Services, SQL Reporting Services, and Microsoft Dynamics AX. Performed deep troubleshooting and analyzed poor performing production systems. Communicated upgrade recommendation to the business stakeholders. Managing ERP (star) data warehouse while designing/maintaining weekly ETL (SSIS). Customized SSRS reports to monitor bottlenecks, performance, and batch counts of the ERP databases in SQL 2008. ESOC SQL Database Administrator III Science Applications International Corporation - Charleston, SC August 2010 to April 2012 Contracted with the Department of Defense (SPAWAR), supporting various naval medical hospitals. Administered MS SQL enterprise production systems, staging, and test installations. Managed SQL based vendor application planning and integration including Blackberry Enterprise Systems and NetApp SnapTools. Directly managed the SQL upgrade from Standard 2005 to Enterprise 2008 R2 during a data plane (NetApp) refresh. Worked with the vendor to design the logical SAN fabric and corresponding physical architecture. Co-managed upgrade of large centralized Sharepoint data repository from v2007 to v2010. Migrated 1+ terabytes of data from RAID 5 to new NetApp SAN fabric. Production Database Administrator Employment Security Commission - Raleigh, NC August 2009 to February 2010 Administered all platform SQL Server's 7-through 2005. Worked closely with various internal application development groups to design and manage security, create change control procedures, and monitor servers. Developed SSIS packages to extract, transform, and load customer data from Oracle to SQL. Sr SQL Server Support Engineer Microsoft - Charlotte, NC December 2007 to January 2009 Full Case management lifecycle support: Origination of support call; scoping through closing, analysis and problem solving. Served on the 24x7 team that managed premier customers. Completed case documentation including group triage of critical issues. Education Master of Health Management Systems in Health Management Systems Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA 1995 Bachelor of Health in Sciences Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA 1994