Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - Salazar Inc Oklahoma City, OK Enthusiastic IT Professional with Overall 7+ years of IT Industry Experience and 3 Years' experience  as Scrum Master leading multiple teams on SDLC in both Waterfall and Agile Environments.    • Proven exceptional Understanding of the Scrum theory and Best Practices.    • Experience as a Scrum Master facilitating, mentoring, and training teams and organization  on agile implementation and best practices, leading continuous improvement efforts within  teams with high focus on Self Organization and Accountability and Ownership.    • Experience facilitating, preparing, and leading Scrum ceremonies including Sprint planning,  Daily Scrums, sprint review/ demos, and collaborative design sessions; experience  prioritizing tasks and mitigating Impediments.    • Familiarity with Agile Project Management Tools like JIRA/Confluence, TFS    • Experience working with Product Owners and team(s) to meet established Sprint and  Release goals.    • Good Understanding Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Best Practices. Work Experience Scrum Master Salazar Inc - Oklahoma City, OK January 2019 to Present I Play a critical role in driving culture of ownership, self-development, and coaching 2 scrum  teams make the most out of self-organizing while ensuring adherence to Scrum Values and Best Practices by all Team members.  • Coordinating all Scrum Ceremonies including Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint  Retrospectives, Product Backlog Refinement Sessions, and Release Planning.  • Collaborating with Product Owner and Development team on properly estimating user  stories using poker planning and other technics when the need arises.  • Removing any form of impediments for the Scrum team using both internal and external  resources, making sure the team can focus on the work required to meet Sprint Goal.  • Using key Scrum metrics (Burn down charts, velocity, Agile Board) to help manage delivery  of valued committed work  • Supporting the Product Owner to define scope and objectives and continues Product Backlog  Refinement.  • Researching Agile/Scrum techniques and shared findings with the team and making sure the Scrum processes and Best Practices are being followed and all time-boxed events happen and  do not exceed the time frame as defined by the scrum guide. Scrum Master Geico Insurance - Dallas, TX June 2017 to January 2019 Established and organized high-performing development teams with onshore and offshore  resources.  • Conducted grooming meetings, Daily standup, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint  Retrospective meetings.  • Used Burn-down and velocity charts to monitor project progress and radiate information to stakeholders and program managers  • Identified risks and impediments such as blockers, issues, critical defects, resolve/mitigated  them daily  • Shielded my teams from external interference and distractions for optimal productivity and success in meeting sprint goals and deliverables  • Worked with other scrum masters to Coordinate and synchronize project plans, activities, and dependencies of parallel projects, making sure work was continuously in sync.  • Used consensus building approach to create strong team commitment to the project and each other.  • Helped set-up and managed Kanban board configuration for one of the teams, enforcing WIP  limits and making sure team members understood workflow. Oracle Database Administrator Berean Technologies - Detroit, MI March 2015 to May 2017 Worked in a DBA team of 8 managing a 1.5 terabyte Production Oracle Relational database and few instances of Microsoft SQL Server.  Worked on several Database migration projects from Oracle 10g to 11g and 12c.  Assisted ETL DBA for reporting projects Interacting with database to generate workflow reports.  Firsthand ASH, AWR, RMAN, Virtualization and OEM. Data Base Administrator CCA Bank - CM February 2010 to December 2014 Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity  planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding  indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases. Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic  performance tuning.  •Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re- organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM  Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing  UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node  RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases. Education BACHELORS UNIVERSITY OF BUEA December 2009 Skills Coaching, Mentoring, Agile Scrum, Jira, Rally, Scrum Master, Scrum, CSM, PM Certifications/Licenses Professional Scrum Master PSM I Present Scrum.org  https://www.scrum.org/user/531796 Additional Information Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  Tools & Technologies  Microsoft Office Suite  Databases    Other Skills  Coaching and mentoring.