Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Business Solutions ? Working as a Database Administrator in Ntt Data, Hyd from Jan, 2019.  ? Worked as a Database Administrator in Techmahindra, Texas from july '2017 to April 2018.  ? Worked as a Software Engineer in Techmahindra, Pune from Nov 2012 to June 2017. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Business Solutions July 2013 to Present with exposure on Production Systems Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Relational Database Management Systems for Business Solutions.  ? Experience in Administration activities such as Installation, ConfigurationClient/server connectivity,  ? Creating and managing repositories, users, user groups, Folders, user Roles, profiles and Privileges.  ? Experience on creation and implementation of Backup and Recovery methods and disaster recovery methods using RMAN, logical, hot backups, Flashback Recovery and performed full, incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN.  ? Extensive experience in Application Development, Database developmentand24x7production system support handling large databases using Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i on various platforms like AIX, Solaris, Red hat EL, UNIX andWindows.  ? Installation, upgrading, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate 12c software  ? Configure GoldenGate for Classic and Integrated capture components for replication  ? Worked in 24/7 environments  ? I have experience in Real Application Cluster(RAC)  ? RAC Implementation Steps  ? Installaing Clusterware  ? Installing Oracle Binaries  ? Creating Rac database, Asm, Listener.  ? Administering RAC using SRVCTL and CRSCTL  ? Bring down the RAC Environment  ? Converting a Standalone database to RAC database  ? Perseverant self-starter with good analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Has aptitude to learn new things and ability to perform under stress.  ? Installation of Oracle 9i/10g/11g on Red Hat Linux A.S.4.0/3.0.  ? Knowledge on Configuration and maintenance of physical standby database for no data loss.  ? Design and implementation of backup and restore mechanism.  ? Expertise in administration of Backup and Recovery, RMAN, Disaster  ? Recovery, Installation of Oracle Software.  ? Managing physical structure of Oracle database like Data files, Redo logfiles and control files.  ? Moving data between database using utility like Export/Import Transport table space.  ? Daily checking of alert log and trace file for errors.  ? Experience in creating the database using DBCA for Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g and Oracle 11g/12C.  ? Possess technical ability and self-initiative to learn and implement new concepts in short duration.  ? A very good team player, self motivated, dedicated in any work environment with24x7 support.    ? Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills with customer service oriented attitude.  ? Excellent communication, documentation and coordination skills. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application JNTU University Bsc in Computer Science Osmania University Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Rman, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Rdbms, Windows 2000 Additional Information Skills Set:    Operating System: Red Hat Linux A.S.4.0, (UNIX), Windows 2000, XP, solaris  Languages: SQL  RDBMS: ORACLE 9i/10g/11g/12c  Tool &Utility: Export & Import, Data Pump,  RMAN (Knowledge of configure the RMAN, catalog, Backup and Recovery).  Data Guard (Physical standby database), DBCA, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, DBUA, Sql Developer,