Sr.MongoDB Architect (Developer/ Administrator/DBA) Sr.MongoDB Architect (Developer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span>/DBA) Sr.MongoDB Architect (Developer/ Administrator/DBA) - American Express • Having 8+ years of experience in Database design, Administration and development in Mongo DB, Oracle and MySQL.  • Over 5+ years of experience in MongoDB Development, Installation, Configuration and Administration.  • Experienced in NOSQL Database design and principles (MongoDB, Cassandra)  • Proficient in designing MongoDB dynamic schemas and Data modelling concepts.  • Experienced in Design, Analysis, Administration and Development and implementation stages of several Client/Server applications using Java/J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, JQUERY, Object Oriented Programming, SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle.  • Experienced in implementation of backup and recovery process for various databases like MongoDB, Oracle and MySQL. Work Experience Sr.MongoDB Architect (Developer/ Administrator/DBA) American Express - Houston, TX October 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Applied patches and upgraded from 2.6 and 3.2. Worked with multiple storage engines in MongoDB.  • Implemented LVM snapshots and MMS backups for large scale MongoDB systems. Administering MongoDB databases using various Mongo utilities.  • Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  • Worked on custom map/reduce engine to analyze MongoDB databases directly using the on-disk format. Faster and more memory-efficient than other solutions. Used for generating metrics to drive business decisions.  • Worked on API server and maintained, written using Python Twisted and my own MongoDB driver. Handles data synchronization to millions of mobile devices from a single machine.  • Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis. Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Point in time Backup and recovery in MongoDB using onsite MMS.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  • Manage and maintain MongoDB servers across multiple environments.  • Migrated large amount of data between mongo clusters using mongodump, mongorestore, mongoexport and mongoimport.  • Worked on creating GridFS collections and loading GridFS data using Mongofile utilities.  • Implemented CR Authentication, SHA-1 Authentication across different MongoDB versions.  • Worked on restoring rollbacks when primary node is switching in replica set because of system failures.  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  • Worked on creating indexes on secondary nodes.  • Implemented Tag awaresharding depending upon the data requirement and balancing chunks in sharded cluster.    Environment: MongoDB, Cassandra, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Senior MongoDB Administrator Conifer - Dallas, TX May 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational MySQL and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems  • Administration and management of the entire development, QA and production environment.  • Installed and configured MySQL on Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Worked on creation of MongoDB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  • Responsible for managing MongoDB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Assisted with sizing, query optimization, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  • Worked with the engineering team to implement new design systems of databases used by the company.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication.  • Designed databases for referential integrity and involved in logical design plan.  • Performance Tuning on a daily basis for preventing issues and providing capacity planning using MySQL Enterprise Monitor.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  • Proficiency in Unix/Linux shell commands.  • Created and deleted users, groups and set up restrictive permissions, configuration of the sudo files etc. Configuring/Installing/Troubleshooting PHP.  • Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff. Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Supporting management with different database related decisions.  • Handling Release management and user acceptance.    Environment: MySQL, MongoDB, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Database Administrator (DBA) CVS Health - Irving, TX February 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Recognized and fine-tuned the database for its specific behaviors. Monitored running database server and performed tuning techniques.  • Collaborated with developers, architects, and business stakeholders to create high-performance, cost-effective solutions.  • Ensured data integrity with good process and detected errors and misuses of data.  • Administered Mysql database installations and upgrades, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery, space management, capacity planning and resource utilization.  • Researched new database technologies and methodologies. Enabled required data extract, transform, and load procedures and packages. Involved in creating customer invoice reports.  • Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  • Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Version control through SVN.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: MySQL, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, replication, python, shell scripting, Sql, Pearl, Java script. Database Administrator (DBA) J.Crew Group, Inc - Dallas, TX June 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Review SQL and PL/SQL for Production and sub-environments to ensure accuracy and optimization.  • Performed daily monitoring of databases for availability and performance metrics.  • Reviewed log files from overnight and batch processes for significant events.  • Created Database tables, views and indexes.  • Creation of functions using PL/SQL. Creation of DML, DDL, DRL, TCL, DCL using SQL. Creation of Joins, Equijoin, Sub quires in SQL.  • Invoices are imported from the Excel sheets to the Oracle Database using SQL * LOADER  • Developed Reports as per client requirement.  • Involved in creation of SQL and PLSQL scripts. Creation of Packages, Stored Procedures & triggers using PL/SQL and loaded data using SQL*Loader.  • Created HTML and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery Scripting and framework.  • Worked and involved in development, enhancement and testing of the application. Defined different media queries for different devices.  • Got chance to interact with business team on regular basis and gather requirements.  • Successfully wrote and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures and Triggers in SQL Server  • Heavily interacted with the end users and stakeholders for design validation.  • Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of the designs.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  • Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.    Environment: SQL, JavaScript and windows XP, Oracle 9i, Developer 2000, XML, Windows NT 4.0, MS Access 2000.