Scrum Master/Report Analyst Scrum Master/Report Analyst Fairfax, VA 4+ years information Technology experience with 5+ years of agile coaching, leading teams through agile transformation and 2 years of Oracle database administration practice. Passionate agile practitioner with broad knowledge in agile -scrum principles and software development life cycle. Focused on delivering value through servant leadership, sprint management, development and delivery. Aiming at using analytical and prioritization ability to deliver project results. Work Experience Scrum Master/Report Analyst March 2016 to Present Republic properties    Mentoring and coaching teams on agile principles    Responsibilities  • Facilitated team meetings, daily stand ups and coached scrum teams about importance of effective communication.  • Actively implemented scrum rules of transparency adaptation, inspection and effective communication in scrum teams.  • Served as a servant leader during sprints and removed impediments from scrum team.  • Worked effectively in cross-functional team environment and was able to balance workload and prioritized effectively. Able to manage self and time to meet commitments.  • Act as change agent leading and supporting their solution delivery teams and individuals in their agile journey.  • Asses the current organization culture, team readiness and delivery environment and recommend optimal agile practices in a flexible way.  • Facilitated agile methodologies and principles for the coordination of multiple, concurrent technology projects coordinate efforts with personnel from various IT functions (i.e. Quality Assurance, development, Business Analysis, Risk management and oracle database management.  • Provided and ensured that meeting plans are well detailed and reported. Liaised with oracle database administrators on projects and database warehousing processes.  • Establish and support consistent reporting practices and agile metrics across the teams /enterprise.  • Established a one on one session with team members to ensure there is no distraction against completing on-going projects.  • Resolved conflict amongst team members and ensuring smooth process in achieving done projects.  • Proactively identifying and resolving impediments, internal to the team as well external.  • Coached the team on the necessity and importance of following agile principles.  • Tracked, monitored team velocity and reported team progress to management. Agile Business Analyst Life Science Logistics 2014 to 2016 Delivered functional specification documents    Responsibilities  • Engage client to gather software requirement/ business rules and ensure alignment with development teams.  • Draft and maintain business requirement and align them with functional and technical requirement.  • Communicate clients' business requirement by constructing easy-to-understand data and process models.  • Provided technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing systems and procedures that are cost effective and meet business requirements.  • Work with software development team to enhance or implement technologies to meet identified business project goals  • Create, curate and maintain a Dashboard/scorecard to assist with strategic decision-making and distribution up to the board level  • Assists in generating Business As Usual (BAU) reports. Supported ad-hoc presentation/analysis development and responds to information requests from management.  • Tracked user stories using pivotal tracker and prioritized the backlog for continuous delivery process. Executed projects through the entire sdlc from gathering requirements, designing, developing, testing, deploying and support phase  • Actively engaged stakeholders and end-users in requirement gathering (JAD) and brain storming sessions to capture requirements and underlying needs of the company, and also performed impact analysis on business requirements. Oracle Database Administrator AT&T February 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities  • Configured oracle database for oracle disaster recovery and performed switchover/switchback from primary database to standby database when required.  • Suggested best practice for backup and recovery.  • Conducted patching from 10g to 11g.  • Performed trouble shooting when needed through AWR and trace file.  • Ensured database was on high availability and accessible. Education Certified Database Administrator Liverpool Hope University Master's in Business and Management in Business and Management Liverpool Hope University Master's in Leadership and Management in Leadership and Management Liverpool Hope University