Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - IBM consulting Boston, MA ? About 9+ year experience in SQL Server Database Administration, Design, System Analysis, Testing, Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000 in Production and Development Environments.  ? Experience in database administration and development activities such as Installation, Configuration, Database design & development, Data modeling, Backup & Recovery, Performance tuning and Query Optimization, Data Transformation Services, and Database Security  ? Experience working with MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000 versions. Hands on experience in SQL Server DTS and SSIS (SQL Server Integration Service) package design, constructing, and deployment.  ? Upgraded SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2000/2005 to SQL Server 2008R2/2016  ? Extensive knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS)  ? Expert in creation of tables, views, triggers, stored procedures and functions using SQL (Structured Query Language) and T-SQL (Transact-SQL).  ? Assisted on the Adhoc-Query requests based on the requirement by using Joins, Sub Queries and Co-related Sub Queries.  ? Exquisite skills in SSMS-Creating and scheduling jobs, alerts and operators with SQL Server Agent, handling Backup/Recovery of databases, Replication, Linked Servers, and Database Maintenance.  ? Experience in implementing different types of Replication such as Snapshot and Transactional.  ? Expertise in database Disaster Recovery procedures. Developed and documented disaster recovery plans and backup and recovery strategies for production environment.  ? Experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Database Monitoring tools and Application support.  ? Disaster Recovery planning and implementation - Database mirroring, Log shipping, Replication and Active Passive clustering.  ? Performance tuning, Index tuning, trouble shooting, maintenance and monitoring using Performance Dashboard reports, Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiler, Server Side Trace, Dynamic Management views (DMV) and DMFs.  ? Experience in planning and implementing Database Security by creating Logins, Users, Roles and assigning permissions according to the requirement.  ? Experience in developing and tuning SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and SSRS reports.  ? Experience in creating packages to transfer data between ORACLE, MS ACCESS and FLAT FILES to SQL SERVER using DTS/SSIS  ? Experienced in designing SSIS packages to perform ETL from heterogeneous sources (e.g. Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files, and text format data) to generate underlying data for reports and to export cleansed data.  ? Hands on experience creating dynamic reports (e.g. Tabular, Matrix, Drill-Down, Cascaded Parameterized, Charts, Sub Reports, Ad-Hoc, Cross Tab) using SSRS 2008/2012.  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC,worked indevelopment methodologies,such as Agile,Scrum, test driven, Rapid application Development,and Waterfall.  ? Configuring and maintaining Report Manager and Report Server for reporting services.  ? Documenting procedures in runbooks.  ? Supported more than 1,000 databases, 500 applications and 200 servers  ? Experience in providing 24 x 7 production support.  ? Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills and committed team player, self-motivated and work well under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator IBM consulting - Boston, MA February 2019 to Present Database hardening - compliance and remediation (SQL Server 2000 - 2016)  ? Upgrade and Migration of more than 500 databases to SQL Server 2016  ? Troubleshooting and performance tuning  ? Design, Building and configuring new servers Database Administrator Pacific Northwest National Laboratory - Richland, WA December 2017 to February 2019 Responsible for Installation, Configuration and Administration of SQL Server  ? Installed SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 on Windows Clustered and standalone environments with latest service packs.  ? Migrated SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2000/2005 to SQL Server 2008R2/2016  ? Developed SQL scripts to Insert, Update and Delete data in SQL database tables.  ? Was responsible for defining relationship between tables, and enforced referential integrity constraints.  ? Created and re-evaluated indexes and made required process modifications for better performance.  ? Table Partitioning for existing and new application databases.  ? Backups and Restore for SQL Server.  ? Creating databases and logins with permissions in SQL Server as per the developer's request.  ? Performance tuning, trouble shooting and monitoring using Performance Dashboard reports, Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiler, Server Side Trace, Dynamic Management views (DMV).  ? Assisted on the Adhoc-Query requests based on the requirement by using Joins, Sub Queries and Co-related Sub Queries.  ? Creation of tables, views, triggers, stored procedures and functions using SQL (Structured Query Language) and T-SQL (Transact-SQL).  ? Implemented Database Replication (Merge and Transactional).  ? Having hands on experience in DR processes including Log shipping and Database Mirroring.  ? Created Data Flow's for Aggregate, sort, lookup, merge, union and all and fuzzy lookups.  ? Implemented transactional replication for data refresh  ? Extensively used SQL Profiler and Query Tuning Wizard to troubleshoot problems and queries  ? Created backup schedule for production, test and development servers.  ? Involved in tuning SQL Server databases using available tuning methods like index tuning wizards, profiler and execution plans.  ? Created standard documentation for Disaster recovery testing and implemented them.  ? Experienced with creating logical and physical database design for development projects.  ? Experienced with improving SQL Server using windows performance monitor to improve the server performance.  ? Worked with developers to do the database schema changes and database restore requests.  ? Involved in restore operations to refresh the data from production to test servers.  ? Experienced in troubleshooting production servers and fixed the user and application issues.  ? Experience in working and troubleshooting 2TB Very Large databases (VLDB) in OLTP Environment.  ? Configured Always on availability groups in SQL server 2012.  ? Application support for front end feeds and Resolved Application connectivity issues like connection timeouts, connection pooling issues and memory leaks.  ? Extensively worked with SQL Profiler, Activity monitor, Perfmon, DMVs, DMFs and DTA to tune the databases, queries, performance related issues like memory, CPU and I/O issues.  ? Analyze and tune long running slow queries to optimize application and system performance.  ? Reorganizing/Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? To set up SQL Server configuration settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory issues for SQL Server databases and to setup ideal memory, min/max server options.  ? Configuring TEMP DB on files and file groups and capacity planning of databases.  ? Configure encryption at rest (TDE), Always Encryption, data masking, row level encryption  ? Configuring, managing and monitoring Azure SQL,  ? Migrating from on-premise to Azure SQL and Azure VM  ? Documenting procedures in run books.  ? Highly dedicated, dynamic, ability to meet deadlines within fast paced environments  ? Self-Starter, Result Oriented, Responsible Team Member and Co-Operative Individual  ? Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production environment SQL Server Database Administrator/developer International Arctic Research Center - Fairbanks, AK August 2012 to September 2017 create Stored Procedures, views, tables, constrains.  ? Create stored procedures and triggers for Data consistency.  ? Created views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and triggers on them to facilitate consistent Data entry into the database.  ? Regular Indexes rebuilding  ? Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  ? Moved files between the File Groups and partitioned the tables to improve the performance.  ? SQL server performance monitoring using SQL server profiler  ? Worked on complex T-SQL statements, and implemented various codes and functions.  ? Write T-SQL Scripts for database backup jobs and daily/weekly jobs.  ? Backing up, restoring the data base manually and also by scheduling the jobs and Maintenance Plans.  ? Experience in implementing High availability solutions like different Replication models (Snapshot and Transactional), Log shipping, Clustering and Mirroring on physical and virtual machines  ? Data migration between different versions of SQL server  ? Developed ETL packages using SSIS to move static data from various SQL server databases.  ? Used SSIS transformations such as fuzzy lookup, conditional split, and derived column to perform data cleansing before loading data into the data warehouse.  ? Developed SSRS reports using various features such as crosstabs and parameterizations.  ? Created SSRS tabular reports by using cascading parameters.  ? Generated summarized drill-down tabular reports by creating stored procedures on SSMS and later used as an embedded dataset on SSRS.  ? Generated reports on the fly using Report Builder. Senior Data Analyst Climate and Health Institute - Arba Minch - ET July 2010 to August 2012 Participated in collecting, organizing, and interpreting data along with fellow colleagues  ? Organize, extrapolate, model and disseminate data across departments to be used for drawing conclusions about correlation between malaria prevalence and weather patterns.  ? Presented detailed reports about our findings, data quality, analysis and results to various stakeholders to identify scenarios that could minimize people from getting malaria during the peak season.  ? Supervised lab technician working in the data collecting and modeling Education Environmental Engineering Cornell University 2009 Bachelor of Science in Atmospheric Physics Arba Minch University 2005 Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oltp, Postgresql Additional Information SKILLS:    SQL Server 2008 - 2017; Windows server 2003 - 2016; Microsoft Clustering, SAP BO; third party tools like Redgate and ServiceNow; SQL Query Analyzer, Troubleshooting and performance Tuning; SQL Profiler; extended event, Perfmon, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, OLTP, PostGreSQL, VMware workstation, Azure SQL database, Azure VM, Powershell, Python, R, Linux/Unix, Shell script