Sr. Database Administrator/Data Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Data Analyst Sr. Database Administrator/Data Analyst New York, NY ? Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Administration.  ? Experience in upgrading SQL server to latest versions.  ? Experience in Extracting, Transforming, and Loading (ETL) data using SSIS, DTS Import/Export utility, BCP and DTS Packages.  ? Responsible for applications like Trading system, Trust, Risk Management, Reconciliation, Loan Management System, Brokerage, Real Estate, Front Invest and Accounting.  ? Coordination with vendors for application upgrades.  ? Verify application compatibility before doing upgrades.  ? Coordinate with various teams including vendor for project discussion.  ? Prepare Run books for upgrades, beta testing, disaster recover.  ? Manage Projects through the entire SDLC and make sure the deadlines are met.  ? SQL Server Developer skills including writing stored procedures, triggers, views, query writing.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server connectivity, Database Consistency Checks  ? Experience in database backup, replication, recovery, restoration, DTS and Linked servers.  ? SQL Server administration skills including user authorizations, Database creation, Tables, indexes and clusters.  ? Experience in SQL Server Analysis Services, Data Warehousing, OLAP Cubes, and Mining.  ? Experienced in Data Archiving using IDERA tools for Terabyte size databases.  ? Responsible for Workflow & Data Mapping for IT development using Rochade.  ? Experienced in Data Warehousing Analysis, Data Marts and Business Intelligence  ? Proficient in working with users to gather requirements, analyze, and subsequently use design tools to model the requirements.  ? Experienced in all aspects of SDLC such as requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, deployment & maintenance of Projects.  ? Strong Object Oriented Analysis, design and programming technical skills, ability to learn new emerging technologies and adapt quickly.  ? Handle multiple tasks and capable of handling responsibilities independently as well as a proactive team member.  ? Excellent Communication and inter personal Skills working with different teams and application end-users.  ? Strong Hands on experience in Installation, Server Clustering, Performance tuning, Backup/recovery, Query Optimization and Security.  ? Experience in supporting huge databases and troubleshooting issues.  ? Experienced in analyzing New/Existing Account opening, Mapping Entitlements & Security Protocols  ? Worked well independently as well as in team-oriented environments  ? Wide exposure to On site & Off-shore Team management, Testing, Implementation & Support Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator/Data Analyst TIAA-CREF - New York, NY November 2007 to August 2013 Responsibilities  TIAA-CREF, NYC Nov2007 – Aug 2013  Sr. Database Administrator/Data Analyst    Responsibilities ? Senior Database Administrator/Analyst conducting business Requirement & Meetings  ? Managed 150 SQL Servers and 800 databases on the Asset Management side of TIAA-CREF.   ? Extensively involved in Both Server Level and Database Level security of SQL 2000/2005/2008 such as creating logins, different database/Application roles, Assigning Role according to the requirements.   ? Created, Upgraded and migrated databases in SQL server 2000, SQL Server 2005 and SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2008 R2.   ? Involved in backup strategies, Disaster Recovery Modelling and High Availability in production servers.   ? Responsible for creating and scheduling jobs such as backup, tuning the databases, daily reports notifications.   ? Monitoring Customized jobs to keep track of job failure in database server.   ? Responsible for server level as well database level performance monitoring using various tools such as system monitor, SQL profiler, activity monitor, third party vendor tools such as NETIQ, TIVOLI and TSQL.   ? Responsible for troubleshooting and problem resolution of production, test and development environment.   ? Responsible for applying and testing Services packs, cumulative and hot patches.   ? Involved in creating and administrating clustered Environment, Virtual (VM) Environment.   ? Responsible for data transfer using DTS and SSIS packages in SQL server 2000/2005/2008.  ? Responsible for high availability of the system, Log Shipping, Clustering, database mirroring.   ? Responsible for configuring/troubleshooting replication.   ? Produce & Manage data migration plans for bulk data- legacy and incumbent systems  ? Produce scope of effort estimates to Project & Program Management teams  ? Act as Liaison between Operations and Technology team,  ? Provide in-depth analysis report on Client and Account - Reference Data to Business and Technology Partners  ? Develop Workflows and Data Mapping for IT development  ? Prepare application performance report to Management team and Stake holders  ? Train New Hires with the process and infrastructure knowledge of the Organization.  ? Review team members work and supervise application development  ? Created Standard Operating Procedures and (SOP) and Work Instructions (WI) for upgrade.  ? Responsible to execute, Capacity planning, sizing, monitoring Disk I/O, Server Rebuild & migration.   ? Involved in Change Management, Problem management activities implementing database changes in production and development activities using SERVICE NOW.   ? Responsible as Primary Security Administrator for SOX/SAS 70 databases and provide evidence to external and internal auditors including compliance with all database year round.  ? Responsible for database to application mapping for all SQL Servers using Rochade tool and keeping the inventory to date on a daily basis.  ? Responsible for Workflow and Data Mappings for all databases on all servers using Rochade tool.  ? Responsible for Data Archiving using IDERA tools for SOX and SAS70 databases.  ? Responsible for maintaining the trading platform databases and server along with the front end maintenance and security of application Long View Trading System.  ? Determine hardware and software requirements, SQL installation options and testing throughout SDLC.   ? Evaluated data storage considerations to store databases and transaction logs.   ? Developed Integration services package for data transformation and to implement business logic.  ? Installed and configured Reporting and Analysis Services.  ? Document server and database policies and procedures.  ? Involved in Disaster recovery and created the documentation Sr. Database Analyst/Project Manager Canada Revenue Agency - Ottawa, ON October 2003 to November 2007 Responsibilities  ? Writing Business Requirement Document, Gap Analysis, Test Cases  ? Create Reference Data, Hierarchies, Process Manual and Reporting Templates.  ? Data Analysis with Reference and Fact details  ? Planning and executing User Acceptance Testing  ? Trouble shoot issues related to integration Testing and follow up with IT/QA team  ? Develop Wireframes for Screen design and Workflow process for IT development  ? Work closely with Project Director and Controllers on project aspects and status  ? Senior Business Analyst and IT Liaison in Consulting with business group like FAC, FRS, Banking and IT for project Requirement Gathering , Use Cases, Functional Specifications & Implementing Methodologies.  ? Coordinating with Business/IT team on conducting UAT, resolving Ad-hoc issue  ? Preparing Gap Analysis, Traceability Metrics, Technical Design, Test Plan, Test Cases, Data Analysis and Modelling.  ? Work with third party vendors to get & send the data via ftp in zip format and load the data in to MS SQL Server databases.  ? Analyse New/Existing Account opening and mapping Entitlements requirements and work with development team for developing and maintenance of Security Protocols.  ? Work with Release/Change Management team for all scheduled QA/Production releases  ? Database Administrator for Development, Test and Production servers.  ? Installed and administered SQL Servers.  ? Created & managed the database users, login IDs and security.  ? Created and modified database objects like tables, views, indexes etc.  ? Extracted Data from MS ACCESS And MySQL  ? Created DTS package to export and import data from SQL Server to Access, text and EXCEL files.  ? Extract, transform/modify and load data from database files to other type files.   ? Checked Performance Tuning, Full Text Indexing, Query Optimization.   ? Configured Failover and HPC Clustering for better performance and High availability.  ? Generated reports using Microsoft Reporting Services  ? Providing Training and consultation to application development teams.  ? Designed cubes and Data Marts to cater to different business needs.  ? Database monitoring using system tools.  ? Train New Hires.  ? Demonstration of the benefits of using Data Marts and Cubes to different teams.  ? Coordinator for the whole Branch for Technology and Employment Equity. Sr. Database Analyst/Project Manager Canada Revenue Agency - Ontario, CA October 2003 to February 2007 Responsibilities  ? Writing Business Requirement Document, Gap Analysis, Test Cases  ? Create Reference Data, Hierarchies, Process Manual and Reporting Templates.  ? Data Analysis with Reference and Fact details  ? Planning and executing User Acceptance Testing  ? Trouble shoot issues related to integration Testing and follow up with IT/QA team  ? Develop Wireframes for Screen design and Workflow process for IT development  ? Work closely with Project Director and Controllers on project aspects and status  ? Senior Business Analyst and IT Liaison in Consulting with business group like FAC, FRS, Banking and IT for project Requirement Gathering , Use Cases, Functional Specifications & Implementing Methodologies.  ? Coordinating with Business/IT team on conducting UAT, resolving Ad-hoc issue  ? Preparing Gap Analysis, Traceability Metrics, Technical Design, Test Plan, Test Cases, Data Analysis and Modelling.  ? Work with third party vendors to get & send the data via ftp in zip format and load the data in to MS SQL Server databases.  ? Analyse New/Existing Account opening and mapping Entitlements requirements and work with development team for developing and maintenance of Security Protocols.  ? Work with Release/Change Management team for all scheduled QA/Production releases  ? Database Administrator for Development, Test and Production servers.  ? Installed and administered SQL Servers.  ? Created & managed the database users, login IDs and security.  ? Created and modified database objects like tables, views, indexes etc.  ? Extracted Data from MS ACCESS And MySQL  ? Created DTS package to export and import data from SQL Server to Access, text and EXCEL files.  ? Extract, transform/modify and load data from database files to other type files.   ? Checked Performance Tuning, Full Text Indexing, Query Optimization.   ? Configured Failover and HPC Clustering for better performance and High availability.  ? Generated reports using Microsoft Reporting Services  ? Providing Training and consultation to application development teams.  ? Designed cubes and Data Marts to cater to different business needs.  ? Database monitoring using system tools.  ? Train New Hires.  ? Demonstration of the benefits of using Data Marts and Cubes to different teams.  ? Coordinator for the whole Branch for Technology and Employment Equity. Additional Information Educational Qualifications & Certifications  MCS Masters in Computer Science  BCS Bachelor of Computer Science   Information Systems Diploma in Business Administration  DCP  MCP Diploma in Computer Programmer  Microsoft Certified Professional   OCA Oracle Certified Associate