Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - SUBARU AUTOMOTIVE Rhode Island (RI) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator SUBARU AUTOMOTIVE - Lafayette, IN September 2017 to Present • Database Administrator supporting three major projects from Dev to Prod through Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Database sizes range from 2GB to 5TB  • Applies CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.  • Clones of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Maintains Oracle11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM, file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, Quotas, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Provides System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Analyzes SQL queries causing performance problems in the database  • Creates, Configured, Upgraded and Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on Linux Red Hat and Cent OS on VMware and bare-metal environments  • Executes an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.  • Creates and configures new database server and database environments.  • Performs MonthlyRe-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Executes Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.  • Performs DR switchover and failover operations.  • Participates in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically  • Maintains database and middleware/SOA layer performance by identifying and resolving production and application development problems; calculating optimum values for parameters; evaluating, integrating, and installing new releases.  • Supports Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and Linux scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshoots installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My Oracle Support or metal link)  • Creates oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Manages, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on Linux command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools like TOAD, SQLDeveloper  • Monitors and performs database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Carryout Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Provides valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Linux/Unix platform using AWR , ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFSfile systems.  • Involves in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Refreshes schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Works on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup usingRMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Monitorsdatabase systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed Linux shell scripts.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2),OEM Grid control ,Datapump, AWR,SQL TRACE,BI PUB and TWS. Oracle Database Administrator MATERIAL IN MOTION (MIM) Fairbun,GA May 2015 to August 2017 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapumpexport/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Worked on disaster recovery of a Dataguard physical standby Failover/switchover/loss of service /rebuild/corruption/loss of datafile testing.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Provided System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Executed Database replication from prod to test/dev environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually.  • Responsible for network config and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNSnames, Listener, Net CA and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch SetUpdates (PSU),One-off Patch)using metal ink.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespacefeature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used run blocks to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Successfully performed data replication using Snapshot, Clone, Data pump export/import and RMAN in Oracle 10gR2.Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.    Tools Used: AWR, Oracle TOAD, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, OEM Grid control. JuniorOracle DBA BOSTON SCIENTIFIC - Minneapolis, MN January 2013 to April 2015 • Performed migration of the various databases in a UNIX environment.  • Restored and Recovery of database in case of database failures.  • Applied patches and works closely with Oracle to make Application environment up to date.  • Backups & Recovery Maintenance, Databases Performance Tuning.  • Typically involved in database Designing, creation and maintenance.  • Executed a good working knowledge of SQL.  • Created users and grant privileges according to the requirements.  • Working knowledge on UNIX administration on AIX server.  • Provided System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Clear documentation was prepared on all the processes like program specification, bugs fixing logs & change requests for future reference. Performed daily database administration tasks: User management, Space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning, Alert Log monitoring and backup monitoring.  • Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import).  • Proactively managed the databases; set up alarms for managing any exceptions in day to day management of the databases; pre-empted and prevented issues, disasters from happening.  • Monitored table spaceissues, creating table spaces and adding data files.  • Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database.  • Tuned Development, test and production database by altering the parameters.  • Executed Export and Import of database objects to copy from one database to another database.  • Investigated suspicious database activity using Auditing.  • Wrote database documentation, including data standards, procedures and definitions.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 11g, RMAN, and Datapump, SQL TRACE, AWRand ADDM. IT support Administrator Target corp - Minneapolis, MN August 2010 to December 2012 • Performed Hardware Maintenance, Repairs of printers and computers.  • Troubleshoots and resolved hardware, software, network incidents or issues with desktops, laptops as well as printers.  • Configured and Setup end users workstations, monitoring network and making sure connections are up.  • Created partitions on hard disk drive for backup purposes.  • Executed installation of Operating System Programs.  • Performed Computer Upgrading and Maintenance.  • Carried out Window and Windows Upgrade.  • Executed Software Installation and Updating.  • Performed Hardware, software, configuration and equipment setup/ installation.  • Assisted users both remotely and onsite in various locations.  • Supported end users with the entire Microsoft Office applications.  • Executed Clone on hard drives to have the exact copy of data from the source drive to the destination drive.  • Supported both Mac and Windows products as well as operating systems.  • Protected the computer system from failures and also minizes the lost of data by performing a complete routine maintenance on the computers and network as well.  • Document activities, steps to resolution and process improvements.  • Created as well as changing or resetting user's password and Account. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases Oracle 12c,11g,10g,MySQL,Ms SQL Server,Ms Access  Database Tools Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, Exp/Imp/Data Pump,AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM,RAC,ASM,DataGuard, Migration,,SRVCTL,WinsSCP,SFTP, Putty,Netca, Secret server, Keypass, Bomgar,Zoho,Team Viewer, Togo Assist, ServiceNow, Recovery Catalog,Crontab,grep,awk and sed.  Operating Systems MS Windows, LINUX, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX)  Hardware Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 7.5