Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Washington, DC Work Experience Database Administrator SRA International May 2014 to Present • Transfers and replicates data accurately and quickly.  • Maintains distributed SQL Server database and ensures its availability to users of the WRAPS system that are based globally.  • Monitors database performance (using tools such as Ignite or SQL Diagnostics  Manager or Spotlight on SQL Server) and assists with database security.  • Validates, loads, tests, and verifies data.  • Performs complete functional testing of database structures and verifies information provided in all environments including development, test, and production.  • Resolves load, processing, reporting (extract), and other data management issues.  • Optimizes/balances processing and performance for peak and load.  • Write SQL queries to extract data out of the database for various reporting and/or monitoring server performance Oracle DBA APEX Inc. Fall Church April 2014 to May 2014 • Develop data import and export routines to automate data loading from data on an unclassified Microsoft SQL Server to a classified Oracle database.  • Create windows, screens and reports to support the operational requirements of a team using the Oracle database as the backend to a system they use to manage sensitive subscriber information (names, phone numbers, addresses, type of service, etc).  • Program and write code as necessary to include modifying and maintaining scripts and code written by predecessors.  • Maintain moderately complex database for internal and external users/clients.  • Upgrade server from Oracle 9i to 11G databases.  • Perform analyses and review complex applications being released into production.  • Analyze the needs and requirements of users of existing database systems and develop technical, structural and organizational specifications to include access methods, access time, job control language, statistical methodologies, device allocation, validation checks, and data protection and security.  • Support OSS team with creating scripts, reports, CDs documentation. STIP Operations Engineer Blue Water Federal Solutions, Inc - Arlington, VA August 2010 to April 2014 • Remotely monitor, perform diagnostics and troubleshoot devices for network connectivity issues.  • Create and execute inserts, updates, and delete queries to make changes throughout the TSA equipment database.  • Query Oracle database when troubleshooting data, connectivity issues, and ad-hoc reports for management.  • Manage network devices in Solar Winds.  • Putty into TSA net to verify connection and port configurations.  • Analyze audit and transaction logs.  • Document help desk tickets/resolutions, and maintain equipment inventory lists.  • Install and configure airport devices and verify the connections are properly installed and documented.  • Support new devices as they are piloted or deployed into production.  • Interact with various customers in efforts to resolve issues when devices are not communicating with the custom applications.  • Perform system administration duties monitoring and troubleshooting an email system. Create and update user accounts as needed.  • Ensure standard operating procedures and other system documentation is kept up to date.  • Trained new help desk staff on procedures, usage of applications and troubleshooting methods.  • Assist management in meetings with third party companies.  • Monitor application server utilization using Oracle Grid Control. SENTINEL Help Desk Blue Water Federal Solutions, Inc - Arlington, VA March 2011 to March 2012 • Help desk supporting the United States Coast Guard (USCG) SENTINEL project.  • Created and modified user accounts.  • Troubleshoot issues via email and/or telephone.  • Documented help desk tickets/resolutions.  • Created a How to manual prior the launch of the new SENTINEL site.  • Responsible for keeping SENTINEL users up to date on the status and/or availability of the SENTINEL site.  • Escalate application bugs to DBAs. Education M.S in Database Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2014 Graduate Certificate in Database Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2012 BS in MIS Saint Francis University - Loretto, PA May 2009 Skills SQL Server 2008 (2 years), SQL (6 years), Troubleshooting (6 years) Additional Information Specialties:  • Database Management  • Application Support  • SQL  • Oracle  • SQL Server  • Networking    Relevant Skills:  Database knowledge: Oracle 9/10/11g, SQL and Visual Basics    Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows XP, and Windows 7 & 8  Software Programs: Remedy, Altiris, BMC Track it, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Project, Solar Winds, Visio, WEKA, MS SQL Server Studio, Red Gate, Oracle Grid Control, Putty, Secure CRT and Microsoft FrontPage.