Lead Oracle DBA Lead Oracle DBA Lead Oracle DBA Waxahachie, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Oracle DBA City Credit Union - Dallas, TX June 2017 to June 2019 • Installed Grid Infrastructure Software on new Linux Servers for 3node and 6nodeRAC and Failover environments.  • Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata server for infrastructure and related projects.  • Created Streams environment in unidirectional and table level for replication of data.  • Worked in troubleshooting RAC and implemented 11g New ASM features.  • Applied necessary Patches during installation and also in up-gradation of databases on Oracle database versions 10g and 11g.  • Extensively worked in setting up physical standby database using Data guard on Oracle11gR2.  • Configured Data guard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the Data guard status via DGMGRL and GUI.  • Experienced in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalog databases and DR databases.  • Migration of all Oracle 9i/10g databases/clients to 11g.  • Handy in utilizing data pump tool for exporting and importing the data between databases.  • Involved and Upgraded Analytical Databases from 11g to 12c.  • Installed and configured OEM Grid control and intensively used Diagnostic & tuning packs along with AWR & ADDM reports.  • Performance tuning of queries consuming Excessive Resources or slow running queries by providing Required Hints to the Query.  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools SQL Trace, AWR reports, ADDM, and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Understood the concepts of AMS (Archival Management System) and implemented successfully in production environment to archive historical data.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Data loading using SQL*Loader into Oracle Database from different sources (OLTP).  • Migration of databases from 11g to 12c using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes.  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using Data Pump export/import.  • Collaborate with the DBA and Development Team in successful implementation of data warehouse release.  • Having good exposure in user management, table space management, session management, undo management issues.  • Involved in managing space issues in the Database Level for table space and Regular file system cleanup at UNIX level.  • UNIX shell scripting as and when required based on the requirement.  • Experience with remedy ticketing tools for resolving the tickets.  • Provided 24x7 support and On-Call rotation when needed for very large databases.    Environment: RHEL 4.2, OEM, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, RAC,SQL* Loader, Shell scripting, XMing, Putty, RMAN, ASM, Data Guard. Oracle DBA ATOS Digital Health Solutions - Irving, TX September 2015 to June 2017 • Supporting multiple databases backup and recovery with RMAN Utility for production, development, test and staging purposes on linux, Solaris and Windows environments.  • Implemented a solid SDLC Methodology  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Rebuilding Indexes and gather statistics on tables on different databases on a regular basis to gain database performance using DBMS_STATS package  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Successfully setup 4 node Primary RAC with 3 node physical standby for new application in 11GR2. Tuning the Databases for optimization using AWR, ASH, ADDM, STATSPACK, Explain Plans and TKPROF, Estimating Table & Index Size.  • Utilizing Enterprise manager to monitor alerts, schedule jobs, monitor SQL loads, generate AWR reports  • Configured Oracle Data Guard to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM GC, AWR and ADDM, ASH, SQLT, TRCA, SQL Access Advisor, SPM,  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Environment: Oracle 11g/12cRAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Jr Oracle Database Administrator In-Telecom - Slidell, LA February 2012 to August 2015 • Installed Oracle 12c on Linux and Worked on RAC11g and worked on ASM feature.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 11g RAC 2 node on Linux.  • Applied CPU security patches in both RAC and standalone systems in ASM environment.  • Responsible for maintaining Oracle 11g/10g standby databases in Red Hat Linux.  • Configured 11g new feature Active Data guard on 11g and maintained standby databases.  • DBCA for database creation.  • Experience in working with Oracle on Exadata related Issues/Investigations &Troubleshooting Exadata.  • Executed Switchover operation during planned maintenance.  • Implemented Oracle streams for replication and configured tablespaces for streams administration at database and table level.  • Involved in Database and Transaction log Backups and Restoration, backup strategies, scheduling the backups.  • Involved in Disaster Recovery Exercise.  • Database backup & Recovery with export and import for non-archive and archive database with RMAN commands.  • Also configured database cloning using RMAN.  • Backing up system & user databases and restoring them as required and Create Database users and roles and implement appropriate user security.  • Space management on file system and ASM.  • Experienced with Oracle 10g/11g ASM feature.  • Created disk groups with required redundancy levels.  • Migrated Non-ASM databases to ASM environment for high availability on 11g.  • Implemented Oracle Replication through materialized view.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database and SQL Queries using AWR and ADDM.  • Managed database security. Designed and implemented Permissions Security Project which provides highest level of the application security.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Worked on setting up auditing in databases.  • Experience with DDL and DML operations and having sound knowledge.  • Good experience with Oracle performance issues in both application tuning & memory tuning.  • Trouble shooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables and indexes.  • Writing UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment and application processes.    Environment: RHEL 6, Sun Solaris, Oracle 11g/12c, 10g/11g RAC, 10g Grid, OEM, RMAN,ASM, Data guard, SQL*Plus, Shell Scripting. Environment: Oracle 11g/12cRAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Education Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice in Criminal Justice University of North Texas Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Hp-ux, Rman, Scripting, Vpn, Cisco, Rdbms, Loader, Windows 95 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  RDBMS Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Tools  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Toad, Putty, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  RCONFIG, ADRCI, DBVERIFY, DG Broker, ASMCMD, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, LSNRCTL, SQL, DBNEWID, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Data Pump, Export, Import, LogMiner