Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Holy Cross Hospital Bowie, MD Committed and dependable DBA with several years of experience in database management. Oracle certified, passionate about databases with an established reputation for ensuring database integrity, security, system reliability and availability.    DBA Proficiencies  ? 3+ years experience as an Oracle DBA, including significant experience with Oracle 10g & 11g.  ? Using RMAN for backup and recovery jobs (Hot & Cold backups)  ? Improving database performance (Performance Tuning)  ? User Management and Database security.  ? Implementing Fine grained Auditing.  ? Using Data Pump Export and Import. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Holy Cross Hospital - Silver Spring, MD September 2011 to Present Administered and implemented performance tuning on the database system. Ensured assigned systems are engineered, configured and optimized for maximum functionality and availability.  * Implemented solutions that reduced single points of failure and improved system uptime to 99.9% availability (up from previous high of 97.5%).  * Advanced troubleshooting using trace files, alert log, and external links (Meta Link or Oracle Support)  * Effectively design and create databases manually and using DBCA as well as monitor and maintain these databases using OEM database and grid control.  * Create and deploy an efficient strategy to ensure timely backups using RMAN as well as effective management of archived and redo logs for recovery purposes.  * Regularly run AWR and ADDM reports to diagnose the health of the databases as well as utilize the numerous oracle advisors to tune and maintain optimal performance.  * Periodic patching of the oracle software to improve bugs and increase functionality with guidelines from the Oracle Technology Network.  * Clone databases using RMAN, OEM, and Data Pump for best in class high-availability solutions in a Data guard environment.  * Participate in issue resolution and troubleshooting to generate informative reports to enable management make proper business decisions.  * Maintain regular communication with application developers to ensure technical and functional designs meet client and business requirements. Oracle Database Administrator ProQuest - Bethesda, MD February 2010 to September 2011 Database administrator in a five member IT team responsible in configuring, troubleshooting and maintaining Linux and UNIX infrastructure for a mid-sized educational services company.  * Performed tuning using the AWR and ADDM to maintain high database availability and reliability.  * Configured and maintained data loads in huge Data warehousing systems using the Information Power Center ETL tool. Supported data warehousing and databases.  * Performed troubleshooting and fixed Oracle internal database errors with support from Oracle support. Did security update and patch/bug fixes as recommended by Oracle Support.  * Created database schema, tables, procedures, indexes, views, triggers, functions and wrote complex SQL queries.  * Involved in installation and configuration of database 10g and 11g on Window and Linux environments.  * Created, managed, and assigned roles and privileges to users.  * Inspected log file, monitored table spaces and partitions. Education Bachelors University of Dschang Associate Prince Georges Community College Skills Technical Skills: Oracle 10g/11g, Red Hat Linux, UNIX System, Windows XP, Windows 2003 server, Oracle SQL*Plus, SQL, PL/SQL, OVM, OEM, Cloud computing, VMware Technologies, Microsoft Office Suite.