Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Bowie, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Institute Technology 2016 to 2018 • Designing/architecture and developing new databases.  • Maintaining development, test and production databases.  • Protecting the databases –includes guarding the integrity and security of the data. Controlling access to the database, including creating logins for users and setting roles and privileges for each user.   • Installing, patching and upgrading the Oracle Database server and application tools  • Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system  • Creating primary database storage structures (table-spaces) after application developers have designed an application  • Creating primary objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Modifying the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers  • Enrolling users and maintaining system security  • Ensuring compliance with Oracle license agreements  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database  • Planning for backup and recovery of database information  • Maintaining archived data on tape  • Backing up and restoring the database  • Monitored and tuned databases to provide optimal performance and recovery.  • Performed identity and access management functions such as setup users, roles, and privileges.  • Created architecture documents for accreditation, defined hardware, software and storage requirements, and provide input for project plans.  • Evaluated, configured DBMS products to match user requirements with system capabilities.   • Deployed database objects/changes to different environments.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows, ASM and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012  • Championed database migration from 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA respectively.  •               • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule Field Engineer IP Plus Consulting 2016 to 2017 • Support hardware, software, and networking troubleshooting and repair for Windows 7 & 10 servicing all Washington and Baltimore areas.  • Perform printer part replacement and maintenance: HP & Dell.  • Assist in building, maintaining and examining core network services including anti-virus and backup  • Perform routine network maintenance checks as well as configure another miscellaneous network equipment  • Assist in configuring and maintaining communications; internet connection, firewall, VPN, remote access  • Diagnosing and repairing Windows desktop and laptop.  • Taking computers apart and repairing them from the minutest component.  • PC peripherals repair and troubleshooting (printers, routers, repeaters).  • Testing systems to make sure that they are working properly  • Installing hardware and software systems and Upgrading existing hardware and software  • Assist Lead Network Engineer in areas of design, configuration, testing, and implementation of solutions  • Responsible for assisting implementation, troubleshooting and maintaining operations of network systems.  • Network equipment installations; Cisco Switches  • Provide desktop support including creating images specific to client requirements and deal with issues pertaining to hardware and applications  • Break\Fix according to SLA's  • Others miscellaneous task as assigned by Team Lead Network Engineer TWD Technology Solutions 2015 to 2016 • Configure and administering Windows Server 2008/2012 R2  • Set up accounts and passwords for specific users with authorization to access networks  • Responded to reports of network problems with guidance from team leads  • Cisco switches, router and load balancer administration and maintenance  • IP routing protocols BGP, OSPF and EIGRP  • Installed server hardware  • Ensured systems complied with applicable industry and company-based policy  • Perform Break\Fix according to SLA's on desktops and laptops. Education Computer Networking and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College Assoc. of Applied Science in Email Prince Georges Community College - Largo, MD