Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - Dell Inc A lean Agile change agent and experience Scrum Master with over 4 years plus of hands-on experience working with teams and leading organizations in lean Agile transformation. Expert in facilitating, mentoring, coaching and ability to motivate, lead, and organize Scrum teams in delivering high quality valuable software in the shortest sustainable lead time. Ability to work in a fast-paced, and other robust environments, with outstanding communication skills.    • Excellent facilitator, Servant leader and team player  • Expert in leading and demonstrating the values of Agile principles.  • Outstanding written and oral communication skills with experience interacting with and coordinating multiple development teams.  • Management skills, including problem solving, critical thinking, and decision making  • Ability to react to change productively and positively in a fast-paced, fluid environment.  • Highly analytical and detail oriented.  • Ability to work independently and in a team-oriented environment. Work Experience Scrum Master Dell Inc August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Work closely with multiple Scrum Masters, teams, and Product Owners to ensure execution of scaled Agile consistent with the Enterprise Business Delivery Model  • Guiding teams on how to get the most out of self organization  • Building a trusting and safe environment where problems can be raised without fear of blame, retribution, or judgment, with an emphasis on learning and problem solving  • Guide teams to focus on value driven development  • Supports team building and team development by utilizing the abilities and skills of individuals, and fostering a feedback culture  • Facilitates Agile team for scope grooming, estimation and planning activities to ensure teams approach will deliver desired business value  • Removing impediments to sprint work, and shielding teams from outside distractions and resource demands  • Fosters normalized estimating within the team  • Helps teams operate under architectural and portfolio governance, system level integration, and system Demos  • Assist RTE in PI readiness and PI planning  • Help teams write smart Team PI and Stretch objectives  • Challenge the team to exceed their previous accomplishments  • Assisting with internal and external communication and improving transparency  • Create a transparent team environment by providing visibility on team metrics, successes, improvements, challenges, and opportunities to the stakeholders and management  • Supporting and educating the Product owner, especially with respect to grooming, prioritization and maintaining healthy product backlogs  • Facilitating scrum activities including sprint planning, retrospectives, and daily stand-ups  • Enacting change & continuous improvement to increase the productivity of the team and quality of deliverables  • Protect the Sprint Backlog from scope creep  Tools: Jira, confluence, SharePoint, MD Wells Fargo May 2017 to July 2018 Scrum Master  Responsibilities:  • Participate in the planning and coordination of our Scrum of Scrums  • Ensure the teams are internalizing the core Agile values/principles and other best practices maturing in self-organization, collaboration, business prioritization, team accountability, and transparency, toward the consistent delivery of working product  • Expose teams to innovative thinking and bring ideas from the Agile community to increase agility, leveraging other Agile thinking  • Assist the Product Owner in maintaining a healthy backlog by consistently grooming and prioritizing the backlog  • Facilitating sprint planning and ensuring team have all information needed to size user Story writing with good Acceptance Criteria  • Assist the team with making appropriate commitments through relative backlog sizing, sprint story selection, task definition  • Facilitate the removal of impediments.  • Facilitate discussion and conflict resolution  • Shield and improve team dynamics  • Facilitate all Scrum events, including Sprint Planning, daily Scrum Meetings, Sprint Reviews, and Sprint Retrospectives  • Manage team schedule to ensure all team member vacation days and company holidays are factored in capacity allocation  • Collaborating with other teams in the Agile Release train to manage cross dependencies  • Foster adoption of Safe values and principles  • Assist PO in preparing and refining the backlog for PI and iteration planning  • Coordinate with other scrum masters, the system Team and shared services in the ART PI planning events  • Coordinate with other Scrum Masters and Release Train and Engineer in the scrum of scrums  • Help Product Owner with prioritization, risk management, and scope Lead working session meetings to discuss scope, schedule and requirements with product owners  • Improve team performance by coaching them on various agile techniques such as Automated Testing, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, and Manage product quality  • Work with stakeholders to accurately report progress, risks, successes, and failures  • Maintain a close working relationship with the product owner, scrum team and other stake holders  • Foster collaboration and communication between team members on technical issues, on process improvements, and in addressing and escalating project  Tools: Jira, confluence, SharePoint, Oracle Database Administrator Sprint - Overland Park, KS January 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Install oracle database software 9.2.0.1, 10.2.0.1 and 11.1.0.6.0 using oracle universal installer on development, test and production server for their claim, policy and online applications in IBM AIX 5.3 environment.  • Install OEM grid control that includes oracle agent, management repository and management service on VMware Red Hat Linux virtual machine. Install agents on various AIX database servers.  • Upgrade software and databases from 9.2.0.1 to 9.2.0.6, 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.3, 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.3 and 10.2.0.3 to 11.1.0.6.0 on development; test and production databases on AIX database servers. Apply patch set to upgrade software and use database upgrade assistant, export/ import and manual scripts to upgrade databases.  • Migration of full 9.2.0.6 databases, schemas those are on Linux environment into AIX, 10.2.0.3 database environment using export/import and data pump utility.  • Create development, test and production databases using database configuration assistant- DBCA, manual scripts and sqlplus using Automatic storage management- ASM.  • Database performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, sql tuning advisor, explain plan, statistics, blocking sessions, STATSPACK, TKPROF, sql query restructure and sql trace.  • Schedule cronjob for daily night hot/online backup of production databases on tape using RMAN scripts.  • Refresh or restore development, test and reporting databases from production database backup using RMAN scripts or export/ Import and data pump utility.  • Schedule a cronjob and create lots of shell script in Unix environment like backup and restore of databases, update statistics, export and import of tables, log file maintenance, cleanup archive logs, startup and shutdown databases, email logs and alert to users, mount point space check, tablespace size check and business related activity like automatic bill payment, check generation, bill generation and many more.  • Created physical standby database on remote server to provide high availability.    Environment: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, Oracle 9i/10g, AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10.AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10.Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  RDBMS Oracle 9i/10g&11g  Tools & Utilities RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Develop, Jira, confluence, SharePoint, zephyr  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.  Others Remedy, ConnectWise.