Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Houston, TX Database Administrator with over 6 years' experience. Over the years, I have successfully configured and managed Oracle databases 10g. 11gR1/R2 and 12C multitenant databases. My experience includes but not limited to Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, and performance tuning. Managed Database on AIX, Linux and Windows environments. Experienced in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) 11g/12c, Data Guard and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability. I have supported multiple environments spanning Finance, IT, Insurance and Tech sectors. I have the ability to work both as an individual contributor and as a member of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Marathon Oil - Houston, TX May 2017 to July 2019 Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  ? Provide administrative support and maintenance on oracle 11g and 12c installations, database creation, database security, database optimization and tuning and HADR  ? Experience in VLD (75T) database on multiple standalone instance / RAC clustered running on different OS.  ? Extensive experience with Database/Schema using RMAN backups and data pump utilities  ? Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c running on HP-UX, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment, RAC, Golden Gate.  ? Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using physical standby (Active Data Guard)  ? Expertise in setting up Data Guard Failover, Switchover, Read-Only, snapshot standby scenarios as part of disaster recovery management during planned and unplanned maintenance  ? Experience in patching and upgrading mission critical PROD oracle database with Datagaurd setup (Rolling upgrades) to minimize down time on Prod systems  ? Implementation of Oracle Backup and Recovery strategies in Data guard and RAC environment using cronjob shell scripts as well as from OEM backups strategies included once a week Incremental level 0 full backups , daily incremental level 1 backups. Also implemented Change block tracking to speed backups  ? Implemented FLASHBACK features to handle efficient database point in time recovery in case of database corruption by adequately size up the value for DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET  ? Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold and logical Backup, Recovery, RMAN backup and recovery, Data Guard Broker, Disaster Recovery environment.  ? Experience in troubleshooting standby datagaurd lags and using incremental backups / achieve log registrations to catchup the standby database with achieve logs that have not been shipped and applied from PROD  ? Set up database cron jobs and use the Datagaurd broker to Monitor the Datagaurd set and eventually send out email alerts in case of any failures.  ? Performed tuning of Oracle Wait Events/Latches-Enqueues/Memory structures using Automatic shared memory management (ASMM), ASH and Buffer Cache Advisors Also, monitored and tuned using Stats pack, Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM), SQL TUNING ADVISORS & SQL ACCESS ADVISOR etc.  ? Experience in monitoring troubleshooting database for locking, blocking, application connectivity issues reported by end users in tickets created from Jira Service now ticketing systems  ? In-depth understanding of Logical and Physical Design of Databases.  ? Experience implementing and administering database security by creating database users, schemas, roles, synonyms and managing privileges. Also involving in auditing database user activities, database table and column encryption (TDE) to keep the database compliance with SOX, PCI etc.  ? Involve ITops change review CAB meetings to discuss changes that needs to be implemented on database servers after approvals by the change advisory board.  ? Managing and creating Database objects, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  ? Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binary structure, Listener, TNS Names, SQL Net, V$ views, DBA views and Data modeling, Logical and Physical databases design using tools like SQL Developer, Erwin and Visio.  ? Proficient in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects.  ? Good experience in applying Patches (Patching), Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using O-Patch and run installer, Quarterly patch on need and as per oracle recommendations.  ? Also experience in Upgrading and Migration of an PROD/DEV/TEST Oracle database server to higher ( oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.2.0.1) using in place and side by side upgrades methods  ? Experience in troubleshooting errors reported by the application team post database upgrades  ? Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM), configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database for high availability.  ? Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  ? Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA).  ? Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c.  ? Support on day-to-day DBA activities.  ? Upgrading grid infrastructure from 10g to 11g/12c versions along with database upgrades.  ? Extensively implemented Data pump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  ? Working experience on Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c to monitor database performance and availability of various targets in database servers.  ? Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g and 12C Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  ? Managing users and resources, controlling user privileges, roles and auditing.  ? Working closely with application teams and supporting on various performance and configuration issues on day-to-day basis.  ? Work as part of team in a 24/7 on call rotation to support Mission critical databases  ? Extensive knowledge in maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage.  ? Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listener, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Stats pack and tuning of initialization parameters.  ? Also willing to learn new Technology and be part of Team  ? Good experience in documentation and writing SOP Oracle Database Administrator FedEX - Baltimore, MD December 2014 to April 2017 Worked as part of a team DBA in a Project to upgrade/migrate over 70+ oracle database servers (VMs) running on oracle 10.2.0.5 and 11.2.0.3 database and Grid Infrastructure to Oracle 12c (Multitenant architecture) on Oracle Enterprise Linux 6 as part of a database consolidation effort.  ? Installation and Configuration of new Database from oracle 11g, 12c on different OS (Linux, Windows) both on Standalone servers and on RAC cluster.  ? Supporting multiple oracle database instances with many databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux and Windows environments.  ? Handled daily PROD/DEV/UAT problems/change requests with Oracle such adding data files to existing tablespaces, creating new tablespaces, schema management, user creations, permission allocations and alert log monitoring  ? Thorough experience in database user security, administration and auditing this database users for database compliance (SOC, ISO2900, HIPPA, PCI etc)  ? Automate routine database support tasks  ? Performed hot and cold backup and recovery using RMAN and Unix/Linux Scripts and also used RMAN to back to third party Media Management layers ( Trivoli TSM/TDPO, Commvault  etc.)  ? Proficiency in backup and recovery procedures including RMAN techniques for database cloning using both active database duplication and RMAN backed up bases cloning  ? Applying oracle quarterly oracle PSU/CPU patches during scheduled downtime maintenance windows for all oracle databases servers.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis using RMAN backups or Data pump export & import for database schema/tables refreshes  ? Manage and maintain oracle database instances running on AWS and AZURE clouds  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? Performed Zero Downtime Database Data Center Migration using Golden Gate and Data Guard.  ? Installed and configured OEM cloud control 12c for monitoring oracle database prod and preprod environments  ? Implemented Oracle ASM 12c software installation and configuration (Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning Disks in Linux using Oracle ASMLib Utility for managing ASM disk storage & Oracle 12c ASMCA.  ? Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  ? Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Wait Events, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO, Memory &CPU Usage.  ? Extensive experience quarterly Backup and restore testing as well as DR testing as part of the Companies SLA's for RTO & RPO.  ? Recovered huge PROD Database (3 Terabyte) due to datafiles corruption caused by the OS.  ? Configuration database and making changes to databases init.ora or spfile parameters base on change request approvals for critical PROD databases  ? Troubleshoot database memory issues by making sure the SGA and PGA etc. are adequately sized up using the recommended parameter settings.  ? Configured Golden Gate components for unidirectional replications and maintain data synchronization.  ? Resolving latency gaps issues in uni-directional Golden Gate replication  ? Performed Zero Downtime Database Data Center Migration using Golden Gate and Data Guard.  ? Migrated oracle databases from on premise to MS Azure Cloud  ? Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  ? Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  ? Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Performed oracle database migration from 11g to 12c from on premises to AWS cloud  ? Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  ? Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  ? Implemented Oracle ASM 12c software installation and configuration (Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning Disks in Linux.  ? Implemented Oracle 12c Multi-tenant RAC database with two node cluster and instances using ASM storage.  ? Worked on to take backup and restore cluster ware storage (Voting Disk, OCR Disk).  ? Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  ? Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  ? Worked closely with developers to provide solution and recommendation in optimizing their queries and also troubleshooting application related issues using different tools like AWR/ ASH/ HINTS/ OEM/ ADDM/ SQLPLUS/ TRACES/ EXPLAIN PLANS etc.  ? Experience in rebuilding and reorganizing tables indexes for database performance improvements.  ? Experience in managing database capacity planning, database monitoring using different tools like SOLARWINDS, NAGIOS, OEM and using scripts.  Environment: Oracle 11g &12c 64 bit, Windows server 2008/20012 64 bit, RHEL 6.5, 6.9, TOAD, , Commvault backup , Idera diagnostic manager, Jira Service Desk, OEM, RAC , DATAGAURD, Explain Plans, AWR, ASH, TRACES, GOLDEN GATE, Development Studio- SSIS, SSRS, Performance Monitor, Extended events, SQL profilers, Activity Monitor, Perfmon, Azure, Solar winds Skills ORACLE, SQL, LINUX, RED HAT, RMAN, HTML, XML, RDBMS, OEM, WINDOWS XP