Job Seeker • Having 2+ years of experience in Oracle Golden Gate    • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts quickly and utilize the same in a productive manner. Work Experience TCS November 2017 to Present Oracle Database Administrator TCS November 2017 to Present Position Oracle Database Administrator (Golden Gate - L3)    Responsibilities  • Providing L1/L2 and L3 production support for oracle golden gate replications  • Creating basic Perl scripts as part of automations.  • Managing and administering oracle golden gate process, CR implementation for the production changes, working with Oracle on SRs for critical issues  • Setup and Installation of Oracle Golden Gate for multiple databases.  • Support GG Replications End to End for Prod and Non-Prod Databases.  • Supporting refresh/cloning activity from prod to non-prod environment.  • Troubleshooting and performance tuning golden gate replications.  • Configure error handling for restart, logging, production support and status reporting in GG.  • Investigate Replication failures using Log dump utility.  • Working with project management team to plan release activities.  • Working closely with multiple teams and providing golden gate solutions as and when needed.  • Supporting for Cisco continuous delivery across multiple environments.  • Supporting clients for automation activities.  • Supporting for cisco quarterly and monthly Project releases.  • Supporting migrations of batch/near real-time-to-real-time replication. Systems Engineer TCS - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN October 2015 to Present TCS July 2016 to November 2017 Oracle Database Administrator TCS July 2016 to November 2017 Golden Gate - L1/L2) Education B.tech. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering G. Pulla Reddy Engineering College - Kurnool, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating System: Windows XP/8/10, UNIX  Programing Languages: Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Perl and Python basics  Tools Used: Remedy Ticketing Tool