Security Operation Center (SOC) Analyst Security Operation Center (SOC) Analyst Security Operation Center (SOC) Analyst - Datalogic Solutions Inc New Carrollton, MD Work Experience Security Operation Center (SOC) Analyst Datalogic Solutions Inc March 2017 to Present Duties included:  • Perform Incident response to investigate & resolve network and system security incidents.  • Monitor & analyze network traffic from Intrusion detections (IDS) tools, such Splunk Express and Cisco Sourcefire.  • Analyze a variety of network and host-based security appliance logs (Firewalls, NIDS, HIDS, Sys Logs, etc.) to determine the correct remediation actions and escalation paths for each incident.  • Review and process Accidental Disclosure requests following Standard Operating Procedures.  • Create SOPs for new SIEM Tools and event monitoring.  • Compose security alert notification and other communications.  • Prioritize and differentiate between potential intrusion attempts & false alarm.  • Develop follow up action plans to resolve reportable issues and communicate with the other analyst to address security threats and Incidents.  • Create incident tickets, log incidents and requests.  • Contribute to security strategy and security posture by identifying security gaps, evaluate and implement enhancements.  • Assist with the development of processes and procedures to improve incident response times, analysis of incident, and overall SOC functions.  • Provide Incident Response (IR) support when analysis confirms actionable incident.  • Strong working knowledge of network security monitoring and incident response, as well as superior written and technical communications skills  • Process, vet and block IOCs as needed using Cygwin 64 tool Operational Support Database Administrator Think Tech Consulting March 2015 to March 2018 Duties included:  • Provided physical and logical database support as needed for all the Applications specified by Client.  • Identified and evaluated design considerations, propose design best practices, perform database code reviews and propose performance changes.  • Led database issues until resolution. Serve as a liaison between the applicable third party vendor technical support team and Client if a problem case is submitted to the third party vendor.  • Coordinated with Application teams or other teams to resolve database issues even though the issues are not directly related to the databases.  • Performed database housekeeping designed to ensure that the databases are functioning optimally and securely.  • Maintained compliance with Client Standards and Client Rules, including those related to the databases (e.g. access management, direct grant, db links, etc.).  • Performed performance tuning and/or stress testing in the non-production environment for application releases as necessary to ensure database infrastructure is configured optimally.  • Provided after business hours and weekend support in Client's production and contingency environments in accordance with the applicable Application release schedules. In addition, provided on-demand support for the lower environments as requested by Client  • Maintained the databases to meet performance standards, maximize efficiency, and minimize outages  • Monitored database usage, transaction volumes, response times, and concurrency levels, and measure and report its performance against the applicable Service Levels.  • Generated reports based on the data in the databases and reports related to the performance and integrity of the databases.  • Developed/maintained/enhanced database monitoring scripts designed to ensure the stability, security, and performance of the database queries.  • Participated in production issues as requested by other support teams or the Enterprise Command Center. Provide periodic updates on production outages and slow response issues as each incident occurs.  • Performed database shutdowns and restarts, troubleshooting, and database recovery.  • Generated performance reports (e.g., Oracle AWR report, etc.) as required for database troubleshooting.  • Performed system/parameter changes, reorganizations and update/gather statistics to optimize performance when required.  • Documented all of the required artifacts in the tickets to comply with the Client-approved change/incident/problem management policies.  • Monitored Database refresh processes to ensure databases refresh with the latest backups  • Supported all application deployments, verify deployment artifacts from the Application Maintainers, verify the service code and execute scripts.  • Monitored day-to-day alerts and search for solutions promptly.  • Created, modified and deactivated user accounts; assigned and monitored user access rights Education Bachelor's Degree University Of Yaoundé Skills FIREWALLS, NETWORKING, REMEDY, TCP/IP, DLP, IDS, IPS, NESSUS, SPLUNK, WIRESHARK, SECURITY, TCP, LINUX, SOLARIS, UNIX, OPEN SOURCE, JIRA, MS OFFICE, SYMANTEC, EXCEL Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate 2015 Mongodb 2015 Scrum Master 2019