Office Administrator, Human Reasources Office <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Human Reasources Office Administrator, Human Reasources - Mitchell International Alpine, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office Administrator, Human Reasources Mitchell International August 2018 to Present Headed security measures for the office: created and vetted the annual security survey for over  3,000 employees, created badge reports, and reviewed security footage.  • Supervised and executed a week long educational conference for employees.  • Managed office functionality: implemented cost containment measures; created P.O.'s and contracts with vendors.  • Assisted with talent acquisition: Cordinated interviews with candidates, temporary agencies, and hiring managers.  Interviewed jumpstart candidates, onboarded new employees, and assisted with the employee exit process.  • Conducted Anti-Harassment training and tracking for over 600 people leaders.  • Researched and presented information regarding sick time policies.  • Planned and executed multiple events for over 100 employees. Research Assistant Human Performance Technologies April 2018 to August 2018 • Used Quickbooks to reconcile finances from build sites.  • Employed Excel and Powerpoint to organize data regarding research in the field.  • Researched and analyzed information pertaining to competitors and their curriculum.  • Part time basis. Utah State University July 2017 to August 2017 • Onsite examination and analysis of historical buildings and records.  • Scheduled housing, transportation, and events for 9 people in multiple foreign countries.    ACADEMIC AND COMMUNITY PROJECTS  • Assisted Special Olympics athletes with various sports and social skills (2015-17).  • Suprivised Mitchell Interntaional's Salt Lake City (m)Community Charity and arranged  multpile fundraising efforts and events (2018-Present).  • Chaired (m)Body, which hones in on employee wellness. Implemented wellness incentives  and introduced fitness opportunities and activities. (2018- Present). Database Processor Partners In Leadership - Logan, UT 2012 to 2015 Prestenter May 2016  • Presented research on Zegota to over a 100 peers and research professionals.    Collegiate WMD Conference Logan, UT  Prestenter May 2017  • Presented case study analysis to a member of the United State Committee of Weapons  of Mass Destruction. Education Bachelors of Arts in History Utah State University - Logan, UT 2017 Bachelors of Arts in International Studies Utah State University - Logan, UT 2017 Skills Office 365, Front Office, Office Admin, Quickbooks, Bookkeeping, Front Desk Certifications/Licenses Driver's License