Database Administrator/Legal Secretary <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Legal Secretary Database Administrator Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Legal Secretary Daniel & Associates - Houston, TX June 2019 to Present • Working with database software to find ways to store, organize and manage data.  • Keeping databases up to date.  • Helping with database design and development.  • Managing database access.  • Designing maintenance procedures and putting them into operation.  • Ensuring that databases meet user requirements.  •Troubleshooting issues with database.   • Liaising with programmers, applications/operational staff, IT project managers and other technical staff.  • Managing database security/integrity and backup procedures.  • Implementing security measures.  • Defining objectives through consultation with staff at all levels.  • Writing reports, documentation and operating manuals.  • Testing and modifying databases to ensure that they operate reliably.  • Providing user training, support and feedback.  • Writing disaster recovery plans  • Archiving data. Litigation Assistant Zwicker & Associates, P.C. - Sugar Land, TX August 2017 to July 2019 • Analyzed and processed reports, as assigned, to ensure that proper work flow is being adhered to pursuant to the expectations of both clients and Zwicker & Associates.  • Utilized Collection Software to properly update and document the status of each account in the assigned inventory.  • Drafted Pleadings and forms, such as, Notices of Trial, Trial Preparations, Witness Requests, and Discovery.  • Filed Pleadings with various courts.  •Communicated effectively and appropriately with team members, opposing counsels, pro se parties, and courts.  • Performed other duties as assigned. Legal Secretary The Foley Law Firm - Houston, TX February 2016 to August 2017 • Updated and maintained office policies and procedures.  • Maintained office work flow and staff to meet deadlines.  • Deposited checks for all cases, as well as, distribute payroll checks to staff.  • Trained new staff on office procedures, equipment functions, and individual job duties.  • Prepared basic pleading and forms related to Personal Injury, Premises Liability, and Overtime Wage Claim cases.  • Preparing Discrimination documents, such as, EEOC Charged of Discrimination.  • Filed Pleadings in Civil and Federal court.  • Drafted discovery.  • Notarized Affidavits.  • Intake for new client cases, and set up files on server database.  • Took telephone calls and responded to inquiries accordingly.  • Cleaned, organized, and stocked all office supplies as needed. Education High School Diploma Lamar High School - Houston, TX August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Outlook, Filing (4 years), Billing, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Office (4 years), Data Entry (4 years), Adobe (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Notary Public March 2016 to March 2020