Oracle Database Administrator/ Consultant Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Consultant Oracle Database Administrator/ Consultant Austell, GA Reliable, Responsible, Trusted & Proactive Oracle Database Administrator with expertise in crisis management, performance tuning, and high availability to increase reliability, maximize productivity and ensure system efficiencies. Adept at all stages of project lifecycle, from business requirements and technical definitions to testing, documentation, production support, training and completion. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator/ Consultant Pishon Technologies Inc - Austell, GA April 2012 to May 2013 Set up new databases and provided all database related support for the production environment as well as provided consultancy services as needed to other organizations. Performed application installation, space estimation, performance/memory tuning, 24/7 server/ database monitoring, configuration and troubleshooting. Interacted with system administrator and design team on the best database practices.  ? Installing required operating systems, Oracle grid infrastructures & Oracle database software to meet the current needs and upgraded as required to meet the expansion needs of the company.  ? Creating, migrating and backing up database.  ? Monitoring database performance, securing & protecting information/ database with unique secure configurations, data encryption and masking procedures as well as with sophisticated auditing capabilities.  ? Ensuring fast and secure access to business applications round the clock. Oracle Database Administrator Optum technologies - Atlanta, GA August 2008 to April 2012 Performed all user requirements and troubleshooting activities as well as resolved connectivity issues. Implemented, administrated, and maintained daily backup and archived data on tape. Created user accounts & system/user-level database objects managed user privileges.  ? Installing Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network access.  ? Ensuring proper configuration and security on all database servers.  ? Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables, ensuring fast and secure access to business application. Education Bachelor of Science in Goegraphy University of ADO - A?? 1996 to 2001 Skills DBA, RMAN, RAC, UNIX, WINDOWS, ASM, GRID CONTROL, BACKUP AND RECOVERY, GOLDEN GATE Additional Information Technical Skills    ? Provided 24x7 production support for Oracle 11g/10g databases on various platforms.  ? Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patches, Performance Tuning using OEM and DB Optimizer, Backup, Recovery, Cloning, Space management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Database Design, Unix Shell Scripting and Documentation.  ? Implement Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM 11g/10g) for centralized monitoring and administration.  ? Planned and implemented high availability solutions using Oracle 11g/10g RAC; Standby Database using Oracle Data Guard and Replication, Golden gate  ? Operating Systems: Installation and Configuration of Unix/Linux, Windows NT 2000-08 for Oracle installation.  ? Tools: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, SQL Loader, ERwin, RMAN, AWR, Scheduler, Data Pump, RAC, Partitioning, Active Data Guard, Unix Shell Scripting, ASM, Data Archiving, TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT.