SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Universal Herbs Inc Hayward, CA • Detail oriented IT professional with 4+ years of proven expertise in supporting and optimizing performance of SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 as Database Administrator and Developer.  • Installed and configured SQL 2017 for POC on RHLE 7.3.  • Experience in Upgrade/migration of several instances and databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008, SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008/2008 R2, from SQL Server 2008/2008R2 to SQL Server 2012/2014  • Created, managed SQL Server AZURE Databases.  • Knowledge in working with Amazon RDS, Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud.  • Experience in documenting and implementing Disaster Recovery Plans using Database Mirroring, Log shipping and Replication with different topologies for production databases.  • Experience in Server administration in various environments - Window 2000 & 2003 with Active Directory Services (AD, DNS, DHCP).  • Experience in handling very large databases in OLTP and data warehouse environments, which are in Terabytes size.  • Experience in implementation of SQL Server new features like Always On Availability Groups, Contained Databases, Change data capture (CDC), online index rebuilds, Central management server, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), User-Defined server roles.  • Strong in monitoring and optimizing the performance of Applications, databases, Stored Procedures, Queries and Indexes using Extended Events, SQL Profiler, server side trace, Activity Monitor, Dynamic Management Views and Functions, Execution Plans, Performance Monitor, DBCC commands, Database Engine Tuning Advisor and other third party tools like Red Gate SQL Monitor, idera SQL Diagnostic Manager, Quest Spotlight.  • Worked on SQL Server tools Like Enterprise Manager and SQL Query Analyzer.  Strong in PowerShell scripting and automating day to day maintenance tasks using PowerShell scripts, converting existing TSQL batch scripts to PowerShell scripts and improving SQL Server maintenance jobs performance.  • Experience in data modeling for OLTP and date warehouse using MS Visio and Erwin.  • Experience in BI Development and Deployment of SSIS packages and loading data in to SQL Server from MS-Access, Excel, Oracle, and Teradata.  • Experience in providing Logging, Error handling by using Event Handler, and Custom Logging for SSIS Packages.  • Extensive experience in end-to-end life cycle of SSRS using Scale-Out, Scale-Up and Local topologies.  • Experience in designing and deployment of Reports for the End-User requests using Web Interface and SSRS (Ad-hoc Reporting).  • Experience in programming tasks like developing Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers, ad-hoc queries for reports, TSQL batches, PL/SQL packages and procedures, PowerShell scripts.  • Good working knowledge in .Net Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5,VB.Net, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, XML and Web Services.  • 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Universal Herbs Inc - Hayward, CA July 2017 to Present • Application support SQL DBA involved in managing database servers, applications servers and terminals related to Pheonix Commander Application.  • Managed a project teams of developers, QA analysts, and Jr. Business analysts for website redesign.  • Involved is setting up maintenance jobs related to SQL server health checks and Application health checks.  • Experienced in setting up HSM encryption.  • Involved in building a new two node active-active windows cluster from end-to-end in Production and Pre-Production environment.  • Performed Side-by-side migration of SQL 2008R2 to SQL 2014 in Cluster environment.  • Configured SSIS 2014 and moved the packages and tested them.  • Created new application dependent SSIS\DTSX packages.  • Worked as a developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, SSIS packages, triggers, cursors, tables, and views and other SQL joins for building various applications.  • Created stored procedures to be used as datasets for the Report Design  • Created SSIS Reusable Packages to extract data from Multi formatted Flat files, Excel, XML files into UL Database and DB2 Billing Systems.  • Created Parameterized reports, Cross-Tab reports, Drill down reports & Summary reports by Using SSRS.  • Provided 2nd level support on-call duty in non-business hours and during weekends.  • Documentation upgrades.  • Assesses malfunctions of hardware and/or software applications for the purpose of determining appropriate actions to maintain computer, network, and database operations.    Environment: Windows Server 2012 R2 and 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012/2008 R2, BI Data Tools (SSRS, SSIS, SSAS), SCOM, Pheonix Commander, HSM, SharePoint 2013 Computer System Analyst Lanco Global System Inc - Irving, TX July 2016 to July 2017 LGS is a software development company involved in designing, programming, documenting, testing, and bug fixing involved in creating and maintaining applications, frameworks, or other software components.    • Created and maintained system using case and UML diagrams, design use cases, software requirements, and test cases in Contour based off of customer needs and changing security requirements.  • Ensured systems compliance to latest DOD DIACAP and other Certification and Accreditation requirements.  • Managed ERP/EDI/E-Com implementation, vendors, partners and project team of 5 persons.  • Customized and personalized RTC Role Centre for various functional roles of a business.  • Reduced overall risk by maintaining scripts, log infrastructure, and compliance plans. Furnished group policy and antivirus policies to secure networks.  • Initiated and performed capacity and stress testing on hosted applications using JMeter ensuring hosted applications and hardware meet the demand generated by an increase in users.  • Performed troubleshooting on and assisted with network connectivity issues, email accounts, network printing, and application issues.  • Installed network drops and ran cabling from drops to routers, switches and VOIP.  • Managed the spare computer components, peripherals, and physical and online repository of software used by all the companies.  • Logged and monitored tickets and projects using Spice Works.  • Troubleshot all in-office equipment, fax machines, and copiers.  • We provide 24/7 System support to PwC, PwC Data Centers meet Service Level Agreement (SLA) Obligations.  • Performed weekly Development and Alpha Server builds, along with required Pre-Production and Production builds.    Environment: Windows Server 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008 and 2003, SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008 R2/2008/2005, MongoDb 3.0, 3.2 and 3.4, Azure, SQL Query Analyzer, BI Data Tools (SSRS, SSIS, SSAS), SCOM, Avamar Backup utility, Vormetric Encryption, Imperva secure sphere QA Testing/ Business Analyst ResourzNet Solutions Inc - Hayward, CA January 2016 to July 2016 • Defining roles and responsibilities, and providing oversight on the overall programs and projects.  • Certified Scrum Master.  • Conducted presentations to the executive team in order to attain budget and purchasing approval for the technological strategy efforts.  • Responsible for Installation of SSL certificates  • Worked in Active/Passive and Active/Active cluster environment.  • Participated in project team activities prior to release and contributed to documentation requirements consistent with methodology.  • Support data management activities & assist in data governance process, recommend solutions to ensure best practices are implemented and documented  • Assist in initial setup, testing, and monitoring of Informatics data  • Develop automated solutions for dashboards, key data presentations and report generation  • Perform data exploration on source data using Business Intelligence and Statistical analysis tools  • Provision of technical expertise in the area of data development, including data cleansing, extraction and loading as well as performance monitoring and tuning for data migration procedures  • Work independently without constant supervision  • Manage and build Informatics 'objects' (Analysis cubes, Graphs, and reports)  • Provide Quality Assurance and Testing Templates  • Identify project delivery milestones and communicate to team  • Regularly interact and communicate with clients  • Serve as the primary point of contact for questions and issues resolution  • Produce Design specifications  • Contribute to the assessments of current client business and operations processes, identify opportunities for improvement and peer review documented potential gaps  • Lead project status and progress meetings  • Participated in Agile sprint planning and coordinated individual and team testing throughout to ensure quality deliverables by the end of the sprint.  • Maintained Linux, Unix and Windows servers, setting up environmental variables and databases for testing purposes.  • Wrote, adapted and used both existing and new Perl scripts extensively    Environment: Waterfall, Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML, Rational Rose, MS Visio, UML, mind map, RSM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SEO Assistant Engineer Bio Medical Equipment Ozone Hospital - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to February 2014 • Monitored contract services viz. A.M.C. and C.M.C.  • Programed all equipment and fixed emergency breakdowns and repairs.  • Design develop test and modify products equipment and devices.  • Plan all financial aspects and engineering responsibilities related to medical equipment.  • Engineer safety alerts for medical devices.  • Spearheaded equipment management program  • Maintained logs compiled statistics and conducted research.  • Created and implemented designs.  • Created test protocol.  • Acted as go-between for medical engineering and scientific staff.  • Kept abreast of the latest research  • Input data into computer programs.  • Coordinated activities.  • Presented programs to superiors.  • Tested equipment Education Master's in computer science in computer science North Western Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA Bachelor of Technology in Bio Medical Engineering in Bio Medical Engineering J.B Institute of Engineering and Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Db2, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Sybase, Mongodb, Active directory, Networking, Scom, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Html, Vbscript, Xml, Microstrategy, Qlikview, Tableau Additional Information Technical Skills  Databases: SQL SERVER 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MongoDb, PostgreSQL  Operating System: Windows Server 2003 / Server 2008 / Server 2008R2/ Server 2012 & Server 2012R2, RHLE 7.3  Programming Languages: TSQL, PL/SQL, PowerShell, C, C#, VBScript, HTML, XML.  Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Navigator, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2015, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, BIDS, Sybase Data Tools, SQL Profiler, SQL Networking, Activity Monitor, DTA, PerformancePoint, PLSQL Developer, Oracle SQL Developer, DB2, Toad, Excel Macro 2007/2010,PerfMon, Active Directory, Spotlight for SQL Server, red-gate SQL monitor, Quest LiteSpeed, Azure, Amazon RDS, Google cloud, SCOM Monitoring, Site Recovery Manager (SRM), Qlikview, Tableau, Microstrategy.