Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator ? A dependable and diligent professional offering several years of diversified customer service/ IT Experience.  ? Dedicated to achieving customer satisfaction as well as meeting or surpassing company expectations. Strong rapport with personnel, customers, and associates based on knowledge, professionalism, and integrity.  ? Manage multiple tasks, experienced in envisioning and implementing cost effective and result oriented strategy to create and boost awareness of business products and services. Work Experience Database Administrator Victory International Company - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to June 2013 Extensive hardware knowledge and working experience of optimizing system and database.  ? Enhance end user to understand the database pre-implementation and how to use the interface of the application  ? Extensive MS SQL Server Database Administration and Windows Server experience.  ? Experience of 3rd Party system and database, monitoring and reporting tools (Crystal  Report)  ? Responsible for designing, and backup and restoration and maintenance plan database.  ? Responsible for Configuring security profiles using SQL Server 2008 Management studio  ? Constantly monitor and ensure daily uptime as well as applying routine updates and database patches  ? Working closely with the technical department that oversees the department website, a PHP site using MySQL as the database backend  ? Responsible for creation of technical design Functional Specification Documents for Master Data Management Database  ? Work with development staff to document solution approach design.  ? Experience working in MS SQL DB environment, proven ability producing SQL queries, and understanding DB procedures.  Strong Office Suite skills and Visio skills.  ? Collaborate with business partners to ensure proper business requirements provided.  ? Strong communication skills, organization skills and ability to lead meetings. Database Administrator Visible Limousine and Transportation Serv - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to June 2012 Responsible for developing and maintaining the database for the organization  ? Designed table schemes, relation and permissions to ensure database integrity  ? Wrote SQL queries to data-mine information and generate reports.  ? Migrated pre-existing and legacy data from Excel to MS SQL Server  ? Created new tables, views, functions, triggers and store procedures.  ? Created scheduled jobs for nightly backup of the database.  ? Provide all aspects of database administration for multiple databases in a production environment.  ? Pro-actively ensure database systems are maintained at the highest level of support; plan/set procedures; provide reliable and secure systems for business applications.  ? Review database error messages, diagnose, and troubleshoot.  ? Contribute to project team efforts to ensure operational support requirements are implemented.  ? Schedule, monitor, and maintain database backup and recovery procedures which will protect the business.  ? Work closely with operations staff to ensure stable performance for the database environments, monitors, analyzes, identifies and resolves bottlenecks and resolves problems.  ? Ensure change management procedures and methodologies are implemented and followed.  ? Ensure data pertaining to the status of problems and service requests is entered into problem tracking systems accurately and promptly on a daily basis; provide an up-to-date picture of service delivery status and backlog.  ? Perform security updates.  ? Ensure client/server applications run successfully. Junior DBA Amiable Limousine - Atlanta, GA September 2008 to February 2010 Provided constant online or on-call assistance to end users for handling their queries  ? Maintained a backup and recovery option to retrieve the lost data    ? Draw up disaster recovery plans for critical and non-critical databases    ? Assisted in building strategies for installing and improving the database    ? Inspected the operations of the database as per the standards set by the organization Education DeVry University - Atlanta, GA 2014 Electrical/Electronics Engineering The Ibadan Polytechnic Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Systems: Windows 2000 Server, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8  Software:  MS Project, MS Visio, Adobe Acrobat, Microsoft Office (2007, 2010, 2013) Management studio, SQL, EXCEL., Access, QA Testing tool, test direction version, MySQL.    SKILLS:  .  ? Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues.  ? Quickly learn and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, tools and testing methodologies.  ? Understand the technical aspects of database organization, and how database organization affects computer and performance    ? Good communicate with users to ensure that all of the data requirements are met in the database design.  ? Excellent experience as a leader and a computer technician and troubleshooting.  ? Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues.  ? Quickly learner and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, tools and testing methodologies.