Data/ QA Analyst Data/ QA Analyst Data/ QA Analyst - Tata Consultancy Services A highly motivated analyst with experience in interpreting, analyzing and reconciliation of data obtained from a variety of sources; skills involve development and enhancement of the existing processes and methods to meet both internal and external analysis requirements; proficient with the prevailing analytical tools, various presentation software and possesses strong and effective communication skills essential in conveying results in analysis and investigations conducted. Work Experience Data/ QA Analyst Tata Consultancy Services October 2018 to Present Client- AXA  Duties/Responsibilities  • Analyzed Anti-Money laundering and Fraud data and helped the team in writing BIDs.  • Collaborated effectively with the offshore team to develop BIDs.  • Used Hadoop or Big Play in analyzing the data.  • Used SQL to query databases and to mockup data for testing purposes.  • Assisted in Detection and Regression testing  • Tested the defects in the front-end environment.  • Used Service Now to log new defects which were found as part of testing.  • Used WINSCP to run batches and test the UI environment.  • Worked with the development team to fix the issues/defects as part of the releases.  • Shadowed senior analysts in the IT department to for problem solving and in analyzing and closing defects.  • Used Scrum Methodology for projects and have actively been part of Sprint planning and Backlog grooming.  • Used the VSTS board to manage the tasks assigned to me. Data/Business Analyst - DXC Client- BCBSA April 2017 to October 2018 Adaptable Data Analyst skilled in interpreting and analyzing data in the Health Insurance Industry for BCBSA. Proficient in all aspects of Excel. Experienced in preparing detailed documents and reports while managing complex internal and external data analysis responsibilities  Accomplishments:  • Completed urgent ad-hoc reporting requests for various levels of management within required timeframes and with 95% accuracy.  • Took over responsibility for and automated issuing monthly Insight Report for management. Reduced preparation time by at least 50% each month.  • Created a series of process models and charts which became a strong base for developers to work on and engendered successful results  Duties/Responsibilities  • Gathered requirements from the Business and created BRD's and reviewed them to determine impact and required actions  • Collaborated with stakeholder groups across the organization to ensure business and technology alignment. Proposed solutions meeting defined specifications and needs.  • Performed quality assurance, system integration and user acceptance testing facilitating on-time.  • Analyzed Claims, Enrollment, Provider and Case Management data coming in daily.  • Collect and analyze data in preparation for statistical and analytical reports.  • Identify and analyze trends and patterns, specifically in complex data sets.  • Created S2T mappings based on requirements from the Business.  • Created new Data Models in Erwin as per requirements.  • Performed UAT/QA testing.  • Identify new process improvement opportunities and ensure that appropriate measures are taken to ensure improvements.  • Increased the performance of SQL running in Production by fine tuning the queries  • Provided On-call Production Support during weekdays and weekends.  • Investigated problems through to resolution, interacted effectively with teams from various disciplines to find the resolution of problems and generated in-depth Root Cause Analysis reports.  • Created flow charts and process flows for other team members to understand the system better.  • Ascertain that integrity and confidentiality of data and data systems by ensuring that appropriate measures have been taken.  • Created Excel spreadsheets and Loaded data into MDH (Meta Data Hub Repository).  • Performed data analysis on a regular basis through running SQL queries in TOAD.  • Identify and obtained data from different sources to ensure its integrity is maintainable.  • Wrote reports and created charts in support of business operations Business Analyst RecruitTek September 2016 to February 2017 Performed necessary research to fully understand business issues. Analysed operations and or other data, and worked with management to set and modify distribution goals  Accomplishments:  • Reduced operational costs up to 40% through efficient cost-benefit analysis for various ongoing and upcoming projects.  • Developed several successful business strategy prototypes based on the company's customers' requirements.  Duties/Responsibilities  • Develops project plans and schedules using defined procedures  • Negotiates scope and deliverables with operational procedures and concepts.  • Defined configuration specifications and business analysis requirements  • Defined reporting and alerting requirements  • Monitored trends and participates in strategic planning as well as team and quality performance reviews.  • Worked with other departments and provide technical guidance to others within the department.  • Constantly be on the lookout for ways to improve monitoring, discover issues and deliver better value to the customer  • Ran queries and generating reports using SQL, ORACLE database. Oracle Database Administrator HTN Wireless September 2015 to August 2016 Provided service focused technical support to achieve effective troubleshooting, resolution of issues, and maximum customer satisfaction. Level1-2 support for all database questions, problems and policies Distribute and oversee projects and tasks issued to the DBA team.    Duties/Responsibilities  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 11g and 12c Enterprise Edition databases on Red Hat Linux  • Familiar with enabling and disabling constraints  • Familiar with installing Oracle Virtual box and creating VM's and install CentOS operating system.  • Experience with Virtualization technologies like installing, configuring, VMware Client. Creation, management, administration and maintenance of virtual servers and clients.  • Logged in remotely and implemented various tasks which included monitoring, updating, configuring and troubleshooting VMware hosts and VMs.  • Configured TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA  • Diagnosed user connectivity issues related to TNS entries/service names and listener issues  • Managed user security by creating users and granting privileges, lock/ unlock users, password resets and drop user requests  • Managed user profiles related to password security settings, failed login attempts and password lifetime  • Troubleshoot database issues by checking the alert log, listener status.  • Identified and killed blocking sessions.  • Created AWR reports for diagnosing wait events and database performance issues  • Resolved space issues in local mount point (deleting old dumps, zipping the alert log and deleting obsolete backups and archive logs)  • Schema and table level refresh using traditional import export and Data pump utility  • Performed full Database Refresh using RMAN  • Enabled and disabled archive log mode for hot backup  • Familiar with setting up RMAN parameters for database backup to disc, retention policy and spfile backup  • Maintained and Implemented incremental level 0 and level1 RMAN backups through crontab.  • Restored & recovered database using RMAN.  • Checked integrity and availability of RMAN backups and delete obsolete backups.  • Managed tablespaces by adding datafiles in both local mount point and in ASM  • Implemented ASM as storage management, manage ASM disk groups via ASMCMD and Grid Control.  • Experience in Administrating RAC Databases using SRVCTL.  • Worked with application team to test their scripts in lower environment prior to implementation in production Education MBA Northwestern Polytechnic University September 2015 to December 2016 MS in Aeronautical Engineering University of South Wales January 2013 to September 2014 Skills Data analysis, Database, Microsoft access, Oracle, Sql, C++, Ms project, Python, Linux, Red hat, Unix, Erwin, Rman, Ms office, Excel, Windows 7, Import/export, Loader, QA, Quality Assurance Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammed-minhajuddin-66057465