Database Administrator I/ Sysadmin <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I/ Sysadmin Administrator I - Brentwood Services Administrators Nashville, TN Work Experience Database Administrator I/ Sysadmin Brentwood Services Administrators - Brentwood, TN June 2016 to Present Assists in database maintenance, job creation, and application support. Upgraded database from Windows Server 2008R2 to 2016. Maintains WSUS environment along with MDT and WDS deployment applications. Implemented silent software deployments as well as automating computer configuration with MDT/WDS. Led company wide project of Windows 10 upgrade with complete setup of new branch office. Works directly with Vendors to obtain and maintain desktops and laptops. IT Support Brentwood Services Administrators - Brentwood, TN May 2016 to Present Responsible for Tier 1 and 2 support that resolved tickets for both clients and employees. Completed installation, configuration and maintenance of  computers, phones, printers and projectors. Provided detailed explanation of issues translating the technical aspects of errors into easy to understand  description for end users. Experience in relocation and setup of servers,  networking, and physical network drops. Private Contractor Nashville, TN August 2012 to Present Computer repair, network installation, configuration and maintenance.  Hardware ordering and construction of specialized high performance computer and servers. IT Intern Brentwood Services Administrators - Brentwood, TN December 2014 to May 2015 August 2016, December 2016 Education B.A. in English Education Aquinas College - Nashville, TN August 2012 to May 2016 Skills SQL, T-SQL, CUSTOMER SERVICE, EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS, DBA, Sql Server, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Present MCSA in SQL database administration 2016 A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information SKILLS  ? High proficiency with Windows OS with functioning knowledge of Windows  Server  ? Proficient and trained in T-SQL and SQL administration  ? Expert comprehension of computer hardware and troubleshooting  ? Excellent communication skills and experience in customer service