Oracle Database Architect/Admin, Cassandra admin, MS SQL Admin, Cosmos DB admin Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect/Admin, Cassandra admin, MS SQL Admin, Cosmos DB admin Oracle Database Architect/Admin, Cassandra admin, MS SQL Admin, Cosmos DB admin - Best Buy Co. Inc Edina, MN ? Approximately, 9 years of experience as a senior database architect/admin, including 3.5 years of experience in US.  ? 9 years of experience as senior oracle database architect/admin, over 2.5 years of experience as Cassandra database admin, MS SQL database admin and Azure cosmos DB admin.  ? Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills. Expertise in driving Sev 1 Major Incident calls and providing technical support as well as management updates to all stakeholders simultaneously in highly critical and business impactful environments.  ? Successfully lead a team of 6 members with customer satisfaction and on time delivery.  ? Working as a project management SPOC and delivering multiple projects with strict deadlines.  ? Working on various OS platforms like RHEL 5/6/7, Solaris, oracle linux, HP UX, Windows, VMs and engineered systems like exadata, oracle database appliance (ODA), oracle cloud and MS Azure.  ? Extensive experience in Oracle DB build activities like Clusterware installation and upgrades, database setup, DG setup.  ? Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, 19c database creation, upgrade and decommission with upto 7 node RAC and 2 DR copies.  ? Oracle Database migrations across clusters/datacenters.  ? Creating RAC database, adding node, converting standalone database to RAC.  ? Maintenance activities in RAC databases, OCR and voting disk backup and maintenance, node eviction.  ? Standby database creation and maintenance, dataguard related issues, log gap and recovery, Active dataguard configuration, DG broker setup, Switchover and failover using DG broker.  ? Performance tuning, query tuning including SQLT, SQL Plan manager, baselines, SQL tuning advisor, SQL Profiles, pinning better execution plan, memory flush, tuning memory parameters for optimal performance, optimizer and dictionary stats gathering.  ? PSU/bug fixing patching in oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c and 19c container and non-container databases (RAC and DG configured) and clusterware.  ? ASM instance creation, upgrade, backup and recovery.  ? Creating and supporting ASM Cluster filesystem including volume addition/deletion.  ? RMAN Backup, hot back up, cold back up, configuring and managing backups in data domain.  ? Hot cloning, cold cloning and RMAN cloning of databases, Active database duplication.  ? Capacity planning, ASM storage addition and deletion. Managing database storage with Netapp and EMC devices. ASM disk migration from EMC to Netapp.  ? Database Restore and recovery (tape restore, RMAN restore, point in time recovery). Recovery of missing/deleted data using flashback/backup.  ? DB refresh from one environment to another using Flex Clone, RMAN duplication, export/import, transportable tablespace.  ? Writing Shell scripts to automate usual DB monitoring and scheduling jobs in OEM/crontab.  ? Oracle client installation on Windows and Linux application servers.  ? Managing database account security with Cyberark and getpw utility.  ? Managing database auditing with Arcsight, Kibana, Elastic search.  ? Tuning oracle database systems and clusterware to support overloaded system during Thanks Giving, Cyber Monday and critical business days (upto 3000 orders/sec).  ? Worked on OEM 12c and 13c. OEM patching, OEM upgrade from 12c to 13c. OEM agent installation, de-installation and upgrades.  ? Issues with materialized view failures, refresh and dbms jobs.  ? Export and import using traditional as well as datapump method.  ? Data Encryption using protegrity including table and column level encryption. Protegrity installation, setup and upgrades with EXTPROC listener configuration.  ? Database security using oracle wallets.  ? Data Replication using oracle streams and oracle golden gate.  ? Data retrieval using oracle logminer.  ? Bulk data load using SQL Loader and external tables.  ? LDAP configuration using OID and OUD.  ? Provide support and coordination with both development and production support application teams, for all new releases, code fixes and migration of data between different environments.  ? Supporting Peoplesoft databases, webserver, application server, process scheduler and code migration through STAT.  ? Attending CAB meetings, preparing CAB reports and supporting database outage activities, maintenance, and database health checks including application maintenance.  ? Maintenance Activities:    ? User management  ? Tablespace management  ? Listener and agent related issues  ? Object Reorg , space management, data purging  ? Table and index partitions, hash partitioning of indexes, index rebuild and coalesce.  ? DB Link creation, deletion, maintenance  ? Data file addition, rename, delete  ? Fixing backup job failures  ? Raising and Handling Service requests in Oracle Metalink Support  ? Database resource manager and scheduler windows.    Cassandra Administration:    ? DSE Cassandra cluster installation and DB setup, upto 64 nodes across multiple datacenters.  ? Upgrading DSE Cassandra from 5.1.9 to 6.7.3.  ? Adding/removing nodes from Cassandra cluster. Adding and removing datacenters.  ? Implementation of vnodes and migration from single token range to vnodes.  ? Renaming datacentre names on Cassandra cluster.  ? Database Migration from one cluster to another.  ? Database refresh across environments.  ? Setting replication across multiple datacenters.  ? Managing compaction and repair.  ? Implementing Change Data Capture (CDC) on Cassandra clusters.  ? Administering, monitoring and triaging issues with Cassandra cluster/ database.  ? Enabling/disabling search, analytics and graph on Cassandra nodes.  ? Administrative work on DSE solr including search indexes and solr core.  ? Adding new repositories and clusters to Imanis data/Talena for backup, restore and data refresh.  ? Datastax Agent installation and upgrades.  ? Managing Datastax Opscenter and lifecycle manager and opscenterd.  ? Addition, configuration, removal and monitoring clusters from OPScenter.  ? Managing backups, restore, snapshots, jobs, compaction, repair, performance monitoring and lot more with Opscenter.  ? Memory/JVM tuning, configuring heap dump and enabling garbage collection on Cassandra nodes.  ? Keyspace creation, setup, DDL/DML operations with cqlsh.  ? Creating secondary indexes to increase querying capability.  ? Managing data with TTL configuration.  ? User creation, role creation and privilege management.  ? Data export/import using copy, bulk loader dsbulk. Using sstableloader for refreshing data across environments.  ? Database diagnostic and work with the support team (datastax).  ? Implementing client encryption certificates and renewal.    Cosmos Database Administration on Azure platform    ? Creation of resource group with PaaS subscription.  ? Cosmos database creation and deletion.  ? Creating, modifying or deleting containers.  ? Code deployments.  ? User management and privilege management.  ? Tuning database by controlling throughput scale on table level or database level.  ? Database backups and restore.  ? Real time database performance monitoring.  MS SQL DB Administration:    ? MS SQL database installations.  ? Database upgrades and migration.  ? Managing database backup and restore.  ? DDL and DML operations, code deployments.  ? Database performance tuning, query tuning and providing recommendations to app teams.  ? Database maintenance and failovers.  ? Database capacity planning, user and privilege management.  ? Managing SQL databases on Azure platform. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Architect/Admin, Cassandra admin, MS SQL Admin, Cosmos DB admin Best Buy Co. Inc October 2015 to Present Period Oct 2015 to Present - 3 years 10 months  Technical Skills Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c DBA,RAC, ASM, Dataguard, Unix Shell scripting, Cassandra Admin, MS SQL Admin, Cosmos DB admin  Achievements  • Database and Clusterware builds, upgrades and maintenance.  • Database migrations across clusters/datacenters.  • Working as project management SPOC and delivering multiple projects with strict deadlines.  • ASM disk migration from EMC to Netapp.  • DB performance tuning, query tuning, Plan stability, SPM.  • Standby database setup, DG broker setup and maintenance.  • Managing oracle RAC databases, patching, database cloning and refreshes.  • Database backups, restore and recovery.  • Database security and encryption - Protegrity, oracle wallet, auditing  • 24x7 Holiday support at Best buy with exceptional high load on system (more than 3000 orders/sec).  • Cassandra database build, administration and tuning.  • Managing DSE, OPS Center and imanis data for Cassandra.  • SQL database builds, administration, performance tuning.  • Azure cosmos DB administration.  • Got several appreciations and awards for resolving Major Incidents.    PROJECT 2: Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Walgreens Co. Inc and Drugstore September 2014 to September 2015 Technical Skills Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g DBA,RAC, ASM, Dataguard, Unix Shell scripting  Achievements  • Database builds, upgrades, migrations, patching.  • Successfully converted standalone database to RAC.  • Successfully configured 3-node RAC database along with standby DB.  • Created ASM instance and disk groups.  • Successfully upgraded ASM instance and databases.  • Got several appreciations and awards for quality of service delivery within SLA.  • Successfully lead a team of 6 members with customer satisfaction and on time delivery.  • Database performance tuning and query tuning.    PROJECT 3: Oracle Database Administrator The Hartford Life Insurance September 2010 to August 2014 Technical Skills Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g DBA, Unix Shell scripting  Achievements  • Database Restore and recovery.  • RMAN Backup, hot back up, cold back up.  • PSU/bug fixing patching in oracle.  • Database creation, upgrade and deletion.  • Exports and imports.  • Unix shell scripting.  • Application support/ APP DBA support, code deployments. Education Bachelor's in Electrical and electronics engineering Institute of technical Education and Research - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa August 2006 to July 2010 Skills Database, Microsoft sql server DBA (2 years), Cassandra Administration (3 years), Oracle database administration (9 years), Microsoft Azure Cosmos DB (2 years), oracle RAC (9 years), Exadata (1 year), Golden gate (1 year), Oracle data Guard (9 years), Apache cassandra (2 years), Datastax Cassandra (3 years), DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba Links http://linkedin.com/in/aurovindo-patnaik-751268b9 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Administrator August 2011 to Present ITIL v3 February 2013 to Present ITIL, also known as the Information Technology Infrastructure Library, is the global standard for IT best practices Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Software  Database: Oracle 9i , 10g , 11g, 12c Container and non-container databases.  Server: Linux, Solaris, HP, Windows,VMs Exadata and ODA machines, Oracle cloud and MS Azure cloud.  Language: Shell Scripting, C,C++, HTML, Java Script, XML, PHP,SQL, PL SQL    Tools  Oracle Universal Installer, DBCA, DBUA, OEM 10g, 11g,12c, 13c, Toad for Oracle, BMC Remedy 7.6 , Service Now, Putty, Kleopatra file encryption, TFA, OS Watcher, Splunk, Kibana, Sharepoint, Hipchat, HP BSM monitoring tool, HP Performance manager, Citrix VMware, ArcSight, CyberArc, Protegrity, Keepass, Password Safe, Last Pass, Win SCP, Metalink - oracle support , STAT migration tool for Peoplesoft , Notepad ++, Oracle SQL Developer, Collabnet Subversion Tool, Autosys, VSS, Oracle Application Server, Lotus Notes, Sametime, Skype and MS Link , MS outlook.  iManis Data, OPS Center for Cassandra, Microsoft SQL Server 2005/8/16    Domain Experience ITIS, Insurance, Retail