Remote Hands Technician Remote Hands Technician Remote Hands Technician - Digital Realty Rockville, MD Multi-faceted software engineer who is knowledgeable in JavaScript, Python, MySQL, HTML, etc. A true team player offering multiple years of experience in the software industry. Seeking the opportunity to provide outstanding, clean code in a collaborative environment. Proficient in working with diverse languages. Motivated to stay informed of latest industry innovations to provide customers/users with most up-to-date solutions. Capable of working in high-pressure environments while meeting business needs and project expectations. Work Experience Remote Hands Technician Digital Realty - Ashburn, VA July 2017 to Present * Assist customers with the diagnosis of hardware and software to include but not limited to iLO, iDrac, IOS configurations; server components such as WCM, WCB, motherboards, CPUs, fan modules, heat sinks, etc. on their network equipment.  * Assist customers with the installing, testing and troubleshooting of copper and fiber optic circuits through nine (9) campus  buildings. To include both MM fiber within our internal building fiber infrastructure and SM fiber between our building to building ecosystem.  * Assist customers with the basic-mid level configuration assistance of routers and switches to include naming, IP addressing, service turn ups, vlan creations, etc.  * Assist customers with the racking and installing of devices and device components such as server blade/card, memory, hard drive, transceivers etc.  * Monitor the data center's mission critical infrastructure with the use of monitoring systems and inventory databases.  * Provide timely customer and internal updates using a computer based ticketing system. Database Administrator - Remote Kumasi August 2018 to March 2019 Ashanti Region, Ghana  * Authored and coded logical and physical database descriptions.  * Set up and controlled user profiles and access levels for each database segment to protect important data.  * Created and implemented database designs and data models.  * Implemented BI solution framework for end-to-end business intelligence projects.  * Tested programs and databases to identify issues and make necessary modifications.  * Modified existing databases to meet unique needs and goals determined during initial evaluation and planning process.  * Administered, supported and monitored databases by proactively resolving database issues and maintaining servers. Cable Technician Mona Telecom - Chantilly, VA January 2015 to April 2017 * Tested cables using tools such as volt-OHM meters, spectrum analyzers and signal level meters.  * Completed new connects, reconnects, disconnects and service changes for residential and commercial customers.  * Performed troubleshooting of systems with techniques such as speed and ping tests.  * Recommended network security standards to management. ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT Ashanti Region - GH October 2013 to December 2014 Ghana  * Vetting, auditing and submitting of national health insurance scheme claims to the regional office.  * Proposed the national computerized health insurance system which is now being used in Ashanti region, Ghana.  * Balanced reports to submit for approval and verification.  * Monitored the status of accounts receivable and payable to facilitate efficient processing. Education Bachelor of Arts in Geography and rural development Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology June 2013 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Splunk, Git, Html