SCRUM MASTER SCRUM MASTER SCRUM MASTER(SSM) Charlotte, NC Team-driven and energetic certified Scrum Master, with over 3 years of experience. knowledgeable in task prioritization, Software Development life Cycle(SDLC), workflow optimization and presenting information clearly, developing high performing and Collaborative teams with the ability to use agile/scrum practices to remain poised and efficient, while bridging the gap between business and technology. Work Experience SCRUM MASTER CHANDO GLOBAL GROUP, LLC September 2017 to May 2019 • Facilitated a well-disciplined, self-organized and effective Scrum Team which embraced and exhibited the Agile practices  • Ensured that team goals and project scope are understood by everyone on the Scrum Team.  • Optimized team deliverables by Managing and removed all impediments.  • Organized and facilitated agile ceremonies like daily scrum meeting, sprint planning, sprint review and sprint retrospective meetings for multiple projects.  • Promoted continuous improvement by initiating transparency, adaptation and inspection which greatly helped the team to improve productivity and foster innovation  • Coach the team through norming and forming phases by establishing a team charter and team roles.  • Worked with product owners and stakeholders to prioritize feature developments and enhancements based on critical paths and business needs.  • Facilitated program and team refinement session new features and strategies as well as user stories, DoD, DoR and criteria for acceptance.  • Assessed and monitored team metrics to track the progress of work and drive improvements and innovate new approaches.  • Provide changes in the team by leading by example and ensuring all agile practices are implemented  • Defined workflows and processes in fast-paced, Agile and distributed models using tools such as whiteboarding, mind mapping and other methods.  • Delivered multiple software projects on time.  • Motivated team members by acknowledging their efforts, valuing their inputs and creating opportunity of team bonding events.  • Facilitated two collocated teams on their program goals. SCRUM MASTER FIRST GULF BANK - ABUDHABI, AE February 2016 to July 2017 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES  • Coach teams as they grow into agile while undergoing a transformation.  • Work with teams to stay focused on value delivery and not the process so they stay aligned.  • Collaborate with program directors and product owners to break down epics to granular vertical slices that do not span iterations.  • Work with teams to prepare for and plan informatively during PI Planning, with focus on dependencies and impediments.  • Track risks on GRID-ROAM board for visibility and proper handling of blocker at the level of management.  • Reported and supported RTE at the Scrum of Scrums to sink Risk and Impediments  • Use JIRA for creation and structuring of projects. Use Confluence to pull key matrixes for easy reporting and progress tracking purposes.  • Used Media platforms like WebEx, Skype, Teams for collaboration efforts with collocated and distributed teams.  • Motivate teams to adapt agile process to meet their goals through creative thinking inspired by open ended questions.  • Work with teams to assess progress, room for improvement and celebrate every stride in their agile transformation journey  • Monitored iteration objectives, and critical dates to identify potential impediments that could  jeopardize project schedules and identified ways to resolve schedule issues ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR FIRST GULF BANK - ABUDHABI, AE March 2013 to July 2015 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES  • Provided effective demonstrations of alarm systems so that customers understood how to use each feature  • Supported twelve (12) 11.2.0.4 Dev/Test/QA single instance and three (3) production 12.1.0.2 two-node RAC databases running on Red Hat Linux platforms. The production databases ranged in size from 0.9 TB - 5.1 TB and were all part of a physical standby active (read only) data guard configuration with asynchronous replication  • Heavily utilized OEM for monitoring, job scheduling, performance tuning, and other routine DBA activities  • Leverage Oracle Data Pump Export/Import extensively to migrate objects/schemas between environments  • Refreshed/Cloned lower environments from RMAN Production backups using RMAN DUPLICATE and sometimes RMAN ACTIVE DUPLICATE  • Utilized SQL*Loader to load data in flat files from DB2 into Oracle  • Monitored, traced, troubleshoot and resolved performance, capacity and backup issues using OEM and AWR/ADDM/ASH reports  • Participated in on-call DBA rotation and built a solid track record for responding to and resolving issues in a timely & complete manner  • Led the 12c POC effort and upgraded/migrated a host of Dev/Test/QA databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2  • Heavily utilized FLASHBACK technology to flashback DEV, SIT and QA databases to existing restore points post Mock testing Education Change Management and Risk Management It Training Institute - Dubai, AE 2014 Bachelor of Arts in Banking and Finance University of Bamenda 2013 Diploma in computer data processing It Training Institute - Dubai, AE 2013 Skills Database administration, Database, Oracle, Sql, Korn, Linux, Shell scripting, Jira, Scripting, Process documentation, Kanban, Bilingual, Fast learner, Teaching, Coaching, Process analysis, Strategic planning, Microsoft office, Documentation Certifications/Licenses SAFe Scrum Master (SSM) 2019 CSM 2016 Additional Information Skills  • Agile methodology expert  • Proficient in Scrum, Kanban and SAFe  • Waterfall method project management method  • Oracle Database Administration  • Proficient in Jira /confluence and rally  • Linux and windows Operating system  • Proficient in SQL, Shell scripting (Korn & bash shell)  • Proficient in Microsoft office tools  • Process documentation    • Teaching and coaching ability  • Great servant leader  • Great conflict facilitator  • Creative and fast learner  • Excellent communication skill  • Collaborative and Adaptive  • Strategic planning and process analysis  • Prioritization, organised and multi-tasking  • Perfectly bilingual in French and English