Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Microsoft SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) - Dignity Health Management Services Organization Bakersfield, CA I have over 7 years of distinct blend of management and technology experience with deep understanding of the strategic value of business metrics, analytics and transformation of decision makings to improve revenue, minimize expenditure and increase profit. I have lead and assisted technology teams through the design and implementation in Database Administration, Development, Support, Business Intelligence(BI)Engineering, and Data Analysis. Accuracy, commitment, accountability, multiple tasking and completing tasks on time are my strongest suits.    Areas of Strength includes:    • MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008/2005 • SQL Server Installation, and Configuration  • Disaster Recovery and High Availability • Extract Transform Load(ETL)- SSIS/SSRS  • Upgrades, Migration, Backup & Recovery • BI Strategies/Data Warehouse  • Structured Query Language - T-SQL • Indexing & Performance Tuning  • Automated Process Management(SFTP) • Windows Servers 2012R2/2008R2  • Project & Tech. Documentation Management • Tools: VisualCron, RedGate, SQL Sentry, QNXT, Visual Studio. Work Experience Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Dignity Health Management Services Organization - Bakersfield, CA August 2016 to Present • Providing 24/7 dedicated Production, Test and Development environments support for SQL Server. Installed and configured MS SQL Server 2008r2, 2012R2, 2014, and 2016, and also applied service packs and security fixes on MS SQL Servers.  • Working with various business groups in the administration and development of their applications, assisting in database design, installing SQL Server clients, phasing from Testing and/or Development to QA and/or Staging to Production environments.  • Monitoring database size and disk space in Production, Test & Development environments  • Finding bottlenecks in CPU, Disk I/O and memory devices to improve database server performance.  • DBmail configuration.  • Master in performing administrative tasks: Data Integration and Synchronization, performance tuning and maintenance tasks such as indexing, database files management, backup/restore, security management, Log Shipping, Replication.  • Conducting various meetings and conferences with application teams to meet corporate milestones for database consolidation, data migration and upgrades.  • Security and architectural planning issues met as well as testing and training and ensuring we meet Recovery Point Objective(RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO)  • Responsible for automated process management using VisualCron and Performing testing and quality assurance on works delivered.  • Experienced in database and log backups and restoration, planning backup strategies, and scheduling.  • Responsible for configuring and maintaining Transactional and Snapshot replication in Production and Test environments.  • Using third party tool RedGate to ensure all the databases are backing up on the regular basis and then restoring this databases upon requests.  • Improved database performance using SQL Profiler, Trace Flags, Execution plan and Index Tuning Wizards.  • Working on SSIS to import Pharmacy files from different Health Plans such as United, Cigna, HealthNet, BlueShield, and Anthem Blue Cross.  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, and taking care of permissions and roles  • Creating and Scheduling jobs and alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Working with stakeholders to make sure that we are receiving files on timely basis.  • Experience on TFS(Team Foundation Server) to track projects by creating Product Backlog Items.  • Change Management using Visual Studio Source Control.  • Used Root Cause Analysis (RCA) to identify process breakdowns within departments and provided data through the use of various skill sets to find Corrective and Preventive Actions to breakdown, non-conformance, standard process failures and foster a culture of continuous engineering improvement through mentoring, feedback, and metrics    Accomplishments included:  • QNXT(My company's core application) Upgrade.  • Involved in data integration during a merger with other companies.  • Initiated a strict security control policy to the database servers.  • As the only DBA of the company, I showed my strengths to the fullest.  • Involved in Data masking of test environments to protect PHI(Patient Health Information)  • Created a reliable documentation for standard operating procedures. Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) The Avant Network - Richmond, VA January 2014 to July 2016 • SQL Server 2014, 2012R2, and 2008R2 Installation, Configuration, and Administration.  • Database Backup and Recovery to ensure we meet Recovery Point Objective (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO).  • Experienced in Database administration activities for Security such as creating logins, users, roles, and assigning permissions.  • Headed capacity planning, sizing and database growth projections, and scheduled Full and Transactional log backups for the user created and system databases in the production environment  • Database Maintenance Plans to reorganize indexes, rebuild indexes and update index statistics on production databases.  • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to populate data from various data sources, creating packages for different data loading operations for application.  • Performance monitoring of production servers.  • SQL Server Agent jobs management.    Accomplishments included:  • Increased efficiency 25% by providing optimum database performance with efficient backup and restore processes in 30 days of being hired Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Broad Systems International - Alexandria, VA September 2012 to December 2013 • Responsible for Disaster Recovery and High Availability Planning such as SQL Server Replication, Log Shipping.  • Database Maintenance, Backup and Recovery, Migration, Upgrade and Security Management operations  • Assisted in creating documentation models for Standard Operating Procedures, Database Health Checklists, Database configuration documents and Implementation Plans for Change Management purposes  • Worked closely with Management, Business Teams, Software Engineering Leaders, and Database Administrators and Developers to plan catalog data improvements so as to maximize customer improvement impact using both Quantitative Analysis and Business Judgment    Accomplishments included:  • Assisted in creating documentation models for Standard Operating Procedures. Education Bachelor of Science in Public Health Officer in Public Health Officer Jimma University Associates Degree in General Studies in General Studies Northern Virginia Community college - Annandale, VA Associates Degree in Public Health Nursing in Public Health Nursing Alemaya University Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2008, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, SQL, SSRS, T-SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, REPORTING TOOLS, VISIO, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, MICROSOFT WORD, WORD, DBA, Sql Dba, ETL