Sr IT Consultant contractor Sr IT Consultant contractor Sr IT Consultant contractor - Leadiant Bioscience INC Alexandria, VA Highly dedicated individual who exhibits the highest degree of professionalism, a strong proponent of training and development, focused on improving organizational performance with strong communication skills, effective in communicating with individuals at any level and backgrounds. Talented Database administrator and Software Engineer, proficient in all phases of the software development lifecycle. 9 years of experience working as database and system administrator. Highly skilled in SQL Server and Oracle databases. Experienced in working directly with end users to satisfy their needs. Well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated and effective team player with excellent analytical, troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr IT Consultant contractor Leadiant Bioscience INC September 2016 to Present Collaborate with technical and business teams to identify and document data and application requirements  ? Install, configure, tune, and maintain application databases  ? Collaborate with platform and hardware teams to allocate resources for application database  ? Proactively monitor and maintain databases and associated services and interfaces  ? Manage database recovery operations  ? Recommend and implement database enhancements to improve efficiency, reliability, and performance  ? Develop and maintain database documentation  ? Conduct database capacity planning Data migration assistant Suntrust Bank August 2016 to October 2016 Take backup to remote server using steps provided by the documentation for the site.  ? Restore backup from remote server to the new client machines  ? Upgrade all workstations to a newer version of Microsoft windows operating system.  ? Check for system and network integrity after the upgrade and verify that client machines can communicate with the server  ? Verify network connection from all workstations inside the bank  ? Data security check, verify data encryption with a key Sql Server DBA November 2015 to June 2016 Create Tables, Views, DBs using SQL server  ? Manage disk space for SQL server 2008r2  ? Generate report using its built-in reporting features  ? Perform full backup and restore from backup.  ? Attaching a database to a server to give access for end user  ? Check the performance of the database using built in features Oracle Database Administrator, Boston consulting CPU usage, I/O throughput, and SQL queries July 2015 to September 2015 Plan and deploy permanent, temporary, and bigfile tablespaces  ? Optimize disk allocation, CPU usage, I/O throughput, and SQL queries  ? Diagnose and tune system performance using Oracle Automatic Workload Repository and SQL Tuning Sets  ? Backup and restore tables, tablespaces, and databases with Oracle Recovery Manager and Oracle Data Pump Export and Import  ? write PL/Sql queries and perform data manipulation against the database General manager B.A. wholesale Trading April 2012 to March 2015 Sell a broad range of IT products and services, using a proven structured approach while at the same time developing in-depth knowledge of the latest hardware and software technology.  ? Provide personalized service and exceptional expertise for customers  ? Ensure customers' end-to-end needs are met.  ? Ensure inventory and merchandising standards are maintained Network / Database administrator Pioneer diagnostic center & Boston consulting January 2010 to February 2012 Generate report from oracle based database using crystal reporting software  ? Installation, configuration and upgrading of Oracle DB software and related products  ? Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery procedures  ? Implement and maintain system security (create and maintain users and assign privileges)  ? Perform performance tuning on servers and client machines  ? Setup and maintain documentation and standards  ? Install and monitor different network switches, APs, CCTVs, DVR and Time track machine  ? Manage and monitor the use of disk space, memory and connections, allocate resources  ? Participate in active training sessions for current Oracle features and Oracle related products Education Bachelor's Skills database (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), Oracle (2 years), Sql (4 years), Sql Server (3 years), MYSQL, ETL Additional Information SKILLS    Technical Skill  ? Network switching, VMware technologies  ? Active Directory/DNS/Group Policy, firewalls, cloud hosting environments  ? Symantec Endpoint Protection, Fuze Backup, HP servers, Redhat 7.x, Windows 2008/2012  ? database skills: SQL Server 2017, 2012, design 2008R2, and Oracle 12c, 10g, /9i, stored procedures, triggers, functions, ETL (SSIS and SSRS)  ? Software development (SDLC): analysis, design and specification development SQL Server, SAP HANA, and Access  ? Tools GUI- SSCM, SSIS, SSDTs, SSRS, Profiler, DTA, DTC, Replication, Visual Studio, DMVs, DMFs, Extended Events,