Business Analyst for People Analytics Business Analyst for People Analytics Business Analyst for People Analytics San Francisco, CA Work Experience Business Analyst for People Analytics William-Sonoma Inc - San Francisco, CA January 2017 to August 2019 -Project management, implementation, and administration of Retail Sales and HR data into the Zeroed in  dashboard. Platformed Metric and report asset gathering for Retail Sales and HR Measures in our Retail, Corporate and Supply Chain business elements. Developed and maintained SQL views to set data for  transmission to Dashboard.    - Zeroed in dashboard platform became the primary infrastructure to HR reporting Company wide with over 3,000  users and Reduced the number of push reports by 80% in Retail and 30% in corporate    -Provide reporting and business incites for Retail team for associate sales goals, training, and performance in over 600 location.    -Present Executive leadership with deep dives into HR key measures, Associate Sales, Associate Performance, and Opinion Survey trends using Tableau and SQL server.    -Create and distribute SOX and U.S. Government compliance reporting to relevant recipients  Maintain data integrity whilst integrating multiple data sources through a data warehouse.    -Administration and troubleshooting Performance Management process (using SuccessFactors). Database Administrator/ Digital Data Specialist Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee - Washington, DC September 2012 to January 2017 -Create models to analyze trends in e-mail participation and donation patterns, using IBM SPSS software to preform K-means Clustering, Linear Regression and Time Series Analysis, and help implement findings into e-  mail campaigns.    -Create, deploy, and maintain the process for email batching to deliver custom e-mail body and custom email  scheduling to participants based on multiple data attributes pertaining to email action, donation frequency and petition participation.    -Help transition e-mail and donation data across T-SQL and Amazon Redshift data storage systems to maintain  accurate accounting along all data points,    -Partner with the Compliance to import and reconcile donation data for reporting to the Federal Elections  Committee and internal leadership through T-SQL database. Education Bachelors of Arts in Political Science in Services Management American University - Washington, DC August 2012 Skills SQL, Excel, MS Office, Business Intelligence, Powerpoint