Business Intelligence Developer Business Intelligence Developer Business Intelligence Developer - OldCastle Materials Incorporated Atlanta, GA SQL Server Developer with database administration skills as well as Business Intelligence Developer experience using SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Business Intelligence Development Studio.    Database Management Systems:  Microsoft SQL Server 2005+    Software and Programming:  MS SQL Server 2005+ Integration Services (SSIS), MS SQL Server 2005+ Reporting Services (SSRS), Windows OS (95+), Windows Server 2003/2008, T-SQL(MS-SQL), XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Windows DOS prompt, PUTTY, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, etc)    Tools:  SQL Server Management Studio  Business Intelligence Development Studio/SQL Server Data Tools/Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Developer Work Experience Business Intelligence Developer OldCastle Materials Incorporated May 2017 to Present • Created an ETL solution that reads Product, Vendor, and Order data from .CSV files on a network share into a SQL Server database. The solution also validated incoming data and performed notifications when jobs complete. The order data thus loaded into SQL Server was used to generate reports using the new SSRS 2008 reporting functionality (including the Tablix control). The reports were set up for automatic delivery based on standard report subscriptions. Design and develop enterprise and departmental business intelligence, data warehousing and reporting solutions.    • Function as part of On-Call team to monitor cycle    • As part of a team, created various reports according to the business requirements. Individually authored, installed, deployed and managed reports using SSRS for a library database.    • As part of a team, analyzed the business requirements and systematically designed a database. Employed best practices in creating a complete schema including tables, relationships, stored procedures, views, clustered and non-clustered indexes and triggers, and implemented the import and export of data using XML and SSIS.    • Created numerous simple to complex queries involving self joins, correlated subqueries, CTE's and XML techniques for diverse business requirements. Tuned and optimized queries by altering database design, analyzing different query options, and indexing strategies. Database Analyst AAA Parking/Selig Enterprises 2016 to 2019 • Initiated day to day operational support for the corporate database to maximize its use for business activities.  • Supported data testing and cleansing activities.  • Produced, maintained and updated Access and SQL Server database information to create monthly dashboard reports for external clients and managers. Such reports highlights revenue and expenses information in easy to view layout. Data is organized in for month, month of previous year, and year-to-date.  • Extracted expense data from SAP client to create multiple versions of expense reports.  • Researched and evaluated new techniques, methods and procedures.  • Troubleshoot and resolved issues with internal end-users who require access to data. Jr. SQL Server Database Administrator/Engineer Voya 2013 to 2016 • Created, maintained, and implemented relational databases for testing and production.  • Assisted in solving database access and permission problems.  • Participated with engineers in providing backup and recovery for databases and other server products.  • Participated in creating, maintaining, and disseminating technical policies and standards.  • Regularly communicated with other IT staff.  • Prepared weekly status report.  • Prepared and uploaded SSRS reports. Manages database and SSRS permissions.  • Promoted and built effective working relationships with business and IT partners, support staff and vendors.  • Prepared implementation documentation for task being applied to production servers. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA 2016 Bachelor of Business Administration in Risk Management in Risk Management/Information Systems Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA 2006