Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant - Ogletree Wyoming, WY • Around 8+ Years of experience in the IT industry as an Oracle Database and Applications DBA.  • Excellent hands on experience as Implementation and Production Support DBA in administering large databases possess strong database, operating system and networking concepts.  • Specialized in Oracle Apps Database Administration (R12.13, 11.5.10, 11.5.9), Oracle Databases (Versions 11g, 10g, 9i) and Fusion Middleware (10g AS).  • Worked on high availability environment (11i/R12 Apps +10g/11g/12cDB).  • Expertise in troubleshooting all tiers (Apache, Forms, Concurrent, Admin, Jinitiator and database).  • Expertise in Support activities, Installation, Cloning, Patching, and Refreshing Only Databases on Oracle Applications.  • Expertise User management and space management of database and applications.  • Hard working, well in analytical and logical problem solving with good communication skills. Worked efficiently as an individual as well as in team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Ogletree - Greenville, SC September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administrating Database in various platforms like WINDOWS, SUN SOLARIS 8/9, HP UNIX and Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  • Excellent in troubleshooting Oracle Network issues.    • Quick learner with ability to develop proficiency and adapt to new technologies and methods in a short period of time.  • Installation, Configuration and Automation of Oracle DBA Monitoring Tools.  • Ability to support and work within standard software development life cycle (SDLC) practices.  • Applying Patches for Database& Upgrading Database Versions.  • Implemented Graceful Switchover and Switchback between Production and Standby Databases.  • Ability to handle Projects and worked efficiently with other team members, Project managers, System Administrators, functional teams & Application Developers.  • Refreshing Database and applications as per the requirements of the clients (CLONING)  • Used Export/Import to do table level and full database defragmentation.  • Provided on-call production database support.  • Creating Indexes and Monitoring Performance. Data loading using SQL Loader (from Text files to Database).  • Perform Daily Logical backups using RMAN.  • Upgraded Databases from 11g to 12C and applied patches as per requirement.  • Worked extensively on migrations on multiple database versions. i.e., 9i, 10g, 11g and 12C.  • Oracle Enterprise 11g R2 installation and configuration in Linux.  • Perform RMAN operations (Incremental Backups).  • Helped developers to install Oracle Client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to Oracle database through ODBC, JDBC.  • Performed SQL Tuning by using explain plan and TKPROOF.  • Daily Monitoring Database and Tablespaces Growth and Monitoring Space Availability at operating System.  • Evaluated and ensured the efficiency of application database backup and recovery procedures.  • Ensure that the database systems are well documented, and that documentation is maintained in a timely fashion Develop and publish database administration best practices.  • Good experience in applying Critical Patch Update (CPU Patches) on Databases, Application Servers and Middle Tiers.  • Complete range of Oracle DBA activities including day-to-day production database monitoring includes alert log, trace file, and achieve files, Troubleshooting production issues and Performance Tuning issues.  • Ability to perform database code migration, change management and data management through the various stages of the development life cycle.  • Ability to independently investigate, analyze and troubleshoot problems, to determine and provide accurate resolution and root cause.  • Good experience in 24/7 Production Environment Support.  • Excellent communication skill & Interpersonal skill.  Environment:Oracle Applications (11i and R12) e-Business Suite, Oracle8, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, SOA, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL, RMAN, VLDB, Udeploy, Git, ITIL, and UNIX. Oracle Database Administrator Open Lane Inc - Mesa, AZ May 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Oracle DBA duties involving development and production support such as installations, configurations, backup/restore & recovery, database monitoring & operating system configurations, database performance tuning, assisting in the logical/physical database design, applications profiling, tuning queries and providing support to developers.  • Performing Hot/Cold backups of the database through RMAN or User Managed method.  • Review alert logs and dump files to check for any problems related to the database.  • Perform database cloning/exp/imp to setup identical databases in the production and development environments.    • Oracle Applications server including OID. Implementation of Oracle Applications Server for use with Portal, Custom Forms and Reports  • Create and maintain users, roles and privileges.  • Involved in discussions with the management regarding the advantages/disadvantages and upgrade plans.  • Used Oracle 10g AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and performance tuning.  • Involved in Database sizing, Capacity Planning.  • Perform Space Management & Troubleshooting the database issues.  • Grant database users requested privilege.  • Generated ASH, AWR, ADDM reports from Grid Control and command line.  • Ran the Oracle STATSPACK on the Oracle Instances to find out the System Performance Statistics during the peak load times.  • Compared and contrasted multiple snapshots using AWR.  • Installing of quarterly security patches on all non-production and production servers.  • Cloning/replicating/refreshing production databases to test/ development environments using RMAN scripts  • Migrated databases to AWS  • Build new servers on AWS  • Worked on project to migrate databases to AWS instance  • Set up oracle instances on AWS cloud  • Upgrade the Oracle databases from 10g to 11g using DBUA and manual process  • Worked with Different teams to completed Build tasks  • Created documents to speed up future builds.  • Planned database migration and upgrade from 11g to 12c  • Recovered and clone database using RMAN.  • Responsible for resolving several complex recovery scenarios (including RMAN) with critical production database.  • Proactive performance monitoring, and capacity planning for future database and server growth.  • Performed Cross platform migration using transportable tablespaces and RMAN.  • Performed Import and Export using Oracle Data pump utilities  • Administered and maintained database security policies and procedures. Experience with administration of high-performance and large-scale multi-terabytes databases.  • Handled all standard database administrative tasks, such as: proactive performance tuning and monitoring, troubleshooting, backup and recovery, installations and configurations on an as needed basis.  • Used external tables and SQL*Loader to import data from flat files.  • Performed version upgrades and patch installs.  • Designed and implemented database backup/restore methodologies, responsible for Troubleshooting performance and networking issues. Basic OS system administration.  • Strict adherence to policies and procedures - specifically regarding change management.  • Perform database administration tasks as part of a scheduled change management task.  • Proficient in communicating directly with internal resources daily.  • Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once.  • Able to thrive in a fast-paced, time compressed and dynamic environment. Solid skills and discipline for Change Management practices processes  • Solid discipline in providing end-users timely updates on their problems. Installing server software.  • Monitored database space requirements and adjusted for future needs.  Environment: Oracle Applications (11i and R12) e-Business Suite, Oracle8, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, SOA, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL, RMAN, VLDB, Udeploy, Git, ITIL, and UNIX. Oracle Apps DBA Hitachi Consulting (India) Pvt. Ltd January 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installing & Upgrading the 11i/R12 Applications. Upgrading 11i to R12 (12.1.1 and 12.1.3) with 10g and 11g Databases  • Administering and maintaining Production Apps R12/11i instances, 24X7 Production Database Support and maintenance.  • Maintaining all the changes made and list of patches applied in the developments environments and document them to provide the list of steps/changes to be followed during the point release go-live.  • Cloning Applications and databases as well using various methodologies like - cold, hot refresh and exp/imp dumps for the database.  • Troubleshooting the application issues related to forms, Apache & concurrent managers, issues related to users like login page issues, responsibility issues etc.  • Monitoring Daily Support tasks from clients and work on them. Monitoring database performance using TKPROF, AWR and ADDM.  • Generating and sending the Daily Health check reports to the clients after verification.  • User management and database Space Management. Performing code migrations on PROD database.  • Involved in maintaining applications using various AD Utilities.  • Applying several one-off application patches on a daily basis by performing pre patch analysis. Also applying RDBMS patches (Patching databases to the most current release levels).  • Perform Quarterly CPU patch Analysis, patch sets and apply them to the Environments. I never had any issues with my patch analysis.  • Applying patches in the shared appltop& distributed appltop environments. Creating the Custom data top for the client specific customizations.  • Upgraded the database from 10.2.0 to 11g.  • Applying latest releases of the RDBMS patches from Oracle to the Production and test instance to resolve technical challenges & issues.  • Taking backup (HOT/COLD) foe the database.  • Application administration using sysadmin user and managing the concurrent managers, concurrent requests, workflow activities, user management responsibility, etc.  • Work with technical, functional, development and testing teams on implementing the data migrations & changes.  • Has Identity management knowledge on administering the services and deploying the applications by logging into the web logic Administration console.  • Troubleshooting the errors regarding forms/reports reported by technical/functional teams.  • Helping the Integration team by building the Discoverer server, Fusion Middleware Database, OAM, OID, SOA, Web center and Web tier.  • Taking the HOT & COLD backup for particular code levels using RMAN and manual method for application stack and using them for different release purpose.  • Working with multiple teams (network, storage, technical, functional, testing and Finance (live )DB dba's) and coordinating with them on performing specific actions on-time.  • Creating SR with Oracle support and Work with Oracle support on resolving the typical issues.  • Also Trained New college freshers with Database and Applications skills and assisted them on the job training.  • Has Identity management knowledge on administering the services and deploying the applications by logging into the web logic Administration console.  • Environment: Oracle Database 9i/10g/11g, Oracle Apps 11i/R12, Oracle 10g AS. Applications Database Administrator AT&T Global business services (India) Pvt. Ltd September 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Working for more than 60 Oracle applications client's databases. Technologies involved - Oracle Apps version 11.5.9, 11.5.10 & R12 on LINUX, multi node RAC system with Database 9i, 10g & recently started working on 11g.  • Responsible for maintaining Oracle Applications R12/11i in single node & multimode  • Administering production databases on a 2-node & 3-node RAC installation (Linux RH3 machines, Solaris and HP-UX), with 2-node PCP configuration, Load balancing form services and apache setup.  • Administering and maintaining Production Apps 11i instances, 24X7 Production Database Support and maintenance.  • Involved in maintaining applications using various AD Utilities.  • Cloning APPS databases using RMAN technology. Cloning a multi node system to single nodeand Cloning of RAC-RAC instances and RAC-Non RAC instances as well.  • Perform Quarterly CPU patch Analysis and apply them to the Environments.  • Applying several one-off application patches on a daily basis by performing pre-patch analysis. Also applying RDBMS patches (Patching databases to the most current release levels).  • Monitoring Daily Support tasks from clients and work on them.  • Cloning databases using various methodologies like - cold, hot refresh, exp/imp and rman on HP-UX/Sun-Solaris/Linux.  • Monitoring database performance using TKPROF, AWR and ADDM.  • Servers and database Space Management.  • Applying latest releases of the RDBMS patches from Oracle to the Production and test instance to resolve technical challenges & issues.  • Worked closely with teams including Applications development, database development, Oracle Support and business community.  • Distributing the tasks to the available resources, as a shift lead.  • Giving the key inputs the clone automation team.  • Participated on various upgrade projects as a team member.  • Worked on Multiple tasks for multiple clients simultaneously, never had any issues or complaints on my work.  • Handled training on Oracle Applications 11i/R12 for new joiners (New college Guys) and helped them to pick up with the initial work like monitoring and working on alert etc.  Environment: HP Quality Center, SQL and Informatica. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Shell programming, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, C++, Rdbms, Ebs, Loader