Applications Database Administrator Applications <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Jack of all trades - If I don't know it I learn it Avilla, IN To obtain a position in a progressive organization which provides opportunities for personal growth and development. Work Experience Applications Database Administrator Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Dallas, TX April 2016 to Present Maintain and administrate numerous Informix instances generally containing production and development databases in the same instance  Work with a third party help desk to troubleshoot and correct database issues  Work with System Administrators to ensure storage and replication needs are consistently met  Re-work SQL queries for efficiency and performance  Upgrade Informix servers to newer versions IT Consultant Custom Maintenance Solutions - Fort Wayne, IN December 2015 to Present Set up and manage a small office of PCs and peripherals  Work with vendors to manage phone and network capabilities  Work with staff to ensure things working as expected and troubleshoot as well as teach new ways to do day to day things  Manage mail and hosting through a third party service  Currently designing website and will be migrating to Office365 Database Administrator I Transworks - Fort Wayne, IN February 2012 to Present Maintain and administrate 42 Informix instances containing 1-5 databases each  Maintain and administrate 6 Postgresql databases with multiple schemas within each  Current projects  Upgrading databases to UTF-8 compliance  Configuring and implementing Informix Connection Manager to provide redundancy and minimize downtime  Learning Golang to use for database management and monitoring  Create more efficient method for schema management and release  Work with developers to create efficient schema structures  Upgraded all Informix instances to a much more recent version from 11.50 12.10   Migrated all Informix instances to a new datacenter using replication methods  Implement new form of replication to maintain a third copy of our production Informix instances  Was also used to migrate databases to a new datacenter  Maintain multiple forms of replication for high availability and DR  Worked with my team to develop our strategy for our Informix DR  Assisted new in new PC rollout to a remote office  Attended the International Informix User Group conference in 2013 and 2014  Attended IBM training on Advanced Informix Administration  Work with IBM to work through Informix bugs or issues we have with Informix  Assist in administration of a Nortel PBX  Assist in administration of a hosted VOIP system  Member of our Database Committee to ensure our schema changes make sense and follow best practices Counter Intelligence Agent Best Buy - Fort Wayne, IN September 2008 to November 2012 Worked independently and as a team to diagnose and repair computers and consumer electronics  ? Established and maintained a system of protection for customer data privacy  ? Worked with management and leadership to develop and improve procedures to increase customer satisfaction  ? Worked with customers to find a complete solution for their computing and home theatre needs  ? Partnered with store leadership to create a more efficient operating model  ? Trained other co-workers around creating an informed customer  ? Assisted in training new hires  ? Increased department productivity by assigning employee job duties based on an individual's strengths and weaknesses Education B.A. in Computer Networking Indiana Tech 2006 to 2011 Skills Informix (4 years), Database Management (4 years), Database Administration (4 years), Database Development (4 years), Customer Service (8 years), Information Technology (8 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), Documentation (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (8 years), Sales (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nate-hicks-62b76523 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified March 2005 to Present Groups Informix International User Group February 2012 to Present Additional Information Skills  ? Strong written and oral communication  ? Highly motivated team player  ? Diverse background in computer technologies  ? Exceptional troubleshooting skills  ? Ability to adapt