Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - Cardinal Health Dublin, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation and Configurations of Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle 12c, 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Databases for high availability and disaster recovery/reporting purpose.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 11g and 10g databases.  • Upgraded Oracle Database from 9i to 10g, 10g to 11g (APEX module)  • Applied CPU patches  • Developed, tested, debugged and documented Oracle PL/SQL packages and types in accordance with company policies, company standards and industry best practices.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Created and maintained PL/SQL scripts and stored procedures.  • Migration of the database from Sun Solaris to IBM AIX, Windows to Linux.  • Expertise in recovering the database. Performed complete and incomplete database recovery.  • Experience in SQL performance tuning using Cost-Based Optimization (CBO)  • Extensively involved in using hints to direct the optimizer to choose an optimum query execution plan  • Configured and maintained Grid Control Repository and Deployed OMS Agents on different database servers.  • Supported customers with online billing and account issues.  • Maintained composure and patience in face of difficult customer situations  • Performed Schema as well as Table Level Replication using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Automated the nightly RMAN backups  • Writing and modifying UNIX shell scripts, Perl scripts to manage Oracle environments and for Backend Oracle Processes.  • PL/SQL Programming.  • Developed PL/SQL scripts for Extraction, Transporting & Transforming (ETL) data from Production databases to Data Warehouse Databases.  • Using the 12c Grid control, OEM for the database tasks like adding the data file, resizing the data file, code compilation, User/Role creation and maintenance etc.  • Experience in taking backups with RMAN in both Catalog/ No catalog modes.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQLTrace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Involved in implementing all components of the application including database tables, middleware designing, server-side Java Programming and client side web programming.  • Used PL/SQL extensively to generate Stored Procedures and Functions to use with JAVA  • Attended training sessions on Mongo db, Oracle 12c.  • Worked on Oracle security suite and identified and removed 16 risks from database.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Installed and configured Golden Gate in a prod and non-prod env, configured extract, data pump and replicate.  • Planning Backup/Recovery Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities)  • RMAN Incremental backups  • Logical and Physical Database Design  • Partitioning of the tables for better performance and manageability  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performed policies on data confidentiality, integrity, availability, and auditability, Based on Access Controls for Access to Data at the database level.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, Oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and automatic session history.  • Provided production support for all DB2 mission critical databases and applications on 24X7 basis  • Performed data modeling and implemented database design to support the project planning process  • Experience in PostgreSQL  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN.  • Experienced in Database Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers, Mat Views and Indexes on the tables.  • Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc.  • Enabled the audit on all the dev/test databases, analyzed and reported the audit records about the suspicious activity in the database.  • Created a new debt recovery infrastructure with Oracle Exalogic. Elastic Cloud and Oracle Exadata Database Machine that will help us gain greater business agility, enhance forecasting, reduce the down time of our debt collection process, improve recovery rates and reduce costs  • Strong Knowledge on writing Sql/DBA queries  • Supported Oracle E-Business suite applications  • Participated Upgrade and Post Production Support of Oracle EBS in various applications like Banking, Billing, Payment.  • Performed db. migrations form DB2 to Oracle11g.  • Table partitioning for better performance.  • Oracle Application Server Administration (WebLogic)  • Worked on Exadata environment  • Have good knowledge on Google Mapping ability to tie in graphical reports  • Knows Web logic environment and maintained database for web logic design projects  • Knowledge on Sybase working on the comprehensive set of database management software technologies  • Golden Gate installation and configuration.  • Replication using Golden Gate. (schema level),  • Performed all aspects of database administration including installs, upgrades, object sizing, object creation, backup/recovery, patches, monitoring, export/imports and SQL loader.  • Perform on Sybase IQ Database Design  Environment:Oracle12c, Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle 10g RAC, Mongo dB, RedHat Linux, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, Golden Gate Windows, Shell Scripts, ASM, RMAN, OEM/Grid Control, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL Loader, ERWIN, Data Pump Sr. Oracle DBA United Services Automobile Association - Plano, TX January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • On-call production support DBA responsible for managing 250+ databases including prod, UAT and dev environment.  • Worked in infrastructure team and performed fresh installations of oracle 12c GRID infrastructure and configured DR databases using dataguard in maximum performance mode.  • Performed administrative maintenance, monitoring on Oracle database systems in a global 24x7 operational environment.  • Administered Exadata Database Machine including installing Cluster ware and RAC database, Backup, and recovery, grid disk management, performance tuning.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 12C Real Application Cluster (RAC) 3 node.  • Migrated Standalone databases to 3 Node RAC 12c clusters and Supported Applications.  • Performed health checks of Real Application Cluster(RAC) instances using CRSCTL and SRVCTL utility and troubleshooting RAC using clusterware logs.  • Converted single Instance Databases to RAC databases manually and expertise in troubleshooting RAC issues, very strong in using ocrconfig to backup OCR and voting files.  • Performed SAN migration with minimal down time, creating disk groups with different redundancy levels, creating ACFS on ASM using asmca.  • Maintaining ASM in RAC environment and Monitoring Health checks OCR, voting files and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2 and 12c).  • Installed STANDALONE servers on ASM, Red hat LINUX and Installation and maintenance of Oracle 11g, 12c Data Guard.  • Configure and build Golden Gate Extracts/replicats for multiple databases following best practices.  • Configure and build heartbeat monitoring in Golden Gate.  • Configure error handling for restart, skipping transactions, handling collisions, logging, production support and status reporting in GG.  • Successfully migrated data to new location using Snapshot Replication and implemented Merge Replication to support up to date record of Inventory Information.  • Configured Transactional replication between Primary Server and three Read-Only servers, with separate Distributor server and troubleshooting replication problems.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models like Snapshot and Transactional and Merge Replication.  • Migrated databases using GoldenGate involved in implementing Brand New setup replication and migrated databases using GoldenGate.  • Replicated tables to Different Instances for load balancing and configured GoldenGate to support application 24x7 environment.  • Handy in implementing CDR parameters in GoldenGate, Implemented Bi-directional replication using GoldenGate.  • Setup physical standby's (Dataguard) for several Databases and configured Data guard broker between the primary and standby databases.  • Perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the Data guard status via command line.  • Configured Physical Standby databases using data guard and converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby and active data-guard depend on Business Requirement.  • Used Dataguard broker to monitor Dataguard status periodically and Maintained DR server and troubleshooting issues in Data Guard environment.  • Configured Active Dataguard 11g & 12c and worked on snapshot standby databases.  • Backup and recovery using RMAN and Worked on Production databases.  • Upgrade Oracle databases from 10g/11g to 12c non-container/container and applied PSU's when required.  • Upgraded RAC Cluster from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and Applied Patches.  • Analyzing and troubleshooting both critical and non-critical situations.  • Refreshed development and test databases with production data.  • Worked with oracle patching (Rolling/ Non- Rolling).  • Applied patch set, PSU Patches and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Managed testing, created backups by Exporting and Importing tables when needed.  • Established performance tuning best practices used by the DBA and Development teams.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement Tuning and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.  • Attended Developer's code review meetings and made recommendations to improve Efficiencies and Kept team members and management updated on major issues so they have a clear picture of situation.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Statistics.  • Providing the Technical support to Application Support team for performance and database related issues.  • Provided appropriate security for users of databases, applications, servers, and systems, by setting and managing accounts, keeping sensitive data secure.  • UNIX shell scripting as and when required based on the requirement.  • Creation of new scripts to automate the procedures to generate statistics on database space management for proactive monitoring.  • Evaluate all Performance tuning tools used by the team including Toad, Sql Developer, and OEM 11g/12c.  • Worked with Oracle Support on more complex and unresolved issues.  Environment: Oracle 12c/11gR2/10g, Red Hat Linux, UNIX, AIX, OEM Grid Control, RAC, ASM, GoldenGate, ODI/OBIEE 11g, ODI 11g/12C intermediate level, ODI 12C, OID 11g to 12c, ERP, EBS R12.1.3 with RAC 11gR2 (11.2.0.3), Data Guard, Exadata, OPatch, Stats Pack, TKPROF, and SQL*Trace, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL*Loader, ASCP, Stats Pack, SQL*Trace, Explain Plan, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, SQL planned management, UNIX Shell scripting, export/import. Oracle Database Administrator Emergency Care Research Institute - Plymouth Meeting, PA July 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Experience in Migrating NON-ASM databases to ASM and maintained RAC databases on Exadata.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery in RAC and standalone database.  • Managed and monitored the Oracle Real Application Cluster (2 node RAC) running on VERITAS storage.  • Successfully Migrated Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Delivered training to other DBAs in Oracle RAC, Backup/Recovery, Oracle GoldenGate, Performance Tuning and general database administration tasks.  • Performed Tuning, coding and Monitoring for Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) nodes, Production Standalone Servers via Toad.  • Performance tuning and optimized the knowledge modules to improve the functionality of the process and worked on Cluster ware troubleshooting, CRS-ERRORS, CRS-4639, CRS-4530 and CRS-4535 and wait events in RAC environment.  • Worked extensively on monitoring 10G/11g/12c grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.  • Installing Oracle GoldenGate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of Goldengate sessions at Database level and GGSCI level and investigate replication failures using LogDump utility.  • Troubleshooting GoldenGate issues with error reports and ggserror.log.  • Developed Shell scripts for monitoring Goldengate processes and their stats running on 60+ servers from one single database repository and thus maintain history of all Goldengate processes.  • Implemented Data Guard with maximum availability, protection and performance configurations and worked with Data Guard Fail over and Switch over cases at the times of up gradation and migration.  • Performed Zero Downtime Database Data Center Migration using Goldengate and Datagaurd.  • Monitored Dataguard status periodically and Maintained DR server and troubleshooting issues in Data Guard environment.  • Killed Blocking sessions on oracle databases and monitoring Alert logs and Applying shipped archived logs to standby databases on using MRP process.  • We successfully switched over databases to secondary databases during DR testing using Dataguard broker and Configured Dataguard broker.  • Implemented DRP (Disaster recovery plan) for critical databases using Streams.  • Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Kept databases, applications, and operating systems up-to-date through assessing, planning, and implementing upgrades and patches.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups.  • Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups and Scheduling the databases backup using Crontab and VERITAS net backup.  • Responsible for capacity planning, recovery planning and installing Patches.  • Created blackouts in OEM to disable alerts from OEM while performing database maintenance activities such as PSU patching.  • Performed Upgrades, Bug fixes, Enhancements, and regular maintenance to system by researching, planning, as well as applying patches to databases and E-Business suite to keep them up-to-date.  • Improved the database integrity and increased data accuracy for end-users and management by proficiently using SQL language to troubleshoot, query, insert, update, and delete table data  • Provided Instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Always monitoring the Oracle Instances, Users, Tables, Tablespaces, Memory structures, and Rollback segments, Redo logs, Archived Redo logs and Alerts.  • Created, monitoring database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links etc.  • Assisted users with performing their job functions more efficiently by installing, configuring, problem solving, maintaining, and uninstalling software on servers and laptops  • Provided Technical support and issue resolution to Enterprise applications, hardware, networks, and databases by root cause analysis, assessment, development, and implementation of solutions that meet the needs of users and kept them productive with minimal disruption  Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c, SQL, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager, RMAN, Goldengate, Dataguard, Data Pump, Tuning, Stats Pack, TKPROF, and AWR, ADDM, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Database Control, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, UNIX, AIX, IBM, ASM. Oracle Database Administrator Allergan - Long Beach, CA February 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 10g/11g R2 databases on Linux 5, HP-Unix 11.X.  • Managed and monitored the Oracle Real Application Cluster (2 node RAC) running on VERITAS storage.  • Created custom services for RAC database for distribution of load across the nodes.  • Performed Schema as well as Table Level Replication using Oracle Golden Gate and did set up Disaster Recovery solution using Golden Gate.  • Utilized Grid Control, ASM and Flashback tools to administer multi-node RAC database. Performed replication using Oracle Streams and GoldenGate Technology.  • Configured Golden gate extract and replicate during the database character set conversion.  • Configured Golden gate pump extract to move the trails from source database server to target database server.  • Used DEFGEN utility to create definition files, log dump utility to analyze trail files, implemented heartbeat tables to monitor lag in Golden Gate Environment, migrated oracle databases with minimal down using Golden Gate.  • Created and Managed Standby Database, Installed and configured Dataguard.  • Used Dataguard broker to monitor Dataguard configurations on standby database.  • Good working and experience in implementing Dataguard and Stand-by databases for fail-over and recovery.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Migrated the database from existing Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g and Upgradation of database (from 10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.2) and Applied Critical Patch Updates and Patch Set Update (CPU/PSU) on various platforms using Universal Installer and OPatch Utility.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups.  • Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Performed logical backup using traditional export/ import and Data Pump.  • Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and Reorganized databases and Sizing of database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Performed performance tuning by using Explain Plan, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and ASH.  • Worked on Performance Tuning Oracle DBA (11g &10g) on Solaris 10, AIX 5.2 and Linux 5, HP-Unix 11.X.  • Performed administrative maintenance, monitoring on Oracle database systems in a global 24x7 operational environment.  • Developed a bunch of Index monitoring scripts to sort out the unused space occupied in table spaces.  • Implemented advanced features of Oracle 10g such as Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM), Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) for monitoring database performance. Modified and updated the Performance tuning scripts.  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Creation of materialized views and fine-tuned them for better performance.  • Working Experience with latest TOAD having new features PLSQL & SQL Script Debugger, Database Health Checkup, ASM Manager, Diagnose Extents, Segment Advisor, SGA Trace, Query Builder.  • Tuning SQL statements using Explain Plan and STATSPACK.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, Linux, HP-UNIX Windows, RAC, ASM, DBCA, OEM Grid Control, HP Data Protector, Oracle Streams, Data Guard, TOAD, GoldenGate, RMAN, ASCP, ERP, VERITAS Net Backup, Data Pump, Tuning, Stats Pack, TKPROF, and SQL*Trace, AWR, ADDM, ASH, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, SQL* Loader. Oracle DBA Farmers Insurance - CA January 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Converted a single instance database to Oracle RAC 10g.  • Managed and monitored the Oracle Real Application Cluster (2 node RAC) running on ASM storage.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 10g RAC.  • Involved in RAC administration including 10g Database cloning, tuning, patching and monitoring concurrent manager processing etc.  • Configured Oracle Data guard for Oracle Disaster recovery.  • Achieved High Availability, Data protection and Maximum performance by maintaining both physical and logical standby databases.  • Used Dataguard broker to monitor Dataguard configurations on standby database.  • Good working and experience in implementing Dataguard and Stand-by databases for fail-over and recovery.  • Used RMAN for backups and recovery and configured databases in Catalog server and involved in backup of Catalog database.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Experienced in performing Point in time recovery using RMAN and implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  • Extensive use of Oracle Data pump utility for moving data among the servers.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Configured and implemented Oracle Streams (Advanced Replication) for high availability.  • Performed automated backups and scheduling using scripting.  • Used oracle configuration assistants like DBCA ( Database Configuration Assistant) for Creating databases, DBUA ( Database Upgrade Assistant) for Upgrading databases and NETCA (Network Configuration Assistant) for creating a Client-Server environment using Listener, TNS names etc.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Involved in gathering requirements from end users.  Environment: Oracle 10g, Linux, HP-UNIX Windows, RAC, ASM, DBCA, OEM Grid Control, HP Data Protector, Oracle Streams Data Guard, RMAN, Backup, Data Pump, Tuning, Stats Pack, TKPROF, and SQL*Trace, AWR, ADDM, ASH, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, SQL* Loader. Oracle DBA Medtronics - Minneapolis, MN August 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Maintenance and administration of Oracle 10g on Red hat Linux.  • Implemented Data guard and administered the production database.  • Installed Oracle 10g RAC database on RHEL and applied all current patches.  • Database Restore using RMAN, Cold Backup and Export/Import.  • Responsible for planning, testing and implementing different backup and recovery strategies.  • Used Flashback table to restore tables which is a new feature of Oracle 10g.  • Performance tuning i.e. Tuning RAC, tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  • Extensive application tuning through STATSPACK, explain plan, SQL*Trace.  • Implemented scripts to capture high resource utilization queries.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Options.  • Maintained multiple terabyte databases on Oracle.  • Cloned the production database periodically to the testing databases through RMAN.  • Used Enterprise Manager on Oracle10g for diagnostic summary, host CPU utilization, finding wait events, alert Log errors etc.  • On-Call 24x7 DBA support for production databases.  • Extensively used SQL Queries (Sub queries, correlated sub queries and Join conditions) to handle data mapping.  • Tuned the SGA. Monitored the shared Pool, Database buffer cache and Redo log buffers.  • Monitored Tablespaces and Segment fragmentation. Performed trouble shooting activities, created new users and assigned privileges and roles to users.  Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2000, UNIX, Sun Solaris, Windows (NT/2000/Advanced Server), TOAD, OEM, SQL*PLUS, Explain Plan, UNIX Shell Scripting, Quest software tools, PL/SQL navigator, SQL, TKPROF, STATSPACK, ASM, AWR, ADDM, Data Pump, RMAN. Education Master of Science Pittsburg State University - Pittsburg, KS Skills LINUX (8 years), OEM (8 years), ORACLE (8 years), RMAN (8 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information 8+ years of professional experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration and performed different tasks like installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, production support, cloning, space management, database security. Experience in the maintenance, and administration of ORACLE 12c/11g/10g/9i.  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for ORACLE 12c/11g/10g/9i with experience within very large-scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Expert with planning, creation, administration and troubleshooting of ORACLE 12c/11g/10g/9i OLTP (multiple instances)/OLAP databases in production.  • Handful of experience in Oracle Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Critical Patch Updates (CPU's) in various environments.  • Worked on HP-UX, AIX, Sun Solaris, RED HAT Linux and Oracle Linux and Windows environments.  • Migrated databases into Exadata Machine with minimal downtime using Dataguard.  • Thorough knowledge in high availability RAC environment (3 node) and upgraded standalone databases to RAC environment.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 10g/11g/12c RAC implementation & administration of Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration RAC, Installation using ASM, Grid Installation, Patching, RAC Backup.  • Administered Exadata Database Machine including installing Cluster ware and RAC database, Backup, and recovery, grid disk management, performance tuning.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models like Snapshot and Transactional and Merge Replication.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of Goldengate sessions at Database level and GGSCI level and investigate replication failures using ggserr.log, report files and LogDump utility.  • Performed Zero Downtime migrations from Non Exadata machines to Exadata machines using Oracle Golden Gate and Dataguard.  • Installation, upgradation, configuration and troubleshooting Goldengate 11g/12C software.  • Configured Goldengate components for unidirectional replication between heterogeneous environments and maintain data synchronization.  • Proficient in setting up Standby Database using shell scripts and RMAN utility tool, activating and re-building Standby Databases both Physical by Dataguard.  • Solid experience in disaster recovery, Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full back up, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN also profound in using the new oracle 11g features in these utilities.  • Applying patches using OPatch and OPatch Auto.  • Worked on Planning, Preparation and Installation of Oracle 12C and setting up users.  • Worked on Upgrading Enterprise Manager 12C (12.1.0.2-12.1.0.4).  • Development and implementation of Enterprise database services standards, guidelines, processes & procedures, and best practices.  • Writing scripts in the UNIX based environments for managing the user's roles and privileges, scheduled backups (using Data pump /cold backups), manage statistics, Disk space management Data transferring and Refreshing with export/import utilities, Data Pump and data loading using SQL*Loader and External tables.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, UTLESTAT, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Expertise in Using EXPLAIN PLAN for query optimization and Performance diagnostic tools like SQL Trace and TKPROF.  • Involved in migration from SQL Server 2005 to MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014.  • Experience in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions Packages and Triggers, various scripting languages such as Perl and UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Experience in advanced Oracle features such as table partitioning, Oracle Streams (Replication).  • Extensively used BMC Remedy and Service Now Ticketing systems for monitoring.  • Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills combined with strong customer service attitude.  • Proven abilities in establishing effective task priorities, working independently, and participating as an integral part of a team in fast-paced and multitasking environment.    Technical Skills:  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x,11.x, Sun Solaris5.8,8,9,10, AIX 5.1,5.2, Red Hat Linux 4.x,5.x,6.x and windows 2003/2005  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC), ASM  Oracle Tools and Utilities  Data Guard, Golden Gate, Log dump, Degen, OBIEE, WebSphere, RMAN, OEM, Tuning Advisors, TOAD, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data pump, AVAMAR, RMAN, RAC TOOLS ORACHECK, oratop, TFA collector, OSWATCHER    Languages C, SQL, PL/SQL, AWK Scripting, Perl, shell, Korn  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR, SQL Tuning Advisor  Ticketing Tools Web Portals, BMC Remedy, HP Quality Center, HP Java ITO (OVO) console, GIRA, ServiceNow, JIRA