Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - Veeam Software Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master Veeam Software - Columbus, OH April 2017 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Facilitated Backlog Grooming, Scrum Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings.  • Participated in Scrum of Scrum to provide updates on progress, impediments and collaboration with other teams.  • Facilitated two teams consisting of 9 members with focus on aligning the teams go agile while empowering teams to self-organize and grow cross-functionally.  • Helped the Product Owners to come up with set of stories for better understanding for estimate and development.  • Tracked team's velocity to analyze productivity trend.  • Established effective communication for the department with consistency across development and business management with presentations, recommendations and updates provided regularly to the agile manager.  • Created and maintained Artifacts and Information Radiators such as Sprint Burn-down, and Release Burndown.  • Collaborated with team members to identify problems, impediments, dependencies, and other team dysfunctions, and then facilitate quick resolution.  • Motivated the team to come up with quality shippable product and meet the product goals.  • Tracked and report status and other metrics against goals on an ongoing basis Scrum Master National Children Center - Washington, DC January 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Coaches and mentors agile team members and provides constructive performance feedback  • Organize and facilitate Backlog Grooming, Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review and Retrospective.  • Focused on developing more trusted and collaborative team environment where problems can be raised without fear of blame or being judged with a complete focus on problem resolution  • Facilitate Scrum of Scrum for offshore Scrum teams in US states and India.  • Communicated and presented weekly updates to stakeholders and program managers  • Protected team from internal and external distractions.  • Partnered with the Product Owner, especially with respect to grooming and maintaining the product backlog.  • Engaging with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the of Scrum framework in the organization Scrum Master BMC - Tampa, FL April 2014 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Organized and facilitated Agile and Scrum meetings, which included Sprint Planning, Stand-ups (SUM), Sprint Check-In, Sprint Review and Retrospective and Sprint report generation.  • Assisted teams with Impediments and Roadblocks removal, Risks and Backlog grooming.  • Tracking Performance Indicators/Metrics and addressing any issues as they arise. These metrics include Velocity, Burndown charts, Release progress, etc.  • Responsible for identifying and communicating project risks to the project team, leaders, stakeholders, and proactively anticipating issues/risks that may compromise project goals.  Assisted Scrum teams with User Stories generation and managing their progress Database Administrator Target - Silver Spring, MD January 2012 to February 2014 Responsivities  • Administer SQL Server databases, SQL Server Service Broker, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Analysis Services, and SQL Server Reporting Services  • Manage SQL Server databases through multiple product lifecycle environments, from development to mission-critical production systems  • Configure and maintain database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security  • Assist developers with complex query tuning and schema refinement  • Perform scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities after hours.  • Partner with the Sr. Database Administrator in support of production database services to ensure the highest standards of availability, resilience, integrity, security and performance required by our business systems    Tools Used: Jira, VersionOne, Rally, ServiceNow, SSMS, HP Quality Center, QTP, TFS, MS Visio, Vcenter server, SCVMM, MS Word, Excel, Salesforce, WebEx, Microsoft Teams, Team Viewer, Skype for business, Education Bachelor's Skills Scrum, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master Certifications/Licenses CSM