SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Web Developer Oakland, CA Certificate in Full Stack Web Development with a background in Computer Science and life-long dedication to learning. Effective at combining creativity and problem solving to develop user-friendly applications. Known among staff for strong wit and attention to detail no matter the complexity of the project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Data group USA - Alexandria, VA 2016 to 2019 ·      Upgraded over 20 SQL servers to the latest service pack level in a 3-month period.  ·      Improved vital processing jobs by reducing process duration by 60%.  ·      Enrolled users, maintained system security, and controlled and monitored user access to the database, operating 24/7, with 40-50 concurrent users at any given time. Web Developer/Programmer Inland Revenue Department - Asmara,Eritrea 2013 to 2016 •    Created new forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and JavaScript, which improved completion rate by 55%.  •     Created new forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and JavaScript, which improved completion rate by 55%.  •   Implemented rigorous process for cross-browser testing in IE, Mozilla and Chrome, which corrected layout issues on 4 main site pages.  • Managed multiple projects with a team of backend engineers and QA from planning to website launch. Education Certificate in Web Developer UC Berkeley Extension - Berkeley, CA 2019 to 2019 certificate in SQL Data Base Administration Data Group USA - Alexandria, VA 2016 to 2016 Computer Science University of Asmara - Asmara, Eritrea 2002 to 2006 Skills JavaScript , HTML5 ,CSS3, J Query, React.js, Mongoose, Bootstrap, Materialize, Express js, MySQL, MongoDB, SQL, TSQL, Firebase, Heroku, Postman Other: Git, Bash, Flask, AJAX, Node.js, Microsoft Office Suite, Restful APIs, Sequelize (3 years), Front End, React, Javascript, UI, Angular Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/wedebfesshaye Additional Information Certificate in Web Developer  Certificate in SQL Data Base Administration  BA in Computer science