Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Lanham, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Calpine Corp - Houston, TX February 2016 to June 2019 Supporting major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on UNIX, LINUX and WINDOWS Database sizes range from 2GB to 3TB.  Perform RMAN backup and recovery , general database administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on LINUX/UNIX AND WINDOWS  • Performed conversion of Single Instance to Multi Node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Installed and configured 2 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.  • Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE abending issues.  • Implemented and administered Oracle Golden Gate (v10) for real time Replication.  • Use Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis to move data from prod to development and test servers.  • Worked extensively on Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Network tuning and OPERATING SYSTEM TUNING  • Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11g RAC (Real Application Clusters) with AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) reports and ASH (Active Session History).  • Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  • Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  • Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Production support for Oracle database 11g and 12C RAC.  Resolved performance issues resulting from locks, latches, wait events and resource intensive sql statements.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Performed Database and SQL tuning by using various tools like STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, and Optimizer hints  • Developed Advance PL/SQL packages, procedures, triggers, functions, Indexes and Collections to implement business logic using SQL Navigator. Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances.  • Generating AWR to monitor and troubleshoot database performance issues and using ADDM to get recommendations and rationales  • Cloned databases using RMAN and configuration of DATA GUARD for Disaster Recovery  • Involved in fresh installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.  Worked on 12c and exploit new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc.  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Involved in design and enforcing of standards in place to ensure that all application design and code are produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms  • Applied Oracle patches such as CPU, PSU and Bundle patch using OPatch utility.  • Implement backup strategy such as FULL BACKUP, INCREMENTAL BACKUP AND LOGICAL BACKUP using RMAN and DATA PUMP.  • Upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1 scripts and DBUA.  • Performed database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. And DATA PUMP.  • Create databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems using tool such as AWR, EXPLAIN PLAN, ASH, ADDM STAT PACK and V$ views  • Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts.  • Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My oracle Support)  • Create oracle databases using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Perform general database administration tasks using tools like SQLPLUS, OEM SRVCTL CRSCTL  • Manage, troubleshoot and tune database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper).  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Coca Cola - Atlanta, GA October 2013 to January 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year-old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Monitoring of tablespaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using OEM, ASH/AWR/ADDM, EXPLAINPLAN and TKPROF tools.  • Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Secure files, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  • Worked on Standardization of 12c/11g Clusterware build and DB build by preparation response files.  • Configure and administer Oracle Physical and logical Standby Data Guard for DR on multiple oracle 11g databases.  • Configured DG Broker for easy Failover/Switchover during outages.  • Convert Physical standby to Snapshot standby for testing and analysis  • Resolve problems relating to log gaps caused by network failure or and media failure.  • Troubleshooting and fixing DG Broker configuration.  • Troubleshooting and Fixing out of sync Oracle Physical Standby Data Guard using RMAN incremental backup.  • Upgrading Oracle databases from 11.2.0.x to 11.2.0.4 and from 11.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.4.5 and from 11.2.0.X to 12.1.0.1.  • Quarterly PSU patching on AIX/RHEL for 11g/12C databases on Standalone and RAC DB's using rolling patching.  • Applying/Rolling back one-off patches to/from Standalone or RAC DB's.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  • Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    ENVIRONMENT  Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x and Windows 2012, Sun Solaris, AIX, SQL SERVER  Oracle 11g, 10g SQL, PL/SQL, DBCA, DBUA, RMAN, OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, RAC, ASM, Sql Navigator, TOAD, Data Pump ,SRVCTL, SQL*Plus SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE in LINQUISTICS UNIVERSITY OF BUEA ASSOCIATE DEGREE in MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM PRINCE GEORGES COMMUNITY COLLEGE Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba