Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - VERIZON Silver Spring, MD I have over 6+ years Oracle Database Administration experience. I have worked on Installing and configuring different Oracle versions like Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g, running on different platforms including Linux, HP-UIX and Unix. I have monitored and managed databases of varied sizes ranging from 40GB to 2TB across the SDLC. I have worked for Production support on performance tuning, backup and recovery, database security, data migration, managing/monitoring databases, database/schema refreshes, cloning, data Replication. I have done Project work on Patch/Upgrade Installation, configured a Physical Standby Data guard, 2 node RAC and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability Solutions and attended seminars on Data warehouse and data modeling. I have also supported some applications like PeopleSoft HR, FN and CRM.    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  ? Managing/Monitoring databases using OEM, ORACLE GRID CONTROL, Multitenant Architecture, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR,Listener, AGENT Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Stats Pack and tuning of initialization parameters and Using custom scripts made by SQL developers.    ? Implementing Advanced Database Security using auditing, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Data Redaction and data masking. Creating/managing profiles, users, granting and revoking roles and privileges    ? Experienced with Data Migration of Oracle Databases across same and different platforms using DataPump, Export/Import, Transportable Tablespaces(TTS), RMAN Cloning and Schema Refreshes    ? Experienced in Performance Monitoring, Tuning and Troubleshooting where I tune the Network, OS, Instance, application and the database using tools such as TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, Optimizer, ASH, AWR, ADDM, SQL Trace, SQL Access advisor(SAA), SQL tuning advisor(STA).    ? Experienced Doing User Managed backups (Hot/Cold), db. Recovery using RMAN, Logical Backups using data pump and RMAN db. cloning using multiple backup strategies like full db. backups, level 0 db. backups, level 1 db. backups, incremental differential db. backups, incremental cumulative db. backups and tuning backups to meet recovery needs. Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques like performing recovery of full database, PIT recovery, critical and non-critical datafile recovery and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.    ? Configuration and Installation of RAC for few instances to promote high availability, improved performance and scalability and on RAC systems did CRS upgrade, ASM upgrade, DB Upgrade and OEM Agent Upgrade    ? Configuration and Implementation of Data Guard Physical / Logical Standby Database and Monitoring / Resolving on and off Gap or lagging issues    ? Experience the application of database Patches and Upgrade from 10g to 11g to 12c using "runInstaller" and DBUA including testing and applying security Quarterly Patches for security and bug fixes using PSU, PS, OPATCH UTILITY.    Tools Used: RMAN, Data pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator VERIZON - Irving, TX December 2018 to Present • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux/UNIX environments.  • Setup and monitored multi-4 node RAC to RAC Data Guard with real time apply for Disaster recovery and offload backups.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN from a 4-node production primary database and performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as required.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM 12c agents on Linux platform using push method from console and silent method.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at levels by scheduling activities like gathering Database, schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query performance.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Supported development teams offshore by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF.  • Training on AWS on how to create IAM users and giving them permissions EBS, S3 Backups, EFS, EC2 instances, creating groups, Security groups and AWS Hub to migrate from on prem to cloud.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.    WORK EXPIRIENCE Oracle Database Administrator RILEY TECHNOLOGIES - Mooresville, NC February 2014 to December 2018 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux/UNIX, Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Setup and monitored multi-node RAC to RAC Data Guard with real time apply for Disaster recovery and offload backups.  • Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Used Golden gate for zero downtime upgrate and migration.  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Failover tests.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility for RAC and Standalone databases & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Enhanced and enforced advanced security options such as TDE on sensitive information.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM 12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and also using silent method.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • RMAN point in time recovery and instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Installed and configured Oracle OEM 12c on test environments. Used OEM extensively to monitor the general health and troubleshoot/diagnose problems in the environment both on server, database level and also most importantly at the Sql level to identify and subpar sql queries. Configuring custom metrics, monitoring templates and alerts set up based on individual dba preference and also tailored to application requirements.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Analyzing STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and TKPROF and 10046 traces for diagnosing the root cause of the issue.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO tablespace got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Experience in setting. up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Training on AWS to create VPC, EC2 instances,S3 Backups, Security groups and AWS Hub to migrate from on premise to cloud.  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g/12c, RAC/10g/11g/12c, Oracle VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Database Administrator BARCLAYS - Dallas, TX June 2012 to February 2014 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10g.  • Work and managed Sql Server databases with tools like Sql server management studio and Aquadata studio.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON-tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and PERL based utility "opatch" from 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema and table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g to 11g RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10g. Education Bachelor's Skills Sql Server, Oracle Dba