Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Trade Navigator Colorado Springs, CO ? 7+ years of experience as Senior Database Administrator in planning, designing, installing, configuring, upgrades and patches, performance tuning including RMAN backup and recovery, cloning, Database Security and administering multiple Oracle databases with EXADATA, RAC, DATA GUARD, GOLDENGATE in Oracle Enterprise Linux, Red Hat & Sun Solaris UNIX (SAN storage, RAID).  ? Solid skills in database design, optimization and performance tuning, design and developed applications, and SQL queries, Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, ASM, ASH, AWR, ADDM, Automatic Undo management, OEM Grid Monitoring and Recycle Bin, SCAN, FAN, TAF, RAC ONE NODE, Server pools.  ? Hands on experience in managing enterprise level (Multiple TB) size databases as well as 24x7 Production support of Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c databases.  ? Worked on Oracle Data Masking and Sub setting to help database customers improve security, accelerate compliance, and reduce IT costs by sanitizing copies of production data for testing, development, and other activities and by easily discarding unnecessary data.  ? Experienced in Planning, Installation, Physical and Logical Database Design, Backup and Recovery, Cloning or Refreshing Database and Oracle Applications.  ? Experienced in upgrading Oracle database to 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.4 to 12C.  ? Experience in setting up and maintaining Oracle Data Guard for production databases.  ? Expertise in using ORADEBUG, TKPROF and SQLT for fixing performance tuning issues.  ? Proficient in analyzing and optimizing queries, performance tuning and providing reports using TKPROF and Explain Plan.  ? Expertise in converting single instance database to two node Real Application Cluster (RAC) / Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  ? Experience in registering services through OEM11g/12c GRID Control.  ? Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle DATAGUARD to perform quick disaster recovery.  ? Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning.  ? Data Guard setup with Primary and Standby Databases.  ? Good Experience on RMAN, Data pump, Flashback tables, ASM, ADDM, AWR, ASH.  ? Development of automated RMAN scripts for both backups and cloning of Oracle Databases  ? Install, configure and troubleshoot all components maintained multiple Oracle databases.  ? Perform day-to-day database administration and ensure integrity, security and availability of applications environments.  ? Implemented active Oracle Data Guard to facilitate data protection, site redundancy and disaster recovery.  ? Written KORN shell scripts in UNIX and scheduled the job using CRON and Tivoli scheduling.  ? Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Perl Scripting, Shell Scripting, Partitioning, Data modeling, OLAP, Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures.  ? Expertise in SQL, PL/SQL, and developing various Data Database objects like Triggers, Stored procedures, Functions, Sequencesand Views etc.  ? Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Perl Scripting, Shell Scripting, Oracle Data Dictionary - Meta data, Logical and Physical Database Design.  ? Create, maintain and provide support to Oracle Cluster databases.  ? Installed Oracle grid infrastructure & Oracle database software to meet the current needs and upgraded as needed to meet the expansion needs of the company.  ? Utilized Golden Gate for data replication and synchronization  ? Developed RMAN scripts for database Backup and recovery including- hot and cold backup  ? Experience in Security Management and Database Auditing.  ? Worked on Fusion applications and oracle Spatial with SaaS Pot environments, Worked on Oracle 12c database fusion applications  ? Tuning the databases for optimal performance and monitoring CPU performance.  ? Database Upgrading from one server to another using RMAN.  ? Expertise in RMAN for recovery and cloning and in applying security patches.  ? Basic Administration of UNIX systems (Solaris, LINUX, HP-UNIX TRU64, AIX).  ? Experienced in writing UNIX shell scripts and setting up cron jobs for database needs.  ? Expertise in Cloning of databases from RAC to RAC and RAC to non-RAC, Maintaining Hot Backups, Cold Backup.  ? Monitored and managed various database components (logical & physical) like table- spaces, segments  ? Work on Data Masking and sub setting can be performed on a cloned copy of the original data, eliminating any overhead on production systems  ? Experience in working with ticketing tools BMC Track IT and Bugzilla.  ? Strong Analytical skills and ability to interact with end-users, managers, and technical personnel, Good team player, self-motivated and a quick learner.  ? Proficient in raising SR's with Oracle Support and using Meta link to resolve the bottlenecks in the database environments.  ? Installed and applied various patches which includes patch set, CPU/PSU, One-off patches and also upgraded oracle database 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  ? Hands on experience in complete recovery, incomplete recovery (PITR, TSPITR), Flashback Recovery, Disaster Recovery, recovering data files and control files.  ? Expertise in managing database security by creating new users, roles, profiles and providing required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.  ? Worked on Creation of table spaces, data files, roles, redo logs, rollback segments, stored procedures, functions, packages and Triggers.  ? Managed and supported 24X7 Production Database support on call.  ? Excellent communication skills, good organizational skills, outgoing personality, self-motivated, hardworking and grasp quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Trade Navigator - Colorado Springs, CO December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Installed the 4 node RAC for the 12c database and administered the 12c databases on the RAC servers.  ? Performed health checks of RAC cluster ware components and Troubleshooting Issues using Cluster ware logs in 12C and 11g RAC Environments.  ? Performance tuning of databases using AWR, ASH reports, ADDM reports, provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits.  ? Heavily involved in production support for multiple databases ranging from 1TB to 60TB in a 24/7 environment.  ? Migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  ? Hands on experience with Installation, Configurations, Migrations, Oracle Data guard, backup and recovery using RMAN, Disaster Recovery and Patching.  ? Involved in Upgrading and Migrating 15TB of Oracle databases on Oracle 11g, 12c.  ? Had a chance to Tune SQL statements using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF and STATSPACK.  ? Analyzed the user requirements and designed partitioned tables for improving performance of Data Marts.  ? Performed Partition Maintenance and automated the process of creating new Partitions as and when required.  ? Used OEM 11g and 12c grid control for monitoring multiple databases and notification of database alerts and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  ? Worked extensively on Erwin and ER Studio in several projects in both OLAP and OLTP applications.  ? Installed and maintained OCR, 11gRAC and Data guard components of Oracle.  ? Experience in applying several patches such as CPU/PSU patches, interim patches as per the Oracle recommendations.  ? Managed testing, assisted developers, and created backups by Exporting and Importing tables when needed.  ? Performance tuning, Golden Gate replication and used Log dump and report files for troubleshooting.  ? Installed OEM13c on database 12.1.0.2 and monitored databases using grid control.  ? Established and maintained comprehensive data model documentation including detailed descriptions of business entities, attributes, and data relationships.    Environment: Oracle 11g, 12c, RAC, Golden Gate, OEM, ASM, RMAN, Data guard Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Broadridge Financial Solutions - Edgewood, NY October 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in Golden Gate 12c installation, setup on Oracle Database for unidirectional and bidirectional replication.  ? Worked on all database activities such as User management, space management and database security management on 10g, 11g and 12c databases on SOLARIS, LINUX, IBM AIX and WINDOWS servers.  ? Worked on administering 10 Production databases and more than 40 non-production databases of size ranging from 10GB to 5 TB on Solaris/AIX/LINUX servers.  ? Performed high level Troubleshooting and Tuning, Written Shell Scripts for monitoring performance and health checks in Golden Gate 12c.  ? Responsible for setting up environments like installing, maintaining Oracle 12c RAC, Standby databases for High availability and Disaster recovery, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  ? Installed 11g/12c software and created databases in RAC and non RAC environments for new projects by interacting with multiple application teams.  ? Applied Patches including PSU and Bug fixes for database performance issues.  ? Configured Physical Standby for Production databases and converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby and ACTIVE data-guard.  ? Performed Schema as well as Table Level Replication using Oracle Golden Gate and also did set up Disaster Recovery solution using Golden Gate.  ? Involved in writing UNIX shell scripts for backup and recovery, Import and export procedure, PL/SQL functions, procedures, packages and triggers.  ? Hands on experience in creating new redo log groups on ASM and NON-ASM environment to resolve performance issues by extending the existing redo logs.  ? Evaluating and performing the Backup and Recovery Procedures periodically using RMAN.  ? Restored backups from tapes and validated the backups, performed day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  ? Worked on a 24x7 Production database and applications support on an onshore/offshore model.  ? Analyzed the user requirements, designed partitioned tables and created indexes for improving performance and manageability because many queries can prune partitions.  ? Performance tuning and testing stored procedures, indexes and triggers using SQL server profiler, execution plans and SQL Tuning advisor.  ? Hands on experience in enabling auditing and finding the schemas failed login attempts, created and dropped users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  ? Assisted IT Analysts on technical database issues and features.  ? Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once. Able to thrive in a fast-paced, time compressed and dynamic environment. Solid skills and discipline for Change Management practices processes.  ? Performed timely database refreshes at schema and table level based on the requirement.  ? Supported multiple services and multiple databases of medium complexity with multiple concurrent users, ensuring control, integrity and accessibility of data.  ? Written Stored Procedures and Triggers for database maintenance and management using PL/SQL.  ? Installed Oracle 12c database in the test environment and tested the upgrade from Oracle 11g to 12c.  ? Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  ? Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  ? Proactively managed the databases, set up notifications, alarms using shell scripts for managing any exceptions in day to day management of the databases.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11gR1,11gR2, 12c, RHEL 5/6, SOLARIS 10/11, IBM AIX, OEM, RMAN, Grid, RAC, ASM, Data-guard, Golden Gate, TOAD, TDE, Shell Scripting. Oracle Database Administrator TesyncSree Technologies - IN February 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? 24x7 Production Oracle Database Administrations.  ? Maintaining production, development & test databases and applications.  ? Oracle 10g Database Implementation/Upgrade/Support.  ? Oracle 10g Application Server Implementation/Upgrade/Support, Schedule backup in 11g using db console.  ? Constant monitoring of database space and space management  ? Implementing backup and recovery procedures including logical backup (RMAN), physical backup (online/offline) and integrating the backup procedures.  ? Performed recovery from instance and media failures.  ? Performed capacity planning and space management.  ? Worked on RAC Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 11g RAC.  ? In depth knowledge of Oracle 11g RAC, RAC internals and RAC tuning.  ? Migrated single instance databases to multinode 10g RAC environment for high availability and load balancing.  ? Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g RAC, Physical and Logical Structures.  ? Knowledge of the Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration. Proficiency using Oracle Golden Gate replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning.  ? Worked on disaster recovery exercises using Oracle Data Guard technologies including Fail-over and Switch-over operations.  ? Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in Operating system tuning, SQL tuning, Database/Instance tuning.  ? Assisted in disaster recovery procedures and recovery using Data Guard.  ? Maintained users, roles and privileges in Oracle database for the development team.  ? Carried out disk space maintenance on various UNIX servers. Provided suitable mount points for each database and additional disk space for testing purposes.  ? Provided Oracle installation support, database maintenance, version control for source code and backup using RMAN, Setting up Oracle Standby Data Guard.  ? Tuning of I/O, which includes separating data files and redo log files on different locations, separating of data files and index files on different locations, reducing disk contentions.  ? Responsible to improve the performance by Using the Hints, Indexes, Explain Plan  ? Performance tuning of SQL statements using STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan and SQL Trace  ? Devised an efficient backup and recovery strategy and implemented it in line with Business requirements (SQL Backtrack and RMAN)  ? Automating the backup processes using shell scripts. Performing recovery in cases of system crashes, Worked with RAC implementation team. Added nodes.  ? Have implemented standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR1 on two node RAC  ? Expertise in converting single instance database to Real Application Cluster (RAC) / Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  ? Configured RMAN backups. Performed NON-RAC to RAC and RAC to NON-RAC cloning.  ? Table space management including, adding/resize data files, allocated quotas to user and managed disk space  ? Help developers writing database triggers, packages, procedures, functions, utilities for application development.  ? Responsible for database refreshes/cloning from production to QA/Reporting environments. Responsible for localizing the cloned databases for QA/Reporting use e.g. creating users, resetting privileges/passwords, resetting sequences, resetting database links etc.  ? Export and Import of User, Tables and Database using exp/imp and Data Pump.  ? Oracle Applications Systems Administration. RMAN used in scheduled recovery, hot and cold backup of Oracle10G database.  ? Pre-patch or Impact analysis for the patches and document preparation with pre and post patch installation steps.  ? Oracle Data Guard Implementation for High Availability and remote Disaster Recovery (DR) site.  ? Development of automated RMAN scripts for both backups and cloning of Oracle Databases.  ? Performance tuning of Oracle Database, applications and queries.  ? Conducted database and applications performance tuning operations making significant improvements in database system performance. Supported developers in tuning DB and apps for optimal performance.  ? Administered, maintained, developed and implemented policies and procedures for Managing DB Security and alert log entries.  ? Resolved database performance issues, database capacity issues, and distributed data issues.    Environment: Red Hat Linux 4/5, SUN Solaris 9, HP-UX 11i v1 (B.11.11), Windows XP, Oracle 10g (10.2.0), Oracle 10g RAC, TOAD, Developer 6i.Oracle Golden Gate, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Query Analyzer, Oracle Fail Safe, AD Utilities. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASES (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), SQL (7 years), RMAN (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Applications: DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, Erwin, TOAD, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), Autosys, Query Analyzer, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Golden Gate, Database Vault, Guardium, Toad, SQL Developer  Databases: Installation, Implementation, Administration, Upgrading and Troubleshooting of Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g RAC, 11g RAC, 11gR2 RAC, 12R1 RAC  Tool/Utilities: TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, ORACLE Bug DB, OEM.  Backend Scripting: SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Script, Perl Scripting.  Operating Systems: Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10.AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1, RHEL 4.x, 5.x, 6.x .Linux Enterprise Server 10.Windows NT/2000.  Others: AD Utilities, SQL * Loader, TOAD, Workflow Builder, SQL Developer.