SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Fort Worth, TX Work Experience SQL Database Administrator NCR - Fort Worth, TX 2012 to December 2013 Strong experience in database Replication of multiple servers, Replication Monitoring and trouble shooting, error handling (SQL Server 2000, 2005 and/or SQL Server 2008).  • Practical knowledge of ETL/data loading in very large databases.  • Strong experience in performing different Database administrative tasks such as Database Backups, Restore and Recovery Procedures, Data Loading using SQL Server Import and Export wizard, Attach\Detach databases, Database Shrinking, Rebuild Indexes, Upgrading Service Packs, creating database level Roles, Using DBCC commands, Cleaning up Orphaned users, Database Compatibility level and Collationn.    • Responsible for monitoring Jobs, SQL auditing, Disk spaces, error logs and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases which involved file group modifications, and scheduling jobs to rebuild/reorganize indexes, update statistics and security.    • Troubleshoot, analyze and fix issues related to Performance Tuning of various processes during daily ETL Cycle. Optimizing various objects like Stored Procedures and implementing performance, improving on performance issues using performance monitor, Query Analyzer, Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard.    • Involved in System Performance by tuning SQL queries and stored procedures by using SQL Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, Perform, DBCC and Custom Scripts, Built in performance Report and Activity Monitor.    • Performance tuning using Performance Monitor, Custom Scripts and Profiler in resolving Blocking, Dead Locks, Long running queries and query optimization. And actively worked and interacted with developers of different teams in reviewing and executing the scripts, troubleshooting the Root Cause and fixing the issues.    • Responsible for creating Maintenance Plans, Linked Server, Operators, SQL Server Jobs, Configure Database Mail and Checking the SQL Server Error Logs to ensure that processes have completed successfully.    • Adminstering Microsoft SQL Server Active/Active and Active/Passive Clustering and actively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime..    • Created Databases, Data collection, Database Mail, Linked Server, Logins, Database Roles and Data Loading using Import and Export wizard.    • Security Administration by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granted privileges to users and groups.    • Performed documentation for capacity usage factor data validations and work summary for capacity usage factor calculations.    • 24/7 Production support for SQL Server databases SQL Database Administrator Secure IP Telecom - Dallas, TX 2009 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshoot, analyze and fix issues related to Performance Tuning of various processes during daily ETL Cycle. Optimizing various objects like Stored Procedures, performance improvement issues using Query Analyzer, Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard.    • Responsible for monitoring Jobs, SQL auditing, Disk spaces, error logs and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases which involved modification of file group, and scheduling jobs to rebuild/reorganizing indexes, update statistics and security.    • Perform Database Consistency checks by DBCC commands at regular intervals to check for fragmentation and torn pages in tables of databases and to improve the overall performance of the database.    • To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance as well as monitoring and modifying Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.    • Monitoring High Availability environments like active-active and active-passive clustering, Database Mirroring, Replications, and Log shipping.    • Created and managed maintenance jobs for performing SQL Backups, DBCC, and Index Rebuild.    • Setup the performance counter by using performance monitor to identify the bottleneck of Windows server such as CPU, Memory, I/O, disk space and also bottlenecks of SQL Server such as buffer cache hit, memory, transaction, procedure cache, paging, Dead Locks, CPU, I/O etc.    • Creating logins, groups, users, roles, database devices, databases, mirroring devices, checking for database consistency, fixing DBCC errors, monitoring error logs, database space allocations, transaction log space allocations, fine tuning SQL performance.    • Analyze various aspects of Stored Procedures and performed tuned as needed to increase productivity and reusability of code.    • Monitoring the Disk spaces on all the Servers as well as monitoring space growth in SQL Servers and working with different teams to get them sorted out.  • Performed documentation for capacity usage factor data validations and work summary for capacity usage factor calculations.    • Ensure all scheduled administrative jobs are running and successfully completes for Microsoft SQL Servers.    • Taking turns in 24/7 Production support for SQL Server databases. Education Masters in International Law and Diplomacy University of Lagos - Lagos Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Database: MS SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008/2005/2000  ETL Tools: DTS, Wherescape  Tools: Sql Server Management Studio, Vision App, SQL LiteSpeed, Quest Spotlight, RedGate.  Operating System: Windows 2000 Advanced Server, Windows NT, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003/2008. SQL Server    SKILLS SUMMARY  • Highly skilled software professional with 4 years of experience in MS SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012 database administration in enterprise production environment.    • Expertise in Relational Database Management Systems. Extensive experience in MS SQL Server performance tuning, client/ Server connectivity, query optimization, back-up/recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC, Stored Procedures, Database Triggers and DTS package creation.    • Experience in creating Maintenance Plans, Linked Server, Operators, SQL Server Jobs, Configure Database Mail, installing, building, upgradeing databases as well as checking the SQL Server Error Logs to ensure that processes have completed successfully.    • Administered the SQL Server 2012, 2008/2005 servers and production, pre-production, non-production databases, Application support and Performance Analysis/tuning.    • Extensive practical exposure to database administration, Performance Optimization, Security management, Capacity planning and documentation.    • Experienced in monitoring High Availability environments like active-active and active-passive clustering, Database Mirroring, Replications, and Log shipping.    • Implemented Recovery and Backup Strategies, Database Mirroring and snapshots for Disaster Recovery and reporting purposes.    • Experienced in planning and implementing Snapshot and Transactional Replications of MS SQL Server Databases.    • Experience in regular maintenance activities like Query Tuning, statistics update, Index rebuild, log file monitoring, temp DB monitoring, deadlock resolutions, and fragmentation issues.  • Experience working with production and 24 x 7 on call environments.    • Flexible, Enthusiastic and project oriented team player with excellent analytical skills to develop creative solutions for challenging client needs.