Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Verizon Wireless Durham, NC • Over 6 years of experience as Oracle Database Administrator including Oracle Database Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Performance Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Patches, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Space Management and Database Security with Oracle Software 12c/11g/10g/9i Versions.  • Worked 24*7 as production database support providing support to System Administrators, developers & end-users.  • Oracle EBS support as database Administrator and performance tuning.  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for 12C, 11g and 10g with experience within very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Expertise in providing and implementing various Golden Gate Solutions like Active - Active Replication for Zero down time maintenance and Migrations using Conflict detection and Resolution (CDR).  • Involved in the successful Configuration, Installation and Upgrade of Grid Infrastructure and Databases to Oracle 12c on Solaris in Production Environment.  • Implemented, Installed, Upgraded and Patched Oracle Database Appliance  • Extensive experience in Data guard (Physical & Logical), ASM, Grid Infrastructure.  • Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, Data Pump tools.  • Installed, Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), 12.1.0.7.  • Refresh and Clone/Duplicate Environments according to Project Requirements using RMAN, DataPump Tools.  • Implemented Migration of Databases as part of Server Migration, Storage Migration, and ASMDiskgroups to different Storage Arrays.  • Implemented migration of 11gR1 RAC to 11gR2 RAC on Solaris.  • Vast experience in Performance Tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc.) by using tools/utilities like Explain plan, AnalyzeAWR and ADDM.  • Used Spring Boot at back-end which helps to develop application with ease.  • Experienced in ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, JSON, jQuery  • Extensive Virtualization experience in implementing RAC databases from 10g to 12c in VM environment.  • Experience in a variety of hardware and software platforms: Solaris, UNIX/Linux MS-Windows 2008.  • Working knowledge on Oracle 11g, 10g environment builds and experience in SQL*Loader, loading data from text files.  • Extensive knowledge of data modeling inside XML  • Experienced in configuring Data Guard and RAC on Linux (RHEL6, 5 AS), AIX, Sun Solaris and Windows environments for High Availability with ASM (Automatic Storage management) and storage on EMC SAN.  • Proficient in Oracle 11g/10g/9i Database Design, Installation and managing of Oracle software on various platforms, implementing, Administration, Performance tuning and troubleshooting for 24x7 Production environments.  • Installed Oracle Enterprise manager Grid Control agents on UNIX and Windows platforms and configured the TARGETS in the Repository for efficient monitoring of the mission critical Production databases.  • Good Knowledge of oracle High Availability features, Disaster Recovery, Cluster Technology and FLASHBACK Technology.  • Hands-on Experience in System Configuration's, planning upgrade for critical production databases, Migrating Databases for Lease Rollover, Patching Databases without affecting the critical business activities.  • Interacted closely with Change Management Team, Configuration Management Team, Development & Testing teams, etc. - Implementation of DB schema changes as per approved Work Request. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Verizon Wireless - Los Angeles, CA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Maintained and administrated various systems like RAC, Data Guard and GoldenGate.  • Set-up and configured two node RAC (12c & 11g) cluster on Linux.  • Programmed database using XML language  • Configured RAC 1-Node and Standalone Configurations on Linux as well as Solaris.  • Performed various health checks in RAC, HA stack management in managing resources using SRVCTL and CRSCTL.  • Deployed multiple applications on WebLogic server and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality  • Upgraded Oracle Database Appliance from version 12.1.0.1 to 12.1.0.2  • Upgrade Grid Infrastructure from 11G to 12C.  • Wrote DAO layer, required SQL queries and Spring Controller to handle data and request to Spring application.  • Acted as Oracle EBS Functional/Technical Lead and worked for the development, implementation and communications of Architecture Roadmap Strategies to ensure that technical systems are scalable, reliable, secure, supportable, and achieve Business and IT performance and budgetary objectives  • Worked closely with the EBS project delivery team.  • Experiencedin implementing End to End Oracle EBS process flows like Order to Cash , Procure to Pay ,Quote to Order  • Improved efficiency for clients by training new programmers in organizational ETL processes  • Installed the latest version of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 12.1.0.7) utilizing the pre-built Database Templates.  • Applied Rolling Patches in a 2 node RAC environment and Performed GRID Infrastructure upgrade from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  • Implemented Shell Scripting to automate error reporting and alerting in different flavors of UNIX (Linux and Solaris).  • Duplicated Databases using Active Duplicate and RMAN Recovery Techniques.  • Configured Disaster recovery databases and maintained standby databases.  • Configured dataguard broker in dataguard environment and configured physical standby databases in maximum performance and configured Active dataguard and Snapshot standby.  • Created Oracle Tables, Table Partitions and Materialized Views and Supported users, application administrators and developers for Oracle database.  • Used EXPDP and IMPDP for refreshing data between different environments.  • Applied patches using OPatch utility in both RAC and Single instance database homes.  • Worked with Database backup team for scheduling backups for ORACLE databases.  • Good hands on installing and configuring Oracle GoldenGate for active-active data replication.  • Worked in providing Oracle GoldenGate real-time data integration, expertise in heterogeneous synchronization and replication of database using defgen utility.  • Monitoring the OGG (Oracle Golden Gate) trails and used different parameters to improvise the performance of the OGG processes.  • Proficient in Replicate splitting to tune the performance of the OGG and involved in Oracle GoldenGate tuning and troubleshooting.  • Improved database performance by analyzing AWR reports, changing database parameters and adding additional spaces to temp and undo.  • Migrated databases to cloud, worked with testing teams to validate database performance of SQL queries on new servers.  • Identified performance bottleneck on high volume transaction systems and analyze SQL statements by using explain plan.  • Created and managed the table partitions, analyzed the partitions, indexes, materialized views.  • Migrated databases to ASM Performed various tasks on ASM, creating a disk group, adding a disk to disk group, making disk online and offline and troubleshooting issues in ASM environment.  • Troubleshooting problems related to connectivity to the databases, database job failures, and Backup failures.  • Handling incidents relating to space issues on various filesystems, tablespaces, and archive destinations.  • Handling various technical issues related to Databases and assisting users with the SQL tuning for bad SQL codes.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database and SQL Queries using AWR, ADDM and TKPROF and Tuned the SQL*s using TKPROF and STATSPACK reports.  • Prepared and provided recommendations or reports to clients per requests.  • Collaborated with off-shore Oracle team, development DBA, UNIX team and Storage team to solve complex system issues.  • Managing and providing 24X7 supports for various versions of databases.  • Working with the LINUX/DBD/Application administration teams to provide day-to-day, and on-call first level support for AIM's MongoDB servers.  • Monitoring and maintenance of successful backups for MongoDB servers.  • Assisting Sr. DBA's on creating documentation of activities, system changes, procedures, policies and standards for the MongoDB architecture.  • Providing direct support to DBD and Application teams.  • Assisting Sr. DBA's to develop custom scripts to automate MongoDB management. Senior Oracle DBA Chevron ITC - Houston, TX January 2014 to June 2016 Ameriprise Financial Inc. headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota is a global financial services provider.  Ameriprise Financials hosts a series of applications that run on different database systems like Oracle, UDB, Teradata, DB2, Informix and SQL Server. These databases are very critical to the organization in terms of data sensitivity and business continuity. TCS team working at Minneapolis is providing support and technical consultancy to the Ameriprise Data Management team to achieve its goals. The project is being executed by TCS in an onsite/offshore model. As part of the project the TCS team will be working in the development and Production environment and will be involved in full range of database services like data placement and reuse strategy, designing SQL queries, physical database design, database creation, Automation & Monitoring, performance tuning & optimization, maintenance & support of the various databases    Responsibilities:  • Lead a 6-7 members offshore team and acted as a SPOC to handling Clients requirements in terms of Creating and managing Oracle Databases  • Worked with Oracle Support for handling Critical production issues and implemented to fix in case of any bugs being identified.  • Have good understanding and hands on Oracle 12c Data Guard. Created and maintained physical and logical stand by databases for mission critical applications.  • Support DR Replication activity.  • Worked with application developers to create and maintaining tables for Optimal Performance on lower environment.  • Automating the routine processes such as table space/file system monitoring; partition maintenance, statistics gathering and automating backup/alerting process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Supported on Build and maintain DR sites using data guard Database Monitoring and administration of oracle database using Enterprise Manager Grid control OEM 12c  • Created and Managed DB Links and Materialized views  • Created, documented and maintained logical and physical database models in compliance with enterprise standards and maintained corporate metadata definitions for enterprise data stores within a metadata repository.  • Performance Monitoring, Tuning and query optimization for Oracle databases  • Experience in identified poor SQL statements using EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL TRACE, OEM 12c, and Creating SQL Baselines.  • Involved in Performance tuning, worked on SQLT utility to understand the query behavior and create a SQL profile/baseline for the same  • Involved in RAC performance issues.  • Taking logical, cold and hot backups of Oracle database and configure Recovery catalogue to perform RMAN backups; monitoring target databases using RMAN  • Installing and Configuring of Oracle server software and related products in lower environments.  • Supported in Restoring and recovering RAC/Single instance Oracle databases.  • Set up incidents and various automated monitoring activities via OEM 12c.  • Used the WebLogic Server Administration Console to control production-specific deployment details.  • Provide and implement performance tuning recommendations of all components in Exadata database machine.  • Advise, provide guidance and develop Disaster Recovery strategies for the Exadata Database machine. Oracle DBA Nepal Satellite Telecom January 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshoot and resolve problems in MySQL databases and servers.  • Used the WebLogic Server Administration Console to control production-specific deployment details.  • Created scripts and processes for data integration and maintenance.  • Specified users and user access levels for each database segments.  • Develop data architecture design to perform targeted customer analysis.  • Integrated data quality plans as a part of ETL processes.  • Conduct database performance tuning, query optimization, index tuning, tables restructuring, and storage optimization.  • Documented all Oracle database installations and database operations.  • Performed Backup and Recovery of databases using RMAN during media failure. Performed Cold Backups, Hot Backups, Full back up, Incremental & Cumulative backups as well.  • Experience in Logical Backups - full/partial, Conventional and Data Pump Export/Import.  • Apply requested and approved modifications to database structures, data, and applications.  • Manage complete project lifecycle. Effectively communicate project status with direct supervisor and project owner.  • Expertise in relational database design and architectural principles and methodologies.  • Experience with using AWS EC2, RDS, Aurora, AWS DMS, EBS. Education Master's in Business Administration in Business Administration Johnson & Wales University - Providence, RI February 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Sikkim Manipal University February 2013 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Oracle Dba