DB2 DBA & Developer DB2 DBA &amp; Developer DB2 DBA & Developer - State of Louisiana Baton Rouge, LA • Around 6 years of IT experience with extensive database administration using DB2 V9.X thru 11.X on, Unix, AIX, Linux, Windows.  • Extensive experience supporting DB2 system administration, application development, resolving DB2 issues, performance- tuning, monitoring data security and integrity.  • Proficient in DB2 database administration for Z/OS, with specialization in planning, estimating, forecasting and resource allocation.  • Expertise in Installing Base code/Latest Fix packs and maintaining DB2 environment including creating instances, databases, buffer pools, logical and physical design of database storages using DMS/SMS tablespaces (allocating containers).  • Versed in both In-place and Side-by-side migration of instances and databases to current version.  • Proficient in implementing Replication, backup & recovery Strategies, developing Architecture for building a database by using tools like Erwin, ER/Studio.  • Database utility experience including re-org, runstats, rebind, export, import, load, auto-load, backup, restore and roll forward utilities.  • Database monitoring and tuning experience using DB2's Performance Monitor, Detector, OMEGAMON, Event Monitor, Explain, Visual Explain, and Index Advisor performance tools.  • Worked extensively on features of DB2 Client, DB2 Connect and IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Experience in Setup HADR/HACMP between primary and secondary servers to ensure High Availability.  • Worked with Third party utilities like Quest Tools, BMC Tools, Nagios, DBArtisan, Toad, Performance Expert, Spotfire etc.  • Experience with ETL tools - Informatica and reporting tools like Business Objects, SSRS.  • Effective communication capabilities and being able to work productively with multilevel personnel.  • Extensive Experience in writing Korn shell scripts and using AWK, SED, GAWK.  • Proficient in Scheduling/Maintaining CRON/Autosys jobs based on application requirement.  • Provided 24x7 on call support for databases supporting online applications and off-hours maintenance.  • Troubleshooting database issues using db2diag, db2pd, db2dart, db2inspect, db2trace, db2support, db2top, explain plan, db2exfmt and snapshots.  • Experience in Disaster recovery strategies (HADR/HADR with TSA, HA)  • Extensive experience with Incident, Problem and Change managements  • Experience in raising PMR's to vendor support and based on that preparing RCA's  • Strong knowledge in structured query language (SQL) Work Experience DB2 DBA & Developer State of Louisiana - Baton Rouge, LA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed a Data Profiling Plan to identify the data sources and data elements in-scope for this project and the methodologists to be used in accessing the data.  • Evaluated and recommended changes to database environments and design based on analysis of existing large, complex, interrelated systems.  • Executed the Data Profiling Plan to identify data quality issues and to prioritize the data.  • Produced a Data Assessment Report to identify and quantify the issues.  • Provided Knowledge Transfer to the employees about the ongoing data cleanup process.  • Reviewed, analyzed and document data element descriptions, specifications, and uses for TIPS, ACESS, and CAFE, along with other relevant data sources and to determine the data elements to be cleansed.  • Categorized data as Transactional (operational), Analytical (decision support), or Master (persistent people and entity data used by multiple systems)  • Created data cleansing scripts and procedures to repair data and improved quality by establishing a staging database to isolate corrected data from production data sources.  • Produced Data Reconciliation Reports to identify, document, monitor, and resolve data variances discovered during the cleansing process by generating the Audit Reports to track and document each corrective action, including, but not limited to the affected data elements.  • Developed a Data Cleansing Maintenance Plan and related documentation to support the State's ongoing data quality needs.  • Classified data elements as Restricted, Confidential, Public, or Uncategorized as defined in the ISP.  • Collected and identified any possible legacy security issues that should be addressed or considered as DCFS moves to the EA and/or CCWIS systems and provide an action plan to address same.  Environment: DB2 Mainframe Z/Os, ADABAS, IBM Data Studio, SQL and DB2, Natural, J2EE, Java Script, COBAL. DB2 DBA & Developer Delta Dental Plan of Michigan - Lansing, MI November 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Managing DB2 databases to support ERP application LAWSON, which manages the whole delta dental system, Payments system, Human Resource system and Supply Chain management.  • Delta dental has around 500 DB2 database servers, and around 15 Oracle servers - where all the maintenance of the servers handled only by a group of 3.  • Analyze and setup HADR between databases, also configured read only standby databases.  • Manage Multi-Terabyte database environments supporting different applications on DB2 with the databases sizing ranging from 100GB to 10TB.  • Install DB2 V9.7, V10.5 & V11.1 on our new servers, migrated multi-terabyte databases from V9.1 to V9.7 & 10.1 to V10.5  • Create POC and educated application teams to take advantage of Automatic maintenance, STMM and Monitor collect settings enhancements available in DB2 V10.5.  • Create Health check scripts using the new SYIBMADM views and MON GET Functions and educated non DBA teams to handle performance issues.  • Create scripts for data maintenance activities like REORG, RUNSTATS, LOAD, UNLOAD, IMPORT and EXPORT, BACKUPS (Incremental or FULL) and scheduled jobs using Maestro pointing the backups to tape.  • Create application specific scripts to recover test database environments from Production environment for DB2/SQL Server and Oracle databases on UNIX, AIX, Linux and Windows (Batch scripts).  • Enable STMM on DB2 Servers, Setup start to end SQL Replication between transactional and reporting environments & design the best possible solution for transactional logging and implemented.  • Installing SQL Server 2008/2012 Standard and enterprise edition and baseline the servers according to the organization standards.  • Created SQL Server health check stored procedures/Jobs for easy maintenance of databases upon customer request.  • Provided 24X7 database supports for applications going live or in maintenance mode with on call rotation.    Environment: DB2 UDB 11.X Linux, AIX, Windows, SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, Oracle 11g, IBM Data Studio, TOAD for DB2, Spotlight for Oracle, SQL and DB2, Quest Central, BMC Remedy, Replication Center, Spotlight. DBA CHEMONICS (Remote) - Indianapolis, IN August 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Support Linux, DB2 database servers, Cognos Reporting and DataStage Servers on IBM Softlayer Cloud bare metal servers.  • Currently providing DB2 LUW DBA V10.5 implementation support for a world-wide supply chain application. Install and upgrade DB2 and related components.  • Created 25+ DB2 instances and all DB2 objects. Configure DB2 automatic maintenance for on-line backups and RUNSTATS.  • Installed and configured IBM Data Server Client V10.5 on the IIB servers, cataloging nodes and the remote databases.  • Setup and maintain test and prod HADR. Installed DB2 V10.5 FP-5 and FP-7, IBM Application Developer Tools, Data Server Manager for monitoring, database alerts and health checking.  • Use db2move to EXPORT, LOAD and IMPORT data. Maintain DB2 DBM and DB configuration & DB2 registry variables.  • Create Linux user ids and groups. Grant group level DB2 privileges and assign users to groups.  • Use NMON to monitor performance and generate reports. Add storage to file systems and regular System Engineer tasks.  • Generate various List Reports, Grouped Reports, Cross tab Reports, Chart Reports, Drill-Down and Drill-Through Reports.  • Generate Complex reports in Cognos 10.1 report studio including Drill Down reports from DMR modeled Frame work model.  • Manually modified the SQL in Report Studio to tune and/or to write complicated reports. Used union/Join objects in Report Studio.  • Performance Tuning and Optimization of Parallel Jobs and Server Jobs.  • Using Parallel Extender to load data into data warehouse with different techniques like Pipeline and Partition in MPP environment.  • Experience in UNIX/Linux Shell scripting as part of file manipulation, and have strong knowledge in scheduling Data    Environment: DB2 10.5/11.1 Linux, Z/Os, IBM Data Studio, IBM infosphere Datastage, Cognos, IBM Softlayer, Toad, IBM Data Server Manager, IBM Rational, Remedy force. Database Administrator TCC Software Solutions - Indianapolis, IN May 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • DB2 Database Administration on AIX and Windows including audit configuration, SQL Tuning, Resource monitoring and performing security architecture review.  • Install DB2 V9.7, V10.1, and V10.5 on our new servers, migrated multi-terabyte databases from V9.1 to V9.7, 10.1 & 10.5.  • Constantly upgraded databases to current level of fix packs to incorporate the new functionalities.  • Administered large 64-bit DB2 v9.x & v10.x LUW databases in a 24x7 enterprise SAN based multi-data center environment, including installation, configuration, backup, recovery and tuning.  • Setup HADR between primary and secondary servers to ensure High Availability.  • Working closely with Developers to create database objects (Tablespaces, schemas, tables, views, indexes, triggers, stored procedures etc.) as per the requirement on DB2 and SQL Server databases.  • Performance Tuning through various schemes such as increasing the buffer pool size, performing RUNSTATS, REORG, and REORGCHK's, creating indexes using db2explain and db2 advisor.  • Monitoring and verifying architectural correctness of Databases, Tablespaces and its objects through db2dart, DB2PD, Snapshots and Health Monitors and also with tools like Quest Central, Spot Light.  • Create scripts for data maintenance activities like REORG, RUNSTATS, LOAD, UNLOAD, IMPORT and EXPORT, BACKUPS (Incremental or FULL) and scheduled jobs as required.  • Installed and Upgraded DB2 Client on Servers/Workstations, Implemented DB2 Client on Desktops and configured access to ODBC data-sources.  • Recovering the Database to a consistent state through Restore, Roll-forward & Recover techniques and also performing Redirected restore in case of movement of table space containers.  • Documented test plan including the testing of data partitioning (DPF), table partitioning, multi-dimensional clustering (MDC), XML support, and data compression. Improved performance by 40% by converting tablespaces to multiple partitions with DPF.  • Worked on VM Ware VCenter to create and maintain Virtual Servers used for application, reporting and database servers.  • Setup and Worked on Fog light and solar winds tools.    Environment: DB2 UDB V10.5/V9.7/9.5/9.1/8.2, SQL Server 2008/2012, AIX 5.2/5.3, Z/Os Windows 2008/2003/XP, Erwin, Quest Central, Toad, IBM Data Studio, IBM Data server manager, DB Visualizer, Service Center. Business Objects X3.1 & 4.1, Fog light, solid works, Spotlight. Education Bachelor's Skills databases (5 years), DB2 (5 years), Erwin (2 years), SQL (5 years), UNIX (2 years)