Pilot in training Pilot in training Database Administrator - Arkansas Army Air Support Facility Cabot, AR I am a veteran who has 9 years of service in the United States Army. I have served as a Medevac crew chief and network administrator during my time in the military. I am currently in flight school for the Army and will have my private pilot’s license with an instrument rating upon completion. Flying is my passion and I am extremely motivated to be the best in my field. While serving in the Army I have developed outstanding teamwork skills. Teamwork is an area that I thrive in because I can lead a group and I can follow directions to reach a goal. I have a wide variety of skills that range from aircraft maintenance and flying to instructing others on how to perform complex tasks and procedures. As an aircraft maintainer I have learned how to take instructions and fulfill the requirements of the task exactly as it is required. This attention to detail has become a foundation for my work ethic and I will continue to build on my experience. I look forward to hearing from you and hope to be a productive part of your team in the near future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pilot in training U.S. Army - Fort Rucker, AL December 2018 to Present I have been in flight school for the U.S. Army learning my craft as a pilot. I have gained invaluable experience learning to fly a Bell 206 and UH-60 Blackhawk. I have completed instruments training and upon completion of flight school I will have my private pilots license with an instrument rating. Database Administrator Arkansas Army Air Support Facility September 2015 to Present • Managed and maintained the database for the entire fleet of UH-60 helicopters.  • Used SQL Server to modify and delete database entries.  • Gained knowledge and learned how to manage a database. Aircraft Mechanic Arkansas Army Air Support Facility December 2009 to Present Maintained the UH-60 aircraft by performing preventive maintenance and troubleshooting of complex systems.  • Performed routine inspections and maintenance to keep aircraft fully mission capable.  • Maintained aircraft records and forms to ensure airworthiness was accurately documented and reflected on the appropriate documents. Audio Video Administrator Arkansas Army Air Support Facility June 2012 to June 2015 • Sole audio and video teleconference administrator for the state of Arkansas.  • Managed 54 conferencing systems and scheduled all of the conferences for the state.  • Managed the Tandberg and Polycom conferencing systems for conferences.  • Performed first tier troubleshooting processes for these systems.  • Prioritized device maintenance and required downtime.  • Worked with various states' personnel to ensure that personnel in Arkansas could flawlessly communicate with personnel, to include the Pentagon and various other states. Store Manager Eight Mile Store November 2009 to June 2011 Attained the store management position at the age of 17.  • Ensured that customer support was satisfactory while also leading a group of three to four people to ensure that the business goals were met.  • Resolved any issues that arose so my problem solving skills developed very well while I gained management experience at the same time. Education Bachelor's in Network and Communications Management DeVry University - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2016 Certification in Basic Leadership Non-Commissioned Officer Academy - Ball, LA March 2015 to April 2015 Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Warrant Officer 1 December 2009 to Present Additional Information Skills -Excellent Communication skills -Technical skills in IT Networking Fundamentals  -Technical skills in aircraft maintenance procedures