DBA DBA Database Administrator Oklahoma City, OK Languages/Tools: PL/SQL and SQL, Java  Software: Microsoft Office, Linux  Hardware: Dell Servers Red Hat Linux 6.5X Work Experience DBA NTTDATA Services - Oklahoma City, OK 2018 to 2019 • Created database maintenance plan for SQL backups, optimization and integrity check and t-log backups.  • Assist Development and Support team with Technical and troubleshooting production issues  • Responsible for MS SQL server 2005 and 2008. Worked on change requests, permission requests and refreshes request.  • Worked with capacity planning, database sizing and monitoring.  • Worked with application team to test the successful upgrade, migration, installations  • Have effective communication skills and ability to maintain good relations with users, developers, operations and information security teams.  • Perform database administration activities such as storage management, backup, recovery, and performance tuning.  • Develop system documentation for all developed applications databases, processes, and jobs, including flowcharts and data models. Database Administrator Stephenson Cancer Center - Oklahoma City, OK 2018 to 2018 • Installing, configuration, maintenance and administration of SQL Server 2012  • Database mirroring and involved in creating backup strategy  • Create database objects like tables, views, indexes, stored-procedures, triggers, cursors using MS SQL  • Worked on performance turning of database and query tuning  • T-SQL Programing for writing DDL and DML queries  • Using DBCC commands, SQL profiler, SQL Server Management Studio  • Performing system study and requirement Analysis, Prepared data flow diagrams, Entity relationship diagrams, table structure with a lot of interaction with the client  • Performed analysis and design of the application Database Administrator St. Anthony Hospital - Oklahoma City, OK 2017 to 2018 • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Training 5+ colleagues on how to input and extract data.  • Table partitioning.  • Provide Oracle DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Use shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation. Networking Communication Technician MTN, Douala - CM 2012 to 2015 • Enter commands, using computer terminal, and activate controls on computer and peripheral equipment to integrate and operate equipment.  • Operate spreadsheet programs and other types of software to load and manipulate data and to produce reports.  • Read job set-up instructions to determine equipment to be used, order of use, material such as disks and paper to be loaded, and control settings.  • Oversee the operation of computer hardware systems, including coordinating and scheduling the use of computer terminals and networks to ensure efficient use.  • Type command on keyboard to transfer encoded data from memory unit to magnetic tape and assist in labeling, classifying, cataloging and maintaining tapes. Computer Repair Technician Afro-Tech 2010 to 2012 Oversee the daily performance of 50+ computer systems.  • Answer 100+ user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Conduct office automation feasibility studies, including workflow analysis, space design, or cost comparison analysis.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities. Education Associate Degree Moore Norman Technology Center - Norman, OK 2017 to 2018 Oklahoma City Community College 2016 to 2017 certification Advance School of Public Works 2013 to 2015 Skills DBA, MYSQL, Sql Server, Sql Dba, DB2, Sql Database, Oracle Database