Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - US COAST GUARD Chesapeake, VA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator ACE INFO SOLUTIONS (USCG) - Chesapeake, VA November 2018 to Present Effectively carry out key functions, which include database sizing, table space management,  ? rollback table space management, transaction management, and security administration  ? Supervise physical standby databases and high-volume production databases ranging to 2 TB in size  ? Render hands-on support to developers in improving PL/SQL, and SQL codes, while generating new user accounts and executing schema and related user administrative tasks  ? Strategically utilize Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for database monitoring, maintenance, replication, and performance tuning as well as Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) for high-speed, parallel, bulk data, and metadata movement for all Oracle database contents.  ? Serve as an effective member of the team providing 24/7 technical support, with on-call rotation, for all production, quality assurance (QA), and development environments, while managing multitenant databases, such as Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases  ? Function as point of contact (POC) regarding 12c new features, such as redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, and restoration table using RMAN  ? Maintained hands-on involvement in various database administration, support, configuration, upgrade, patch migrations, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning efforts, as follows:  - Cloning of non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c through PDB Metadata Cloning, PDB Remote Cloning, and PDB Snapshot Cloning features  - Reorganization of databases and refresh of schema using import and export US Foods Manassas VA - Manassas, VA 2015 to November 2018 Database Management and Maintenance  ? Rendered effectual support in the execution of database configuration, upgrade, patch migrations, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning efforts  ? Handle the cloning of non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c through PDB Metadata Cloning, PDB Remote Cloning, and PDB Snapshot Cloning features  ? Reorganize databases and refresh of schema using import and export processes  ? Design different databases with table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges, and user logins, as well as physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model  ? Created partitioning strategies for very large tables, while deploying range, list, hash and various sub partitions as well as structure of logical and physical database through logical and physical data modeling  ? Perform database sizing, table space management, rollback table space management, transaction management, and security administration  ? Monitor physical standby databases and high-volume production databases ranging to 2 TB in size    Leadership and Team Collaboration  ? Serve as an effective member of the team providing 24/7 technical support, with on-call rotation, for all production, quality assurance (QA), and development environments, while managing multitenant databases, such as Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases  ? Act as point of contact on 12c new features, such as redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, and restoration table using RMAN  ? Served as integral part of the team that led the configuration of GoldenGate for real-time replication and data guard for disaster recovery.    Technical Support and Tool Usage  ? Strategically utilize Oracle Enterprise Manager for database monitoring, maintenance, replication, and performance tuning as well as Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) for high-speed, parallel, bulk data, and metadata movement for all Oracle database contents  ? Implemented a 11g databases on both IBM-AIX and Linux environments using OLTP, decision support system and data warehousing environment    Project Development and Execution  ? Modified databases from 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c, 12c to 18c using DBUA and scripts, along with 10g and 11g standalone databases to 11g and 12c  ? Configured Oracle 12c Enterprise Manager to keep track and generate accurate condition report for more than 100 databases  ? Secured physical standby database in Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3  ? Enforced proactive monitoring database through Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace, and EXPLAIN PLAN  ? Rolled out a variety of advanced security measures as per service level agreement (SLA), such as Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), data masking, and data redaction  ? Developed OEM database control for single databases and OEM Grid control for multiple databases    Growth and Development Impacts  ? Earned the Employee of the Year Award in recognition for outstanding leadership in the successful execution and completion of various projects Database Development, Implementation, and Backup AT&T - San Diego, CA 2012 to March 2015 Installed 10g, 11g, 12c, along with 12c container databases (CDB) on standalone servers and cluster on UNIX, LINUX, and Windows platforms  ? Implemented Oracle Wallets and Tablespace level TDE security  ? Created different backup strategies, such as Cold, Hot, and RMAN with flash recovery area and logical backups (expdp and impdp)  ? Devised a PSU on standalone test environment and production cluster through OPatch Auto    Upgrades and Enhancements  ? Modified multiple standalone databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1  ? Made use of DBMS_REDEFINITION in redefining and partitioning tables and columns data types, as well as placing LOBS to different table space  ? Performed hot and cold backup, recovery, and cloning of databases using RMAN.  ? Initiated detailed recommendations and implementation of SQL access and tuning advisors, while handling chained rows and row migration  ? Made use of SAN level storage mirroring in improving environments for the data refreshing of large production data warehouse environment    Cross-Functional Leadership and Support  ? Contributed in the migration of large size database in multiple platforms, along with the SQL Query tuning to issue tuning recommendations for application jobs, time, and CPU consuming queries  ? Assisted the development teams in addressing and solving all database related issues, including network failures, ASM DISK group errors.  ? Assisted in configuring and installing GoldenGate, while administering pumps and trail files through removal of old extract and log files    Regulatory Compliance  ? Guaranteed proper production, security, and performance of all application design in accordance with standards  ? Analyzed the release of Oracle, tools and third-party products to secure accurate operation of products and site in alignment with clients' requirements    Growth and Development Impacts  ? Led the successful upgrade of databases from 11g to non CDB 12c, along with the migration of 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases  ? Administered the implementation and maintenance of Oracle 11g Data Guard and standby databases for fail-over purposes, along with Oracle TDE to deliver transparent encryption of stored data to support release of Oracle 11g R2  ? Brought significant security improvements by through effective network data encryption and implementation of SSL wallet, thus safeguarding the network connection Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Databases Lagos State University February 2009 Skills Data migration, Database, Dbms, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Linux, Red hat, Unix, Risk analysis, Network administration, Security, Vms, Mitigation, Performance tuning Additional Information Highly skilled, analytical, and multifaceted professional, with comprehensive skills in technical operations, desktop support, troubleshooting, as well as data and project management. Commended for proven track record of success in managing in oracle database operations and completing large scale projects while ensuring on-time delivery. Armed with strong dedication to leverage well-rounded skills to drive organizations toward business growth and development. Expert at utilizing technical proficiency and keen eye for detail in identifying improvement needs and responding to clients' requirements. Effective at multitasking in a fast-paced environment.    Areas of Expertise    Database Security Backup and Recovery Performance Tuning Data Guard Configuration Golden Gate Configuration Connection and Network Administration Data Migration Upgrade and Patching Risk Analysis and Mitigation Database Restore/Refresh DISA STIG    Software/Tools:  TOAD Active Session History (ASH) Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) Oracle (RMAN DBMS STATS Statspack EXPLAIN PLAN PL/SQL SQL-Tuning Advisor DBVERIFY Database Upgrade, GoldenGate, DataGuard, and Grid Control Data Pump Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM)    Operating Systems VMS Windows Server 2012R2 Red Hat Linux 6 SQL Server Oracle Enterprise Manager Unix