Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - NFP • Experience in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, STA, ASH and AWR report.  • Proficient in database concepts with rich experience in database design, development and management.  • Excellent knowledge of Oracle architecture, Golden Gate architecture and RAC architecture.  • Good working knowledge of troubleshooting Infrastructure issues related to Oracle database server such as memory, CPU, I/O, Disk etc.  • Hands-on experience working as Production DBA, working knowledge on SLA metrics, Remedy system and worked with Oracle Support.  • Installed and configured 2, 3 nodes server-side load balancing RAC (Real Application Clusters) databases on HP UNIX and Linux with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) and Data Guard.  • Experience in Upgrade from oracle 10g to 11g and Migration of oracle database from red hat Linux, Window platform to Linux on development, integration and production environment using Oracle Data Migration Assistant.  • Strong Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby), Database Cloning, Oracle Streams and Oracle Golden gate, Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purpose. Also, exposure to AWS.  • Hands on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created Rman repository, provided best practices like Flashback Recovery, block change tracking, optimizations and Cloning/Refresh of databases.  • Experience in supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative, Hot/Cold Backup  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing like value based and fine grain. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator NFP - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present • DBA supporting major projects like DATAGUARD from Development to Production via Test and UAT environments. Duties involve daily administration, maintenance and tuning, databases ranging from 50GB to 10TB.  • Database, Table and schema refreshes using Data pump, expdp and impdp and transportable tablespaces.  • Cloning databases using online and offline backups and using Rman duplicate backup to migrate data from 11g to 11.2.o.3  • Configured deployed and administered 2 and 3 node RAC clusters on Solaris 10 and Red hat Enterprise Linux 5.0.  • Extensively involved in performance tuning of applications, SQL queries and databases using Explain Plan, STA, ADDM, SQL TRACE, TKPROF and AWR reports.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Golden Gate  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • implemented database security management, by using the principle of least privilege, and Provided technical support for all application administrators and users.  • Applied critical patches to Oracle databases and application servers.  • use Grid control (OEM Grid) to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.  • Work extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics. Use of Shell scripts, And PL/SQL Tuning.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Monitor different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Cloud Control  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  • Involved in capacity planning and resource planning  • Configured Oracle Advanced Security on 11g databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace level.  • Exposure to new 12c features, container and pluggable databases, and FAR SYNC Instance Oracle Database Administrator Tempus Resorts International - Orlando, FL June 2014 to April 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on Linux platforms.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance, cloned using Rman.  • Scheduling the physical backups (hot and cold) in Cron tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs. Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failure using RMAN  • Applied patches and worked closely with Oracle support to make Application environment up to date. Provided 24x7 support in both production and development  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential), incremental updated using Rman  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases., as well as performing database upgrade. Education Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences in Social Sciences Makerere University Kampala - Kampala, UG Skills Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses OCA in 12c database February 2019 to Present