Marketing Business Analytics Specialist, Officer Marketing Business Analytics Specialist, Officer Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Marketing Business Analytics Specialist, Officer PNC Financial Services Group - Pittsburgh, PA January 2015 to Present  Conceives, coordinates, and schedules multiple marketing campaigns at once for a high-profile regional bank.   ? Identifies and manages associated risks to ensure alignment with the unit’s risk appetite   ? Maintains extensive knowledge of team capacity across two units within Marketing   ? Facilitates and documents a marketing operations governance forum working closely with marketing leadership   ? Provides real-time validation and scheduling reporting across multiple marketing teams and lines of businesses   ? Executes creation of lead program identifiers across multiple lines of businesses  Corp. Marketing Campaign Coordinator & Database Administrator Aerotech, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2012 to 2015 ? Conceive, coordinate, and execute multiple marketing campaigns at once (domestically and internationally) for a high-tech manufacturing company.  ? Work with product managers to define campaign objectives, scope, audience, deliverables, and timelines, and coordinate with other marketing team members.   ? Provide real-time and post-campaign ROI analytics to executive team.   ? Execute and delegate intensive lead harvesting and research activities.   ? Administrator, trainer, & troubleshooter for 100+ global users of a CRM database.   ? Manage and work directly with multiple vendors including technical consultants, lead nurturing agencies, industry publications and retailers.   Accomplishments   ? Stimulated extraordinary SugarCRM user-adoption levels for a culturally, technologically, and generationally diverse group of end users.   ? Facilitated the launch of an advanced marketing automation software solution for 50+ global users.   ? Coordinated an on-site summit of the company’s global sales force to help the members understand business processes and objectives.   ? Archived over 10,000 misleading, inaccurate or incomplete records from the CRM database in a data-integrity project.  Sales Administrator Aerotech, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2011 to 2012 Responsible for complete administration of the sales order process  Update delivery/shipment schedule & maintain current, accurate customer files Education Master's in Organizational Leadership Robert Morris University - Township of Moon, PA 2011 to 2017 Bachelor's in Public Relations, Minor in Marketing Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania - Slippery Rock, PA 2007 to 2010