ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Oracle Corporation Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Oracle Corporation - Lehi, UT 2016 to Present * Fulfills a critical role leading technical analysis and Oracle Enterprise Manager installation, upgrade, and administration responsibilities at this Fortune 500 provider of software for enterprise information management.  * Perform standard database administrator duties such as software installation, patching, upgrades and upgrades.  * Directs the deployment of Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c and 13c, as well as Management Agents, on all operating systems, and serves as an invaluable source of support for clients experiencing issues in development and production environments.  * Assists customers in the setup and management of database security by creating new users, roles, profiles and provides required user privileges in development, test and production environments.  * Supported system administration groups with maintaining oracle database servers and in pre-production, test, training, and development environments  * Provides guidance to clients on the installation and patching of Databases, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control and associated components; furnishes information and patches to clients to resolve issues with databases, Oracle management services, and monitoring agents.  * Performed backup and recovery tasks on Oracle database using RMAN and cold backups using shell scripts  * Uses Oracle Enterprise Manager to set up alerts to notify clients of critical issues.  * Leads the upgrade of Oracle Management Server and the Management Repository, from versions 11g, 12c to 13c. Also Upgrades plug-ins deployed to Management Services and Management Agents to newer versions.  * Ensures the availability of at least one Oracle Management Server at all times by configuring Oracle Management Service High Availability using Data Guard and RAC Database instances  * Creates standby databases using EM Console wizard.  * Resolves bottlenecks in all database environments. Scope of responsibilities include database creation, backup/recovery using RMAN, tuning/reorganization, user and security management, auditing, cloning, general troubleshooting, and configuring servers.  * Maintains and schedules Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintains backups of Archive logs and automates the cleaning of archive logs. Deploys RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalogs.  * Performs incremental backups, and complete and incomplete recovery using the Recovery Manager (RMAN) utility.  * Maintains knowledge and experience on cross platform Database Migration.  * Applied quarterly CPU Patches. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Corporate Express - Broomfield, CO 2014 to 2016 * Led the installation and administration of Oracle 11g databases across production, development, and test environments in line with the needs of projects at this provider of office and computer products. Responsible for performance tuning and the monitoring of users and tablespaces.  * Provided database-related services to the development and QA environments.  * Installed and configured Real Application Server on various nodes with automatic storage management.  * Maintained accountability for database security, with the authority to define roles and privileges to users. Planned and executed database backups and defined the formal backup methodology for the company.  * Partnered with the Unix System Administrator to define and configure software and hardware requirements to support integration with the Oracle database. Authored SQL scripts to build tables, views, and sequences.  * Upgraded Oracle 10g database version to 11g, followed by the upgrade of Oracle 11g database version to 12c version.  * Good experience of Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Server) on different nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  * Led refreshes of the development and test databases from production using a combination of RMAN backups and export/import operations.  * As required, maximized the performance of databases by sizing database objects to maximize the use of space; led defragmentation operations on tables and indexes.  * Led the upgrade of databases from Oracle 11g to non-CDB 12c, and migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  * Created Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security.  * Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  * Maintained and scheduled Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintains backups of Archive logs and automates the cleaning of archive logs. Deployed RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalogs.  * Upgraded Oracle ASM by running an Oracle Grid Infrastructure upgrade. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR TCF Bank - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2014 * Assigned to this financial services institution to install, configure, and maintain Oracle 10g and 11gR2 databases on a Linux system; responsible for tracking tablespace growth and data file growth. Led user management, space management, database security management.  * Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  * Contributed to the import and export of database objects from one database to another and table backup operations. Cloned and migrated databases using RMAN and Data Pump utilities.  * Maximized performance by tracking CPU usage, I/O contention, and memory paging, identifying and removing resource and performance bottlenecks. Identified queries with a high response time and high disk read per execution in order to guide performance tuning.  * Served as an invaluable resource for 24/7 support for all production and development databases.  * Experience as an On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  * Monitored physical I/O and proper sizing of rollback segments.  * Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem-solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  * Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2. JUNIOR ORACLE DBA Allstate Insurance 2012 to 2013 * Responsible for continuous Monitoring of CPU usage, I/O contention, memory paging and identify the resource and performance bottleneck and reorganization for ensuring performance.  * Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in the event of crashes and media/disk failures by using RMAN.  * Installed and ran health monitoring and dial up connection reporting modules on client sub systems in order to receive alerts on communications failures.  * Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  * Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity. Education B.S. in Information Systems and Cyber Security Columbia Southern University Skills DBA, Oracle Dba Links http://www.linkedin.com/feed