SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Houston, TX An Experience SQL DBA committed to data integrity, with hands-on experience on production  servers using performance tuning tools such as SQL profiler, DTA, experience on SQL server  replication, Backup/Restore, Disaster Recovery and Capacity Planning, Log Shipping, ETL  Tools, Database Mirroring, AlwaysOn and Availability Groups. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator ZHILL SYSTEMS, TX November 2017 to Present • Installation, configuration and upgrading of SQL Server 2014, 2016 with service packs  • Installed SQL 2012/2014 with AlwaysOn (2&3 Replicas)  • Good hands on issues with the AlwaysOn  • Build Cluster 2 node and 3 node with Active-Active and Active-Passive.  • Well equipped with the working knowledge of application development life cycle  methodologies, database and application performance tuning.  • Expert in installation MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008 Databases  • Experience in Planning and executing Disaster Recovery (DR) exercises on the DR  servers.  • Experience in setting up High Availability environment like Active-Active and Active- Passive clustering, Database Mirroring, Replication (Snapshot, merge. Transactional  • Responsible to follow the company's guidelines / regulations (SLA) to ensure company  data is held in a secure manner, both electronic access and written format.  • Experience in configuring report using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) for the management  • Experience in using SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to copy, import or migrate  data from different platforms (Maximo and Ms Dynamix)  • Experience in using Import and Export Wizard to move data from multiple tables or files  • Gathering data requirements and designing and fine-tuning of databases according to client's requirements  • Complete Administration of MS SQL Server Databases is my primary responsibility,  increasing the server availability time with optimum level of database, recoverability by incorporating the SQL Server Differential backup and Transaction Log backup. SQL Server DBA PROSERVE MARKETING LLC April 2015 to October 2017 Installation, configuration and upgrading of SQL Server 2008/2008R2, 2012 with service  packs and hot fixes.  • Upgrading SQL Server 2008/2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 (Side by side upgrade)  • Providing on-call support during business hours.  • Monitoring Daily backup jobs and automation of daily restores of deployment databases.  • Monitoring the disk space of all the Servers.  • Configuring and monitoring Database mirroring on Disaster recovery Servers.  • Database snapshot creation for the synchronized databases for Reporting Purposes.  • Capturing the events using SQL Profiler for poor performance queries, deadlocks and blocks and studying the execution plans and fine tuning the applications.  • Disaster Recovery setup and testing it in regular intervals.  • Automating Server-Side Tracing in SQL Server and identifying SQL Server performance  issues, by analyzing Profiler output.  • Reporting and resolving serious SQL server alerts.  • Implement and maintain database Security (Create and maintain users and roles, assign  privileges)  • Working with workflows for any changes on staging and development environment.  Involved in the internal and external audits and participating in the business continuity  plans of the company  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access SQL Server DBA MACQUARIE GROUP - London October 2013 to February 2015 • Migrating/refreshing databases  • Supporting database structure changes and data changes for Application development/  testing/ deployment  • Worked with Developers and QA team to resolve any database or application issues.  • Provided ongoing maintenance of assigned systems  • Maintain data security and integrity through user authentication and authorization  • Configures and validated database backup routines and recovery of lost or corrupted data  • Developed test sets for monitoring database functionality through 24*7 monitoring  systems  • Optimized database performance through database performance tuning  • Solved the request raised by user support  • Participated in implementation of new releases into production  • Involved in Day-to-day administration of live SQL servers Education Master of Science University of Greenwich - London Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server