Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Heron Solutions Group Arlington, TX Over 6 years of hands-on experience in Oracle Database Administrator with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery using RMAN utility, Security Implementations, Database Design, Performance Monitoring & Tuning, Data Migration, Upgrades, Patching, Cloning/Refresh and Replication, OEM, Oracle RDBMS, Data Guard, RAC. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities in English. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA Heron Solutions Group - Atlanta, GA February 2016 to Present Implementation and Installation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 12c, 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Database (Active Data Guard), Disaster Recovery  Involved in Design and implementation of oracle 11g Data Guard both physical/logical Standby databases for high availability and disaster recovery.  Installation and configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager  Implemented Monitoring Templates and Incident Rule notifications using OEM for database alerting.  Ensure system integrity, efficiency and performance through management of core system resources (CPU/Memory/IO Performance)  Worked extensively on OEM and configured DB alerts for DBA  Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views & Query Re-Write.  Supported functional data warehouse projects.  Deploy bug fixes, patches and security updates to ensure system readiness, performance, resource.  Data migration, Cloning/Refresh, Backup and Recover using RMAN utility  Tablespace and User Management  Installation, Configuration, Upgrade, patching of Oracle RDBMS and applications Work on different versions of Databases with OEM Grid control to maintain the database effectively.  Configured different levels of replication such as DDL replication, DML replication for table level, schema level, database level using Oracle Streams.  Query optimization, PL/SQL Performance Tuning using Oracle Cost based Optimization techniques, Trace, Hints. SQL, PL/SQL and UNIX shell scripting.  Monitored the Applications and database using OEM, PATROL(BMC Tool)  Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams.  Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  Built 2 node RAC 11gr2 Standby database and set up DG Broker  Setup of High Availability of the database using RAC, Standby, Data guard.  Provide 24X7 support for Oracle 10g/11g/12c databases on windows/Linux platforms  DBA activities such as configuring Grid events, Regular Backup's, Replication, Tuning, and troubleshooting performance issues.  Advanced Backup and Recovery using Oracle RMAN utility  Provide development and production support related to database  Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  Design, development, testing, performance tuning, deployment, and support in Data warehouse system  Upgrade of database (10g to 11g and 11g to 12c) and applying patches whenever required Oracle Database Administrator EchoStar Corporation - Suwanee, GA May 2013 to August 2016 Responsibility  Perform maintenance of the data backup systems.  Deploy bug fixes, patches and security updates to ensure system readiness, performance, resource  Gather data pertaining to client needs, and use the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements  Monitor server performance, network capacity, and security issues.  Assist with audits on existing software to verify authorized use and license certification  Remain up-to-date on products available in the market; support new technologies.  Disaster Recovery Testing; working with multiple departments in testing disaster recovery plans.  Monitored backup operations, and schedules manual backups as needed  Perform installations and configurations of grid infrastructure, databases, clients and much more.  Create and monitor roles and profiles, audit users  Researched, tested, and made recommendations of data validation tools  Provides recommendations to management on behalf of the team  Developing functional process diagrams for Oracle database services.  Providing support to developers working on SQL, including development of best practices, hands on demos, and knowledge transfer  Assisting with procurement of hardware, software, and services  Monitor Oracle trends for hardware, system and user load utilization  Ensure system integrity, efficiency and performance through management of core system resources (CPU/Memory/IO Performance)  Assess and perform systems utilization and headroom reports to assist in troubleshooting and performance tuning  Perform database upgrade from 10.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.4  Evaluate and manage existing software and licensing configurations, systems and the design, implementation and management of new/improved systems  Provide 24X7 support for Oracle 10g/11g/12c databases on windows/Linux platforms  Responded to and resolved database access and performance issues.  Performed capacity planning of Oracle server environment and provides recommendations to management to sustain business growth.  Experience of working on Oracle 9i/10/g/11g server infrastructures  Schedule jobs using various Oracle tools such as Oracle OEM, DBMS JOBS and SCHEDULER Education BSc. in Computer & Business Information Systems Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Osun Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, RDMS, SQL, LINUX, RED HAT, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, RMAN, VM, OEM, CONFIDENT, WRITTEN AND VERBAL, TEAM PLAYER, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD, Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present