IT User Support Supervisor IT User Support Supervisor IT User Support Supervisor Bellevue, WA I'm an Information Technology Administrator with 7+ years of demonstrated success in management, software administration, project management, AS400 administration, SQL DBA, and many other positions within the IT department. Provide leadership and direction to the IT Team. I started at the bank in the Data Processing department & assisted IT with the implementation of the branch capture system. Then IT had a position open as a IT Support Representative & asked if I'd apply. That was the start of my IT career. I worked in many various positions within the IT department, growing my knowledge along the way, ending as the Technical Applications Administrator and IT User Support Supervisor. I also have 4 years of Project Management & Business analyst as part of the primary team during the banks core conversion followed by the bank merger/acquisition to Columbia Bank. This included the evaluation process to implementing applications, processes & procedures bank wide. My team & myself also processed all user security setup, modifies & deletes within all applications, from Active Directory to End User Applications.    I was nominated to the Council of Excellence - The Council of Excellence works with the CEO to provide feedback and implement initiatives that reinforce the bank's culture and core values. They are responsible for carrying out Employee Appreciation Day, administering the Employee Recognition Program and assisting Managers in welcoming new employees. You must be nominated for the position and can only server 3 years. I was honored to be nominated 3 years in a row, serving my full term. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT User Support Supervisor Panhandle State Bank - Sandpoint, ID 2007 to May 2015 • Assist and guide the IT Service Reps in appropriate handling of telephone calls, email and personnel requests for technical support.  • Provide support to end users on a variety of complex issues.  • Troubleshoot and answer questions regarding passwords, user access and title changes.  • Identify, research, and resolve complex technical problems. Recommend and/or implement course of action to resolve recurring issues.  • Document, track and monitor the problem to ensure a timely resolution and fully document them in the cSupport online tracking software.  • Provide Training programs that increase employee's efficiency. Train on new processes and procedures. Guide staff to develop protocol for handling of technical issues.  • Manage department and bank wide projects.  • Responsible for compliance with all applicable banking regulations, state and federal statutes, regulations and laws, and Bank policies and procedures as relates to specific job responsibilities and job function.  • Participate in all required compliance training within the assigned timeframes.  • Ensure all staff within area of responsibility complete required compliance training, understand and comply with all applicable banking regulations, state and federal statutes, regulations and laws, and Bank policies and procedures as relates to each employee's job responsibilities and job function. Technical Application Administrator Panhandle State Bank - Sandpoint, ID 2007 to May 2015 • Ensure that all releases for bank products are current and functioning. Contact product vendor for product specifications. Prep servers and verify all specs are met. Test releases before customer use. Install update/Release.  • Lead and manage system conversions/migrations for acquired/merged banks.  • Research, troubleshoot, and resolve system related problems. Act as liaison between branch personnel, administrative employees, and the IT department to communicate user requirements, problems, and resolutions.  • Communicate with vendors to research and resolve operational problems; submit work orders as necessary and communicate bids for custom work to appropriate employees.  • Attend vendor conferences to stay current on system functionality and participate in the enhancement submission processes and focus groups.  • Coordinate with the appropriate personnel to educate employees on new processes and software applications.  • Oversee service quality to ensure Service Level Standards are met and exceeded to the extent possible.  • Assist in the creation and maintenance of department procedures to ensure they are complete and current.  • Responsible for compliance with all applicable banking regulations, state and federal statutes, regulations and laws, and Bank policies and procedures as relates to specific job responsibilities and job function.  • Participate in all required compliance training within the assigned timeframes.  • Provide backup protection and maintenance for disaster recovery.  • Responsible for reviewing new technology, analyzing effectiveness for bank use and providing recommendations.  • Responsible for Software, Backups, upgrades, patches implementation and general Maintenance of LOB applications  • Oversee the creation and maintenance of department procedures to ensure they are complete and current.  • Manage vendor relationships which include regular communication, evaluating and obtaining quotes for new services, approving invoices, monitoring and managing expenses, and coordinating implementations or upgrades of software and products. 400 and Database Administrator Panhandle State Bank - Sandpoint, ID 2008 to 2010 Used a wide variety of techniques and tools in the development and unit testing of software applications, including: software tools, analysis and design techniques, database management systems, middleware and data access and retrieval programs. On call and 24/7 availability of systems IT Service Rep Panhandle State Bank - Sandpoint, ID May 2007 to December 2007 • Provide support services to end users as a first level problem identification and resolution resource including answering questions, providing advice, and troubleshooting.  • Coordinate user problem resolution with appropriate IT staff. May perform all or some of these functions at any given time depending on department or bank needs:  ? Respond to cSupport tickets, telephone calls, department personnel and other requests regarding technical problems.  ? Identify problem, provide resolution or research and refer to appropriate IT personnel if necessary.  ? Resolve complex IT issues by troubleshooting problem, researching, or contacting third party vendors.  ? Recommend and/or implement course of action to resolve recurring issues.  ? Document, track and monitor the problem to ensure a timely resolution. Document in the cSupport online tracking software.  ? Set up and manage new user accounts on network and AS400.  ? Perform new hire orientation on applicable software and hardware.  ? Manage installation of new software.  ? Resolve Jack Henry system problems with 4Sight, Silverlake and Synergy.  ? Ensure security protocol is followed on folders.  ? Travel to branches to assist with user support problems.  ? Purchase and evaluate pricing on all bank desktop IT products.  ? Complete RMAs (Return Manufacturing) on all repairs.  ? Conduct IT inventory of desktops, monitors, printers etc.  ? Responsible for bank printers' performance. Work with vendors on printer issues.  ? Image and prepare all desk and laptops before issuing to users. Disburse all bank computers.  ? Build and manage servers and operating systems. Education Some college Skills DISASTER RECOVERY (8 years), MAINTENANCE (8 years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT (8 years), DISASTER RECOVERY PLANNING (Less than 1 year), EXCHANGE (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, MAC, Active Directory, Help Desk, Service Desk Additional Information Experience in various operating systems On-call experience  Quality communication Enterprise technologies  Team building/leadership Optimizing and performance tuning  Excellent problem-solving abilities Strong troubleshooting skills  Hands-on and proactive Data backup/retrieval  Comfortable with change Excellent communication skills  Create/Update processes and procedures Multiple Jack Henry applications  Cross tier components implementation Multiple FIS applications  Computer applications Server Management  System upgrades  System backups  Various computer systems  Strong project management skills  Remote access technology  Troubleshooting Windows, Microsoft products, servers on many levels, and many other banking program    Technical Skills    • Microsoft server 2003 and 2008  • Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10  • Microsoft Exchange Server  • Microsoft SQL Server  • VMWare configuration, administration and maintenance  • Experience backing up, restoring, supporting, upgrading, and conversions on all LOB Applications  • AS|400 Administrator  • Technical Application Administrator - full list of applications can be provide upon request  • Technical Management    • Technical Support to all customers, both internally and externally to the bank  • Sharepoint  • Information Technology Solutions  • System Implementation  • Disaster Recovery Planning  • Self-starter with the ability to independently resolve problems  • Ability to perform effectively in a fast paced environment with short timelines  • Ability to maintain high quality of work while supporting multiple critical project