MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - AAA Carolinas Charlotte, NC Over 5+ years of experience as Microsoft SQL Database Administrator having hands on experience in MS SQL database Development/administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, high availability solutions, database security, migration and documentation.  ? Excellent knowledge on database administration on complex databases of SQL Server,2017, 2016, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2012 and 2008 R2 with experience within very large-scale database environment.  ? Installed, Configured, and Maintained SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2 in development, test and production environment  ? Experience in writing stored procedures, Functions, triggers views etc.  ? Hands on experience in test, production and development databases.  ? Proficient in database design for OLTP and OLAP.  ? Extensive experience in Backup and Recovery of Databases based on the RTO and RPO of the company.  ? Expertise in supporting client server GUI software and Operating system.  ? Created development, testing, staging, production and standby databases.  ? Extensive experience in database security and protect the data from SQL injection  ? Migrated existing databases into Azure cloud platform.  ? Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in Operating System Tuning, SQL Tuning, Database, profiler and extended events.  ? Experienced in performance Tuning, Query Optimization, using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and other related monitoring and Troubleshooting tools.  ? Experience in data migration using Database Migration Wizard, attach and detach, backup and restore.  ? Implemented automated backup strategy using database maintenance task and ssis.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security and creating database and server level roles.  ? Experience in applying security patches to the databases.  ? Effective troubleshooting of database and Performance problems.  ? Configured and Managed High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Solutions (Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always On, Clustering, and Replication), TDE (Transparent Data Encryption).  ? Developed various Transact-SQL (T-SQL) stored procedures, triggers, views and adding and changing tables for data load, transformation and extraction  ? Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  ? Experience with partitioned schemas and tables, creating File groups using SQL Server.  ? Experience in SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client Connectivity and Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC.  ? Experience in Administering SQL Server security by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring user accounts, granting privileges to users and groups.  ? Detail oriented and good documentation skill.  ? Experience in using Eclipse, NetBeans. Git and GitHub, SSMS, VC code etc.  ? Extensive knowledge of SQL Architecture, parsing and algebraizing process.  ? Experience in SSIS for ETL processes. SSRS.  ? Extensive Experience in using PowerShell, Git and GitHub, SSMS, VC code etc.  ? Experience working with in SDLC, STLC in Agile with Scrum environment.  ? Experience working in a Microsoft Azure Environment  ? Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical skills, Documentation & Problem-solving skills, Good co- ordination and communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development team.  ? Experience working with HTML, CSS, Java, C++  ? Experience working with SCRUM Agile Environment  ? SDLC, STLC.  ? Redgate, SolarWinds for database performance analyzer  ? Knowledge and experience in Microsoft AZURE. Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator AAA Carolinas - Charlotte, NC February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Daily database administration tasks including scheduling backup, verifying night backups and recovery.  ? Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of databases.  ? Successfully upgraded SQL server 2008 to 2016.  ? Worked as a part of team in Data warehouse developing project.  ? Involved in Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2016.  ? 24x7 remote support and on call Database support for Database developers & end-users.  ? Involved in Database design and architecture, SQL server performance optimization, Scripting on Stored Procedures, Triggers, Index's, Views etc. using T-SQL.  ? Involvement on performance Tuning, complex query tuning and Schema refinements  ? Involvement on Disaster Recovery Strategies design, and involvement on monitoring, troubleshooting and managing issues and problems related with Replication, especially on Transactional Replication and other tolerance capabilities including Failover Clustering, Mirroring and Log shipping  ? Experienced in implementing SQL Database advanced security practices.  ? Created File groups, Table Partitioning, and created Index  ? Database Sizing, Tablespace Management, Transaction Management and Security Administration.  ? Created Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigned users to groups and granted privileges and permissions to appropriate groups.  ? Automated backups for the Production and Test Databases using maintenance plans.  ? Automation of SQL Server Administration.  ? Experienced in Design, implementation and generating documentation of SQL Server on both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  ? SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, profile and extended events.  ? Experienced in performance Tuning, Query Optimization, using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and other related monitoring and Troubleshooting tools.  ? Installed, Configured, and Administered Database Mirroring, Always On, and Replication as High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Solutions  ? Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups based on the SLA  ? Assisted SQL developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  ? Expertise in recovering the database. Performed complete recovery and data file recovery  ? Experienced in Database Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  ? Applying security patches both Server side and Client side and Performed testing.  ? Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc.  ? Experience in using Git and GitHub, SSMS, SSDT, Slack etc.    Environment: SQL, SQL 2008R2, 2012, 2014, and 2016. Junior SQL DBA AT&T - Los Angeles, CA February 2014 to January 2017 Description:  Responsibilities:    • Daily database administration tasks including scheduling backup, verifying night backups and recovery.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of databases.  • Successfully upgraded and managed SQL server 2005/2008/2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2014 databases in Production, QA and development environments and mentored other technical staff.  • Involved in Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2012, 2014.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support for Database developers & end-users.  • Experienced in implementing SQL Database advanced security practices.  • Created File groups, Table Partitioning, and created Index  • Database Sizing, Tablespace Management, Transaction Management and Security Administration.  • Created Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigned users to groups and granted privileges and permissions to appropriate groups.  • Automated backups for the Production and Test Databases using power shell and maintenance plans.  • Experienced in Design, implementation and generating documentation of SQL Server on both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, profile and extended events.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Expertise in recovering the database. Performed complete recovery and data file recovery  • Experienced in Database Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  • Applying security patches both Server side and Client side and Performed testing.  • Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc. YAYOBE IT Solutions Los Angeles CA - Los Angeles, CA 2012 to 2014 • Environment: TSQL, Microsoft Windows 2010, Microsoft Windows 2008, Microsoft SQL Server 2014, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Windows 2003 Server, MS Office, Import/Export, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, SQL Profiler, SQL, SQL 208R2, 2012, and 2014, Windows, TOAD, MS Office, Import/Export    YAYOBE IT Solutions Los Angeles CA. Database Administrator Intern YAYOBE IT Solutions Los Angeles CA June 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Develops and maintains new and existing database systems.  ? Proactively pursues development opportunities, learns existing environment and processes and exhibits progress on learning plan.  ? Builds strong internal and external partnerships.  ? Actively supports strategic future, culture and leadership practices.  ? Creates and maintains basic to moderately complex database systems for the benefit of internal and external customers.  ? Assists in the development of technical database design documents.  ? Provides initial unit testing of all database development and enhancements with the goal of providing a stable production environment while optimized for end-user performance.  ? Utilizes change management software and follow all change management processes.  ? Builds and maintains database systems in such a way that exceeds regulatory requirements. Security is a critical design requirement and data, systems, and applications must be protected at all points of the development lifecycle.  ? Learns key processes that support the database environment. Shadows team members to learn existing processes; uses tools necessary to learn and document those processes with the goal of being able to play a role in a production support rotation.  ? Identifies development opportunities and works with manager to establish learning focus and learning plan.  ? Manages learning plan and reports on progress during one-on-ones with supervisor.  Environment: TSQL, Microsoft Windows 2008, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2, Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Alemaya University Skills Sql Server, ETL, Sql Dba Links https://github.com/zinaw2017.com