Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Iowa Foundation for Medical Care Washington, DC Database Administrator with five(5) years of experience. I possess complete life cycle knowledge including Installation and configuration. Worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g as well as MS Sql Server(2012, 2014 and 2016). Daily database administration tasks include production support, database upgrades, patch administration, migration, installation and configuration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, database cloning, and security management.    * Five (5) years of experience in the IT Field with experience in development, test, QA and Production databases.  * Five (5) years of experience administrating Oracle 11g Release 2 and Oracle 10g, Over three (3) years working on 12c multitenant databases  * Five (5) years of strong experience with Performance Tuning using tools such as ADDM, SQL TUNING ADVISOR, AWR, ASH, SQL ACCESS ADVISOR, and IGNITE  * Five(5) years of experience with database UPGRADES and PATCHING 12c, 11g, 10g.  * Five(5) years of expertise experience in Installation, Configuration and administration of Oracle Primary and Standby (Data guard) Database and Failover/Switchover/Switchback of Database on 10GR2/ 11GR2  * Five (5) years of experience with Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Encryption  * Five (5) year of experience on Oracle Goldengate 11g unidirectional Configuration -Oracle source and target replication setup and administration as well as documenting all the steps  * Five (5) years of extensive experience of proactive monitoring and identifying areas that need to be tuned to improve performance in the application and database using 11g/10g OEM Grid Monitoring.  * Five (5) years of experience in Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  * Five (5)years implementing and planning Backup and Recovery strategies using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Performed block recovery, datafiles and database recovery using RMAN, Point-in-Time Recovery, and Flashback Technologies option.  * Two (2) years of Installation and configuration of Oracle 11g RAC using Cluster ware and ASM.  * Experience in very large-scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  * Experience in tuning database in RAC / Non-RAC environment for better performance.  * Five (5) years of experience in upgrading and migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, Transportable Table Spaces (TTS), Data Pump utilities.  * Developed Shell Scripts, Crontab and SQL Scripts to carry out routine checks on databases. Experience in using SQL, PL/ SQL procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  * One (1) years of experience working on MS Sql Server (2012, 2014 and 2016)-installation and administration. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Iowa Foundation for Medical Care - West Des Moines, IA July 2016 to Present DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production environments, involving daily configuration, administration- Database sizes ranging from 80GB to 4TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  ? Supported 100+ databases including production databases, a Data warehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases.  ? Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  ? Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 11g to 12c  ? Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.  ? Implemented Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis as per development and test servers.  ? Effectively deployed active data guard standby on 11g database for test and production environments and performed switchover drills for immediate availability.  ? Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  ? Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  ? Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  ? Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL Backtrack.  ? Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, SQL TRACE and SQLT  ? Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  ? Applied database patches using Opatch utility & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  ? Maintained and monitored various production servers with Oracle 11g R1, 11g R2, 10g, and Exadata servers.  ? Scheduled database maintenance tasks such as tables/indexes analysis, index rebuild, materialized views refresh and db exports.  ? Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  ? Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  ? Implemented and configured of Oracle Enterprise manager OEM 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases.  ? Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  ? Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  ? Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? Installed and administered SQL Server databases required for development, testing, education and production usage. Oracle Database Administrator State Farm - Phoenix, AZ December 2014 to May 2016 Running scripts and monitoring the load process to avoid any issues in ETL jobs running for a long duration.  ? Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion or necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  ? Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases. Installed Oracle 10g and 11g on multiple platforms.  ? Performed up-gradation of 10g to 11g.  ? Performed traditional Cold backup in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as logical exports.  ? Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  ? Automated routine DBA tasks like backup's and stats by using Grid control job's  ? Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications. Administration of RAC and DATAGUARD databases in Oracle 11g.  ? Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  ? Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  ? Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes. Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  ? Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  ? Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  ? Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & QA.  ? Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  ? Applied various database / applications PSU / CPU patches as required. Also applied monthly vertex updates.  ? Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.  ? Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage database growth.  ? Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability.  ? Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  ? Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  ? Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 10g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts.  Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions Education Bachelor's Skills Aix (5 years), Cisco (Less than 1 year), oracle Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Hp-ux (5 years), Linux (5 years), Loader (5 years), Ms sql server (1 year), Ms sql server 2012 (1 year), Oem (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Oracle 10g (5 years), Rman (5 years), Solaris (5 years), Sql (5 years), Sql server (1 year), Sql server 2012 (1 year), Unix (5 years), Ux (Less than 1 year), Oracle Dba