Program Director Program Director Work Experience Program Director Todd Lastrapes Memorial Foundation - Opelousas, LA December 2018 to Present • Plans and executes programs for a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Researches and applies for funding. Business Operations Specialist KAIROS CAPITAL, LLC (formerly Bedrock Management Solutions) - Kennesaw, GA April 2017 to November 2018 • Led property management personnel to identify, minimize and resolve operational risks.  • Reduced manual invoice entries by 75% and improved monthly financial report generation by 80% through process improvement.  • Assisted accounting with accounts receivables, invoice payment processing and monthly financial reports.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve payment and billing issues. Program Manager, Grants & Outcomes PRIME ONCOLOGY - Atlanta, GA October 2016 to April 2017 • Analyzed data and generated outcome reports for medical education programs to meet closeout timelines.   • Prepared and submitted grant proposals for oncology educational programs. Compliance Program Manager / Administrator CONISUS, LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2012 to December 2015 • Managed development and implementation of an ethical company-wide compliance program to meet guidelines for operation and reporting of multi-client, multi-million dollar annual programs.  • Standardized and documented processes for data collection and analysis, document storage and program reconciliation for 10k+ annual programs.  • Initiated audit processes, reducing program closeouts from 60+ days to 30 days.  • Audited data and generated monthly transparency reports for multiple clients, meeting reporting deadlines 100% of the time.  • Rewrote design requirements and performed UAT for reports, optimizing run time to create real-time report generation instead of overnight execution. Database Administrator CONISUS, LLC - Atlanta, GA September 2011 to June 2012 • Validated and maintained company database of 10,000+ healthcare providers. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Tulane University - Opelousas, LA Skills Data management, Documentation, Excel, Written and verbal, Governance, Time Management, Outlook, Microsoft Excel, Project Coordination, Account Reconciliation, Property Management Additional Information SKILLS  • Advanced Microsoft Word and Excel  • Compliance  • Data Management & Governance  • Reporting  • Project Management  • Documentation  • Written and Verbal Communication  • Technology Savvy