Security Controls Assessor Security Controls Assessor Security Controls Assessor - Environmental Protection Agency Owings Mills, MD A skilled and extremely organized Security Professional who can adjust quickly to new technologies, environments, procedures and get the job done in a gamut of situations including interfacing with business, and stake holders in a challenging environment. Work Experience Security Controls Assessor Environmental Protection Agency - Raleigh, NC August 2018 to Present Conduct comprehensive assessments of the management, operational and technical security controls employed within or inherited by the system to determine the overall effectiveness of the control and ensure that the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.  ? Conduct security assessments on assigned systems and collaborate with clients to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure, network security operations, and Continuous Monitoring processes.  ? Collaborate with ISSOs to ensure systems are properly categorized, their controls selected and implemented based on the systems categorization level.  ? Create, update, and revise System Security Plans, FISMA, Contingency Plans, Incident Reports and Plan of Action & Milestone  ? Participate in A&A Kick-off Meeting and populate the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) per NIST SP 800-53A  ? Document and finalize security Assessment Report (SAR) in preparation for ATO  ? Collaborate with SOC engineers to perform continuous monitoring of systems to ensure security and compliance.  ? Determine security controls effectiveness (i.e., controls implemented correctly, operating as intended, and meeting security requirements).  ? Evaluate threats and vulnerabilities based on Nessus tenable reports and also Implement Risk Management Framework (RMF) in accordance with NIST SP 800-37.  ? Classification and categorization of information Systems using the RMF processes to ensure system Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability.  ? Provide audit briefings to agency and Information Systems Security Officer's (ISSO), to assist in the preparation of independent audit assessments with the agency's goal of improving their operational effectiveness and ensuring that all findings are documented as Plan of Action & Milestones. Security Controls Assessor Riley Technologies - Mooresville, NC July 2016 to July 2018 Serves as an assessor for the program and making sure that Security Control Assessments and other advanced-level Continuous Monitoring Activities are implemented in the environment.  ? Provide professional and security based assistance to the incident response team to ensure that security controls are adhered to as stipulated in security policies and procedures.  ? Validate respective system security plans to ensure that security control requirements are effectively implemented in the environment.  ? Coordinate with system engineers to monitor, investigate, log and report systems activities resulting from unauthorized access and possible modification of sensitive data.  ? Collaborate with business and stakeholders to develop security control authorization documentations needed to authorize system operations.  ? Collaborate with SOC engineers to scan the environment for possible vulnerabilities using tools like nessus and others  ? Experience researching and giving recommendations associated with findings on how to improve the customer's security posture in accordance with NIST controls.  ? Monitors and assesses selected security controls in the environment on continuous bases to make sure that changes are authorized and documented.  ? Work with stake holders to develop system contingency plan and ensures that the plan is tested, authorized and maintained..  ? Strong written and verbal communication skills including the ability to explain technical matters to a non-technical audience.  ? Flexibility to adjust quickly to multiple demands, shifting priorities to meet business needs and standards. Database Administrator Acethia LLC MD February 2015 to June 2016 Supporting dev, test and production databases on windows environment  ? Monitoring and supporting ColdFusion databases using the FusionReactor  ? Installation and patching of Enterprise Manager 13c on Windows environment  ? Refreshing Production data to the Test and Dev environment  ? Handling the upgrade of PHP for the Linux Environment where Drupal was installed  ? Wrote documentation for steps and processes used  ? Backup and recovery using RMAN  ? RMAN active cloning  ? Monitoring CPU and memory usage  ? Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  ? Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  ? Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering the tables dropped accidentally, recovering data files, recovering from Block Corruption) from previous RMAN backups.  ? Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, standalone database  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  ? Worked on maintaining Container Databases (CDB) and Pluggable Databases (PDB) when necessary Oracle Database Administrator Lolubyte IT Consulting LLC MD May 2014 to January 2015 Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux Red Hate and Windows environments.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases using the opatch utility.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  ? Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  ? Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using UNIX/SHELL scripts and scheduling in the crontab.  ? Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints and business rules.  ? Installed and configured Oracle OEM 12C on test environments. Used OEM extensively to monitor the general health and troubleshoot/diagnose problems in the environment both on server, database level and most importantly at the Sql level to identify and subpar Sql queries.  ? Configuring custom metrics, monitoring templates and alerts set up based on individual dba preference and tailored to application requirements.  ? reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  ? Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, standalone database  ? Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server  ? Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  ? Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups.  ? Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  ? Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system.  ? Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of Oracle OLTP.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g /10g, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Education Bachelor's Skills Security, Database, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Backups, Business continuity, Iso, Iso 27001, Nist, Pci, Vpn, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Shell scripts Additional Information Summary of Skills  ? Acquainted in FISMA, NIST and FIPS publications. Especially NIST 800-37, NIST 800-53 Rev 4, NIST 800-53A  ? Knowledgeable in the ISO 27001 Framework used in securing systems in international organizations  ? Conversant in the PCI DSS Framework used in security systems in the Financial industry  ? Knowledgeable in vulnerability management and compliance regulations  ? Experienced in the NIST RMF process used for managing cyber security risk  ? Ability to adapt in a fast paced and time sensitive environment  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills in designing, developing, and implementing security standards.  ? Highly organized, Self-motivated and responsible for assigned tasks.    Areas of Security Expertise  Assessment and Authorization (A&A) FISMA, NIST , OMB Regulations  Risk Management Framework (RMF) NIST Special Publications (NIST SP)  Security Categorization (SC) Continuous Monitoring (CM)  Security Assessment Reporting (SAR) Systems Security Plans (SSP)  Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM) Information System Security Officer (ISSO)  Areas of Database Expertise  ? Excellent experience in managing large-scale OLTP databases in HA and DR setup.  ? Experience in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance Oracle Standby/Data Guard.  ? Experience in migration/consolidation of databases using Oracle 12c multitenant.  ? Setup maintenance of Data Guard for DR and reporting purpose with various modes.  ? Planned, Installed and Configured Golden Gate setup for unidirectional replication.  ? Performed, developed and maintained database backup and recovery using RMAN.  ? Refreshing/Cloning databases for the testing/developing purpose  ? Experience in install and support OEM Grid control 10G/11G/12c.  ? Expert in Backup & Recovery using Data Pump, Hot, Cold, Logical and RMAN  ? Executed and implemented user helpdesk tickets of various issues via REMEDY database from creating user accounts, read-only accounts on a database & table down to assisting them with logging into the database. Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  ? Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  ? Experience in Data Migrations.  ? Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  ? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  ? Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  ? Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  ? Developed Shell Scripts to Automate RMAN Backups, Hot/Cold backups, Imp/Exp, Datapump and Schema Refresh, and Production to Dev/Stage Sync up etc.  ? Expertise in Performing Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.    Technical Skills  Operating Systems:  Linux Red Hat 4, 5. Windows 2008, 2010. HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris, AIX 5.x, 6.x Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10.  Versions:  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  Tools:  EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and TKPROF. Toad, Putty, NX client, WinSCP, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Cisco VPN Client, secureVPN  Utilities/Tools:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, FusionReactor, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import