SQL Server DBA and ETL Developer SQL Server DBA and ETL Developer SQL Server DBA and ETL Developer Work Experience SQL Server DBA and ETL Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2018 to July 2019 * Experience in Error handling and debugging coding issues and troubleshoot production problems.  * Extensive Experience in RDBMS concepts such as Tables, User Defined Data Types, Indexes, Indexed Views, Functions, CTE's, Table Variables and Stored Procedures.  * Experience in SQL Optimizing by using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, Database Tuning Advisor, DBCC Commands, DMV's, DMFs and Query Execution Plans.  * Expert in Extracting and Transforming data (ETL) from various heterogeneous sources and creating packages using SSIS /DTS, Import, Export Data, Bulk Insert and BCP utilities.  * Hands on experience with performing various SSIS data transformation tasks like Look-ups, Fuzzy Look-ups, Conditional Splits and Event Handlers, Error Handlers etc.  * Great Expertise in creating and managing Event Handlers, Package Configurations, Logging, System and User defined Variables for SSIS Packages.  * analyze problems as assigned and provide solutions to address business needs.  * Add a Login, role to a SQL Server and create a user account, manage SQL Server Agent, Configuring Server Level Settings, Configuring Database Mail.  * Perform data loads and routine updates on an ongoing basis. Created files, views, tables and data sets to support Sales Operations large data volumes and partitioning,  * Developed database application forms using MS Access in coordination with SQL tables and stored procedures.  * Involved in creating database objects like tables, views, procedures, triggers, and functions using T-SQL to provide definition, structure and to maintain data efficiently.  * Experience with large data volumes and partition tables into smaller tables and then use views to handle the data manipulation using data partition. SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer SCIO Health Analytics - Jacksonville, FL April 2016 to May 2018 Accountable for the consistent reliable performance of clients' 24/7 enterprise applications through the design, configuration, implementation and constant maintenance of critical SQL server systems. Provided strategic direction to a team of 10 core and application database administrators (DBA's).    Key Achievements:  * Designed and implemented the company's Disaster Recovery and High Availability Plans including Log-Shipping, Database Mirroring, Replication, SQL Server Clustering and Always-On to ensure business continuity.  * Increased network security by 85% through proper documentation of changes and creation of the Database Maintenance Plan that enforced integrity checks, database statistics update, index rebuilding and reorganization.  * Automated previously manual routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules with custom scripts.  * Optimized queries with Windows Performance monitor and SQL Profiler and resolved deadlock issues while enhancing database server performance.  * Efficiently migrated the database (utilizing different tools such as copy database wizard, detach & attach, SSIS, backup and restore etc.), performed data conversion and managed orphaned users.  * Effectively eliminated months of production server issues by systematically troubleshooting and resolving the problem with no further downtime.  * Upgraded over 25 SQL servers to the latest service pack level (from SQL server 2008r2,2012 to 2016) within a 3-month period.  * Experience in conversion of packages from legacy systems (DTS•SSIS) and migrating, deploying the packages across Dev/UAT/Prod environments.  * Expert in automating process by creating jobs and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, FTP and SMTP.  * Experience in Error handling and debugging coding issues and troubleshoot production problems.  * Worked with end users/customers to understand business requirements, recommended technical solutions and documented functional requirements.  * Ability to work on multiple tasks in a fast-paced environment independently and in a team, mentor to other team members to c follows same techniques and standards.  * Formulated and documented ETL process design based on business requirements and system specifications including source to target mappings, data dictionaries and transformations.  * Responsible for the Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data from Multiple Sources to Data Warehouse.  * Created SSIS packages to clean and load data to data warehouse and package to transfer data between OLTP and OLAP databases.  * Created complex queries to automate data profiling process needed to define the structure of the pre staging and staging area. SQL Database Administrator/Developer Branch Office Supply - Upper Marlboro, MD February 2014 to March 2016 Critical component of the Database Administration Team ensuring 24/7 production support to the clients, attending to 40 to 50 concurrent cases at a given time. Monitored job assignments, addressing schedule conflicts. Applied appropriate business solutions based on client needs and requirements. Performed troubleshooting for failed jobs and replication as needed.    Key Achievements:  * Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  * Created complex Stored Procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, views, joins and statements for applications and developed complex T- SQL code for the application.  * Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL  * Worked on designing the physical databases model on SQL Server 2008 RDBMS using different Data Definition and Data Manipulation languages (DML/DDL) implementing constraints and triggers for data integrity in development database for Warehouse system.  * Reduced the procedure duration by 60%, improving the efficiency of addressing vital processing jobs and allotting more time to address other concerns.  * Implemented new SQL Server features including Policy Based Management, Performance Data Collector and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE),  * Installed and maintained SQL servers 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2005.  * Manage and Configure Databases mail for SQL server alerts.  * Developed the SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) Packages for exporting the data.  * Patched all the DB Servers to the Latest Service Pack levels periodically, making it compliant with the Microsoft Support.  * Migrated the database from SQL 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2014.  * Resolved replication issues and settled new replications that occurred after.  * Checking, repaired and prevented future fragmentation issues.  * Rebuilt indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  * Plan, design, and implement application database code objects, such as stored procedures and views. SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer LPS Financial - Jacksonville, FL January 2012 to January 2014 Responsible for the daily administration of SQL servers on standalone and cluster environments and monitoring of database size and disk space in production, staging and development environments. Took charge of keeping the team on track with corporate milestones for database consolidation and data migration as well as meeting architectural plans, testing and training. Rendered on-call support for critical production issues. Involved in source data analysis, design mapping for data extraction and loading data from various databases and files pertaining to the design and development of SSIS packages.    Key Achievements:  * Administered the upgrade, configuration and maintenance of Four-Node Cluster Active/Passive on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  * Installed and configured SQL server 2012 and migrated data from SQL server 2012.  * Recovered databases from disaster backup efforts, implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  * Extensively used SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  * Applied the DBCC commands for database maintenance, indexing, and validation operations, enabling trace flags and removing DLL from memory.  * Adjusted Transactional Replication and Log Shipping with SQL Server Management Studio then performed troubleshooting to address connectivity, security and firewall issues.  * Managed Database High Availability Replication, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping.  * Restructured and monitored the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  * Performed efficient tuning of SQL source queries for data load/ Usage of stored procedures for performance using SQL Server Profiler, Execution Plan and Performance Monitors.  * Plan, design, and implement application database code objects such as stored procedures and views.  * Involved in creating database objects like tables, views, procedures, triggers, and functions using T-SQL to provide definition, structure and to maintain data efficiently.  * Experience in database programming in writing Stored procedures, User Defined Data Types, Triggers, Constraints, Indexes, using T-SQL  * Designed and developed packages to extract, transform and load data using SSIS (extensively worked on each loop, sequence containers, loop up transformation, derived columns, data conversions, row count transformation, event handlers)    SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer CHI Health insurance, Jacksonville, Fl SQL Server Agent August 2011 to December 2011 August 2011 to December 2011  Focused on database planning, definition, design and documentation utilizing conceptual, logical and physical models based on business requirements. Performed routine system checks and maintenance; backup and restoration with SQL Server 2012 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor; and troubleshooting to improve database performance and concurrency. Conducted source data analysis and design mappings for data extraction as well as SSIS package design development allowing data loading from different files and databases. Generated demographic, comparative and other periodic reports using SSRS.    Key Achievements:  * Completed successful data migrations, back-up and restoration as well as bulk and batch processing with DTS, SSIS, Import/Export.  * Optimized application and system performance after thorough analysis of long running slow queries and tuning.  * Wrote and executed upgrade scripts toward production server changes  * Extensively worked on Dynamic Management Views in SQL Server 2008/2012.  * Employed DAC (Dedicated Admin Connection) when the normal connection fails to connect. Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Database Administration University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2015 to Present Skills Data modeling, Data models, Database, Database design, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Clustering, Etl, Sql server integration services, Ssrs, Tableau, T-sql, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, Rdbms, Optimization, Server migration, DBA, Ssis, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, RAC, Rman Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF EXPERTISE  * Strategic Leadership  * SQL Server Optimization  * Performance Tuning  * T-SQL Development    * Database Design & Administration/Development  * SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  * SQL Server migration, Always on HA    * Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity  * Extract, Transform, Load (ETL)  * Data Modeling  * Tableau/PowerBI    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server, Windows XP/vista/Win7&8, 10, Cloud Computing/ Linux, AWS, MS Azur  Programming Language/Extensions: SQL, Transact-SQL, MYSQL  SQL Database Tools: SQL Profiler, SQL Agents, SQL Alerts, SQL Jobs, Database Mail, Query Analyzer, Query Execution Plan, Counter  Data Models: SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram), Toad Data Modeler, Erwin  High Availability: Log shipping, Replications, Mirroring, SQL clustering, Always on availability  Performance Monitoring Tools: Profiler, DMV, Activity Monitor, Execution Plan, PerfMon, Extended Event  Reports Development/Management Tool: SSRS, MS Access, Excel  ETL Tools: DTS, SSIS, Autosys Job  Other Tools: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, RDBMS, DTS/SSIS packages, PowerShell