Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Nashville, TN ~7 years of IT experience, including 2+ years as a database administrator. Excels at collaborating in a cross-functional environment with fluid priorities. Experienced at working on data initiatives at all stages from gathering requirements to development and testing to implementing and supporting. Outstanding communication skills, leadership ability, and customer service aptitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator PESG Educational Staffing Solutions - Nashville, TN January 2017 to Present ? Developed and debugged Transact-SQL queries, views, stored procedures, functions, and reports to identify and resolve errors.  ? Established new databases, monitoring performance and synchronization and tuning as needed.   ? Provided Tier 3 back-end software support.  ? Managed databases by repairing tables, manually and automatically maintaining records, and monitoring data backup and recovery.  ? Administered SQL Server and MySQL environments, syncing legacy databases with the current environment and automating the process for importing vendors’ data.  ? Audited database stored transactions, creating reports in Visual Studio and SSRS. Tier II Software Support Analyst Common Cents Systems - Nashville, TN December 2015 to October 2016 ? Fielded and resolved customers’ support tickets within the laboratory information management system, integrating with site instrumentation and applications.  ? Captured the process to resolve issues in Knowledge Base articles.  ? Gathered customer report requirements and created customer reports base on those criteria. Software Support Analyst GeoConex Corporation - Knoxville, TN September 2013 to December 2015 ? Collected and converted customer GIS vector data and features, using Python and ArcGIS server.  ? Defined quality standards for upgrading software and managing database schema changes.  ? Created and maintained complex ad hoc reports with stored procedures and views in SQL Server.  ? Provided remote and on-site technical assistance for hardware, network, and software issues.  ? Analyzed software issues, documenting bugs for escalation and testing / verifying fixes. Education A.A.S. in Computer Programming Technology Meridian Community College - Meridian, MS 2010 to 2012 Skills Highly proficient at the implementation and support of software., Adept at learning and quickly mastering software., Familiar with SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL and InterSystem Cache., Experienced with creating SQL queries., Comfortable creating reports from a wide range of data sources., Ability to perform intermediate troubleshooting of hardware and network issues., Excellent problem-solving and analytical skills., Sql Server, DBA, Sql Dba, SQL, DB2, MYSQL, Sql Database, ETL Links http://ryanhanlin.info