Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator • More than 5 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator.  • Oracle certified associate (OCA) and SQL fundamental certified.  • Extensively worked on installing, configuring and managing Oracle 12c, 11gR2 and 10g.  • Performed Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security (TDE,Data masking).  • Managed databases running on AIX, Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  • Experienced in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC), Data Guard and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all databases. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator PEARSON - Iowa City, IA September 2016 to April 2019 • Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  • Golden gate setup to achieve unidirectional replication and Golden gate database user with necessary privileges.  • Configured and administered Golden Gate.  • Creating database objects in operational data store and maintaining them in Golden Gate.  • Implemented initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate.  • Migration of Oracle databases 11g (11.2.0.4) from Linux Boxes to EXADATA machine using data guard switchover and Export & Import.  • Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c. as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features. Also upgraded 11g (11.2.0.3) Databases to 12c (12.1.0.1).  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP ( Guaranteed Restore Point ) and Export and Import (Datapump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Building Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  • Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g also called as keystore from 12c and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption, also used TDE for Goldengate replication too.  • Also tested disaster recovery with database failover and switchover also tested Goldengate replication after that using DBFS filesystem and ACFS.  • Implemented Oracle Goldengate (both Classic and integrated capture) and Shareplex for replicating data from Primary (OLTP system) to downstream systems such as data warehousing for reporting purposes and history databases for archival purposes.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  • Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF. Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP. Oracle Database Administrator NationStar Mortgage - Lewisville, TX January 2014 to September 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3 Education Bachelor's degree in information technology in information technology university of Bamenda Skills Database (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Rman (5 years), security. (5 years), Sql (5 years), Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA