Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Portland General Electric Apt, AR 8+ years of professional experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with expertise in Oracle 12c multitenant, Golden Gate, Backup & Recovery using RMAN, RAC, ASM, Flashback Technology, TDE, Performance Tuning, Capacity planning, Patching, Migration, Upgrades, Data guard and Cloning.    ? Extensive experience on Database Administration for multi-terabyte Oracle 12C, 11g, 10g & 9i databases on different platforms such as Linux AIX, etc.  ? Experience in Oracle cluster-ware setup and configuration, installation of oracle RAC with ASM.  ? Experience in setting up Oracle Golden Gate unidirectional and bi-directional data replication.  ? Experience in implementing database security using TDE and in-flight encryption.  ? Expert in cloning of databases using RMAN and 12c PDB cloning (local and remote).  ? Good experience on Backup & Recovery methods of Database using RMAN, export/import using data pump and cold backups.  ? Experience in Instance Tuning and SQL Tuning to improve the performance.  ? Experience in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle Data Guard (physical and logical standby databases).  ? Strong skills of upgrading databases to higher version (11g to 12c,10g R2 to 11g).  ? Experience in application tuning (SQL statements and storage structures) and Instance tuning (Memory, I/O) using various tools like OEM, AWR (Automatic workload Repository), statspack, etc.  ? Experience in using Flashback Technology for recovery of objects.  ? Good experience in configuring and administration of ASM in RAC environment.  ? Expert in administering databases through Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? Experience in writing shell scripts, PL/SQL procedures and automation.  ? Experience in applying patch sets on databases. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Portland General Electric - Portland, OR January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Design, Installation and Administration of oracle 12C multitenant databases (standalone, 3-node RAC and ASM) on Linux.  ? Configured split mirror snapshot backup technology (EMC), utilizing RMAN to take backup from snapshot copy to reduce performance impact on the production databases.  ? Installed GoldenGate and set up unidirectional data replication from multiple source systems to reporting database on 12c databases. Configured integrated extracts and replicats by developing parameter files, setup credential store for GoldenGate logins and passwords, Tuned Goldengate to handle tables with high transactions and large amount of data.  ? Involved in Disaster Recovery exercise utilizing VMware site recovery manager (SRM) and storage array-based replication SRDF (Symmetrix remote data facility).  ? Implemented tablespace level Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and in-flight encryption on 12c databases to protect data from unauthorized attacks. Worked on creating password-based software key stores, Auto-login key stores, Export/Import of master encryption keys in case of moving databases or cloning, etc.  ? Created RAC services with preferred and available instances to separate OLTP from batch processes.  ? Created shell scripts to automate database renaming, database maintenance and alerting, monitoring and alerting the status of GoldenGate extracts and replicats, extracting and restoring users as part of database refreshes, etc.  ? Implemented partitioning on large tables to help with performance.  ? Explored and worked on 12C new features like unplugging/plugging of PDBS, local PDB cloning, remote PDB cloning using db links, single table restore using RMAN, PDB metadata clone etc.  ? Refreshed databases using different technologies like snapshots at storage level, PDB cloning, datapump export/import, RMAN restores/cloning and RMAN duplicate etc.  ? Test all possible recovery scenarios periodically including recovering lost datafiles/controlfile with media failure, restoring dropped tables, recovering deleted data and corrupted data, etc. using RMAN and flashback features.  ? Performance tuning of Memory/SQL Queries using tools like Oracle Enterprise manager (OEM), AWR, SQL tracing, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, ASH, SQL baseline and SQL Profiles.  ? Worked on Data purging/Archiving solution with ILM (Information lifecycle management) and transportable tablespaces.  ? Worked on storage migration from Netapp to EMC.  ? Configured and scheduled RMAN Hot & Archive log backups using commvault and cohesity tools. Generated and reviewed backup reports daily.  ? Configured and used Flashback Technology for recovery of objects in the database.  ? Worked on setting up purging policies to trace files using ADRCI.  ? Applied Combo PSU patches (OJVM+GI) to 12c oracle home and grid home.  ? Involved in Security Management by creating roles and profiles, protecting PII data with views and reviewing SOX reports.  ? 24X7 Production on-call support rotation every 3 weeks.    Environment: Oracle 12C, RAC, ASM, OEM 13C/12C, RMAN, Commvault, Cohesity, Golden gate, DataGuard, SQL Developer, TOAD, EDMS, Jenkins, Appworx, Shell Scripting, Linux, AIX, SRM, SRDF. Oracle Database Administrator Deutsche Bank - New York, NY January 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Installation and Administration of oracle 12c and 11g databases in RAC, ASM, GoldenGate and Data Guard environment.  ? Upgraded oracle databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2.  ? Installed and configured GoldenGate using classic extracts, pumps and replicat processes as a disaster recovery solution. Used report files, discard files, ggserr log and log dump utility to troubleshoot replication issues.  ? Configured RMAN full, incremental level 0 & level 1 backups. Worked on advanced RMAN recovery techniques including Tablespace Point-in-time Recovery, restore of a database to a new host, recovering database with a backup controlfile, block media recovery etc.  ? Administration of oracle databases 12c and 11g using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? management of schema objects for optimal performance by reclaiming unused space using segment advisor, defragmenting tables by shrinking/moving/recreating, eliminating row migration & row chaining, compiling invalid objects etc.  ? Refresh of Dev, Test environments with Production data and transporting schemas between databases.  ? using Flashback version query technology to compare current data with historical data at a given time and restoring dropped objects with flashback feature.  ? Involved in various database activities like setting up OEM alerts, monitoring and responding to alerts, scheduling jobs through OEM, reviewing daily reports and fixing backup issues, helping application and development teams with tracing etc.  ? Performed application tuning of poorly written SQL statements, Instance tuning using the tools OEM, AWR, EXPLAIN PLAN, Auto trace, ADDM and STATSPACK.  ? Implemented high availability solution using Data Guard.  ? Developed Shell scripts, PL/SQL procedures and Triggers as per the requirements of the application.  ? Monitoring the health of the database by checking alert log files, trace files, AWR reports, OEM history frequently and making recommendations to improve application performance.  ? Installed oracle clients on Linux and windows machines.  ? Implemented quarterly patch sets and one-off bug fix patches on 11g and 12c oracle homes.  ? 24*7 on-call support for production environment.    Environment: Oracle 12C/11g, RAC, Linux, OEM, AWR, ASM, Shell Scripting, ADDM, STATSPACK, RMAN, Golden Gate, DataGuard. Oracle Database Administrator Motorola Solutions November 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Installation and administration of Oracle 11g and 10g databases in RAC environment  ? Maintained database backup and recovery by using RMAN utility and logical backups.  ? Used GoldenGate technology to replicate data across databases for reporting  ? Upgrades database from 10g to 11g on Linux.  ? Creating and managing password files, managing processes with shared server architecture and memory management by setting SGA and PGA parameters.  ? Created materialized views in a warehouse environment and setup schedules for their refreshes.  ? Enhanced the performance of the applications by dividing large tables into smaller table partitions with the help of Partitioning.  ? Created Standby databases on OLTP environment using DataGuard as a disaster recovery solution.  ? Involved in Tuning of time-consuming SQL Queries using EXPLAIN PLAN, gathering statistics, altering the execution plan using SQL baseline and SQL profiles.  ? Developing shell scripts for automation of backups using Crontab.  ? Involved in migration of data from files to oracle database.  ? Managing users and security of the database with privileges, roles and auditing.  ? Applying bug-fix and PSU patches.  ? 24*7 production Database on-call support.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Linux, Sun Solaris, AWR, ADDM, RAC, Shell Scripts, SQL, PL/SQL, OEM., Crontab. Oracle Database Administrator Cummins India Ltd June 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Creating and administration of Oracle 10g RAC databases on Linux platform.  ? Upgraded the databases from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  ? Creating and managing tablespaces, datafiles, temp files and undo.  ? Performed regular day-to-day administration activities like backing up the databases using RMAN, user access, helping with connection issues, monitoring the disk usage etc.    ? Maintained the database Security. Creating users, granting Roles and Privileges, dropping users, creating profiles and password verify functions.  ? Creating tables, indexes, primary keys, foreign keys and maintain data integrity. Creating views to restrict access for security reasons. Creating PL/SQL procedures as per the application requirement.  ? Creating network related files to establish remote connections to the database.  ? Loading data into oracle database from external files using SQL*Loader.  ? Created indexes to enhance the query performance.  ? Reorganization of tables using Expdp & Impdp for defragmentation.  ? Generated AWR and STATSPACK reports to monitor health of the databases.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Linux, Shell Scripts, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, SQL Loader, RMAN. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana