Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Tampa, FL System Administrator qualifications include 7.5yrs. of configuring, installing, and monitoring  Microsoft Windows Servers as well as maintaining a secure and reliable environment for  production servers. Have 5yrs. experience with virtualization technologies like installing and  configuring ESXi platforms. As well as ESXi system planning, coordinating, and implementing  in a 3 tier environment. Created, managed, administered and maintained virtual servers and  clients. Have the ability maintain a reliable and methodical approach to support and  documentation. Work Experience Systems Administrator DSCI October 2012 to June 2014 Kabul, Afghanistan, RNSM    • Installed, configured and deployed Vmware products such as ESXi, Vmware  Workstation, and Vmconverter in a classed and unclassified environment.  • Migrated production Vms using storage vMotion to new Datacenter with zero downtime.  • Planned and implemented ESXi upgrades.  • Implemented P2V and V2V conversions with Vmware converter.  • Created clones and templates, and deployed virtual machines with those templates.  • Configured and carved storage LUNs on SANs such as Dell MD3000(i), NetApp  FAS2040 and Equallogic PS6500 for datastores via Iscsi for Vmware virtualization.  • Configured, tested, and deployed a SharePoint 2010 farm within a virtual infrastructure.  • Migrated and updated a MOSS 2007 portal over to a SharePoint 2010 farm.  • Deployed and configured Adobe Breeze software used for daily updates and awareness of insurgent activities within the area. SharePoint Administrator DSCI - Bagram, AF July 2011 to October 2012 Bagram, Afghanistan, CJSOTF    • Miscellaneous projects would include troubleshooting issues with a NetApp FAS3170s to be utilized as storage for backups.  • Maintained a SharePoint 2010 infrastructure for a 80% user dependency level portal.  • Oversaw activity pertaining to the maintenance of SharePoint.  • Customized SharePoint sites using web parts for company/client purposes.  • Provided technical support for SharePoint users.  • Applied updates to companies edition of SharePoint as necessary.  • Held training and informational sessions to teach users how to use SharePoint.  • Created Active Directory domain security groups for SharePoint users.  • Configured, tested, and deployed a SharePoint 2010 farm within a virtual infrastructure.  • Migrated all data from a SharePoint 2007 portal over to a new SharePoint 2010 farm.  • Setup maintenance plans to include backups for SQL 2008 servers hosting SharePoint System Administrator DSCI September 2009 to July 2011 Kabul, Afghanistan, NATO Training Mission    • Deploy and build new virtual infrastructures-solid understanding of VMware ESX server and server hardware.  • Identify and resolve virtual, network, and hardware related system performance  problems.  • Perform troubleshooting activities to minimize impact to operations.  • Actively participate in planning, coordinating, and implementing Windows operating  systems and applications.  • Maintain knowledgebase of current technology with continuous self study  • Deploy Vcenter application for the consolidation of ESX servers downrange.  • Configured and carved storage LUNs on SANs such as Dell MD3000(i) and Equallogic  PS6500 for datastores via Iscsi for Vmware virtualization.  • Administered, maintained and updated MOSS within the NIPR/SIPR portals.  • Provide troubleshooting and problem solving for users of the MOSS platform.  • Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure. System Administrator General Dynamics June 2008 to September 2009 Kabul, Afghanistan, Army Corp. of Engineers    • Maintain and update licenses for AutoCAD and Bentley software for headquarters.  • Implemented and maintained a SQL 2005 database to run as a backend to a scheduling  software called Primavera 6 that's used for project tracking.  • Addressed Active Directory issues pertaining to user accounts as well as daily Active  Directory tasks.  • Assist users with updating the AEDs internal MOSS site with their data as well as any  other adjustments that needed to be made.  • Maintain backup jobs for headquarters as well as designated remote sites using BackUp  Exec 10 and Networker.  • Various Exchange tasks through Exchange System Manager. Created and added virtual  machines to the domain for a testing environment. Help Desk Technician ASCI February 2008 to June 2008 Kabul, Afghanistan, Army Corp. of Engineers    • Assisted United States Army Corp of Engineers as well as military personnel with in- processing through Headquarters as well as downrange.  • Provided user support services remotely and over the phone.  • Traveled downrange for maintenance of equipment. Created and updated a sharepoint  tracking database to ensure all equipment was accounted for once received. Created  images for AED network baselines using Remote Installation Services.    6247 Savannah Breeze CT. Apt. 301, Tampa, FL Home: (813) 609-7245 hamiltone@live.com Technician ITT, ADPE July 2006 to February 2008 Kabul, Afghanistan, TAC-SWACAA    • Provided professional laptop/desktop support and customer service to military and civilian customers.  • Work involved troubleshooting hardware problems and repairing or referring to another  repair facility as appropriate.  • Troubleshot and resolved network connectivity issues at the desktop level.  • Troubleshot Outlook / Microsoft Exchange Server connectivity issues.  • Responsible for both classified and unclassified computer system stability through the use of DOD-approved, Government-furnished operating systems and software. Database Administrator ITT October 2005 to July 2006 Amman, Jordan, GMASS    • Duties include the configuring and maintaining of Automated Logistic Information  Management System (ALIMS).  • Data entry into ALIMS for tracking parts and maintenance costs for each refurbished  vehicle.  • Maintained SQL 2000 Server database used to store the information in ALIMS.  • Produce reports that reflect the overall progress of production control and supply. Systems and Database Administrator The Logistics Company, Database/Systems - Fort Bragg, NC December 2004 to October 2005 Duties include knowledge of, and skill in applying backup and recovery procedures, and commonly used query languages, such as SQL or Access.  • Creating reports from available data stored in the database using Crystal Reports.  • Responsible for protecting the operating systems while monitoring compliance with policies and procedures. Education Bachelor Of Science Fayetteville State University - Fayetteville, NC 2002 Associates Of Science Olive Harvey College - Chicago, IL 1995