Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Bank Of New York Mellon / Eagle Investment Systems - Pittsburgh, PA 2016 to 2018 Took lead in disaster recovery and business continuity exercises.    • Upgraded databases to version 12c from 11g and 10g and applied patches as required on  Linux server to improve performance companywide and utilize latest features.  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to QA, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and  Development databases. Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, and user managed backups.  • Troubleshot and tuned database performance issues that reduced time from approximately  one hour to under 20 seconds.  • Took a lead role in the configuration and support of the Data Guard environment for any  disaster recovery needed.  • Completed database health-checks, integrity and space management on ASM and file  system storage.  Anne Juma 301-658-8576 Oracle Database Administrator Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA 2013 to 2016 Upgraded and maintained databases.    • Successfully implemented 11g RAC on nodes for high availability.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented Data pump on Oracle 11g for re-organizing Databases, Schemas, and Tables to improve the performance.  • Involved in construction of Data Guard sites for all the Production environments.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles,  extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online  storage, growth and file system space.  • Configured database monitoring utilities that reduced false alarms to a minimum  • Developed and modified database backup and recovery strategies using RMAN. Education Bachelor of Science in International Business Administration United States International University - Nairobi, KE Skills DATABASE (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), RMAN (7 years), LINUX (4 years), PERFORMANCE TUNING (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/anne-juma Additional Information Core competencies include:    • 12c, 11g, 10g configuration and • Shell scripting  installation database • ASM  • Database upgrades, patches / migration • PL/SQL and SQL  • Database backup and recovery - RMAN • Data Guard  • Database performance tuning    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Tools  Sun Solaris 2.5, through 6.1, Linux/Unix AWR and ADDM, Toad, Putty, Remedy  RHEL WinSCP, Service Now, Geirs  RDBMS Database Utilities  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Basic SQL Server Sqlplus, Oracle Grid Control  Languages  UNIX Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SQL