IT Healthcare Consultant/SIS Database Administrator IT Healthcare Consultant/SIS <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Healthcare Consultant/SIS Database Administrator - Imehtods Ocean Springs, MS Work Experience IT Healthcare Consultant/SIS Database Administrator Imehtods August 2018 to Present • Provide back-end Oracle database maintenance support of SIS application  • Review client system configurations and make recommendations to clients for optimal SIS software performance  • Configure, modify and make back-end customizations of SIS software and client hardware as necessary according to client workflow processes  • Provide hardware and software training to client's technical staff (IT, Systems Administrators, DBA's, etc)  • Install, maintain, troubleshoot and up-grade the SIS software for clients  • Attention to Detail-Evaluate procedures and methods for determining risks, vulnerability  • Customer Service - Serve as a technical advisor on program effectiveness, efficiency, policy, and direction  • Oral Communication - Maintain contact with industry stakeholders  • Problem Solving - Make recommendations to resolve shortfalls in system security features and practices  • Security-focused all-source analysis efforts focused on network, system, and application vulnerabilities and researching and providing mitigation to resolve the vulnerabilities  • Planning and/or managing research and analysis efforts to inform decision makers on threats to infrastructure, enterprise-level capabilities, and risk of vulnerability exploitation  • Identifying information technology security program implications of new technologies or technology upgrades  • Overseeing the development, documentation, and management of analytical requirements, threat-based capabilities research and analysis, and presenting recommendations to senior leaders for enterprise-level system changes, procedures, and processes.  • SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL 2008 R2, SQL2012 Information Systems Manager Davis & Crump PLLC January 2017 to August 2018 • Gather and compiled analytical reports as well as compile and provide business analysis reports.  • Provided expert technical and administrative functionality in quality assurance, records management, information systems, application support and implementation.  • Analyze the software/network solution needs of customers.  • Program, configure, test, debug, document and install application programs and technologies and changes to existing programs/technologies as well as set-up advanced network options and 3rd party interfaces.  • Maintain communications systems to include network communications, phone communications, and all other forms of communications throughout the facility.  • Diagnose and provide advanced problem solving and troubleshooting solutions by phone or on site.  Execute maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups.  Design, document and execute network infrastructure revamping and implementation.  • Application administration including development via SQL developer  • Server support to include SQL, VMWare, Hyper-V, and Windows environments  • End user application support  • Compose and validate facility wide processes and procedures.  Implement IS processes and procedures that meet legal standards.  Successfully train end users.  • Document technical processes and network wide configuration.  • Apply standard IT principles, concepts, practices, and techniques.  • Manage, test, deploy software via .Net and SQL  • Windows server administration, support, and scripting  • Relational database installation, configuration, support, maintenance  • Attention to Detail-Evaluate procedures and methods for determining risks, vulnerability  • Customer Service - Serve as a technical advisor on program effectiveness, efficiency, policy, and direction  • Oral Communication - Maintain contact with industry stakeholders  • Problem Solving - Make recommendations to resolve shortfalls in system security features and practices  • Security-focused all-source analysis efforts focused on network, system, and application vulnerabilities and researching and providing mitigation to resolve the vulnerabilities  • Planning and/or managing research and analysis efforts to inform decision makers on threats to infrastructure, enterprise-level capabilities, and risk of vulnerability exploitation  • Identifying information technology security program implications of new technologies or technology upgrades  • Overseeing the development, documentation, and management of analytical requirements, threat-based capabilities research and analysis, and presenting recommendations to senior leaders for enterprise-level system changes, procedures, and processes.  • SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL 2008 R2, SQL2012 SIS Coordinator Database Administrator United States Sports Academy June 2015 to January 2017 • SIS infrastructure build and support for Oracle database.  • Supervises and/or provides guidance and work direction to technical and other staff.  • Designs, implements, maintains and performs periodic reevaluation of enterprise database infrastructure and applications management policies, standards and procedures.  • Develops and manages internal procedures including but not limited to code reuse, source libraries, check-out process, turn over procedures, documentation standards, scope documents and design procedures.  • Installs, maintains and coordinates enterprise database software (such as Oracle), application software (such as Banner & Empower) and system support tools.  • Plans, designs, implements, maintains, and performs periodic reevaluation of data integrity and data security measures.  • Plans, designs, maintains and performs database recovery, restart and repair procedures of the enterprise database infrastructure and applications.  Coordinates departmental efforts with system development staff, system administrators, network infrastructure personnel, client support and the ITS helpdesk. Works with data custodians and departmental representatives across the college in providing problem resolution, consultation on and coordination of business and system process improvements and enhancements.  • Monitors, adjusts and performs periodical preventive maintenance of system, database and application performance. Designs, plans, implements and maintains performance tools.  Performs problem analysis and troubleshooting of the enterprise database infrastructure. As such, leads problem-solving efforts often involving other technical staff, multiple outside vendors, other departments and/or organizations.  • Tracks and tests new technology and new techniques. Establishes procedures to support research and development activities to determine the suitability of new technology and procedures to the infrastructure.  Coordinates activities with vendors, such as Oracle and Empower for support and problem resolution, management of contractual obligations, research of potential solutions, and planning and implementing new solutions and improvements to existing Oracle infrastructure.  • Develops training materials and conducts training sessions of the IT staff and/or departmental customers in enterprise database infrastructure topics.  • Supervises the Application Database Administrator, who performs enterprise database management support activities. Responsibilities include hiring, training and development, assignment of work, performance evaluation, and corrective action.  • Maintains current knowledge of technological developments associated with the enterprise database infrastructure by attending conferences and workshops and reading appropriate publications.  • Build, Modify, Create, Maintain Crystal Reports  • Provide SIS, hardware, and software training to all staff.  • Install, upgrade, maintain, troubleshoot all SIS software systems  • SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL 2008 R2, SQL2012  • Toad Implementation Specialist Stone County Hospital February 2014 to June 2015 • SIS infrastructure build and support for Oracle database.  • Gather and compiled analytical reports as well as compile and provide business analysis reports.  • Provided expert technical and administrative functionality in quality assurance, records management, information systems, application support and implementation, surgical services, clinical procedures, workflow management, clinical billing and coding, MIS and SIS system build and development  • Analyze the software/network solution needs of customers.  Program, configure, test, debug, document and install application programs and technologies and changes to existing programs/technologies as well as set-up advanced network options and 3rd party interfaces.  • Maintain communications systems to include network communications, phone communications, and all other forms of communications throughout the facility.  • Diagnose and provide advanced problem solving and troubleshooting solutions by phone or on site.  • Execute maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups.  • Design, document and execute network infrastructure revamping and implementation.  • Application administration including development via SQL developer  • Server support to include SQL, VMWare, Hyper-V, and Windows environments  • Manage, test, deploy SIS and MIS systems via .Net and SQL  • Compose and validate hospital wide processes and procedures.  • Implement IS and HIS processes and procedures that met CMS standards.  • Establish a Risk Assessment plan for Attestation for the entire hospital and clinic system.  • Provide back-end medical records, emergency services, surgical services, and supply chain maintenance and support within an Oracle database environment.  • Review system configurations and make recommendations to optimize Allscripts and CPSI environments.  • Provide SIS, hardware, and software training to all staff.  • Install, upgrade, maintain, troubleshoot all SIS software systems.  • Crystal reporting build, maintenance, modification  • Windows server administration, support, and scripting  • Attention to Detail-Evaluate procedures and methods for determining risks, vulnerability  • Customer Service - Serve as a technical advisor on program effectiveness, efficiency, policy, and direction  • Oral Communication - Maintain contact with industry stakeholders  • Problem Solving - Make recommendations to resolve shortfalls in system security features and practices  • Security-focused all-source analysis efforts focused on network, system, and application vulnerabilities and researching and providing mitigation to resolve the vulnerabilities  • Planning and/or managing research and analysis efforts to inform decision makers on threats to infrastructure, enterprise-level capabilities, and risk of vulnerability exploitation  • Identifying information technology security program implications of new technologies or technology upgrades  • Overseeing the development, documentation, and management of analytical requirements, threat-based capabilities research and analysis, and presenting recommendations to senior leaders for enterprise-level system changes, procedures, and processes.  • CPSI configuration, support, implementation  • SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL 2008 R2, SQL2012 Applications Analyst Memorial Hospital April 2012 to January 2014 • Gather and compiled analytical reports as well as compile and provide business analysis reports via Cerner Reporting Modules via Crystal Reporting application.  • Provided expert technical and administrative functionality in quality assurance, records management, information systems, application support and implementation within Peoplesoft Supply Chain and Financial applications and Cerner Supply Chain, Charge Services, Surgical environments.  • Analyze the software/network solution needs of customers within Cerner, Peoplesoft, and Allscripts environments.  • Program, configure, test, debug, document and install application programs and technologies and changes to existing programs/technologies as well as set-up advanced network options and 3rd party interfaces in the Cerner and Peoplesoft environment.  • Diagnose and provide advanced problem solving and troubleshooting solutions by phone or on site.  • Execute maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups.  • Application administration including development via SQL developer  • Compose and validate Cerner, PeopleSoft, and Allscripts processes and procedures.  Setup and maintain user access to respective Cerner and Peoplesoft environments.  • Apply standard IT principles, concepts, practices, and techniques. Manage, test, deploy software via SQL  • Build, Modify, Create, Maintain Crystal Reports  • Back-end Peoplesoft and Cerner Oracle Database build, maintenance, and support.  • Review Allscripts, Peoplesoft, and Cerner configurations and make recommendations to improve the client's workflow processes and better meet their needs.  • Operate as a SME (Subject Matter Expert) in Allscripts Patient Accounting, Cerner Surgical and Supply Chain, PeopleSoft Financials and Supply Chain environments.  • Provide SIS, hardware, and software training to all staff.  • Install, upgrade, maintain, troubleshoot all SIS software systems.  • Attention to Detail-Evaluate procedures and methods for determining risks, vulnerability  • Customer Service - Serve as a technical advisor on program effectiveness, efficiency, policy, and direction  • Oral Communication - Maintain contact with industry stakeholders  • Problem Solving - Make recommendations to resolve shortfalls in system security features and practices  • Security-focused all-source analysis efforts focused on network, system, and application vulnerabilities and researching and providing mitigation to resolve the vulnerabilities  • Planning and/or managing research and analysis efforts to inform decision makers on threats to infrastructure, enterprise-level capabilities, and risk of vulnerability exploitation  • Identifying information technology security program implications of new technologies or technology upgrades  • Overseeing the development, documentation, and management of analytical requirements, threat-based capabilities research and analysis, and presenting recommendations to senior leaders for enterprise-level system changes, procedures, and processes.  • SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL 2008 R2, SQL2012  • Crystal Reports Technical Support Analyst Tek Systems April 2011 to April 2012 • Support of Microsoft Office 2007/2013/2016  • Support of Microsoft Windows 7/8/10  • Support of standard networking protocols  • Able to understand a client's needs and respond accordingly  • Strong verbal and written communication skills  • Able to learn quickly  • Medical Staff Services experience and support of Surgical, Clinical, and Billing systems  • Hardware Support  • Vmware Support  • Active Directory  • Email Support Technical Support Analyst Tek Systems September 2009 to March 2011 • Support of Microsoft Office 2007/2013/2016  • Support of Microsoft Windows 7/8/10  • Support of standard networking protocols  • Able to understand a client's needs and respond accordingly  • Strong verbal and written communication skills  • Able to learn quickly  • Medical Staff Services experience and support of Surgical, Clinical, and Billing systems  • Hardware Support  • Vmware Support  • Active Directory  • Email Support Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Law Strayer University - Ocean Springs, MS October 2018 Associate's Degree in Business Administration California Coast University - Ocean Springs, MS August 2008 Masters in Healthcare Administration Jack Welch University - Ocean Springs, MS Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL