Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Bowie, MD I am OCA 12c certified with 6 years of experience installation, monitoring and maintaining complex databases, I am confident that I would make a beneficial addition to the your company. Please feel free to contact me to arrange an interview. I look forward to learning more about this opportunity.  Over the course of my career thus far, I have monitored databases to fit a variety of needs, successfully ensured the security of those databases, problem-solved in order to meet both back-end and front-end needs, installed and tested new versions database management systems, customized and installed applications and meticulously monitored performance for the smoothest front-end experience possible. During my 6 years working with databases, I have learned that open communication and tireless problem solving is just as important as extensive technical knowledge.  The following are some highlights of my qualifications and experience:  • I work with different versions of databases such as 10g, 11g, 12c  • Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert and Oracle Database 12c Administrator Certified Associate  • Maintain database security  • Involved in the creation, implementation and maintenance of several databases  • Configure Golden gate, active Data guard, as well as the 2Nodes rac configuration  I appreciate the opportunity to bring my passion for IT and ability to problem-solve to your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator NEWEDGE - Chicago, IL February 2016 to June 2019 • DBA supporting major projects from Development to Production via Test and UAT environments. Duties involve daily administration, maintenance and tuning. Database ranging from 100GB to 10TB. Monitoring on OEM.  • Database, Table and schema refreshes using Data pump, expdp and impdp and transportable tablespaces.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using online and offline backups and using RMAN duplicate backup to migrate data from 11g to 11.2.o.3  • Configured deployed and administered 2 and 3 node RAC clusters on Solaris 10 and Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.9.  • Extensively involved in performance tuning of applications, SQL queries and databases using Explain Plan, ASH, ADDM, SQL TRACE, TKPROF and AWR reports.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Golden Gate  • Created a standby database using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups on crontab and OEM, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • implemented database security management, by using the principle of least privilege, and Provided technical support for all application administrators and users.  • Applied critical patches to Oracle databases and application servers.  • used Grid control (OEM Grid) to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics. And PL/SQL Tuning.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g and 12c.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Experience in PeopleSoft/Oracle Database installation, upgrade, patching and migration  • Experience in Exadata cloud installation, upgrade, patching and migration from oracle 12c to Exadata cloud.  •Involved in Exadata implementation, monitoring, upgrade, patching and migration.  • Configure and manage PeopleSoft running applications such as Finance, HR, SCM. CRM.  . Involve in upgrade and patching of Peoplesoft application.  Experience in configuring and managing E-Business suite which integrates business CRM, ERP, AND SCM with applications such as HR, FINANCE, PROJECT PORTFOLIO AND PRECUREMENT Oracle DBA NEW BREED LOGISTIC - Greensboro, NC February 2013 to January 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on Linux platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Cloud Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance, cloned using RMAN.  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  • Involved in Performance Planning and Tuning, using baselines and proactive monitoring, bottleneck elimination and the wait event interface to identify issues and generated weekly reports  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g for a faster recovery of databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential), incremental updated using RMAN  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases., as well as performing database upgrade.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts,  • Create database Objects, Table spaces, Schemas as needed.  • Exposure to AWS migration and implementation  • Experience in installation, migration, monitoring, patching and upgrade Exadata.  • Exposure to sql server databases. Installation, upgrade migration monitoring performance and supporting users.  • Hands on experience in E-business suite application monitoring, configuring and instalations. Education Bachelor's degree University of Buea Skills AIX (Less than 1 year), Auditing (Less than 1 year), backups (6 years), cloning (6 years), Database (6 years), databases (6 years), Linux (6 years), Loader (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), OEM. (6 years), Oracle (6 years), PL/SQL (3 years), RDBMS (3 years), RMAN (6 years), scripting (6 years), security (6 years), Solaris (3 years), SQL (6 years), sql server (6 years), Unix (6 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/54gioouvsowtufjb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.