Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - General Motors Round Rock, TX Looking for Oracle / Sql Server DBA role in Texas Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator General Motors - Austin, TX August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:--  • Installing, Configuring Oracle 12c/11g/10g RAC and standalone Databases.    • Oracle database character set conversion with DMU tool(WE8MSWIN1252 to AL32UTF8)    • Provided on-call production database support.    • Worked on oracle 12c Upgrade from 11g R2    • Decommission the old databases    • Experienced in Installation and configuration Oracle Golden Gate (service_gg) for Data warehouse  environment.    • Handled Development and production support incidents. Worked with application teams to handle  failover and switchover scenarios and handled any database and replication issues occurring during this  process.    • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING-DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment    • Expertise at Installing of Oracle RAC with Cluster ware and ASM.    • Experienced in using 11g, 10g features Data Pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR etc.    • Configured ASM disk groups to store Data files, redo log files, and control files.    • Expertise with different Backup and Recovery strategies, Cloning (using Recovery Manager - RMAN), creating RMAN scripts, VERITAS Net Backup, Export / Import, Data Pump    • Performing periodical Backup and Restoration and recovery using RMAN (full & incremental) and RMAN incrementally updated backups.    • Extensively experienced in Oracle Database monitoring and tuning using Oracle Enterprise Manager  (OEM 13c) monitoring.  • Data migration between environments using Export/Import, Expdp /Impdp    • Expertise in creating Users, Roles and Profiles and Privilege management with role-based security.    • Monitored the performance on UNIX Servers using TOP, VMSTAT, IOSTAT, NETSTAT and SAR.    • Analyzing slow-running SQL queries and generating statistics using the Execution Plan and recommended solutions for faster execution.    • Configured RAC Physical standby database    • Performed Data Guard testing (Switchover) to ensure High Availability.    • Used RMAN Clone to refresh Dev/Test from Production    • Worked with Oracle Support processes for technical issues.    • Capacity Planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.    • Monitoring and maintenance of multiple databases for production, development and testing.    • Implemented database refresh with the hot backup using DUPLICATE or full export.    • Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, RAC, RMAN, EXPDP/IMPDP, PL/SQL, Stored procedures, EMC,  ASM, Toad for Oracle, OEM, Auditing, Linux, AIX, Data Guard. Oracle /Sql Server Database Administrator iTalkBB - Austin, TX February 2012 to July 2015 • Upgrade number of databases from Oracle 10.2.0.4 to 11.1.0.7.5 and 11.2.0.2.0    • Implemented Data Guard with maximum protection and performed switch over between primary  and standby databases.    • Expert in using export/import, expdp, impdp, Sql Loader, DBV utilities.    • RMAN backup setup via cronjob on daily full, differential etc.    • Develop and maintains DBMS related standards and procedures, knows where they are located,  and makes full use of them. Follows corporate software development processes.    • Created Physical standby database using DBVISIT and delete the archive logs standby side manually.    • Monitoring database on daily basis for long running queries, sessions and identified those sessions  which are hanged or consuming more resources.    • Tuning the SQL queries for best performance, with proper hints, gather proper and scalable statistics  for tables as well as for schemas and by creating the adequate indexes on conditional columns.    • Tune queries and implement stored outlines or SQL Plan Baselines to force good execution plan.    • Perform Oracle software installation using OUI and silent install.  • Participating in performance analysis & tuning of oracle servers, maintenance, space management,  and backup and recovery strategies.    • Performing database migration/upgrades in different environments.    • Maintaining the Space Management in different database environments.    • Performs the capacity planning required to create and maintain the databases.    • Time to time replicating the different schema's from different servers (UNIX) and from different  databases as per requirements of database teams.    • Work with other teams to promote changes to production and other environments    • Creating procedures to monitor the database sessions activity, written shell scripts to get alerts  by email.    • Providing On-call support 24X7 in rotational manner.    • Configured Oracle database get alerts and messages regarding space issues, blocking sessions etc.    • Documenting, whatever the activities performed in production database.    Responsibilities SQL Server 20082:----    • Install Microsoft SQL Server databases (2008r2)    • Setup Database mirroring in via GUI and T-SQL    • Setup Microsoft SQL server Log shipping, Mirroring.    • Keep eye on SQL server issues in the error log file.    • Database consistency checks using DBCC utilities and server connectivity    • Proven ability to handle database of more than 1 TB in Size    • Developing Sql Scripts for maintaining administration tasks    • Setup the Maintenance plan for backups as per company requirements.    • Check Database Replication transactions (between Beijing and USA daily basis)    • Experience in using Dynamic Management Views(DMV) to troubleshoot and improve server  performance    • Used Sql Server Profiler to monitor and record database activities of particular users and applications.    • Excellent knowledge about Extended Events    • Created indexes, constraints and rules on database objects to improve the database performance  • Monitoring database on daily basis for long running queries, sessions and identified those sessions  which are hanged or consuming more resources.    • Knowledge about SSIS and SSRS    • Excellent Development skills for sql server Stored, procedures, Triggers, functions and Views etc. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology Punjab Technical University - Jalandhar, Punjab March 2008 to November 2011 Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), ORACLE (6 years), SQL (5 years), LINUX (5 years), Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Database, Oracle Database, PostgresSQL (1 year), Postgresql, RAC Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information Skills    Microsoft Sql Server, Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, Oracle, Sql Server, Linux Os, DbVisit