Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Fairfax Over 5 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database installation and configuration, production support, upgrades, patch management, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, Data guard.  • Experienced in setting up/installation and configuration oracle software and database server on Linux, windows and migration of oracle server from 10g to 11g and RAC 12c databases.  • Enforced Security Administration, auditing and creating user, adding and removing users, granting privileges.  • Experienced in installing, configuring and maintaining Standalone and RAC databases on various platforms.  • Experience in applying Patch Set Update (PSU) and Critical Patch Update (CPU) on Databases.  • Actively participated in interaction with users, team lead, DBAs and technical manager to fully understand the requirements of the system.  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently.  • Proactive monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using, AWR, ADDM, and 10g OEM Grid Control.  • Proficiency using Flash-Back Recovery, Automatic Storage Manager (ASM) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Manager (ADDM)  • Performed scheduled and manual recovery using archived logs, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full back up, incremental and cumulative backups.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11g databases. Work Experience Database Administrator Precitix - Charlotte, NC January 2014 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES  • Installed and configured Oracle databases, Monitoring and maintaining multiple Oracle 11g and RAC 12c databases on Linux platform.  • Install, configured and Managed Oracle 11gR2, and 12c multiple 2 node RAC database for high availability and load balancing.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11.2.0.3 for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Managed RAC database on Production, Test databases, using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and Grid Control.  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN, Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures on daily basis.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Reclaim wasted space from tables and indexes by using the segment shrink functionality and created an archival backup for long-term retention.  • Wrote and tune SQL queries for faster access to OLTP and DSS databases.  • Creation and management of Oracle table partitions in a data warehouse environment.  • Creation, management and optimization of oracle materialized views and creation of indexes using ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for event waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Providing support to the development teams and handling release schedules.  • Participates on productions as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 12c, 11g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Performed database upgrades from 11g to 12c, Using import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g/12c environments.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 12c along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects. Business Analyst ARM Investment - Lagos, NG June 2012 to November 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Experience developing user stories to elicit requirements from the product owners.  • Conducted JAD sessions for business requirement gathering, analysis, and design.  • Prepared detailed design documents to translate business process effectively for developers and product managers using MS Visio and UML.  • Performed planning responsibilities of SDLC and monitored defect tracking system using JIRA to prioritize defect and devise a plan for future enhancements and delivered the artifacts in timely basis.  • Assisted the database architect in designing data flow model, data modeling and process mapping, data mapping and created artifacts for data requirements using MapForce.  • Performed SQL queries to extract data from database to perform data analysis with Tableau.  • Generated weekly decision reports and circulated to the major stakeholders.  • Updated and managed business forecasts within Oracle software (Netsuite.com) and measure performance Education M.S. in Information Technology Stratford University - Falls Church, VA 2017 Certification Boltos Institute - Laurel, MD 2013 B.Sc. in Business Administration Ajayi Crowther University 2012 Skills DBA, ETL, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses OCP May 2019 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows  Concepts/Tools Database Design, Object Oriented Analysis and Design  (OOAD), Tableau, JIRA, MapForce  Database Systems Oracle RAC 12c/11g/10g  Software Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Office Tools OEM, RMAN, Data pump (impdp, expdp), AWR, ADDM, SQL-LOADER, OPatch,  MS Office, MS-Visio, Workflow, NetSuite, DBCA, DBUA.  Language SQL, PL/SQL, SHELL