Oracle Database Administrator - Linux Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Linux Oracle Database Administrator - Linux - Lids Sports Group Zionsville, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator - Linux Lids Sports Group - Zionsville, IN January 2019 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designing high availability DR solution.  • Managing and troubleshooting Replication.  • Leverage SQL Sentry, OEM or other monitoring tools to monitor database health  • Rapidly troubleshoot complex issues under pressure  • Control and monitor user access to databases  • Monitor and optimize the performance of databases.  • Implement and document processes for backup and recovery of databases  • Participate in multi-team projects, providing technical expertise in the database area  • Perform daily administration of database systems.  • Production experience with Oracle database installation, patches/upgrades, setup, database tuning, RMAN and Oracle Grid  • Create and maintain UNIX shell scripts as needed.  • Support other databases/applications as and when required.  • Research new technologies and recommend applications.  • Performs other duties as assigned.  • Space management for all file systems on LINUX, WINDOWS.  • Setup monitoring alerts as required.  • Database refreshes as per business requirement with PRODUCTION to lower environments.  • Data guard implementation and maintenance for Disaster Recovery.  • Participate in Security monitoring, managing, and testing, such as patches, updates, etc.  • Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning, Standby database (Logical, Physical), Oracle configuration.  • Schedule performance reports AWR / ADDM and fine tune systems based on performance issues.  • Experience in full life cycle of database administration. Worked both as a development and Production Support DBA.  • Hands on experience in Managing Tablespaces, segments, extents, and indexes.  • Experience in Upgrade and Migration of oracle database and RAC to higher version installing patches.  • Experience in applying security patches to the databases using the Opatch Utility.  • Experience in applying Service Packs and Hotfix for various SQL Server Versions.  • Efficient in SQL query optimization using explain plan, TKPROF reports, gathering statistics, pinning the objects.  • Extensive use of Crontab in UNIX environment for scheduling routine tasks. Oracle Database Administrator Finish Line - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to December 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Supporting 24*7 Production databases along with development and maintenance databases.  • Involved in 24x7 support for production RAC databases with on-call pager  • Supported production, development and testing databases of Multi Terabytes DB sizes.  • Installed and configured Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g 64 Bit on Linux for Production, Development and Testing.  • Migrated 10g database to 11g R2.  • Skilled with stats pack, AWR, ADDM, SAR to check health of database & hardware.  • Used Performance tuning tools such as tkprof, explain plans, oradebug and trace files to tune SQL Queries.  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development database.  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Migration of Databases and applying patches whenever required.  • Developed 10 PL/SQL Packages from the scratch for monitoring purpose.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g RAC  • Handled RAC Node hangs and node eviction issues.  • Index management for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Configure and manage tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  • Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  • Experienced with Space Management and Security.  • Proactive monitoring through OEM 10G GRID Control.  • Database refreshes using RMAN backups and hot backups also extensively using RMAN for all types of recovery/backup scenarios.  • RMAN Catalog maintenance, purging sufficiently old backups from TSM Server etc.  • Troubleshooting problems of development and application teams.  • Upgradation of databases from Oracle 8i to 9i, 8i to 10GR2, 9i to 10GR2 etc..  • Day-to-Day Maintenance of multiple 10G RAC environments on ASM  • Applying Patches to RAC/Non-RAC databases.  • Upgradation of RAC databases from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.2 etc  • Space Management in ASM Disk groups Addition of new disks etc Oracle Database Administrator GE - Trevose, PA February 2015 to April 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in 24x7 support for production RAC databases with on-call support.  • Supported SAP integrated database systems.  • Working with brtools and troubleshooting issues on SAP database systems.  • Using brtools, brspace and other utilities for SAP database environments on PROD, DEV, TEST.  • Supported production, development and testing databases of Multi Terabytes DB sizes.  • Maintain and Administer SQL Server Databases on Windows Server VM  • Applied Patch's to Oracle 10g, 11g tested.  • Upgraded oracle from 11g to 12c  • Supported AWS platforms - AWS Relational database systems.  • Troubleshooting issues with user connections with AWS platforms.  • Creation of new AWS instances.  • Worked on databases on VMWare  • Working with database objects, and creating procedures and functions for the application and its users.  • Actively participate in security monitoring, managing, and testing, such as patches, updates, etc. and proactively address potential infrastructure issues before they occur  • Experience working in information management, with emphasis on database administration, SDLC, systems integration, complex SQL queries, relational database concepts, data warehousing, data modeling, business intelligence and reporting solutions.  • Planning and design of database functions and applications integrating existing and future systems.  • Ability to research and design queries and reports; convert existing reports; develop new custom reports and interfaces.  • Strong problem solving and analytical skills; ability to analyze user problems and recommend alternatives or solutions.  • Ability to understand and communicate technical issues in a non-technical manner Handled RAC Node hangs and node eviction issues.  • Maintaining schemas and partitioning tables.  • Experienced with all kinds (Status, Performance, and Trend Analysis) of DB Monitoring.  • Configure and manage tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  • Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  • Worked on Space Management and Security.  • Participating in weekly Scrum meetings and the Development team for new or modified database objects.  • Participating in daily SCRUM meetings and end of sprint backlog review, Writing modifying, and executing baseline scripts and data migrations scripts for applications, including grant privileges.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance and maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Configure and manage tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  • Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  • Analyzing Tables & Schemas, collecting system statistics, reorganizing tables and rebuilding indexes.  • Back up of Archive Log files and monitoring space in that mount point.  • Responsible for taking full hot/cold and Differential database backup.  • Cloning and Refresh of Database (using backup and duplicate).  • Database health check using Statspack report, Tkprof, AWR  • Managing and Resolving end user request via HPSC ticketing tool  • Work on OEM issues, setup alerts thresholds.  • Handled RAC Node hangs and node eviction issues.  • Maintaining schemas and partitioning tables.  • Implemented the Security using Oracle Database Vault  • Maintenance of installed Oracle database and supporting multiple production, development and test instances of varied complexity including Multiple Tier and RAC environments.  • Worked on the RAC environment for the high availability managed by ASM. Oracle Database Administrator IBM - Dubuque, IA June 2010 to January 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Managing and creating Oracle database.  • Installed and configured High Availability Oracle Golden Gate (OGG) systems on Oracle 11gR2 RAC environments.  • Manage all aspects of the OGG design, implement and support in development, UAT and production environments.  • Identify and resolve OGG problems occurring in all database environments including performance related issues (i.e. database & SQL tuning).  • Setting up High Availability Oracle Golden Gate (OGG) systems on Oracle 11gR2 RAC environments.  • Troubleshooting typical OGG technical problems such as unique key violation / long transaction abend by using GGSCI / Log dump / discard file analysis etc.  • Performance Tuning OGG in extremely high data volume environments. Installing and configuring OGG heterogeneous environments.  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using AWR/ADDM/OEM 12c.  • Installed and configured Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g 64 Bit on Linux for Production, Development and Testing.  • Installed, configured and tested oracle 10g and 11g RAC environment and trouble shooting.  • Resolved replication issues in goldengate.  • Migrated databases using GG and RMAN for 2 node RAC.  • Implemented broadcasting and bi-directional replication.  • Implemented Migration of Databases from 10g to 11g and applying patches whenever required.  • Implemented Standby Database (Physical/Logical) using Data guard for faster Disaster Recovery and HA.  • Design and implemented a complete Backup solution utilizing RMAN via a Recovery Catalog, strategy-included development of daily, weekly and monthly strategy incorporating incremental backups.  • Monitoring & Managing the Tablespaces and datafiles growth  • Proficient in database design, triggers, snapshot and stored procedures in Oracle 9i,10g and 11G  • Database designing, Database administration.  • Defining backup & recovery plan, Database tuning.  Perform reverse engineering of physical data models from databases and SQL scripts.  • Evaluate data models and physical databases for variances and discrepancies.  • Validate business data objects for accuracy and completeness  • Working with database objects and creating procedures and functions for the application and its users.  • Dataguard implementation and maintenance for Disaster Recovery.  • Alert Log Checking (Monitoring) and User trace File and Archive log maintenance.  • Creating users, granting roles, Creating and Maintaining snapshot.  • Database Export and Import Utilities.  • Monitoring locks and various sessions.  • Managing OEM.  • Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks - performance tuning, database design, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, /maintaining/Monitoring/Upgrading the Production/Dev/Test and training databases for products.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using export/import & OS scripts like shell & cron job schedule.  • Installation of oracle database and clients on UNIX and windows (Silent installation, GUI installation.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Maintaining 1300+ Database instances running on Linux in VERITAS cluster environments.  • Retrieval of backup from TSM (Tivoli Storage Management).  • OEM Monitoring (health, status, alerts, agents etc., Configuration of databases in different groups, Instances, agents, Listener, Setting/Removing Blackout)  • Managing Agent using OEM and manually (upload Matrix, Resynchronization etc.) Oracle DBA Spectrum Health - Grand Rapids, MI September 2009 to May 2010 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in 24x7 support for production RAC databases with on-call pager  • Supported production, development and testing databases of Multi Terabytes DB sizes.  • Installation of 9i, 10g and 11g clients/databases on Solaris and Linux.  • Complete Build of 2-node 10g RAC Cluster on RHEL 4 from scratch.  • Migrated 10g database to 11g R2.  • Skilled with statspack, AWR, ADDM, SAR to check health of database & hardware.  • Used Performance tuning tools such as tkprof, explain plans, oradebug and trace files to tune SQL Queries.  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development database.  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Migration of Databases and applying patches whenever required.  • Developed 10 PL/SQL Packages from the scratch for monitoring purpose.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g RAC  • Handled RAC Node hangs and node eviction issues.  • Maintaining schemas and partitioning tables.  • Implemented the Security using Oracle Database Vault  • Experienced with all kinds (Status, Performance, and Trend Analysis) of DB Monitoring.  • Index management for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Configure and manage tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  • Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  • Experienced with Space Management and Security.    Environment: IBM AIX, Solaris 9/10 Oracle 10g, 11g and 9i solaris9/10 and TOAD, RMAN, AWR ADDM, data pump , Oracle OEM 10g /11g and putty. Education Bachelor in Commerce in Commerce OSMANIA UNIVERSITY 2009 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server