Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Chief Projects Coordinator - Baltimore Black Techies Baltimore, MD Work Experience Database Engineer Wells Fargo December 2017 to May 2018 • Worked with lead developers at a major financial institution to successfully create a new database and automated web system to produce over 200 detailed and error-free commercial mortgage account reports in time for early filing with the SEC, which would be reused in future years with data from current proprietary commercial mortgage account systems.  • Increased efficiencies and reduced redundancies through automations & new database schema structuring.  • Frequently used VBA and T-SQL queries in Microsoft SQL Server 2012 and Microsoft Access during Schema Engineering as well as overall development experience. Database Administrator & Reporting Analyst White and Williams LLP July 2015 to March 2017 • Created a statistical & configurable dashboard from scratch; written in extensive VBA script and T-SQL.  • Developed new user functions and components of an already existing database in a basic form. New API included tools for staff to generate completed commonly used document templates from pre-existing data within database, tools for calculation & reporting of gross & net financial amounts and travel budgets, and various other tools for automated generation of regularly used templates for documents sent to the corporate records department.  • Developed and managed the Admin interfaces of proprietary Database systems which included the development of a brand-new API for the creation and deletion of user accounts. With this, came a new model/system for account types & permission levels, individualized user settings and encrypted password control.  • Developed a brand-new proprietary system at a law firm to automate the download / file transfer of case documents from a specific client website which previously required time-consuming manual download of large files, one at a time. This new system I developed downloaded the documents, named the files according to the proper convention, saved all to a specific directory (based on its case information) and notified the handling attorney of the completion of the file transfer via email with a detailed record of all the files within the body of the email and a link to the new folder containing the files.    • Extensive use of VBA and TSQL for the design and implementation of new functions within the Database Applications including new automated methods for management of customer profile lifecycle and status, contacts profiles and transmission of data both internally and across other software applications.    Writing of detailed official user manuals & extensive training guides kept on file for DB components created. VBA Developer & Reporting Analyst Starr Indemnity & Liability Company April 2012 to May 2015 • Promoted within company from Quality Tester (below) based on merit and quality of work to a more full-time developer role with many analyst functions.  • Scripted and designed interfaces for applications which can both parse and script SQL code files (in background) based on simple user input (via form), for producing query-based reports in MS Access, MS Excel and/or Oracle.  • Provided direct support to internal business analysts, client & third-party vendor teams in the design, implementation, maintenance & development of systems.  • Provided support to Accounting departments by creation of VBA programs for premium reconciliation Quality Assurance Analyst & Application Tester August 2010 to April 2012 • Extensive use of Salesforce to import and analyze raw customer data.  • Participated in a Salesforce.com data project which included user experience testing with scenarios I created, enterprise level upgrades and data migration.  • Developed new proprietary applications systems within MS Excel using VBA for automatic transmission & retention of both data and reports between Excel, Access and Outlook (mail body & file attachments).  • Provided direct support to business analysts for nearly all aspects of user-case testing projects.    Nonprofit Experience & Affiliations Education Econometrics The City College of the City University of New York Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL