Consultant Capgemini Consulting Technology Outsourcing Consultant Capgemini Consulting Technology Outsourcing ? 5.2 years of experience in SQL server Database Administration using MS SQL Server version 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016.  ? Experienced in setting up high availability and DR options like log shipping, mirroring, replication (Transactional or Snapshot) and Always On Availability Groups.  ? Proficient with SQL server Disaster Recovery Backup/Restore and creating Business Continuity Planning.  ? Experience in Database Migration, Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL 2008R2, SQL server 2008R2 to 2012.  ? Proven experience in creating implementing Database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, User Defined Functions.  ? Well experienced in Query Optimization, Client/server connectivity, Performance Tuning, Database Consistency Check using DBCC utilities, DMV's.  ? Hands on experience in creating Maintenance plans, scheduling SQL server jobs, Automatic administrative task and configuring Database Mail.  ? Experienced in using joins and Sub Queries for the simplification of complex Queries including more than one table.  ? Experience in implementing SQL server security and managing permission to the Database through Database roles, creating Users and logins.  ? Hands on experience in maintaining SQL server Clustering ( Active-Active / Active-Passive).  ? Experience in ETL (Extract Transform and Load) using SSIS (SQL server Integration Services ) in SQL server 2012 with Import/Export Data, Bulk insert.  ? Solid experience in troubleshooting and performance tuning by using activity monitor, performance monitor , DBCC, DMV's, DMF's and third party tools such as Spotlight, Idera monitoring.  ? Experienced on working with production servers and 24x7 on - call environments.  ? Applied Service packs and security updates for SQL server instances.  ? Excellent verbal and written communication skills combined with interpersonal and conflict resolution skills and possesses strong analytical skills as well as flexible to learn advancements in the IT industry. Work Experience Consultant Capgemini Consulting Technology Outsourcing March 2019 to Present Sr. System Engineer United Nations Office for Project Services - Copenhagen, DK January 2019 to March 2019 Copenhagen, Denmark  Environment: SQL Server 2005 and 2008, 2008R2 on Win Server 2003/2008/2012  Period: Jan 2019 to Mar 2019    Project Profile:  The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) is an operational arm of the United Nations, dedicated to implementing projects for the United Nations System, international financial institutions, governments and other partners around the world. The organization's global headquarters is located on the UN City campus in Copenhagen, Denmark  UNOPS implements more than $1 billion worth of peace and security, humanitarian and development projects for its partners every year, operating in more than 80 countries. Its activities have ranged from managing the construction of schools in Afghanistan, to building shelters in Haiti, to procuring ambulances to support the Ebola response in Liberia.  UNOPS is a member of the United Nations Development Group[2] and works particularly closely with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) and The World Bank.  UNOPS was established in 1973 as part of UNDP. It became an independent, self-financing organization in 1995. The UNOPS vision is to "advance sustainable implementation practices in development, humanitarian and peacebuilding contexts" in some of the world's most challenging environments. UNOPS concentrates its support in areas where it has a clear mandate and expertise: infrastructure, procurement, project management, human resources and financial management services.    Contribution / Highlights:  ? SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 & 2016 installations & configuration and security settings for standalone and clustered servers.  ? Maintaining the Security of the Database and giving permission to the Users on demand.  ? Creating and Maintaining scheduled jobs, Maintenance plans, and database native backups.  ? Working on file movement activities as per request with application teams.  ? Designing and supporting high availability SQL Server solutions that include Log shipping, mirroring, Replication, & clustering.  ? Monitor database usage and growth trends to forecast future storage needs, includes quarterly trending reports by instance/application.  ? Design and implement Database Maintenance and Upgrade Plan.  ? Leading the transition of various SQL Server functions/tasks from version 2005 to 2008 including log shipping setup, monitoring and modifications.  ? Heavily involved in troubleshooting, resolving data integrity and performance issues.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving blocking/locking and dead lock Issues and taking action as per approval.  ? Performing rebuild/reorganize of indexes as per Fragmentation percentage.  ? To communicate with the Onsite/Offshore Team to get the things done to meet the project's deadline.  ? Monitoring Disk Space of all the Servers and freeing up space as per SQL Server i.e. Older Backups, Unused Files etc.  ? Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export of DTS.  ? Working knowledge on Configuring and Monitoring Log shipping to create the backup server strategy and troubleshooting the manual Fail-Over of log shipping.  ? Knowledge on Mirroring and troubleshooting during failures.  ? Hands on import, export and granting access to DTS/SSIS Packages.  ? Applied SQL services packs on database Mirroring configured server.  ? Worked on SQL service pack patching on clustered servers (Two Node Cluster) & support windows cluster server patching.  ? Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and configuring the SQL Server Reporting Server.  ? Extensively worked with SSIS tool suite, designed and created mapping using various SSIS transformations like OLEDB.  ? Generated reports using SSRS, Excel that could be used to send information to diverse group of users, clients, and managers.  ? Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, Extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases, data mart databases.  ? Responsible for creating the reports basing on the requirements using SSRS 2008.  ? Developed SSIS Templates which can be used to develop SSIS packages such a way that they can be dynamically deployed into DEV, Test and Production Environments.  ? Designed and implemented Data Integration and ETL processes with SSIS packages to make data available for reporting purpose within a data warehouse.  ? Scheduled and maintain regular/weekly Jobs, Alerts and Maintenance Plans.  ? Monitoring backup jobs & taking backups manually and using SQL Safe tool and restoring databases as per user requirement.    PROJECT:-2 Sr. Software Engineer Zensar Technologies Limited June 2016 to March 2019 Sr. System Engineer Telecommunications Company. Charter Communications - US June 2016 to December 2018 US  Environment: SQL Server 2005 and 2008, 2008R2 on Win Server 2003/2008/2012  Period: June 2016 to Dec 2018    Project Profile:  Charter Communications, is an American telecommunications company that offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum. Providing services to over 25 million customers in 41 states it is the second-largest cable operator in the United States by subscribers, just behind Comcast, and third largest pay TV operator behind Comcast and AT&T U-verse/DirecTV. It is the fifth largest telephone provider based upon residential subscriber line count. Database Administrator Brigade Corporation India Private Limited April 2014 to June 2016 PROJECT:-1 Database Administrator Hartford Life Insurance. Woodbury - US April 2014 to June 2016 US  Environment: SQL Server 2005 and 2008, 2012 on Win Server 2003/2008/2012  Period: April 2014 to June 2016    Project Profile:  At Fifth Third Bank, we want you to grow and succeed as an employee, as a person, and as a member of your community. To help you fully realize your goals and potential, we offer a comprehensive curriculum of training and development for employees at all levels all designed to increase your overall skills, knowledge and opportunities throughout your career at Fifth Third Bank. Each learning solution is designed to prepare you to successfully perform in your job responsibilities, as well as inform you of important Bank processes and systems.    Contribution / Highlights:  ? SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 & 2016 installations & configuration and security settings for standalone and clustered servers.  ? Maintaining the Security of the Database and giving permission to the Users on demand.  ? Creating and Maintaining scheduled jobs, Maintenance plans, and database native backups.  ? Working on file movement activities as per request with application teams.  ? Designing and supporting high availability SQL Server solutions that include Log shipping, mirroring, Replication, & clustering.  ? Monitor database usage and growth trends to forecast future storage needs, includes quarterly trending reports by instance/application.  ? Design and implement Database Maintenance and Upgrade Plan.  ? Leading the transition of various SQL Server functions/tasks from version 2005 to 2008 including log shipping setup, monitoring and modifications.  ? Heavily involved in troubleshooting, resolving data integrity and performance issues.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving blocking/locking and dead lock Issues and taking action as per approval.  ? Performing rebuild/reorganize of indexes as per Fragmentation percentage.  ? To communicate with the Onsite/Offshore Team to get the things done to meet the project's deadline.  ? Monitoring Disk Space of all the Servers and freeing up space as per SQL Server i.e. Older Backups, Unused Files etc.  ? Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export of DTS.  ? Working knowledge on Configuring and Monitoring Log shipping to create the backup server strategy and troubleshooting the manual Fail-Over of log shipping.  ? Knowledge on Mirroring and troubleshooting during failures.  ? Hands on import, export and granting access to DTS/SSIS Packages.  ? Applied SQL services packs on database Mirroring configured server.  ? Worked on SQL service pack patching on clustered servers (Two Node Cluster) & support windows cluster server patching.  ? Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and configuring the SQL Server Reporting Server.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving blocking/locking and dead lock Issues and taking action as per approval.  ? Performing rebuild/reorganize of indexes as per Fragmentation percentage.  ? To communicate with the Onsite/Offshore Team to get the things done to meet the project's deadline. CEO St. Louis, MO 2012 to 2012 to Stamford, Connecticut, although many operations. Still remain based out of St. Louis. Charter became the parent company of Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks for a combined $71.4 billion, making it the third-largest pay television service in the United States.    Contribution / Highlights:  ? SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 & 2016 installations & configuration and security settings for standalone and clustered servers.  ? Maintaining the Security of the Database and giving permission to the Users on demand.  ? Creating and Maintaining scheduled jobs, Maintenance plans, and database native backups.  ? Working on file movement activities as per request with application teams.  ? Designing and supporting high availability SQL Server solutions that include Log shipping, mirroring, Replication, & clustering.  ? Monitor database usage and growth trends to forecast future storage needs, includes quarterly trending reports by instance/application.  ? Design and implement Database Maintenance and Upgrade Plan.  ? Leading the transition of various SQL Server functions/tasks from version 2005 to 2008 including log shipping setup, monitoring and modifications.  ? Heavily involved in troubleshooting, resolving data integrity and performance issues.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving blocking/locking and dead lock Issues and taking action as per approval.  ? Performing rebuild/reorganize of indexes as per Fragmentation percentage.  ? To communicate with the Onsite/Offshore Team to get the things done to meet the project's deadline.  ? Monitoring Disk Space of all the Servers and freeing up space as per SQL Server i.e. Older Backups, Unused Files etc.  ? Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export of DTS.  ? Working knowledge on Configuring and Monitoring Log shipping to create the backup server strategy and troubleshooting the manual Fail-Over of log shipping.  ? Knowledge on Mirroring and troubleshooting during failures.  ? Hands on import, export and granting access to DTS/SSIS Packages.  ? Applied SQL services packs on database Mirroring configured server.  ? Worked on SQL service pack patching on clustered servers (Two Node Cluster) & support windows cluster server patching.  ? Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and configuring the SQL Server Reporting Server.  ? Extensively worked with SSIS tool suite, designed and created mapping using various SSIS transformations like OLEDB.  ? Generated reports using SSRS, Excel that could be used to send information to diverse group of users, clients, and managers.  ? Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, Extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases, data mart databases.  ? Responsible for creating the reports basing on the requirements using SSRS 2008.  ? Developed SSIS Templates which can be used to develop SSIS packages such a way that they can be dynamically deployed into DEV, Test and Production Environments.  ? Designed and implemented Data Integration and ETL processes with SSIS packages to make data available for reporting purpose within a data warehouse.  ? Scheduled and maintain regular/weekly Jobs, Alerts and Maintenance Plans.  ? Monitoring backup jobs & taking backups manually and using SQL Safe tool and restoring databases as per user requirement.    PROJECT: 3 Education B. Tech Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Ananthapur, TAMIL NADU, IN Additional Information Technical skills:    Operating Systems: MS - DOS, Windows 7,8,10 XP; Windows Server 2012R2, 2012, 2008, 2003  Databases: MS SQL Server 2000/2005, 2008/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016  SQL Server Tools: SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, Profiler, Extended Events, Query Analyzer  Database Modeling & Other Tools: Service now