AWS Cloud Engineer AWS Cloud Engineer AWS Cloud Engineer - KONAMI GAMING INC Waldorf, MD Work Experience AWS Cloud Engineer KONAMI GAMING INC - Las Vegas, NV October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  In this project my role was is establish cloud environment to perform application processing.    Implemented automation for provision and deployment using AWS CloudFormation.    • Automated AWS deployments using AWS Code Pipeline and Code Deploy.    • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful  deployment of Web applications and database templates.    • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible  systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.    • Implemented Serverless architecture using AWS Lambda with Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB. Also, migrated 300+ servers from on premise to AWS Cloud.    • Involved in planning, designing and configuring multi-region failover with AWS Route53.    • Supported 400+ AWS Cloud instance's and used AWS command line Interface to manage and configure  various AWS products.    • Developed cloud Formation scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.    • Utilized AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets and EBS.    • Created nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups.    • Migrated applications from internal data center to AWS.    • Encrypted data on server and client side.    • Maintained edge location to cache data with CDN using Cloud Front to deliver data with less latency.    • Scaled distributed in-memory cache environment in the cloud using Elastic cache.    • Co-ordinated the execution of multiple computing devices with Amazon SWF.  • Managed automated backups and created own backup snapshots when needed.    • Designed and implemented scalable, secure Cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services. Leveraged  AWS cloud services such as EC2; auto-scaling; and VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.    • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with Infrastructure as code (Terraform).    • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Auto scaling (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation, Route  53, CloudWatch, CloudFront.    • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them  as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.    • Used security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.    • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.    • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static  content for a web application.    • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage  classes based on requirement.    • Created and launched EC2 instances using AMI's of Linux, RHEL.    • Experience in Designing, Installing and Implementing Ansible configuration management system and in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying application.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and deployment (CI/CD) pipeline using various CI Tools like Jenkins  and AWS Code Pipeline  AWS Cloud Engineer New York State Unified Court System - New York, NY August 2017 to September 2018 New York Area  Responsible for the maintenance and support of several New York State unified courts system environment.    • Responsible for architecting, designing, implementing and supporting of cloud-based infrastructure and its  solutions    • Configure and Implement VPCs, Subnets, EC2 instances, Security groups, NACL, EBS, Auto Scaling, S3, that  are highly available, fault tolerant and scalable in AWS.    • Experience with CloudFront, Glacier, Route53, SNS, RDS and SQS    • Troubleshoot and resolve EC2 instance connectivity and availability issues.    • Perform resource utilization in AWS by ensuring only needed resources are procured.    • Configure and Implement Secure Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) for high availability of web and application  servers.    • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux Servers such as HTTPD, APACHE2, etc    • Experience with Linux Commands and Cross-Platform Cloud Infrastructure including Linux/ Unix Systems  Administration and Security in AWS, LINUX, UNIX, Windows and VMware ESX environments.    • Knowledgeable in Virtualization (VMware, Hypervisor), Virtual Private Networking (VPN), Migration of Applications to AWS, Data Security, Backup & Recovery    • Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU  utilization    • Perform user, group and application access and permissions in AWS using the Identity Access Manager  (IAM).    • Configure, manage, and maintain system performance Create, update and maintain Amazon Machine Image  (AMI) templates    • Perform application and system log management and archiving to Amazon S3 bucket. • Evaluating system- based configuration and security vulnerability to ensure compliance with the organization's standards    • Actively monitoring, researching and analyzing ways in which the services in AWS can be improved.    Used Ansible for Configuration Management system that can assist in configuring large numbers of servers from a single machine. Jr. AWS Cloud Practitioner CARDINAL HEALTH - Dublin, OH January 2015 to July 2017 Working as a Cloud Engineer for multiple development teams, system analysis team to establish a build  schedule, provide a guideline for deployment in higher environments and with troubleshooting build  system failures.  • Creating and maintaining Infrastructure for Applications in AWS using Terraform. Building & Automating  CICD pipelines for different applications.    • Understanding requirement from the architects and proposing designs as per requirements.    • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and orchestration tools such as Chef, puppet and terraform.    • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route  53, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.    • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them  as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.    • Manage IAM roles and console access for EC2, RDS and ELB services.    • Used IAM for creating roles, users, groups and implemented MFA to provide additional security to AWS  account and its resources.    • Created snapshots to take backups of the volumes and images to store launch configurations of the EC2  instances.    • Installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, wrote Recipes, and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef- server and managed AWS for EC2/S3 & ELB with Chef Cookbooks.    • Monitor and create alarms for CPU, memory, disk space, using Cloud Watch.    • Manage Route 53 DNS hosted zones configuring aliases for Elastic Load Balancer applications.    • Managed multiple AWS instances across multiple environment using Terraform scripts  National Wide Insurance Oracle Database Administrator Virginia Beach - Beach, Virginia, US July 2013 to December 2014 Environment: RHEL 3.X, 4.X; Windows NT 2000/2003; Oracle 10g; VMware.    Responsibilities:  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application  performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 10g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX  shell scripts.    • Involvement in all phases of the project life cycle.    • Designed database tables as per technical specifications.    • Translated business requirements into creation and alteration of database objects: tables, indexes, constraints, triggers and stored procedures.    • Implemented automated backup strategy using the UNIX shell script CRON UTILITY.    • Worked closely with Application Developers to design/create new Oracle databases/create new  schemas/ database objects, as well as making database changes from DEV to PROD, via TST following  requests/demands from the development team.    • Backup/Recovery of Oracle 9i/10g databases using Oracle RMAN.    • Performed day to day activities such as, daily error checks and database health monitoring of physical  resources (disk space, memory, CPU, etc.).    • Performance parameters adjusted as needed.    • Produced backup report to ensure the backups were all successful and troubleshoot if the backup was not  successful to find out the root cause.