DevOps Cloud Architect DevOps Cloud Architect DevOps Cloud Architect - AT&T Raleigh, NC • DevOps Architect with 9+ years of experience in administrating, configuring, managing Linux distributions and Virtualization.  • Accomplished AWS DevOps system Engineer, managing server's infrastructures and administration of mission critical, high availability environments. Build and Release in Automating, Building, Deploying, and Releasing of code from one environment to another environment.  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Configuration, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3.  • Infrastructure Development and Operations, involved in designing and deploying utilizing almost all the AWS stack like EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, SNS, Route 53.  • Focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling in cloud formation. Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Worked on creating Cloud Formation templates for dev, test, staging and production.  • Configuring and Networking of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resources using it.  • Experience with automation and configuration management (Terraform, Puppet).  • Automation of OS builds and Application Installation through Puppet and deployed Docker Engines in virtualized platforms for containerization of multiple apps.  • Performed automation tasks on various Docker components like Docker Hub, Docker Engine, Docker Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Dockerized applications by creating Docker images from Docker file  • Designed highly accessible, fault tolerant and cost-effective systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto scaling, Elastic Load Balance and AMIs.  • Creating S3 buckets also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Experience on manage IAM users by creating new users, giving them a limited access as per needs, assign roles and policies to specific user.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT (GitHub/Gitlab), SVN (subversion) on Linux and windows platforms.  • Experience in working on with agile environment and have a Full understanding of SDLCand process.  • Experience in Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate the repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and enthusiastically managed the changes.  • Experience with DevOps configuration management tools such as Chef.  • Worked on applications to achieve continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD).  • Experience on Jenkins. By installing, configuring and maintaining for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in load balancing, Integrating and monitoring with Nagios. Work Experience DevOps Cloud Architect AT&T - Raleigh, NC July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in DevOps migration/automation processes for build and deploy systems.  • Configured, monitored and automated Amazon Web Services as well as involved in deploying the content cloud platform on Amazon Web Services using EC2, S3 and EBS.  • Launched AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and Configured launched instances with respect to specific applications. Created Snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI's) of EC2 Instance.  • Created AWS S3 Buckets, Policies and on the IAM Role based polices customizing the JSON templates, Glacier for Archival storage and backup on AWS.  • Created the AWS VPC network for the Installed Instances and configured the Security Groups and Elastic IP's accordingly.  • Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Designed Network Security Groups (NSGs) to control inbound and outbound access to network interfaces (NICs), VMs and subnets.  • Provided high availability for IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  • Script, debug and automate PowerShell scripts to reduce manual administration tasks and cloud deployments.  • Create the Virtual Machine cluster and load balance for VM's using PowerShell in SQL & Windows Environment.  • Worked on creating Custom Azure Templates for quick deployments and advanced PowerShell scripting.  • Worked on AWS Lambda to run the code in response to events, such as changes to data in an Amazon S3 bucket, Amazon DynamoDB table, HTTP requests using AWS API Gateway and invoked the code using API calls made using AWS SDKs.  • Maintained DNS records using Route53. Used AWS Route53 to manage DNS zones and give public DNS names to elastic load balancers IP's.  • Managing and creating new and existing environments in VSTS deployment groups.  • Architected and developed continuous integration, continuous deployment and configuration management that automated builds and deployments to numerous environments using VSTS on Azure Devops project.  • Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managedKubernetes manifest files and Managedreleases of Helm packages.  • Created a Continuous Delivery process to include support building of Docker Images and publish into a private repository- Nexus v3.  • Installed and configured Nexus repository manager for sharing artifacts between internal teams and created proxy Nexus repositories to speed up the build process.  • Responsible for installation & configuration of Jenkins to support various Java builds and Jenkins plugins to automate continuous builds and publishing Docker images to the Nexus repository.  • Container management using Docker by writing Dockerfiles and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configuredKubernetes.  • Established infrastructure excellence Site Reliability and DevOps teams executing leading, proven best practices through innovative frameworks, automation  • Used Terraform for cloud Automation like setting up the target environment which comprises of VPC's, Subnet's, Security Group's for the migrated server's to be launched.  • VMware process automation using vSphere power CLI and windows power shell.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and delivery environment (puppet, Yum)  • Performed Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus and Yum.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Built server deployment on Cloud (EC2) servers with help of DevOps tools like Chef.  • Implemented JSHint/JSLint testing tool to automate the code review process and published the results on Jenkins as well the graph by comparing everyday nightly builds.  • Maintenance and Managing of LDAP server. Processing of Java Script to all the nodes using Chef.  • Configured automation tools like Chef on Linux servers.  • Installed and Configured Nagios on servers and clients using Chef.  • Actively involved in architecting the chef infrastructure to manage more than 2000 servers  • Involved in virtualization with VMware ESX vSphere 4.1 and created VM's and performed P2V and P2P migrations. Migrated Projects from SVN to GIT  • Installing and Configuring TOMCAT and deployment of JSP.  • Worked on hardware, HBA, DNS, ANS, firewall, load balancer, networking, middleware, web application, Application Servers & security.  • Installing, configuring, and administering DNS, NFS, NIS, Mail servers, FTP servers RPM servers on Sun Solaris and Red Hat Linux platforms.  • Configure and maintain codebase to support the build and deployment of code on servers.  • Maintain a Live Like environment to test any production issues on the setup and push it into production.  • Responsible for distributed applications across hybrid AWS and physical data centers.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Configuration Management using Subversion (SVN) and maintaining admin related files.  • Automating the regular tasks in Subversion and streamlining the process of access to SVN.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Subversion, Jenkins, JIRA, OpenStack, Maven, GIT, ANT, Chef, Docker, AWS, Python, Remedy, UNIX Shell Scripting. Red Hat EL 3/4/5/6, SUSE, Apache Cloud Stack, AWS AWS Architect UPS - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Deploying, planning, monitoring, and maintenance of amazon AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, and IAM) and virtual machines as required in the environment.  • Developed automation framework for Application Deployments to the cloud environments.  • Worked on Managing the Private Cloud Environment using puppet.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances.  • Worked on puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change.  • Assign Roles, manage Users and groups and assign policies using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) with EC2 Auto scaling groups. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Assigned security groups, network ACLs, Internet Gateways, NAT instances and Route tables to ensure a secure zone for organizations in AWS public cloud  • Designed & implemented automatedserverbuild management, monitoring&deployment using Ansible and Nagios.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Wrote Python Code using Ansible Python API to Automate Cloud Deployment Process.  • Developed Python Modules for Ansible Customizations.  • Used Ansible Playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery Pipeline. Deployed micro services, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Created Ansible playbooks, which are the entry point for Ansible provisioning, where the automation defined through tasks using YAML format and Run Ansible Scripts to depending on provision to servers.  • Created Custom Ansible modules for finding facts about Cloud watch alarms and taking actions to pause/unpause those alarms during deployments.  • Managed a PaaS for deployments using Docker, Ansible and Mesos, which reduced considerably deployment risks.  • Setup AWS VPC's for dev, staging and Prod environments.  • Installed, Configured and Administered Hudson/Jenkins Continuous Integration Tool.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation usingJenkins along with Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Developed a continuous deployment pipeline using Jenkins, shell scripts.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs. And, configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Implemented rapid-provisioning and life-cycle management for Ubuntu Linux using Amazon EC2, PowerShell and custom Bash scripts.  • Vulnerability Assessment Penetration Testing on the infrastructure on AWS for security.  • Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation, developed Custom Scripts to monitoring.  • Designed, wrote and implemented Python script for taking automatic Snapshots of EC2 instances  • Managed GIT (GitHub) and SVN as Source Control Systems.    Environment: Shell Scripting, Ansible, GitHub, CLI, Python, Tomcat, Apache, Oracle, Jenkins, Ubuntu, Centos, AWS, Elastic Load Balancer, S3, Cloud Watch, IAM, RDS, Storage Gateway. Database Administrator May 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA respectively.  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB)  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD)  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Part of the on-call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support.  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role.    Environment: Oracle 11g and 12c, SQL, PL/SQL, LINUX, AWS, Mongo DB, AWR, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, MS Windows Servers Linux Administrator GoDaddy - Scottsdale, AZ December 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installation and Administration of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3 and 4 using Kick start including monitoring, scaling and capacity planning and hardware maintenance of Sun fire servers.  • Installation and Configuration of Red Hat Satellite on Dell power edge 2650.  • Installation and configuration of CYGWIN on Windows in order to access UNIX system from Windows Operating Systems.  • Perform regular update to the latest patches for SUN Solaris and Linux machines.  • User and group administration for all the UNIX servers (IBM AIX, HP-UX, RHL) available in the lab.  • Configuration of Naming Services like DNS, DHCP, NIS, LDAP Novell directory. Implementing Master and Slave servers for NIS, DNS.  • Expert in Installing, configuring and maintaining apache/tomcat, samba.  • Co-ordinate with web admin team in installation of BEA Web Logic Server 8.1.  • Creating, Mounting and Troubleshooting NFS File systems on different OS platforms.  • Troubleshooting and fixing day-to-day problems related to the servers.  • Building Sun Solaris Servers from scratch with Jumpstart and Flash Archives for upcoming projects.  • Hands on Migration Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.0 to RHEL 5.0.  • Responsible for Oracle database security and patching, Oracle database capacity analysis and planning.  • Providing 24 x 7 supports to various application level server level & network level Monitoring & troubleshooting of any data center outages.  • Hands on VMware for installing Linux and SUSE Linux and windows on virtual machines.  • Managing disk storage with VERITAS Volume Manager 3.5/4.1 and Solaris Volume Manager with VERITAS File System (VxFS).  • Network trouble shooting using ndd, Traceroute, net stat, ifconfig and snoop.    Environment: Solaris 8, 9,10, Red hat 5.3,5.5, HP-UX 11i, Windows Server 2000 and 2003, Sun Enterprise 10000, 15000, Apache Web Server 1.3.x, 2.x Oracle 8i,9i2, Perl, KSH, Sun v480, v880, E220, IBM p630, p550, power 4 Dell POWEREDGE 700,2650,6650, Red hat Enterprise Linux 3.x, 4.x System Engineer Lovelace Health System - Albuquerque, NM September 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Configured Enterprise UNIX/LINUX systems with SAN/NAS infrastructure across multiple sites on mission business critical systems  • Setup, Implementation, Configuration, of Backup/Restore solutions for Disaster/Business Recovery of clients on Linux platform.  • Installing/Upgrading RPM's and building packages from source code.  • Experienced in creating iptables custom rules to block the ports which are not essential.  • Worked with IP Tables for networking purposes and control number of Disks in clusters.  • Performed quarterly patching of Linux servers on regular schedule.  • Experience with configuration and managing VMware Virtual Infrastructure ESXi Hosts, vCenter Servers, HA, DRS, vMotion, Storage DRS, Storage vMotion.  • RAID groups and setting up NFS, CIFS and iSCSI protocols in SAN/NAS environment for Red hat LINUX.  • Installing and managing different automation and monitoring tools on Red hat.  • Involving in day to day issues troubleshooting for Linux/Windows/SAN/NAS/Enterprise Backup solutions.  • Performance Monitoring infrastructure on Enterprise Linux Operating Systems.  • System and application security and forensics analysis for vulnerabilities and security measures  • Implementation of oracle RAC 10g on Redhat Linux 5.0 along with SAN storage on EVAs.  • Involved and set up migration for UNIX/Linux server and SAN storage between data centers and application migration and testing.    Environment: RHEL, Oracle, Veritas, SAN, korn shell scripts and creation of VMs for SUSE, Solaris x86 and Red hat Linux on VMWare ESX Education Bachelor of Science in Accounting in Accounting The College at Old Westbury, State University of New York - New York, NY Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance