Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Broken Arrow, OK I have several years of IT experience which I believe will prove beneficial even though I am not seeking an IT position. Before my career in IT I acquired exceptional skills in customer service, large-scale cash handling, and other general office tasks through jobs in the financial industry. I took several years away from work to raise two children. Now that my children are older, I am eager to find a fulfilling employment opportunity with a good company where I will enjoy being a long term team member.  In previous positions I have always excelled based on eagerness to contribute and exceptional people skills. Work Experience Database Administrator HireRight - Tulsa, OK June 2008 to December 2011 • Worked extensively with large scale enterprise solutions including VLDB - very large database environments.  • Demonstrated skill in performance tuning and optimization in environments utilizing Clustering, SAN, VMWare and various data replication techniques.  • Supported a complex strategy to automatically refresh stage environments using custom log shipping and SAN snapshots from several replicated production servers.  • Implemented various strategies for high availability, fault tolerance and disaster recovery utilizing MS server clustering, hot and warm standby servers and diverse backup strategies for environments ranging from simple to extremely complex.  • Supported various types of data models, ETL strategies and the design of Analysis Services cube solutions.  • Managed servers across multiple NOC's and DR sites.  • Managed releases according to multiple SOP and change management processes.  • Responsibilities covered almost 100 SQL Servers and over 1000 databases Database Administrator (Internship) TV Guide - Tulsa, OK February 2008 to June 2008 • Installed and configured SQL Server 2000 and 2005.  • Performed standard SQL Server configuration activities - transfer logins, restore databases from other environments, setup Full Text Search, setup nightly maintenance, linked servers, jobs, permissions, notifications etc.  • Worked extensively on the rollout of 2005 for core Online server complex in a 7X24 environment with no downtime.  • Built redundant server solutions using database mirroring, custom log walking and NLB Clustering.  • Worked with scaling solutions for extreme performance utilizing HLB and NLB clustering, high performance SAN disk subsystems, Federated Database architecture and various data replication techniques.  • Worked extensively on several ETL solutions for loading Online data.  • Troubleshoot and fix problems with backend production processes.  • Built disaster recovery documents for several servers.  • Built load and performance baselines to identify trends and analyze and document SQL Server performance bottlenecks.  • Worked heavily with Analysis Services solutions. Branch Sales Associate International Bank of Commerce - Tulsa, OK October 2005 to February 2008 • Attained high goals in sales of new accounts both in deposit accounts and outside investments, building strong customer relationships as well as expanding existing customer relationships, maintain and revise customer accounts, consistently sell new products to existing accounts.  • Supervised all vault activity, manage cash shipments to and from the vault on a weekly basis, balance vault daily, oversee teller transactions to and from the vault.  • Oversee all teller activity, audit cash drawers, order all items and accessories needed for the branch, must possess full knowledge of teller procedures and guidelines. Education MCDBA Tulsa Community College