Team Coordinator Team Coordinator Team Coordinator - Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey Newark, NJ PROFILE  Associated with Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey since August 2016. Hands-on experience in providing  outstanding customer service, data analysis and reporting, workforce management, as well as handling confidential/sensitive  information. Experience also included assisting with management oversight of unionized employees. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Team Coordinator State Health Benefits Program at Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey - Wall, NJ September 2017 to Present Supervise Bargaining Unit employees; Ensure accurate submissions of payroll data; Disseminate information from Leadership down to team and certify understanding; Continuously analyzed, observed, and trended data to identify  shortcomings or to improve procedures/workflows; Update and maintain library of stored information in databases; Provide  supervisory administrative support to direct reports.  Key Duties:  • Perform data gathering and reporting; possess ownership of database systems; speak to results of analysis for Management and Executive Leadership.  • Responsible for maintaining departmental records, including confidential databases.  • Serve as primary point of contact for departmental inquiries as well as escalated claim situations.  • Investigate/Resolve complex claim inquiries.  • Prepare Quarterly Incentive Plan (QIP) and coordinate for review with business leaders.  • Systems utilized: Tableau, Universal Customer Service Workstation (UCSW), SharePoint, Verint, Lotus  Notes, National Accounts Service Company (NASCO) Claims Processing System, Data Management System  (DMS), ADP eTime processing system, Microsoft Office platform, etc. Service Operations Associate Management Development Program at Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey - Newark, NJ August 2016 to September 2017 Completed ongoing systems, business-specific and soft-skill training requirements; Performed gap and root cause analysis;  Made recommendations on process changes; completed other collaborative projects as assigned by management.  Key Duties:  • Gain understanding of how the management of inventory levels for business teams is conducted.  • Obtain skillset on how the Shared Service Division creates staffing documents (forecasting, trending, staffing  levels) for different departments within the company.  • Assist in the management of employees and inventory within State Health Benefits Program.  • Gain understanding of how management of Union employees (Bargaining Unit) is conducted. Program Assistant/Team Leader Office of University - Community Partnerships - Newark, NJ September 2014 to July 2016 New Jersey    Handled confidential material; Generated data entry reports for leadership; Copying, Printing; Handled University-wide  paperwork; Provided accurate information to professors and students; Supervised Federal Work-Study (FWS) students;  Maintained responsibility for creating schedule for employees, Compiled data for monthly reporting, Processed and verified timesheets.    Key Duties:  • Interpreted and analyzed policies to ensure they were implemented effectively.  • Operated Call Center under minimal supervision from leadership.  • Responded to large number of complex customer service inquiries.  • Provided interviews and on-the-job training to employees. Database Administrator Upward Bound Program at Rutgers University - Newark, NJ April 2014 to January 2016 Inputted large amount of confidential data into databases; Assisted in collecting and compiling data needed for special  projects, programs, activities for the school and Federal database; Assisted with filing during peak application and admission  season; Noticed trends about data and bringing consequent analysis to program director; Maintained accurate records concerning program activities.  Key Duties:  • Collected and analyzed program data in order to prepare the Annual Performance Report for the United States  Department of Education.  • Updated and maintained database systems (i.e. Companion Blumen, Downgrade, One Call Now). Customer and Visitor Information Representative Office of University - Community Partnerships at Rutgers University - Newark, NJ September 2012 to August 2014 Answered and transferred calls; assisted customers with their questions and provided reliable, up-to-date information  regarding the local community as well as information within the university; Promoted to Program Assistant/Team Leader. Education Master of Arts in Political Science Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 2014 to 2016 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 2012 to 2014 Associate of Science in Social Science Essex County College 2010 to 2012