Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Silver Spring, MD I have 10 years experience in the IT Industry. I have strong background in several Business Intelligence Application. I am Oracle Business Intelligence Developer and Database Developer with expertise in Presentation Services and building Repository. Strong engineering professional with a Bachelor's degree focused in Information Technology from University of Maryland University College.  Specialties/Expertise  * Oracle OBIEE Developer  * Application Design, Implementation, and Integration with VA  * Oracle Database Developer    Active Clearance(s) (List All)  * Investigation: Open Investigation - SF85P, 2016 10 16, OPM  * Agency: VA  * Eligibility: Public Trust Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer Favor TechConsulting, LLC - Vienna, VA 2016 to Present OBIEE Developer / Database Developer Veterans Administration (VA) Veterans Health Administration (VHA) 2016 to Present Enterprise Reporting and Analytical Support, (2016 - Present)    • Worked on building with OBIEE Repository at 3 layers i.e., Physical Layer, Business Model and mapping Layer and Presentation Layer.  • Create/Modify Metadata repository (rpd) as per the data requirements by using Oracle BI Analytics Server Admin tool.  • Worked with Business Groups to identify, analyze, and document Business Requirements.  • Created Business Facts, Dimensions and defined Logical relation between them at the Business model and mapping layer.  • Worked on setting up Dimensional Hierarchy.  • Extensively worked on IBots using OBIEE Delivers to create alerts based on results.  • Identified and created aggregate tables to improve query performance.  • Created Aggregate level and level based measures.  • Created Web-groups for security purpose with access privileges.  • Created Dashboards & Answers.  • Created Time Series Measures Year ago, Month Ago, Year-to-date measures using AGO and To Date functions.  • Involved in setting up Ibots to run reports at scheduled time for Cache Seeding to Improve Query Performance using Caching.  • Created dimensions in the Business model & Mapping layer.  • Assigned Data level & UI level security to the Users.  • Managed security privileges for each subject area and dashboard according to user requirements.  • Customized Reports look and Feel using Column Formatting, Conditional formatting.  • Customized Dashboard reports using drill-down capabilities.  • Worked on cache purging strategy using event-polling table cache purging technique.  • Created filters using repository variables, Presentation variables.  • Also created saved filters that can be reused by multiple reports.  • Migrated Analytics RPD and Web catalog from one environment to another.  • Designed and Developed Custom Mappings and Workflows in Informatics to bring the data from other data  source systems and Integrated using Universal Adapters in DAC.  • Monitored Incremental and Full load of Data through Data Warehouse Administration Console (DAC) and  • Informatics Workflow Monitor.  • Involved in Integrating Oracle BI Presentation Services with BI Publisher. OBIEE Developer XO Communication - Baltimore, MD 2011 to 2016 OBIEE Developer XO Communication 2011 to 2016 • Worked on building reports in answers and placing them in dashboards and formatting changes as per requirements.  • Implemented RPD for Project Accounting and created the reports and worked on RPD Model Changes for different requirements.  • Modified some of the existing reports and related dashboards, and fixed the issues related to reports, performance, during production support.  • Worked on LDAP implementation and External table authentication.  • Worked on merging Repositories and catalogs.  • Worked on setting usage tracking in OBIEE.  • Worked on creation of repository variables and session variables.  • Worked with the Security settings in OBIEE Admin Tool to set up users, groups, access privileges.  • Managed security privileges for each subject area and dashboards according to user requirements.  • Designed and developed interactive navigational drill down reports in OBIEE Answers, requests and Intelligence  • Dashboards using various reporting features and functionalities such as formulas, filters, charts, pivot tables.  • Created connection pools, physical tables, defined joins in the physical layer of the repository.  • Used the Catalog manager and maintained the Analytics web catalog to manage Dashboards, Answers and Delivers.  • Configured Agents to deliver analytics content based on schedule to obtain weekly reports and sent notification Alerts.  • Worked on Informatics (ETL Mapping changes).  • Worked on ETL Monitoring. Sr. OBIEE Developer and Administrator TIAA - Baltimore, MD 2010 to 2011 • Worked with Business Groups to identify, analyze, and document Business Requirements.  • Migrated and merged OBIEE Repository and Catalogs.  • Server Space management as per the need provided extended production support based on the demand and complexity of the issue.  • Implemented Over all security, SSO, OBIEE content and Data level security.  • Create/Manage Repository/Web Users and Groups and assigning permissions using Enterprise Manager and Console.  • Experience in Preparing Design Specification documents based on functional requirements and also involved the preparation of Technical Design Documents.  • Worked in End to End construction of the BI model from repository to reports development.  • Worked with OBIEE Answers, Intelligence Dashboards in OBIEE 11g.  • Demonstrated knowledge in dealing with various functionalities like prompts, views, aggregates, global filters, guided navigation, customization, conditional formatting of reports to satisfy the end users.  • Designed and developed physical, logical and presentation layers of the repository with new data model changes.  • Developed dimensional hierarchies to facilitate the drill down and report navigation.  • Configured Bi Scheduler and created Ibots to schedule and deliver Analytics content to multiple delivery  destinations and also a Cache Seeding mechanism.  • Enabled Usage Tracking to monitor the usage and performance of reports.  • Implemented MUDE (Multi User Development Environment) in OBIEE.  • Created new Repository Variables, Session variables and Initialization blocks to configure security, data access and authorization on Repository and Catalog objects.  • Created Answers reports using various analytics views like Table, Pivot tables, Charts, Column Selectors, View Selectors, Narrative, Static text etc.  • Was responsible for performance improvement of the reports by using various strategies in both the database and OBIEE like Indexes, Hints in Physical Layer, Materialized views and Caching.  • Experienced in working with BI (XML) Publisher, Data Templates, RTF, and XSL Templates and provided the capability to download the reports in the user defined formats.  • Experience in designing Mini Schemas/Data Models/Data Marts for Legacy Systems in Oracle and develop Reports out of OBIEE answers, dashboards as per business requirement.  • Responsible for project documentation (documenting functional, technical documents, preparing test cases/test plans and KT plans). Education Bachelors of Technology in Information Technology University of Maryland University College Skills Database, Mysql, Sql, Sybase, Html Certifications/Licenses Driver's License