Senior Database Administrator/Developer, Business Operations Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer, Business Operations Senior Database Administrator/Developer, Business Operations - EMC Newton, MA • Loaded more than 200 databases per week at Dell EMC, ensuring the data loaded accurately and completely.  • Automated comparisons of Salesforce data with manually entered data to speed up analysts' workflow 1000% • Supported more than 50 representatives while at EMC, including database backups, software development, support, and implementation.  • Created a "go to" Tableau reporting display for sales for EMC, including month to date, year to date. TSQL and Sql Server used.  • Automated partner adjustments process, saving 6 accountants many months of work.  • Converted data for analysis by Mutual Funds Department for use in a campaign from a server to a desktop database environment at Fidelity Investments, netting the company more than $5 million. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator/Developer, Business Operations EMC - Franklin, MA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities • Supported more than 50 representatives, including backups, software development, data modeling, support, and implementation. Tableau administrator for group.  • Salesforce and SQL Server: Created downloads from Salesforce to feed a daily reporting database, sending reports out to many reps. Attained a Federal clearance to enable access to the Federal side of Salesforce, enabling qualified users to attain Federal reports.  • Developed a 24-hour, totally automated system, using the SQL Server ETL tool (SSIS) and TSQL as a "one-stop shop, " to track deal progress. Tableau dashboard published to server and data modeling.  • SME (Subject Matter Expert) on deal discounting universe in SAP Business objects. I created several daily reports for users and made decisions on data modeling in that SAP "universe".  • Established a more efficient method of discounting deals by converting to database from spreadsheets method of deal negotiation, increasing workflow efficiency by 100%, using Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, SQL Developer. Reporting by Tableau.  • Designed a new Data Pump to supply data continuously to a global dashboard, to display deal progress to partners using ETL (SSIS SQL Server Integration services). SQL Server 2016.C# Visual Studio.  • Designed reports in tableau, with data visualization, using information from Salesforce.  • Designed a datamart for the Partner Support Center using SQL Server. SQL Database Developer, Shareholder Services Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo and Co - Boston, MA March 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities • Streamlined workflow to handle wire transmissions in and out of the company, increasing efficiency by 300%.  • Created an automated writer to send information to trading desks via spreadsheets, summing dollars from trade desks and enabling the design of an automated writer system.  • C# used in SQL Server and data modeling.  • Added features to detect tampering or changes to trade-desk-bound spreadsheets to enhance security. Software Engineer Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA February 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities • Converted data for analysis by Mutual Funds Department's mainframe computer for use in a campaign to Oracle, using PL/SQL to support a sales campaign, netting the company more than $5 million.  • Worked in the Call Center for US, creating a tracking program for reps utilizing SQL Server, placing info on sharepoint for managers.  • Created an automated "spreadsheet crawler" reading thousands of spreadsheets, converting retirement analytics to a database environment, and prompting the company to advertise a person's aspects for retirement, which is still shown on TV as an ad.  • Automated the tax withholding process to "read" tax return documents. Data Architect And Data Analyst John Hancock Financial Services - Boston, MA January 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities • Simplified the complicated process of pricing property through the use of a simple and intuitive graphical user interface.  • Created the industry's first integrated 50 year discounted cash flow model with database system including custom reporting. All acquisitions and owned properties ($6 billion dollars) assessed with this model. Over fifty users. Freelance SQL & Database Developer February 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities • Partnering with high net-worth Amazon Sellers to create databases to handle their inventory and forecasting systems across the US.  • Downloaded csv files, data modeled SQL Server databases, loaded the databases. Collected sales with times for product. Over time, projected expected sales to prompt reorders on a timely basis.  • Created a model to take into account reorder wait times and sales.  • Tableau reports utilized to display reports. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Tufts University - Medford, MA