Full Stack Developer/IT Full Stack Developer/IT Full Stack Developer/IT - WSD INC Citrus Heights, CA Obtain opportunity to work in a highly professional and competitive environment, which will utilize my knowledge and experience. Further develop my technical skills.    Skills and Knowledge:  • Database Transformation Services (Design, Development, Deployment and Administration)  • Installation, configuration, upgrade, optimization, and maintenance of MSSQL Server  • Knowledge and experience in all stages of the System Development Life Cycle, T-SQL.  • Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access, SAP HANA  • Programming: C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, ASP, VB, ASP.NET  • Reporting and BI Tools: Crystal Report, Power BI, MS Excel  • Window Server 2012 - Active Directory Directory Services  • CMS: Wordpress, Drupal, MagicEdit, Shopify  • Graphic Design Software: Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, In Design.  • Others: Sage 50 Us, MIsys Manufacturing, SAP B1 Work Experience Full Stack Developer/IT WSD INC - Placerville, CA May 2014 to Present • Developed PDM, CRM and SCM systems using C# and SQL server.  • Design, develop, test, support and deploy desktop, custom web, and mobile applications.  • Gather customer software requirements and develop related software applications and programs.  • Research and evaluate software related technologies and products.  • Develop and write code that meets customer requirements.  • Utilized C#, .NET, PHP, SQL and MySQL Server environment.  • Created complex reports and charts using Crystal Report.  • Create software documentation and update existing documentation.  • Design, develop and implement critical applications in a PHP and .Net environment.  • Integrate Desktop Applications with Web Applications.  • Developed Customer Portal, Tire Database and Search tool.  • Manage Window Server 2012 - Active Directory Services.  • Lead and Manage implementation of SAP B1 in AWS environment.  • Implemented MRP Software  • Managing MSSQL Server, MYSQL and SAP Hana Databases  • Lead Network Infrastructure Development projects Word press and Drupal Developer PIS - Sacramento, CA May 2013 to April 2014 • Configure and maintain Apache and PHP programming atmosphere.  • Establish, maintain and optimize SQL Server databases.  • Maintain and improve backup as well as recovery strategy.  • Maintain and manage general network setup.  • Improve and maintain all current PHP programming systems.  • Support establishing scope of work along with timelines for different technology projects.  • Conduct code evaluation and recommend software adaptation.  • Execute data preparation along with clean-up. Application Developer Nu Digital Marketing Agency - Roseville, CA March 2012 to April 2013 • Develop appropriate code structures to solve specific tasks.  • Assist and support in the upkeep and maintenance of web sites.  • Initiate periodic testing and implement contingency plans in case of systems failure.  • Fix bugs, troubleshoot and resolve problems.  • HTML & CSS coding, image editing, basic SEO and analytics reporting.  • Editing and preparation of videos for the web.  • Produced marketing communication materials including advertisements, coupons, brochures, direct mailers, posters, product packaging and trade show displays.  • Created multimedia presentations and training guides. Database Administrator ANYPOL Limited July 2009 to February 2011 • Installed SQL Server 2005-2008 and applied Service Packs and hot fixes on production, development and backup servers.  • Designed the migration strategy, test plans and scripts to verify data and migrated databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005-2008.  • Planned, designed and implemented application database code objects, such as stored procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, views, joins and statements for applications.  • Implemented techniques like backups, restore, clustering, replication, Log Shipping and DB Mirroring.  • Implemented performance tuning by implementing suitable optimizations and appropriate indexes and keys.  • Used System monitor, event log viewer, SQL profiler, SQL analyzer to monitor and tune the performance of SQL server.