SQL DBA SQL DBA SQL DBA - SalientCRGT, Inc Woodbridge, VA Work Experience SQL DBA SalientCRGT, Inc - Fairfax, VA December 2012 to Present • Provided full database support for Department of Education (DOE) contract on production and development environments.  • Supported critical ED.gov site. Maintains MS SQL 2012, 2014, and 2016 servers, including performance tuning, backup, security, and database migration. Generates SQL queries for application owners, facilitating high-level report retrieval.  • Remediates security findings from Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) and monthly security scans, overseeing 30 vendor patch installations/reconfigurations per year.  • Coordinates with point of contacts, providing production support to application owners.  • Serves as Tier III subject matter support, resolving escalated production issues in accordance with system-level agreements (SLAs). Resolved Office for Civil Rights issue affecting 600 users.  • Utilizes Remedy software for ticketing, and asset management at client sites.  • Performs annual disaster recovery exercises for DOE applications, implementing database mirroring/replication and maintaining high availability for critical applications.  • Gathers requirements from application developers to design and develop database schema. Conducts testing, tuning, and database object implementation using SSMS scripts and graphical user interfaces.  • Installed, Configured Active/Passive and Active/Active failover clustering on SQL Server 2008R2.  • Installed, Configured Always on Availability Group on SQL Server 2014 and 2016.  • Extracts data utilizing SQL SSIS in support of website data updates, implements SSRS using SCCM to generate reports, and utilizes SSAS to retrieve data from multiple SharePoint sources.  • Upgraded and Migrated Instances/Databases from lower to higher versions (2008 R2 to 2012, 2014 and 2016) in Standalone and HA environments.  • Applied Service Pack (SP) and Hot Fixes in Standalone and HA environments.  • Performed database server performance tuning using performance monitor to find bottleneck of CPU, disk and memory devices.  EXPERIENCE SQL Database Administrator (DBA) Innovative Data Solutions - Alexandria, VA January 2010 to November 2012 • Installed, Configured, Upgraded and Managed SQL Server 2008R2, 2005 & 2000 in development, test, and production environment.  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2008/2005.  • Configured Log Shipping as a Standby database from Production database for Reporting Purposes.  • Configured and Maintained Replications (Transactional and merge).  • Developed, Deployed and Managed ETL Packages and Projects using SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services).  • Developed ETL Packages and Setup jobs to move data databases to Reporting and Data Warehouse Databases.  • Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Developed Reports for different purposes like DBA Reports, user reports using SSRS and Report Builder 3.0 & 2.0.  • Designed and implemented Database Migrated (development, testing, and production environment).  • Worked on a data analysis project, modeling and generated ER Diagram and data element dictionary.  • Maintained scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification.  • Used third party Monitoring tools: Spotlight.  • Monitor SQL Server Error Log, space usage (routine based).  • Wrote Functions, Triggers, and Stored Procedures.  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP.  • Performed Database Backup and Disaster Recovery.  • Used DBCC to check database conditions, Rebuilding indexes and other database Maintenance purposes as well. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science The American International University Associate in Information Technology in Information Technology Strayer University - Woodbridge, VA Skills Data analysis, Database administration, Database modeling, Database, Sql, Sql queries, Ssrs, Data integration, Etl, Team management, Requirements analysis, Integration, Documentation, Technical documentation, Client relations, Database management