FREELANCE FREELANCE FREELANCE - Email Marketing Campaign Administration New York, NY Work Experience FREELANCE Email Marketing Campaign Administration - New York, NY 2015 to Present SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR & MARKETING STRATEGIST  • Salesforce Administration & Project Management  Develop end-to-end org design and program all configuration required including:  ? Complete data maps, data dictionaries, optimized GUIs, workflows, process builder automation, validation rules, role/profile security, reports and dashboards, and integrations by inventorying legacy configurations, eliciting end-  user feedback, designing use-cases, employing wireframes and tools for automated user testing, and collaborating  with/managing Developer and Architect resources when necessary.  ? Create holistic end-user training programs including new hire onboarding protocols, train-the-trainer resources, detailed written org documentation, self-paced and gameified online courses, in-person workshops, and webinars.  • Email Marketing Campaign Administration  ? Implement Pardot, Marketing Cloud, and HubSpot instances.  ? Develop processes to manage and automate email marketing campaign execution and optimization through deliverability testing, A/B & Multivariate testing, data quality maintenance, event monitoring, and reporting.  ? Create lead nurturing campaigns to shorten sales and support cycles by working closely with key stakeholders and management in Sales & Marketing - develop buyer personas and customer journeys to engage and re-engage  audiences in a timely manner for optimal impact.  • Digital Marketing Strategy  ? Construct and implement lead scoring methodology that incorporates multichannel prospect activity.  ? Integrate social media and event management tools with CRM and marketing automation platforms.  ? Develop content marketing calendars and create original content for multichannel marketing campaigns, including  social media (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn), paid advertising campaigns, and blogs and press releases. NATIONAL MARKETING DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR THE SEGAL GROUP - New York, NY 2011 to 2015 Implemented Salesforce Sales Cloud and Pardot. Created user documentation and training protocol for company-wide  rollout, lead regional trainings for initial users.  • Responsible for all aspects of administration connected with the use, expansion, and maintenance of CRM and marketing automation platforms.  • Executed all timely digital marketing campaigns including segmentation, scheduling, and delivery of 9 regular weekly  email campaigns for publication distribution to over 28,000 subscribers.  • Directed Win/Loss Analytics program: tracked an average of 450 RFP responses annually, monitored capture of competitive intelligence, ordered 100 Win/Loss Interviews yearly and aggregated data, conducted detailed analysis and  produced comprehensive semi-annual reports and presentations. PRODUCT SPECIALIST VERISK ANALYTICS - Jersey City, NJ 2011 to 2011 Monitored and analyzed Section 111 query and quarterly reporting for over 3,000 insured groups and managed  transmission to the Center for Medicaid Services.  • Investigated and analyzed claims data using SQL, MS Excel, and custom programs to identify quality issues and troubleshoot transmission errors. MARKETING DATA RESOURCE MANAGER TARGET 250 INC - Morristown, NJ 2009 to 2011 • Managed international staff consisting of 5 reports and freelance contractors as needed.  • Defined and protected data quality standards; preserved data integrity through validation, normalization, duplicate  identification, clustering, and merge/purge processes. Education Bachelor of Arts in Visual Art RAMAPO COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY - Mahwah, NJ 2009 Associate of Fine Arts in Visual Art COUNTY COLLEGE OF MORRIS - Township of Randolph, NJ 2007 Skills Marketing, Marketing automation, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Optimization, Html, Training, Excel Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cassidyhelmken Additional Information SKILLS    • Excel Ninja  • Training & Development  • Email Marketing  • Basic HTML  • Salesforce Administration  • Win/Loss Analytics  • Business Process Optimization  • SQL & MS SQL Server  • Project Management  • Marketing Automation  • A/B & Multivariate Testing  • Multichannel Marketing