SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - IBM India Pvt.Ltd Santa Clara, CA • Carrying with 7+ years of IT experience.  • Hands-on experience in solving technical problems in SQL Server 2000 & 2005 running under Windows 2003 server.  • Comprehensive knowledge on DBA tasks.  • Working on the backup tools like TSM/TDP.  • Have Participated on Disaster Recovery Test projects. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator IBM India Pvt.Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2009 to Present Bangalore, India)    Project Profile  1. Capital One Financial Corp Senior DBA IBM India Pvt.Ltd June 2009 to Present US)  Company: IBM India Private Limited  Tools: SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005 Windows 2000/2003,    Client Introduction:  Capital One Financial Corp is a U.S. based bank holding company specializing in credit cards, home loans, auto loans, banking, and savings products. A member of the Fortune 500, the company helped pioneer the mass marketing of credit cards in the early 1990s, and it is now the fourth largest customer of the United States Postal Service and has the 8th largest deposit portfolio in the United States. The capital one project supports the servers and applications like Auto Finance(Data Warehouse), Bank, Online Banking, Call Centre, E-Commerce etc..    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 and Apply Service Packs and Security Patches  • Hardening the server after sql Installation  • Break fix, troubleshoot and resolve Remedy/Peregrine Tickets assigned to production database DBA Group.  • Creating and Implementing Changes & Tickets in HPSM.  • Handling 11 TB Database.  • Handling 5 Data Ware House Servers.  • Creating logins and granting roles and permissions to users.  • Maintaining logins and make them Nezumi Compliance.  • Taking active part in production rollout process  • Server's uptime and Maintenance Backup Report.  • Creating Database Growth/Capacity/Disk Utilization Reports on Daily/Weekly Basis  • Capacity planning for new and existing databases and databases environments.  • Monitoring regular Backups of databases and restore database when needed.  • Performance Monitoring.  • Trouble shooting the server during production issues  • Creating jobs and maintenance plans as per the requirement  • Using Idera to monitor CPU & Memory usage and record database activities of particular users, applications.  • Maintaining documents as per the policy.  • Participated in DR activity twice MS SQL DBA 24x7 Shams HealthCare Software Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2006 to February 2009 Bangalore, India)    SQL DBA Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for running and maintaining in-house and customer SQL Servers and applications (100+ customer sites)  • Installing, configuring and Managing SQL Server at live sites and in-house servers  • Responsible for doing Server Monitoring and resolving the maximum issue on every Quarterly at live sites and in-house servers.  • Responsible for maintaining and advising hardware requirements  • Responsible for assisting customer / in-house users for any SQL / Windows issues  • Install / Configure and monitor SQL Servers on all 100+ customer sites and in-house servers.  • Manage Users and Security as per company need (Automated)  • Perform Backups and Restores  • Troubleshoot / Monitor data and log growth usage for 100+ customers.  • Troubleshoot SQL / Windows Server related issues for 100+ customer sites and all in-house servers.  • Server connection Issues for client sites for Support Groups, Integration, and Development and even from outside clients.  • Responsible for SQL Server and O/S service packs, deployed databases, and patches at live sites and in-house servers.  • Responsible for doing file transfer as per request using (RDP, VNC and VPN all type connections)  • Responsible for doing DriveSpace analysis/Growth of database, shrinking database logs and managing e-pages and co-ordinate with sites if needed  • Automated Messages/e-pages review for proactive resolution of issues such as low disk drive space, abnormal memory and CPU usage  • Server reboot checks and analysis about server settings and cause of reboots.  • Responsible for Monitoring Replication  • Responsible for Monitoring Clustering  • Installation of TSG Products  • Work 24x7 during SQL conversions/recovery event Education B.E. in Computer Science and Engineering Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore affiliated to Anna University May 2001 St Antony Matriculation Higher Secondary School 1999