Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Silver Spring, MD ? 6+ years of experience in Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration with expertise in various tasks including installation, configuration, upgrading, backup and restore, security, Performance Tuning, HA/DR solutions, and troubleshooting of SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005.  ? Experienced in T-SQL Programming to create database and database objects such as tables, stored procedures, views, indexes, triggers etc.  ? Experienced in administering SQL Server security by enforcing security policy, Creating Logins/Users with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, granting the privileges to users and groups, moving security between servers.  ? Experience in maintenance plans to perform index de-fragmentation, re-indexing & update the index statistics.  ? Experience in MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity and running Database Consistency checks Using DBCC.  ? Experience in implementing SQL server high availability and Disaster Recovery solutions like Log shipping, database mirroring, Replication, failover clustering and Always On.  ? Expert in using SQL Server Agent Services to create and schedule jobs, and sending Alerts using SSIS and SQL Mail/ Database Mail.  ? Expertise in Data Migration between SQL Server 2005 up to SQL Server 2012.  ? Experience working on Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) using DTS/SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  ? knowledge in Data Warehouse, Data Marts and OLTP/OLAP technologies  ? Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specification.  ? Experience in creating, deploying, and administering SSIS packages.  ? Experience in installing, configuring, administering SSRS, and designing, creating, and modifying SSRS Reports.  ? Working knowledge in SSAS with teams.  ? Working with Microsoft editions SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MS Access  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills, adaptability and a team player, positive and sincere. ability to work independently or part of a team to accomplish critical business objectives.  ? Worked on storage, with system administrators, to allocate and configure Instances.  ? Highly dedicated to continuous learning and improvement.  ? 24 x 7 Production Database on Call Support. Work Experience Database Administrator SAUDI AIRLINES JEDDAH 2014 to 2015 Saudi airlines is one of the biggest airlines in the world, always use advanced technology to deliver excellent customers service.    Responsibilities:  ? Leading the Database Operations team in setup, support, and management of corporate databases and database servers that directly impact the revenue generation of the firm  ? Administering database privileges and security within corporate standard operating procedures  ? Optimizing & maintaining database performance through active monitoring, scheduled upgrades, service pack installations, and performance tuning using DBCC.  ? Worked as a team to maintain 100 percent up time to keep the environment running irrespective of any infrastructural changes in the environment.  ? Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery and Restored Database from backup.  ? Used DBCC to check database conditions, created maintenance plan to Reorganize and Rebuilding indexes.  ? Developed stored procedures, functions, triggers in T-SQL and batch scripts.  ? Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  ? Maintaining documentation and standards for DBA tasks, providing input on improving departmental processes.  ? Designing corporate databases by analyzing data storage and reporting requirements while enforcing all database standards.  ? Participation in corporate database architecture, development, deployment and capacity planning.  ? Working closely with Network and application team to ensure no downtime.  ? Generate timely reports to CIO, and CEO about the progress of Projects.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, 2012 DTS, TFS, Windows 2005 MS SQL Database Administrator MIDROC TECHNOLOGY GROUP - ADDIS ABABA, ET 2010 to 2013 MIDROC Technology Group is worldwide business group based in Ethiopia and work with 74 sisters companies collectively; most of them are resided in Ethiopia. Company was established on 26th June 2000 to provide standardized, effective, efficient and modern management services for the multi-sectorial companies under the leadership of the CEO.    Responsibilities:  ? Installed the SQL Server 2000 and 2005 at the beginning of the project..  ? Maintenance and Correction of Transact SQL(T-SQL) statements.  ? Managing the use of disk space, memory and connections.  ? Running DBCC consistency checks and analyzing stack traces, if generated.  ? Assigning the database users to particular groups.  ? Database, log backups and restoration, backup strategies, scheduling backups.  ? Created the SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and DTS Packages for executing the required tasks.  ? Troubleshooting SQL Server Problems related to SQL Server service, Concurrency (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Agent job execution.  ? Rebuilding Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes as part of performance tuning.  ? Creating users and assigning permission using Windows and SQL Authentication.  ? Implement policies related to compliance and information protection as they apply in the database environment.  ? SQL Server Error Log, space usage.  ? Configured and Maintained Replication (Transactional).    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, 2012 DTS, TFS, Windows 2000, T-SQL Programming Skills Database (6 years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years), SQL (6 years), SQL SERVER (6 years), T-SQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Database: Microsoft SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MS Access  Data Modeling &  Development Tools:    MS Visio, Dia, SQL Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT), SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SharePoint 2013, visual studio.    Performance Monitoring Tools:  Database Engine Tuning Advisor/Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Server Profiler, System Monitor/Performance Monitor, Third party tools.    Reporting Tools: MS SQL Server Reporting Services 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MS Excel  Server Operating Systems: Windows server 2012R2/2008R2/ 2008/2003R2/2003, MS-DOS  Languages: T-SQL, C#, Visual Basic, HTML  MS-Office: MS-Word, MS-Excel, MS-Access, Outlook, PowerPoint