Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cardinal Health Lanham-Seabrook, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH April 2016 to Present • DBA supporting major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments. Involved in daily configuration and administration of databases ranging from 10g, 11g and 12c. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  • Responsible for Build Work in various servers which has 2Node RAC & Non - RAC, High Availability, Golden Gate Technologies.  • Experienced in Golden Gate Installation and Configuration for database replication purpose.  • Solid experience with different versions of Golden Gate installation, configuration, Administration, heartbeat monitoring etc.,  • Supported 400+ databases including RAC production database, a Data warehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10g to 11g.  • Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  • Worked on setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS on IBM AIX 6.1.  • Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi nodeRAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Installed and configured 6 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.  • Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.  • Implemented and administered Oracle Golden Gate (v10) for Database Replication between production and reporting node, by using Oracle Streams in parallel to secure data and having the availability of the database during regular the upgrade or maintenance operation.  • Implemented Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis as per development and test servers.  • Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11gRAC (Real Application Clusters) with AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) reports and ASH (Active Session History).  • Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  • Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures (Cold/Hot backups, RMAN Incremental backups & Import/Export).  • Cloning RAC to RAC and RAC to NON RAC using hot backup and RMAN.  • Expertise in configuring and managing the Concurrent Managers, Workflow Notification Mailers and monitoring their operation  • Strong experience in Space and User Management, Capacity planning, standby setup, Backup & recovery (Import/Export, Datapump, RMAN)  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, SQL TRACE and SQLT  • Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Maintained and monitored various production servers with Oracle 11g R1, 11g R2, 10g, and exadata servers.  • Scheduled database maintenance tasks such as tables/indexes analysis, index rebuild, materialized views refresh and db exports.  • Maintained DATA GUARD to provide high availability by implementing physical stand-by database and snapshot-standby and worked with Oracle 11g features 11g Grid Control and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Troubleshooting Space Management & User accounts and privilege issues while coordinating with Unix and application teams.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  • Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Production support for Oracle database 10g/11g RAC.  • Implemented and configured of Oracle Enterprise manager OEM 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases.  • Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 10g (9.2.0.8), DBMS STATS, Data pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Production Support Database Administrator CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA March 2014 to April 2016 • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  • Installation of 2 node and 3 node RAC, Migrating of database to RAC database. Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  • Worked on converting bigfile to small file tablespace conversion for very large data (included 2T of data)  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support inresolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's Degree in Sociology University of Lagos Skills Aix (5 years), auditing (5 years), backups (5 years), Cloning (5 years), Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Import/export (5 years), Linux (5 years), Loader (5 years), Oem (5 years), operations (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Oracle 10g (5 years), performance-tuning (5 years), Rman (5 years), Security (5 years), shell scripts (5 years), Sql (5 years), Storage management (5 years), Unix (5 years), Oracle Dba (5 years), DBA (5 years) Certifications/Licenses OCA Present Additional Information Key Skills    Phone  Email    240 413 4488  taiwopaddy@gmail.com  • Over 5 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including Solaris, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  • Monitored physical I/O and Proper sizing of rollback segments.  • Optimized SQL using explain plan, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze the execution plan and tune the statements.  • Tuning of database using Utlstat scripts Statspack and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA.  • Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  • Migrate to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB of applications that otherwise have their own instances and qualify to be PDBs.  • Troubleshoot and resolve slowness or performance issues with extensive investigation and follow-up with respective application teams with RCA and proposed solutions.  • Responsible for RMAN backups, and improvement to backup with incremental back by adding block change tracking feature of Oracle 11gR2.  • Created Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security.  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Upgraded Oracle 10g database version to 11g  • Upgraded Oracle 11g database version to 12c version    • Provided database related services to their development & QA environments.  • Good experience of Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Server) on different nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  • Upgraded various databases from 9i to 10g, 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and minor version upgrades  • Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 2-node RAC    • Supported Server migrations, Application upgrades/Migrations and Data center movements    • Configured Offline and Online Disaster recovery sites to maximized the database availability    • Applied Oracle Patches (CPU/PSUs and One-off patches)    • Strong skills in SQL* PLUS, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH), Import/Export Server Manager.  • Experience in installation, upgrades, patches and TAR support. Duties included database creation, Performance tuning/reorganization, cloning, backup/recovery, user and security management, auditing, general troubleshooting, coding, and configuring servers.  • Worked on Creation of table spaces, data files, roles, redo logs, rollback segments, stored procedures and Triggers.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  o Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and testing  o Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  • Resolve the bottlenecks in all the database environments.  • Extensive knowledge in maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage.  • Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listner, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • On call technical support for 24x7 mission critical production databases. Willing to work beyond regular hours.    Operating Systems:  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS:  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools:  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp.  Database Utilities:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import