SCRUM MASTER( AGILE) SCRUM MASTER( AGILE) SCRUM MASTER( AGILE) - Wells Fargo, Minneoplis, MN Team-oriented individual promoting exemplary presentation, project management and risk oversight skills. Demonstrative Scrum Master with background communicating effectively with and leading high-performance teams. Considered expert in prioritizing tasks and optimizing workflows. Well-versed in building positive relationships with customers and other stakeholders. Skilled at overseeing complex, high-value technical projects with excellent planning competencies. Passionate about transitioning struggling or fledging teams to an agile enviornment and demonstrating the listed professional characteristics:  • Ability to work with Co-located, distributed Off-shore teams and facilitate multiple teams simultaneously.  • Agile/scrum Couching and servant Leadership.  • Committed team player with excellent facilitation and conflict resolution.  • Self-Motivated.  • Quality deliverable management.  skills/competence  • Extensive scrum ceremonies and product Backlog Refinement /Grooming skills.  • Methodologies: Waterfall, and Agile.  • Agile management tools(JIRA, Visual Studio).  • Knoweledge of various Agile Frameworks: Scrum, Kanban principles, XP, SAFe.  • Ticketing tool such as Remedy PAC200, JIRA, ServiceNow  • Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Outlook, Access)  • SQL Developer; Object and Attribute Data Query(Beginner Knowledge) Work Experience SCRUM MASTER( AGILE) Wells Fargo, Minneoplis, MN June 2018 to Present • Facilitate scrum framework-sprint planning, backlog groomimg, daily scrums, sprint review and sprint retrospectives.  • collaborate with product owners, team members, technologists and other scrum masters to define solutions and drive progress.  • Lead product backlog and support scrum framework for monthly sprint releases.  • Provide extensive guidance on Agile Scrum processes and methodologies to highly effective teams with improving quality and productivity.  • Build relationship with Product Owners and stakeholders to facilitate team's interaction with them and improve internal and external communication to provide transparency and disseminate information.  • Effectively work with Product Owner to track team's progress, incuding Burndown, Velocity and Release Forcasting. Encourage and facilitate cross-team coordination and collaboration.  • Acted as a scrum for multiple distributed sprint teams, resolving impediments, conducting standups, retrospectives, planning sessions, and creating track plans such as burndown charts and burnup charts.  • Initiated product backlog and developed user stories with clear acceptance criteria. SCRUM MASTER Securian Financial - Minneapolis, MN September 2016 to May 2018 Held restropective meetings to guide cross- functional teams improving future sprints for success.  • Transitioned teams from Waterfall to Agile. Walked my team towards the Definition of Done and provided guidance as an Agile Couch.  • Coach teams on scum practices, resulting in improved estimating by 75%.  • Managed burndown charts and motivated team members working towards the sprint goal.  • Led sprint reviews, daily scrums and planning meetings to realize full team engagement.  • Proactively identified and found ways to resolve impediments to prevent distractions and keep work progress on track.  • Maintained storyboards, organized charts with JIRA and influenced best practices to team.  • Maintained continuous alignment of project scope through tough environments.  • Mediate conflicts, fostering teams and coached individuals improving team dynamic. SCRUM MASTER Belaine Constructions - Minneapolis, MN February 2015 to August 2016 • Sucessfully guided 3 development teams through transition from waterfall to Agile development.  • Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions.  • Built and maintained excellent Client-Partner relationship.  • Enabled improvement in team delivery commitments and capacity planning for sprints by identifying and tracking hidden tasks that increased customer satisfaction.  • Removed team impediments on a daily basis to allow the team deliver sprint goals effectively.  • Meticulously analyzed complex data, staffing plans and variances to recommend solutions to improve revenue per call and customer satisfaction/retention. Oracle Database Administrator Preston IT Consulting - Roseville, MN June 2014 to January 2015 • Monitoring Oracle Database using OEM on a UNIX/LINUX operating system eenvironment.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Exposed to backup and recovery to Microsoft Cloud using URL/windows Azure.  • Proficient in Data Movement (Import and Export) while performing partial backups of database objects such as full table, multiple tables, entire schema or entire databases using both Generate and Publish Script Wizard and Command Line based.  • Create test database copies using Copy Database Wizard.  • Hands on experience with analyzing query plan, using extended procedures, managing indexes, statistics and locks to troubleshoot and resolve database issues.  • Experience in Database Upgrade using both DBUA and manual method, and Patching.  • Experience in Backups and Recovery using RMAN.  • Perform data and metadata transfer to newly installed servers using Data Pump.  • Perform user management, assigniong roles and profiles, maintaining system security through monitoring user access to the database and audting their use of the database.