Linux System Administrator/ Database Admin support Linux System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin support SQL Developer / Database Admin support / Database Analyst Omaha, NE Looking to secure a position as a Database Specialist/ Systems Administrator/ BI Analyst to utilize my analytical, problem-solving and technical skills in the Information Technology industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux System Administrator/ Database Admin support Yam LLC. Database Consulting - St. Louis, MO September 2016 to December 2018 • Consistently established system requirements, installed, configured, and tested new servers and applications.  • Managed users and worked with other administrators to strategize and improve systems environment/productivity.  • Monitored and analyzed application and resource usages to maintain system performance.  • Configured FTP server, and Apache HTTP servers to meet the system requirements.  • Troubleshoot system hardware, software and network interfaces to resolve any issues.  • Successfully installed Oracle and MySQL databases on Linux. Performed backup and recovery as needed.  • Used SSIS, SSRS and MS SQL Server to extract, transform and load data by creating packages, and combined data using SQL queries and Joins from various sources.  • Used Power BI and Tableau Tools to analyze, visualize data, and create insights from various sources additional to publishing and sharing them. Application Development Summer Intern First Data Corporation - Omaha, NE June 2016 to August 2016 • Planned, designed, developed and implemented documentation structures for Atlassian's Confluence collaboration tool additional to Jira.  • Successfully developed user-friendly and web-based documentations to facilitate users in accessing and managing documentations more efficiently.  • Organized weekly conferences with team managers to update the status of the documentation migrations and share new ideas with feedbacks.  • Prioritized work and handled multiple tasks simultaneously in a fast paced, diverse and growth-oriented environment. Ch-47 Chinook Helicopter Repairer/ System Administrator Support United States Army April 2010 to April 2014 Katterbach, Germany  • Inspected, diagnosed, repaired, and maintained the CH-47 helicopter assemblies and components.  • Documented work performed on aircraft using Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation {ULLS-A (E)} application system and updated completion of the tasks to supervisors.  • Installed, configured, and maintained the Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation {ULLS-A (E)} application system into multiple workstations.  • Managed and verified hardware and software requirements for the workstations for network services, storage management, and server services to optimize efficient operation.  • Installed and configured wireless routers and switches needed to facilitate wireless data migration from workstations to the servers for effective time management and application support.  • Configured workstation's IP addresses in both IPv4 and IPv6 to facilitate faster troubleshooting.  • Prioritized work orders, and managed time and worked well within a high stress environment. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems / Database Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE March 2019 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE August 2015 Associate of Science in Management Information System The US Army Aviation Logistics School - Omaha, NE August 2013 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/whnv1mdvuakaay1f Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eiifk7dafhaubhcf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.