Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> External Fraud Investigator - U.S. Bank Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Ohio School Boards Association - Columbus, OH July 2019 to Present • Assisting with the handling of the database with every form for Ohio Public School Districts.  • Auditing ~200 policies daily for formatting, correct typing, correct location, correct code. Customer Service Associate I Farmers New World Life July 2018 to Present • First line of support for insurance agents and Farmers Life Insurance customers.  • Basic coding systems used during daily contact with customers  • Follow up with numerous customers daily regarding their life insurance policies and finances going towards their policy.  • Daily processing of HIPAA sensitive documents to customers and agents.  • 50+ incoming calls regarding life insurance policies daily.  • Daily de-escalation techniques implemented for call control.  • Daily research regarding life insurance policy changes.  • Weekly team meetings and meetings with our supervisors going over performance. External Fraud Investigator Robert Half - U.S. Bank November 2018 to July 2019 • Ability to have 3-4 Suspicious Activity Reports filed weekly.  • Ability to handle complex and diverse cases regarding fraudulent check/wire/credit card and ACH transactions.  • Balanced and healthy daily interaction with remote management.  • Detailed research of account/check details etc. to better understand the subject/victim activity in fraud.  • Ability to balance 2-5 active cases with 4-12 participants in fraud.  • Experience accessing high priority banking coding/ database programs. Account Manager Discover Card Financial Services May 2017 to October 2017 • Monitoring of over 100 credit card accounts belonging to customers daily.  • Real-time problem solving while simultaneously engaging in peaceful conversation with emotive customers.  • De-escalation of emotive customers regarding finances.  • Working with a team of individuals that operate in close quarters.  • Performance evaluated daily by various levels of management.  • Building rapport on every call with customers.   • Efficient computer and verbal skills practiced for quality.   • Abiding by all rules and regulations set by the government and Discover regarding bank operations. Student Clerical Associate Harding Hospital Partial Hospitalization Program December 2013 to May 2017 • Creating and distributing therapy portfolios with information regarding onboarding, expectation of the program(s), and next steps if help is sought.  • Assisting and guiding patients to their designated facilities nightly.  • Effective verbal and written communication with both patients and staff members.  • Required to abide by all HIPAA laws for customer safety.  • Handling high stress situations regarding safety with caution and composure.  • Fluency displayed in Windows Operating Systems and Microsoft Office tools by creating and updating documents for both the patients and the staff.   • Assisted in the facilitation of bi-weekly orientation. Education B.A. in Psychology in Pre-medicine The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH May 2017 Lorain County Community College 2011 to 2013 Skills Call Center, Customer Service, Customer Care, Investigations (1 year)