Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator CSC Bowie, MD Work Experience Database Administrator CSC - Lanham, MD November 2011 to Present • Responsible for the performance, integrity, backup and security of Oracle and Greenplum databases, while developing packages for deployment.  • Installation, configuration and setup of Greenplum environment and database  • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Windows, Solaris and Linux.  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  • Managed Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Packages and views used by the database instance.  • Duplicate databases via RMAN from on environment to another either with a live data copy or restoring backups from tape  • Implementing bug fixes and patches for the listener on 10g and 11g on linux and unix servers to include quarterly Oracle upgrade patches (PSU, CPU) across a numerous servers  • Checking and verifying the successes of backups  • Regular maintenance and implementation of database partitions and indexes  • Upgrade test and development environments from 10g to 11g  • Provide network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  • Document Database structure, changes, problems, issues for future reference. Analyst NinthBall LLC December 2010 to Present • Research and information retrieval on web architectures and data modeling  • Troubleshoot PC performance issues and recommend solutions  • Designing and editing graphic, logos to aid with brand strategy for NinthBall's online content websites  • Researching Open Source Content Management Systems (CMS) and their different applications to web-centric products  • Being available for other assignments as required by employer.  • Detailed research and implementation for increased blog traffic Oracle Database Administrator Boltos Solutions July 2010 to December 2010 • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS    • Performed Oracle database Upgrade and Migration from Oracle to 10g to 11g  • Performed database upgrade from 10201 to 10204  • Installation and management of Oracle database using Grid and database control  • Installation and application of several Oracle critical patches to various database versions  • Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems.  • Install and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity   • Establish, implement and maintain comprehensive Oracle database maintenance plans   • Developed, implemented and maintained an Enterprise Oracle backup, recovery and disaster recovery strategy.  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to backup the databases  • Performed import and export as needed and scheduled nightly export on each database  • Perform various RMAN cold and hot backups.  • Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle problems such as connectivity problems, backup and performance issues.  • Perform maintenance and related preventative maintenance on databases   • Providing Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties  • Resolve complex database issues   • Create and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases  • Applied security features to 10g and 11g databases  • Perform bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  • Tune the database and applications for faster and better performance; also performing goal-oriented tuning as necessary.  • Tune SQL queries and database performance for OLTP and DSS applications within various environments  • Develop best practices based on associated security policies, industry security standards, and audit regulations to ensure devices are appropriately secured from security breaches Resolve compliance break-fix incidents based on vulnerability testing, audits, and/or associated security monitoring systems   • Perform fine grain database auditing.  • Schedule jobs using various Oracle tools such as Oracle OEM, DBMS JOBS and SCHEDULER  • Maintained stored procedures, functions, triggers, packages and views used by the database instance  • Documented database structure, changes, problems, issues for future reference  • Develop and enforce database related policies, standards, naming conventions, operating procedures and best practices.   • Develop a strategic plan for the database development that supports the organizations operational requirements.  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights Education Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD August 2005 to May 2009 Skills Microsoft Windows (XP, Vista. 7) OS, Unix/Linux OS, Microsoft Office, SQL,Oracle 10g & 11g relational databases; PSQL/Greenplum database, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC), Data migration import and export, SecureCRT/FX, Rational Clearcase & ClearQuest, problem solving, strong communication skills, analytical thinking, quick study. Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/oarhe-akhigbe/19/415/2ab/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present