Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Centene Corporation Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Centene Corporation - Chesterfield, MO January 2018 to Present Centene Corporation is a large publicly-traded company and a leading multi-line healthcare enterprise that serves as a major intermediary for both government-sponsored and privately insured health care programs.    • Experience in Identifying the queries utilizing high system resources and advising the solution for those.  • Used Attunity tool for Migration of Databases and Utilized RMAN for backup and Recovery.  • Performed Switchover & Failover for Numerous Databases with the sizes of 2 Tb, 4 TB. Done the Active Duplications and the Data guard Broker Setup, Setup of Standby database for faster disaster recovery and Data guard setup for high availability.  • Configured Active Data guard 11g Troubleshooting Out of sync issues in Data Guard environment and Configured Data guard Broker and used for switchover and stopping and Starting Media recovery process and Performed Disaster Recovery testing  • Handled over 30 Production databases, includes Oracle 11g RAC and NON-RAC, which are of minimum 1TB size  • Responsible for all corrections to the database infrastructure and for repairs, maintenance and periodic reorganization of oracle databases and Resolve database performance issues, capacity issues, replication, and other distributed data issues  • Performed Database performance issues, capacity issues, replication, and other distributed data issues.  • Configured Data guard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the data guard status via DGMGRL  • Configuring and maintaining Data-guard , RAC  • Monitored daily database activities and overall performance, growth and tuning configurations as well as the security of the database  • Implemented and supported Administration tasks such as backup and recovery procedures, database utilities, and data replication technologies for both PROD and NON-PROD environments  • Working ON refreshes using RMAN manual restore / Duplicate / Data Pump Methods.  • Responsible for all corrections to the database infrastructure and for repairs, maintenance and periodic reorganization of oracle databases and Resolve database performance issues, capacity issues, replication, and other distributed data issues  • Provide technical support and troubleshooting assistance to application development teams for Oracle related issues  • Having Good Knowledge in using ITIL tools like Service now , JIRA and its SLA Priorities  • scheduling and tracking all changes using change management system tools  • Data masking sensitive data in production databases using OEM 12c and Scheduled Oracle Jobs using DBMS_SCHEDULER  • Data guard: Configured Physical Standby databases using data guard in maximum performance & availability and Converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby 11g, 12c according to Business  • Configured Active Data guard 11g Troubleshooting Out of sync issues in Data Guard environment and Configured Data guard Broker and used for switchover and stopping and Starting Media recovery process and Performed Disaster Recovery testing  • Used Crontab utility for scheduling jobs.  • Created Users with limited rights as per specific module under specific client. Granting roles and profiles as per system study to users.  • Worked on Service now Ticketing system to resolve the incidents based on Severity.  • Created Users with limited rights as per specific module under specific client. Granting roles and profiles as per system study to users.  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and Table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Good at managing and monitoring grants, roles, privileges to users, analyze tables to generate and gather stats including verify daily alert logs.  • Creation of database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links etc.  • Applied patches and database re-organization using oracle enterprise manager (OEM).  • Rebuilding indexes when needed to avoid fragmentation and improve performance, monitoring index usage and removing unused indexes.  • Good at managing and monitoring grants, roles, privileges to users, analyze tables to generate and gather stats including verify daily alert logs  • Database Capacity Planning & configuration (redo and stream sizes), design staging schema  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 12cR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) 3 node RAC, Migrating single Instance Databases to 3 Node RAC environments  • Created standby databases and involved in converting Physical to snapshot standby and Active Data guard.  • Optimize the performance of queries with modification in T-SQl queries, remove unnecessary coulumns,eliminate redundant and inconsistent data ,and normalize tables  • Implemented scheduling full, incremental, cumulative and hot, cold backups writing, editing UNIX Shell Scripts for RMAN.  • Used Native tools like Database Tuning Advisor, Profiler and Activity monitor for performance analysis.  Environment: oracle11g/12c, service now, toad, Mobaxterm, Jira, Service now, RMAN, Data guard, RACCHECK, Attunity, Data pump, AWR, ASH,Putty,Linux,OEM 12c/13c,Exports/Imports ,Red Hat Linux ,Oracle-Wallet-Management ,Golden Gate ,Toad 11.6 Oracle Database Administrator Bureau of Tenncare - Nashville, TN May 2017 to November 2017 DXC Technology helps client's hardness the power of innovation to thrive on change. For more than 60years, we have successfully guided the world's largest enterprises and government agencies through successful change cycles.    Responsibilities:  • Grant, control and delete database access based on security requests  • Hands on experience on table promotions  • Skilled in Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g (release 1 and 2), 12c across multiple platforms, such as Red Hat Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-Unixand MS WindowsMonitor database performance through (AWR) Automated Workload Repository and optimize when appropriate  • Monitor system for invalid objects.  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Worked in the client location.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks like space management, rectified locking problems, managed quotas etc., configured network components like TNSNAMES, Names Server, Connection Manager, etc. for easy and effective management of Oracle networking. Configured listener for external procedure calls  • Create and manage documentation for databases and processes  • Security provisioning for the users on the daily basis.  • Worked on performance tuning, troubleshooting and monitoring using performance Dashboards reports, Database Tuning Advisor, SQL profiler.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query optimization, Client/server connectivity and database Consistency checks using DBCC utilities  • Evaluate all Performance tuning tools used by the team including Toad, SQL Developer, and OEM  • Performs general database administrative tasks including user account management, access control, database optimization and error resolution  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and Table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges  • Excellent knowledge in using Oracle Golden Gate including maintenance and performance monitoring  • Worked on Service now Ticketing system to resolve the incidents based on Severity  • Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as a part of a team.  • creating table partitions and dropping partitions when required, creating index's and rebuilding indexes for maintenance, creating new DB-links for new environment  • Extensively used of Oracle Data Pumps utility for moving data among the servers andused data-pump at schema level and Database level for refreshes.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like OEM, SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, TKPROF, LOGMINER, STATSPACK, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN  • Created audit vault triggers for the tables  • Involved in migration of databases.  • Promoting the tables from UAT to DEV environment.  • Experience on changing the database passwords in a monthly rotation manner.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Creation of database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links etc.  • Created and configured database manually using Oracle Database Configuration Assistant.  • Used to take the backup of databases using RMAN catalog. The restore capability included the restoring via stored RMAN tapes and using the RMAN database and tablespace restore and / or recover capability of RMAN    Environment: ora11g/12c, service now, toad,sql developer, data guard, data pump,  Oracle patching, patch, putty, Red hat Linux, oracle enterprise manager, opatch , OEM 11G/12c/13c, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, RMAN, Dataguard including DG Broker setup,  Oracle Golden gate 11.2. Sr. Oracle DBA General ELECTRONICS Oil and Gas, Louisiana, LA December 2016 to April 2017 GE Oil & Gas is a subsidiary of the American multinational conglomerate corporation General Electric. the company supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry.it fosters collaboration and allows customers to better understand how GE products and services fit into their projects.    Responsibilities:  • Performed administrative maintenance, monitoring on Oracle database systems in a global 24x7 operational environment  • Performed the 12c Upgrade of RAC cluster ware from 11g.  • Duplicated issues and tested solutions to make sure problems were resolved properly.  • Assisted Development and Business analyst teams by capacity planning and cloning of databases to the test environments so they could develop custom applications and perform a variety of tests for quality assurance and issue resolution  • Installed the 3 node RAC for the 12c database and administered the 12c databases on these RAC server's.  • Managed testing, assisted Developers, and created backups by Exporting and Importing tables when needed.  • Established performance tuning best practices used by the DBA and Development teams.  • Performed the Instance caging for the Exadata databases.  • EBS DBA on numerous Oracle E-business Suite (11i/R12) implementations  • Enabled Flashback for database to create restore points and supporting DDL changes  • Applied PSU quarterly on 11g/12c GRID & RDBMS homes using Opatch auto and Up-gradation of 11g/12c databases and Implementing catalog backup from RMAN  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database and SQL Queries and Performed large batch jobs, and tuning of SQL queries and database systems  • Excellent knowledge in using Oracle Golden Gate including maintenance and performance monitoring.  • Performance tuning Golden Gate replication and used Log dump and report files for troubleshooting.  • Installation and configuration of oracle Golden gate on 12c & 11g.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Golden Gate EXTRACT, Unidirectional and BIDIRECTIONAL REPLICAT issues  • Evaluate all Performance tuning tools used by the team including Toad, SQL Developer, and OEM  • Worked on Exadata Production databases and providing the Technical support to Application Support team for performance and database related issues  • Up gradation of GRID infrastructure from 11.2.0.x to 11.2.0.4 and from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2  • Performed health checks of RAC Cluster-ware components OCR, voting files and backups using ocrconfig and Troubleshooting Issues using Cluster ware logs in 12C  • Used RAC Tool orachk to scan different stack of layers and finding potential risk and reconfiguring RAC cluster and Creating and Managing services using RAC Tools SRVCTL and Cluster-ware resources using CRSCTL.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks like space management, rectified locking problems, managed quotas etc., configured network components like TNSNAMES, Names Server, Connection Manager, etc. For easy and effective management of Oracle networking. Configured listener for external procedure calls.  • Also configured database cloning using RMAN.  • Worked with offshore team and coordinating database monitoring, scheduled calls to discuss database issues  • Responsible for database administration and worked in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and systems analysis procedures\    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/12c, HP-UX 7.x/11.x, IBM AIX-6.1, RHEL 5.x, 6.x, OEM 11G/12c/13c, RAC11gR2, 12c, ORACHK, RACCHECK, OCRCONFIG, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, Database10g/11g/12C, RMAN, DATAPUMP, 10g/11g, Goldengate11g, 12c, orachk Defgen, Logdump, ASH reports, Oracle Patching Opatch, Data Pump, putty Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Care First Inc April 2015 to September 2016 CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is a not-for-profit, non-stock health services company which, through its affiliates and subsidiaries, offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and administrative services to individuals and groups in Maryland, the District of Columbia and portions of Northern Virginia. CareFirst is the parent company of CareFirst of Maryland, Inc., and Group Hospitalization and Medical Services, Inc. CareFirst, Inc., and its affiliates are governed by a Board of Directors and special statutes regulating the company's business in Maryland, the District of Columbia and Northern Virginia    Responsibilities:  • Upgraded Golden Gate from v10 to v11 while upgrading Oracle databases  • Replicated tables to different Instances to support DDL changes and support applications 24x7, replaced materialized views using Golden Gate  • Performed Various tasks in Golden Gate: Troubleshooting errors using report and ggserror.log, configured DDL, DML replication, Configured Bi-Directional Replication, New setup from scratch for Migration, Configured Extract, Pump and Replicate and replicated tables to different Instances using Golden Gate  • Upgradation of databases from 11.2.0.2 to 11gR2 and Applied patches to databases 10g/11g  • Configured Disaster recovery databases using Data guard: configured Active Data guard, Data guard Broker and snapshot standby databases, Troubleshooting Issues in Data Guard Environment, missing archive log, performance of Standby databases using stats pack, applied logs with delay, Tuning Media Recovery process, Performed DR testing  • Performed Data Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using RMAN Backup and RMAN Duplicate Database  • Configured backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and NetBackup, Troubleshooting RMAN failed and resolved issues, performed Block Recovery, Data file Recovery  • Planning Recovery Procedures and Performing backups in Both Archive log backup using RMAN and No archive log Back mode using Exports and Import utilities  • Configured repository database for setting up OEM 12c, used 10g,11g for monitoring databases, created administration group, template design, Black out, Database Administration, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, monitoring performance of databases etc. using OEM 11g, 12c  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges  • Extensively used of Oracle Data Pumps utility for moving data among the servers andused data-pump at schema level and Database level for refreshes  • Used 11g new features Invisible Indexes, and turn off indexes temporarily to check how queries perform without Index's and Worked on Oracle Database Appliance, patching  • Creating table partitions and dropping partitions when required, creating index's and rebuilding indexes for maintenance, creating new DB-links for new environment.  • Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, Oracle 12c(Testing), Oracle Goldengate 10.4, Oracle Goldengate 11.2, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Sun Solaris, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Oracle Enterprise Linux (OEL). Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Government Employee Health Association - Kansas City, MO December 2014 to February 2015 GEHA (Government Employees Health Association) is a self-insured, not-for-profit association providing health and dental plans to federal employees and retirees and their families through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) and the Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program (FEDVIP). GEHA provides benefits to nearly 1.8 million people worldwide    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Oracle Database 11gR2 2,3,4 node RAC Clusters on RHEL Linux Severs  • Performed health checks of OCR, voting-disk, Interconnect and RAC instances and managed resources using Crsctl & Srvctl, creating services using Srvctl, relocating services and patching RAC cluster and troubleshooting 10g, 11gR2 cluster  • Worked on Exadata X2-2 and x3-2 machines and migrated application databases using Expdp, GoldenGate and Dataguard  • Worked on different Features on Exadata x3-2: Hybrid column compression, Smart scan, Flash Logging, DCLI, create and drop Flash disks, Flash Logging, Enabling Flash Cache Compression, Cell monitoring and Alerts, Cell Offload Efficiency, Hybrid columnar compression, controlling database resources using IORM plan  • Performed various tasks on ASM, Installed standalone servers on ASM, used asmcmd to manage disk groups in ASM environment and Performed various tasks on ASM, creating a disk group, adding a disk to disk group, making disk Online and Offline and troubleshooting issues in ASM, tuning ASM parameters for better performance  • Upgraded GoldenGate from v10 to v11 while upgrading Oracle databases  • Replicated tables to different Instances to support DDL changes and support applications 24x7, replaced materialized views using GoldenGate  • Performed Various tasks in GoldenGate: Troubleshooting errors using report and ggserror.log, configured DDL, DML replication, Configured Bi-Directional Replication, New setup from scratch for Migration, Configured Extract, Pump and Replicat and replicated tables to different Instances using GoldenGate  • Upgradation of databases from 10.2.0.4 to 11gR2 and Applied patches to databases 10g/11g  • Performed Data Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using RMAN Backup and RMAN Duplicate Database  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges  • Extensively used of Oracle Data Pumps utility for moving data among the servers and used data-pump at schema level and Database level for refreshes    Environment: RHEL-4.x,5.x, Sun-Solaris 9, OEM 10g-11g, Oracle 10g,11g, RAC 10g,11g, Srvctl, Crsctl, ocrconfig, ASM, ASMCA, Dataguard, Active Dataguard, snapshot standby, GoldenGate v10, v11, Exadata x3-2, x2-8, Migration, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, RMAN, Data pump, Opatch, Materialized views, Toad, Putty ORACLE DBA HSBC - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to June 2013 HSBC Holdings PLC is a British multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It is the world's sixth largest bank by total assets with total assets of US$2.410 trillion. It was established in its present form in London in 1991 by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited to act as a new group holding company    Responsibilities:  • Setup physical standby's (DATAGUARD) for several Databases running 11g well(Container level and Non-CDB)  • Improved the database integrity and increased data accuracy for end-users and management by proficiently using SQL language to troubleshoot, query, insert, update, and delete table data.  • Configured Data guard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the data guard status via command line and GUI  • Assisted in keeping a daily log of SharePoint issues and submitting that log each week to IT management  • Converted physical standby to Snapshot standby and back to physical standby  • Involved in Availability testing of several Production databases before going Live which involved Node level failover testing, Listener/Scan level failover testing and database failover testing.  • Configure and build Golden Gate Extracts/replicate for multiple databases, Configure and build heartbeat monitoring in Golden Gate  • Converted single Instance Databases to RAC databases using RCONFIG, DBCA and Manually.  • Data pump including database links and network links. Upgrade the binaries by applying patchSet and interim patches using Opatch and Opatch Auto  • Provided Instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Configured and implemented Oracle Streams (Advanced Replication) for high availability  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization Involved in gathering requirements from end users  • Estimate growth of database size by detail analysis of the company's future policies and generating reports for the management to act in advance  • Replication was configured to run even at the time of failover (Data Guard) of the source database  • Providing technical support to Application Support team for performance and database related issues  • Effective Production Support and off hour support, support ha5ndover    Environment: Oracle 11g, Red Hat Linux 5.8, OEM 12c, RAC, Oracle Advanced Security, Pluggable databases, Dataguard including DG Broker setup, RMAN, Partitioning, Compression, DBFS, Performance tuning, Opatch Auto, TOAD for oracle 12.1/11.6, Storage Migrations Skills Avamar (Less than 1 year), Awk (Less than 1 year), Bmc (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Linux (4 years), Loader (Less than 1 year), Microsoft windows (Less than 1 year), Oem (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Oracle tools (Less than 1 year), Perl (Less than 1 year), Pl/sql (Less than 1 year), Red hat (4 years), Remedy (Less than 1 year), Rman (5 years), Scripting (Less than 1 year), Sql (4 years), Sun (2 years), Unix (1 year), Web logic (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x,11.x, Sun Solaris5.8,8,9,10, AIX 5.1,5.2, Red Hat Linux 4.x,5.x,6.x and windows 2003/2005  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/, Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC), ASM  Oracle Tools and Utilities  Data Guard, GoldenGate, Logdump, Defgen, Web logic server, OBIEE, WebSphere, RMAN, OEM, Tuning Advisors, TOAD, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data pump, AVAMAR, RMAN, RAC TOOLS ORACHECK, oratop, TFA collector, OSWATCHER,    Languages C, SQL, PL/SQL,AWK Scripting, Perl  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR, SQL Tuning Advisor  Ticketing Tools Web Portals, BMC Remedy, HP Quality Center, HP Java ITO (OVO) console,JIIRA, Service Now