Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Gettysburg, PA Database Administrator with extensive experience designing, coding and testing Database solutions in SQL 2012 and 2014 environments. Proficient in diverse technologies such as SSIS , T-SQL , and Excel. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator KODEFACTORY LLC April 2017 to Present Diagnose blocking, live locking and deadlocking other performance problems on the server.  Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring.  Performed Backup,restore and Point-in -Time Recovery.  Performed many Data Modelling activities by using Some third party tools mentioned below.  Day to Day writing of complex SQL queries ,Stored procedures, Indexes (CLUSTERED AND NON CLUSTERED).  Managed Access to SQL Servers and Secure SQL server using server roles.  Configured, Installed different SQL Servers in both production and Development Environments.  Monitor Server Activity, Error Log, space usage, and solving problem as needed (e.g Bottleneck).  Managed all phases of Databases development including Testing, Modelling, Implementing, Designing, Configuring supports.  Teamed with other DBAs and Developers to developed a strong Data Migration Plan and maintenance of data using various utilities like SSIS, import and Export wizard.  Performed Database Performance Tuning Regularly.  Worked directly with senior Developers to establish parameters for creating new Databases for Applications.  Managed SQL Server Agent. Database Administrator MONDAWMIN CELLULAR - Baltimore, MD December 2015 to December 2017 Experience in Database backup and disaster recovery procedures..   Supported administrative tasks in SQL Server platform: jobs, alerts, email Created Databases for this small business and also taught the Clients on how troubleshoot both Network and Database related issues .  Day to day maintenance of client databases including performed backup and restore across all databases. Created Databases and Modify existing tables and views based on the clients requirements. Managed user access and security issues such as roles and privileges System Administrator Assistant Eduardo Cyber Cafe - ILE -IFE January 2010 to January 2013 1. Completed reports detailing performance, costs and downtime issues.  2. Worked with users to determine areas in need of improvement.  3. Responsible for LAN set up and Maintenance of computer system and Network on daily basis  4. Responsible for Installation and update of various several application packages on the system  5. Installed several versions of windows operating system during my time at the company  6. Made recommendations regarding infrastructure overhauls.  7. Configured, tested and maintained network equipment. Education COMPUTER SCIENCE TROY UNIVERSITY - Troy, AL August 2013 to January 2014 Bachelor's Degree in Plant Physiology OBAFEMI AWOLOWO UNIVERSITY September 2007 to June 2011 Skills DBA (5 years), Sql Dba (5 years), MYSQL (3 years), Oracle Database (2 years), Sql Database, ETL (3 years), SSIS (2 years), JAVASCRIPTS (1 year), Sql Server, Oracle Dba, Data cleaning (2 years), Mirroring (1 year), AlwaysON (1 year), data model (2 years)