Computer vision project assistant Computer vision project assistant IT Research Assistant South Richmond Hill, NY Highly motivated with creative thinking & problem solving with up-to-date industry knowledge with extensive technical and service experience.Willing to learn knowledge and skills as team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer vision project assistant New York City College of Technology February 2019 to Present • Analyze and design process flow for Enhanced Face Recognition Security System.  • Use raspberry pi and pi camera to detect,capture and recognize the face  • Use tensorflow to detect object .   • Apply python programming to load and compare image with the existing image in the database.   • Install and configure Opencv in terminal for classify face  • Use motion detector to detect the motion of the face.  • Troubleshoot Rasbian Buster Operating system in SD Card(format or new installation) Airline IT Support Swissport - Jamaica January 2018 to March 2019 • Support airline software, network devices, equipment(Kiosk, Flight Information Display Systems).  • Assisted with user account creation, modification, and termination across multiple applications.  • Install, configure, and support operating system,printer,scanner.  • Track hardware and software inventory management. IT Support Assistant T.J. Maxx, Queens January 2017 to July 2018 • Provide remote technical support related to the (Point-of-Sales)software and network, store operations.  • Monitor team’s open issues from ticketing, email and resolved on a timely basis.  • Manage user accounts in Microsoft Active Directory and ensure accurate group access. Database Administrator Futterman, Sirotkin & Seinfeld, LLP - New York, NY July 2016 to December 2016 • Analyzed and applied immigration data directly into the Department of Homeland Security system database.  • Performed data entry, back-up Daily Mail Logs & Docketing Assignments for immigration case work.  • Provided first level user support for internal users via email,desk visits, and remote screen-share Connecticut, USA-Programmer Analyst Tunedoor January 2013 to September 2015 Developed website and mobile app using PHP,MYSQL and Android SDK tool for remote based music company where musician can record and upload their music through app in AWS/ Restful api. (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.tunedoorinc.tunedoor&hl=en_US) Client Service Officer(IT) HSBC Bank January 2012 to December 2014 • Configured and troubleshoot to production IT Equipment such as PC, Laptop, Printer, Scanner.  • Provides technical support to LAN communication system Database Administrator Renata pharmacy - BD May 2011 to December 2011 • Install, configure, manage SQL Database, Troubleshooting   • Assists vendor support services as well as IT team members Education Bachelor of Computer Engineering Technology in Computer Engineering Technology 1.New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY 2020 Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering 2. Ahsanullah University Of Science and Technology(Bangladesh) January 2007 to May 2012 Skills Api (Less than 1 year), Aws (2 years), C+ (Less than 1 year), Mysql (2 years), Sql (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Active Directory, Service Desk, MAC, Help Desk, Tech Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/musharrat-choudhury/edit/position/1456283736/ Additional Information Technical Skills   C++,Java,Python,HTML,PHP                                                    SQL,MYSQL,Oracle                                                     AWS,REstful API,Docker,POS                                     Word,Excel,PowerPoint     Soft Skill  Critical and analytical Thinking and business analyst  Research.development and project management  Training/Leadership/team building  Technical Writing/Problem Solving                                                  