Data Developer/Power BI Admin Data Developer/Power BI Admin Data Developer Austin, TX Seeking a position where I can leverage my potentials and skill set in big data analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Developer/Power BI Admin Parsley Energy - Austin, TX August 2017 to Present • Providing ad-hoc reports and solutions to the business based on the business user request involving data of various type, schema, and size.  • Involved in modernizing our current data integration model for detailed troubleshooting during daily agent job load failure/downtime.  • Optimizing our current data warehouse infrastructure to accommodate new business user demands and requests.  • Implementations of modern tools and software for a swift response to business user request and also establishing an efficient adoption and transition process, an example was the implementation of Enerhub (a Master Data Management tool from Stone Bridge late last year) to help bridge the gap between the data custodian and the data Steward, thereby fostering accountability between both parties within the organisation.  • Automate pre-existing manual processes with data related solutions leveraging scripting languages, precisely Power Shell and C#, to free up bandwidth resources for the business.  • Managed and supervised data migration processes from various EDM software across systems and consolidated this data in the data warehouse, was also involved in software upgrade processes.  • Implementation of Power BI, Snowflake Data warehouse, JAMS Scheduler and Informatica Cloud Enterprise solution software to help modernize our preexisting data architecture infrastructure.  • Implemented and scheduled Salesforce data synchronization packages with Informatica Integration tool leveraging API connectors and JAMS scheduler.  • Implemented incremental Integration job load with Informatica Cloud Enterprise service, cutting down Scheduled jobs load time by 75% from previous full Load Integration with SSIS.  • Participated in standing up JAMS scheduler and migrating the bulk of our SQL agent jobs to JAMS.  • Set up our company's Power BI gateway cluster for both Test and Production servers, created and segmented various AD groups based on permission, access, and database.  • Optimized our current Cube processing load time by implementing a dynamic cube partition (based on Months) for SSAS, reducing downtime by cutting the prior processing time from 2hrs to 35min  • Implemented Tabular data model (which uses columnar storage for compression) for our SSAS server Instance for optimized reporting.  • I was part of the MS Azure data warehouse evaluating and implementation team, shifting from snowflakes data-warehouse based on my experience in connecting to the cloud ecosystem for reporting.  • Implemented Replication ODS load for our company EDM database architecture moving from the typical Batch ODS which eventually entirely eliminating downtime related to the ODS layer integration jobs.  • Created stored procedures and triggers based on business needs to help facilitate their data delivery process.  • Created calculated fields in SSAS cube using MDX language and in Power BI using DAX (when we eventually went tabular) based on business user requirement and leveraging the CRISP-DM methodology for data mining.  • Partook in SOX training to be able to liaise with Auditors, to ensure at any given point in time our company procedures are compliant with industry standards and regulation.  • I have been able to successfully troubleshoot concurrent job failures within stringent time-frames and tensed environment while making amends moving forward, in order to be more proactive as opposed to reactive (the RODS implementation mentioned earlier is an example that completely eliminated job failures related to batch load). Data Analyst/Business Analyst/Tableau Developer Schlumberger PLC - Houston, TX February 2015 to July 2017 Gathered user requirements, analyzed and designed software solution based on the user requests.  • Access and transform massive data sets through filtering, grouping, aggregation, and statistical calculation.  • Involved in creating database objects like tables, views, procedures, triggers, and functions to define structure and to maintain data efficiently.  • Used R, SAS, and SQL to manually clean up and organize data before subsequently importing it to the tableau data source page.   • Created automated project and packages in SSIS to combine and transform complex data from multiple sources into powerful models for subsequent analysis and visualization.  • Created interactive filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Displayed strong understanding of advanced Tableau features including calculated fields, parameters, table calculations, LOD expression, R integration, joins, data blending, and dashboard actions.  • Developed optimized interactive dashboards and story plots using Tableau Desktop with over thirty work sheets for both technical and non-technical consumption.  • Expand Tableau calculation capability by integrating R and Tabpy for Python.  • Developed Tableau workbooks by consolidating data from numerous data sources including Teradata, Oracle, MS Access, SAP etc.  • Created Drill-down and Sub-Report using SSRS and also observed the performance of the reports.  • Created Bump Charts, Control Charts, and Funnel Charts to help access and simplify the inner mechanism of many R/D in oil and Gas projects.  • Used Pareto chart in conjunction with the 80-20 rule in locating and forecasting what products are leading to most sales concerning their location within the company.  • Used KPI (Key Performance Indicators) to help measure progress when accessing various objective key results within the organization.  • Installation and configuration of Tableau server keeping in mind performance trade-off and considering cluster configuration, load balancers, proxy servers, etc. Database Administrator/Data Analyst United Bank of Africa July 2014 to February 2015 • Provide Row and column level security.  • Break complex queries into simple custom inline Table functions, User defined Tables, Parameterized views or Materialized views (in Oracle), stored procedures and transaction while also limiting the access and interference using versioning, tools, Schemabinding and Encryption.  • Create Optimized Ad-hoc queries using Hints to leverage the best execution plan.  • Use profiler tracing and tuning advisor to improve SQL server performance.  • Use SQL auditing feature and other methods like DML triggers and DDL triggers to perform auditing in capturing real time events.  • Create triggers for consistency and correspondence in input and output transaction. Also implementing the best Isolation plan for each individual transaction.  • Troubleshoot a server instance or database in the case of poor or slow performance.  • Resolve Transaction concurrency issues using the best necessary isolation strategy.  • Resolve Deadlock issues in concurrent transactions by assigning a deadlock victim and rolling back the affected transaction for consistency and discerning when to take an atomic approach and kill a session without losing any database resource.  • Implement most of the high availability solutions including the most recent Always On technique during the design and development phase of a database architecture.  • Using MS database engine tuning advisor to implement recommendations on the execution plan of target queries for database optimization.  • Set-up and configure a DMW (Data Management Warehouse) to create SSIS packages, Jobs, Schedules that collect performance planning and capacity data. IT/ Database Administrator Tano Agency and Shipping Co Ltd Nig February 2014 to July 2014 Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  ? Built, published and customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  ? Generated reports from the database using PL/SQL and SQL.  ? Integrating IT solutions to improve tracking of containers and updating clients of their shipment  ? Created profiles to restrict access to the database and carried out regular tuning, backup, and maintenance task.  ? Created and implemented database to store staff records and transactions with clients.  ? Developed GUIs for staffs to access database and develop report. IT Administrator (Intern) Nosak Distilleries Ltd Nig July 2012 to December 2012 Worked with team of developers and designed, developed and implement a BI solution for Sales, Product, and Customer KPIs.  ? Resolved SQL and multi-threaded server tuning issues.  ? Generation and tabulation of reports using Ms Excel, Ms Access and SQL queries.  ? Word processing of proposals, letter headed memos and invoice using Microsoft office suites  ? Maintenance of computer hardware, software, and servers.  ? Analysed feedback from clients using survey data to generate charts and identified opportunities for improvement and growth. Education B.Eng. in Mechanical Engineering University of Benin March 2014 Skills SSIS (7 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (5 years), Python (4 years), SQL (8 years), JIRA (5 years), Confluence (4 years), MDX (4 years), TFS (4 years), Tableau (5 years), Tableau server (5 years), Excel, Business Intelligence, Microsoft Office, MS Office, Powerpoint, Visio, HTML, SAP, Informatica (5 years), Microsoft Azure (4 years), Microsoft Azure (4 years), Power BI (3 years), JIRA (3 years), GitHub (4 years), Redgate (5 years), C# (3 years), Powershell (3 years), APIs (4 years), Data Mining (6 years), MS Azure (4 years) Links https://public.tableau.com/profile/tanaruno.ajiri.dennis#!/ https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/93018611-bc9e-47e5-b04e-a624a1f7406a Certifications/Licenses Tableau 10 desktop qualified associate March 2017 to Present Microsoft SQL server Certified Associate 2014 to Present Python Certificate of Completion from Datacamp July 2017 to Present R Programming Certificate of Completion from Datacamp July 2017 Power BI Administrator Present Informatica cloud IICS 101 & 201 course certificates Present Power BI Developer certificate from Microsoft Gold Partner November 2018 to Present Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Microsoft Cloud, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft SQL Server, MS SQL Azure, SAS, MDX, DAX,JIRA, Confluence, TFS,  R (ggmaps, mvoutlier etc.), Python (Numpy, pandas, matplotlib), Hadoop  SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)  SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  IBM Cognos Analytics  Transact-SQL (T-SQL)  SAP Hana  MS Excel, Macros in VBA  Data Warehousing  Data mining  ANSI SQL, MySQL, PL/SQL  XMLA and JSON  JavaScript, Power-Shell, C#   MEMBERSHIP  Stackoverflow.com  BorntoLearn.mslearn.net  Microsoftvirtualacademy.com  Github.com  Lynda.com  Stackexchange.com  Quora.com  Datacamp.com  Hackerrank.com