Oracle Database Administrator and Solutions Architect Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Solutions Architect Oracle Database Administrator and Solutions Architect - Expedia Inc Bellevue, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator and Solutions Architect Expedia Inc - Bellevue, WA July 2016 to Present • Utilized IAM to maintain and configured dev, QA, and production server user accounts and create roles for EC2, RDS, S3, CloudWatch, and EBS resource communication  • Extensively used DMS and AWS to migrate and configure databases and applications from physical on premise to cloud based  • Used AWS to build servers, create security groups, auto-scale, and load balancers for the virtual private connection  • Created S3 buckets, policies, and IAM policies and configured S3 bucket storage  • Applied CloudWatch to the creation of EC2 host monitors, alarms, and notifications  • Managed disaster recovery and high availability on 11g and 12c databases through creation and monitoring of physical and active standby databases using RAC, Dataguard, and RMAN  • Successfully upgraded databases from 11g to 12c, and maintained database security by applying needed upgrade, maintenance, and interim (Opatch) patches  • Generated reports with the development of PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, stored procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, and Unix Shell Scripts  • Communicated with production teams to collect production data used to refresh dev and test instances using Datapump  • Utilized Crontab to schedule and monitor repetitive activities including gathering schema statistics and tablespace usage reports  • Installed, configured, maintained, and supported databases for test, development, and production purposes  • Staged Linux and Windows environments for applications including Portfolio Management Systems and SAP Business Solutions Oracle Database Administrator Valmont Industries Inc - Omaha, NE August 2012 to July 2016 • Utilized Crontab jobs to automate and monitor database health, backup, and recovery activities and maintain database security and performance  • Sent ORA emails regarding errors, reports for Quick Morning Check, and automation of backups, exports, space usage monitoring, archive log movement, and RMAN catalog resyncs through customization of Unix Shell Scripts  • Collaborated with application development teams and analysis of objects to monitor and tune long running jobs  • Extensively utilized AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, and Explain Plan to create and rebuild indexes and tune queries  • Used RMAN and Datapump to perform refreshes on database, schema, and table levels from prod to dev/test environments and used TTS for Oracle to quickly migrate tablespaces across servers  • Configured a client-server environment using tnsnames, LISTENER, and Net Configuration Assistant  • Created guaranteed restore points to use during recovery and switch-over operations and develop logical recovery points  • Created scripts to monitor database status including table size growth, extent allocation, free and used space, and fragmentation  • Maintained all databases and performed tasks such as space management, capacity planning, and disaster recovery  • Utilized Oracle to handle daily production problems and change requests  • Performed all backup and recovery task including developing physical hot and cold backups and logical backups Education Master's Degree in International Law and Diplomacy in International Law and Diplomacy University of Lagos 2016 Bachelor of Arts in European Languages in French University of Lagos 2006 Skills DATABASE, OLTP, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, SQL, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, DISASTER RECOVERY, ENCRYPTION, BACKUPS, EC2, DMS, SCRIPTING, OLAP, SECURITY, CAPACITY PLANNING, PERFORMANCE TUNING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS   ? Design and implementation of AWS architectures and environments  ? AWS infrastructure services (EC2, S3, RDS, Route 53, CloudFormation)  ? DMS database migration  ? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  ? Performance tuning ( database memory, SQL*Tuning, AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain Plan  ? OLTP/OLAP  ? Security implementations (audits, TDE, network encryption)  ? Upgrades and patches  ? Unix Shell Scripting  ? Goldengate  ? Database migration  ? Linux RedHat  ? Solaris  ? Windows  ? Datapump  ? Transportable Tablespaces (TTS)  ? Dataguard  ? Physical and logical backups  ? Space management  ? Capacity planning and disaster recovery