Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - The Northern Trust Company • An Oracle professional, self-motivated with strong problem solving and outstanding communication skills with more than 9 years of IT experience as an Oracle DBA (versions 12c/11g/10g/ 9i).  • Installation, upgrade, maintenance, administration of multi-terabytetenant standalone and RAC on multiple platforms like IBM-AIX, Sun-Solaris, UNIX, Linux, Windows.  • Proficient in 12c Multitenant Architecture and have a deep understanding on Container and pluggable databases.  • Production support and day-to-day activity to ensure zero alert thresholds is met 24x7.  • Experience with installation of Grid Infrastructure for ASM, RAC. Very good understanding of GpnP (Grid Plug n Play).  • Administered Oracle clusterware and resources on 11g and 12c using CRSCTL/SRVCTL.  • Migrated OS file system storage to ASM with minimal downtime and administered ASM disk groups and instance.  • Server side and Client-side fault tolerance achieved by configuring SERVICES and TAF (Transparent Application Failover).  • Proactively monitored and diagnosed symptoms using OEM (Enterprise Manager) to significantly increase the probability of success of production db and application.  • SQL Tuning, End-user tuning and troubleshooting using various tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, AUTOTRACE, SQL_TRACE, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, v$ performance views.  • Good experience with Data Modeling to translate logical data elements into the physical database design.  • Experience with Toad Data Modeler using Erwin.  • Build complex entity relationship models - both logical and physical database design.  • Experience in resolving complex restore and recovery issues using RMAN.  • Experience in UNIX Shell Scripting for automating the DBA tasks like User maintenance, Performance Monitoring of CPU, Disk and Memory usage, and File system monitoring.  • Good Experience in Hot/Cold Backups, and Cloning of Databases.  • Good Knowledge of RMAN backups.  • Proficient in Performance Tuning the applications and database proactively using STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Experience in Database Security and Auditing.  • First hands-on experiences in software and firmware maintenance of both the Database and Storage servers in the Exadata database machine including upgrades and patching.  • Provide and implement performance tuning recommendations of all components in Exadata database machine.  • Advise, provide guidance and develop Disaster Recovery strategies for the Exadata Database machine.  • Solid skills to configure Exadata to meet company internal security requirement.  • Analyze and determine the feasibility of leverage the Oracle Enterprise Manager solution to report on performance, provide metrics, and become the centralized proactive maintenance solution for Exadata distributions.  • Develop and record certified processes/procedures for all potential IT downstream support groups to maintain and upgrade the Exadata database machine.  • Integration of Exadata monitoring and escalation into existing IT monitoring and actionable events solutions.  • Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, Flash Cache, etc.  • Worked with the following 11g/12c new features.  ? SQL Access Advisor  ? Multitenant architecture  ? Secure File Lob's Compression  ? Exadata Hybrid Columnar Compression  ? Resource Manager  ? SQL Performance Analyzer  ? SQL Plan Manager  ? Table compression enhancement  ? Active Data Guard  ? Upgraded from 10g to 11g R2, 10g to 12c, 11g to 12c.  ? Query Result Caching  ? Invisible Indexes.  ? Database Replay.  ? AWR Baseline Enhancements  ? Automatic Memory Management.  ? Automatic SQL Tuning.  ? Data Recovery Advisor.  ? Read-Only Tables  ? Flashback Enhancements  ? RMAN Enhancements  ? Table Compression Enhancements.  ? Silent Installation of RAC  ? Worked with Oracle Engineers in troubleshooting issues. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator The Northern Trust Company - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present Responsibilities    • Installations, configurations, administration, support and maintenance of Oracle, databases.  • Gather, review and analyze business requirements. Build new databases based on business requirements and work with multiple discipline project teams. Implement SDLC and Agile project methodology.  • Analyze and understand the complex architecture of all the critical applications and implement solutions, provide support and resolve the ongoing issues to make sure all applications run efficiently without impacting the business.  • Work with team members to develop technical designs to meet business requirements.  • Performs database modeling and create logical and physical database designs and diagrams, as well as final "as built" diagrams and documentation.  • Coordinate changes to databases, administer, test, and implement databases.  • Administration of database storage configuration, database parameter optimization, and configuring high availability features.  • Install, configure, support and maintain Oracle RAC databases for High Availability, Data Guard for Disaster Recovery.  • Migrate databases from lower version to Oracle 12c multi-tenancy infrastructure.  • Installed and configured Oracle 12c Multi-Tenant Container Database and Pluggable Database format.  • Migrate databases with 50 TB+ from 10g and 11g to 12c databases.  • Implement Exadata Hybrid columnar compression when migrating from 10g and 11g non-Exadata to 12c Exadata servers for very large critical databases.  • Converted regular LOB's to secure files with different compression depending on the usage and performance impact on the dependent queries.  • Detailed understanding of pros and cons of RAC, RAC One Node, Single Tenancy and Multi-Tenancy.  • Applied Quarterly and one of patches on 12c Container and pluggable databases.  • Develop and troubleshoot Unix and PL/SQL scripts for automating database builds and other Oracle database maintenance activities.  • Create database maintenance plans, including updating statistics, rebuilding indexes, structure modifications, capacity plans, and index analysis.  • Plan, execute, and maintain database capacity, backup-and-recovery and disaster recovery plans. Define and implement backup and recovery strategies for databases. Create database backups. Perform recoveries using the backups if there are any issues.  • Support 10+ critical projects at a time with tasks like migrations, application upgrades/releases, performance tuning, compressing large databases for archival.  • Proficient in utilizing Resource manager and allocating resources as per the requirement to pluggable databases.  • Perform table level restores using RMAN with point in time recovery in 12c.  • Performance tuning of complex SQL Queries using SQL Tuning advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer. Performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of the databases using Explain Plan, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Plan Baselines, indexing strategy, Oracle configuration parameter analysis, and SQL coding enhancements. Identify performance issues and resolve. Tune and optimize databases for better performance.  • Clone/Refresh databases for development and testing.  • Write, modify, enhance, tune, test and debug database programs, complex SQL Queries, and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages. Test, debug programs.  • Update/Upgrade software as needed to utilize available new features to enhance performance and operational efficiency. Apply patches to fix database software bugs and Vulnerability Remediation.  • Perform database user and access administration tasks like creating new users, modifying existing users and provide them required access/grants as needed.  • Provide technical support.  • Analyze, troubleshoot and resolve database and associated applications issues. Perform Problem Diagnosis, Root Cause Analysis and provide permanent solutions to the problems. Sr. Oracle/Exadata Database Administrator Cars.com - Chicago, IL July 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities    • Worked as a Core DBA/ Exadata DBA at Cars.com as migration specialist on Oracle 12cR1, 11gR2, Exadata X2, X3 & X6, , OEM 13c, RAC, Data Guard, Linux.  • Working on Exadata X2, X3 and X6 machines which included Half Rack and Full Rack  • Migrating 50+ databases from Exadata X2 and X3 machines to Exadata x6 machines  • Managing database on 12c RAC and 11g R2 RAC  • Created OEDA requirement document for Oracle to setup the new Exadata X6 machines  • Worked with network and linux teams to configure the network on the Exadata x6 machines so Oracle ACS can install Grid infrastructure 12cR2 and Databases 11g R2 and 12cR1  • Configured and modified Exadata x6 machines as per Cars.com requirement and specifications after Oracle handed over the standard Exadata machines.  • Installation of OJVM patch on 11gR2 databases on Exadata X2 and X3 environments before migrating it to Exadata X6 machines to match with Bundle patch version.  • Worked with Storage team in configuring Netbackup and Datadomain on Exadata X6 machines.  • Migrated using Datapump Export/Import for small databases and non-critical databases and used DataGuard to Migrate huge and critical databases with 99% uptime.  • Setup DataGuard between multiple datacenters for 12 production databases.  • Planned and documented all migration steps and coordinated with different teams during the deployments.  • Tested Switchover and failover between data centers before migration of production databases using Dataguard  • Efficient in using Dataguard Broker for all DataGuard tasks.  • Migrated multiple databases up to 10TB of size with minimal to no downtime using dataguard.  • Configured databases with 2 node and 4 node RAC clusters  • Migrated databases for applications like Peoplesoft, Automic UC4, GitHUB, Stibo STEP, Atlassian Jira, Arlassian Confluence, BuildForge, DataStage, Oracle WebCenter Sites and Cars.com website.  • Software and firmware maintenance of the Exadata storage servers in the Database machine including routine health check, patching and upgrades according to the suggestions from Oracle support department.  • Integration of Exadata monitoring into our existing IT monitoring framework. Provide and implement performance and tuning recommendations of all components in the Exadata machines.  • Working on Installation of Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 13c.  • Worked with linux team to setup VM's for Oracle Management Repository database server and Oracle Management Service (OMS) web-based application server.  • Working on setting up agents on Exadata x6 machines for monitoring.  • Setup and configure RMAN jobs for daily full backups, incremental backups and archive log backups and are scheduled using Cron.  • Setup scripts to monitor dataguard health on all datacenter apart from OEM monitoring.  • Monitoring for 24x7 Production environment, resolution of severe performance and user access issues  • Worked with tuning tools like DBArtisian, TOAD and Solarwinds Database Performance Analyzer.  • Worked on building and rolling out new 12c databases for TEST/DEV/QA/PROD environments.  • Migrated databases from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Software and firmware maintenance of the Exadata storage servers in the Database machine including routine health check, patching and upgrades according to the suggestions from Oracle support department.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g 2-node/4-node RAC, RHEL 6.8/6.9, Grid Infrastructure, CRSCTL, SRVCTL, RMAN, ASM, Physical Standby DB, Data Guard, OEM Cloud Control 13c/12c, Datapump, TOAD, SQL* Plus, Putty, SSH, TOAD, Solarwinds Database Performance Analyzer, Exadata X2, X3 and X6 Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/Engineer CNA Financial Corporation - Chicago, IL June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities    • Working as a member of TCS's core infrastructure team as Oracle Engineer/DBA at CNA Insurance on Oracle 12c,11g R2,10g, Exadata 5, OVM, OEM 12c, RAC, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Linux, Aix, Solaris, HP/UX.  • Managing database on 12c RAC, 11g R2 RAC and 10g.  • Managing everything from planning to deployment for multiple projects.  • Setup Data Guard between multiple data centers  • Update existing 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 then to 12.1.0.2  • Migrating exiting 10g database to new 11g for application conversion then migrating 11g databases to 12c database and migrating 10g database to 12c database.  • Supporting development team for a successful character set conversion from US7ASCII on 10g to AL32UTF8 on 11g and 12c.  • Installation of Oracle Database Vault in 12c.  • Upgraded more than 40 databases from 10.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.1 and then 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.2 including patchset updates using opatch.  • Installation & configure of Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c and Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 13c.  • Worked on building and rolling out new 12c databases for TEST/DEV/QA environments.  • Managing more than 250 databases on each Oracle server on 10g,11g and 12c environments.  • Configuring and managing ASM storage for databases.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM to ASM.  • Configuration and Administration of Active Data Guard environments  • Stabilized Oracle Grid Control environment.  • Configuring Oracle Dataguard and Active Dataguard  • Installation and configuration of Golden Gate  • Duplicated all the non-production databases on Exadata server according the Data Warehouse development project's requirement. Help to compress large volume partition table by using Oracle HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression techniques.  • Primary technical resources in SQL tuning in Exadata Production and Performance Testing environments by using statistics, hints, SQL tuning set etc.  • Software and firmware maintenance of the Exadata storage servers in the Database machine including routine health check, patching and upgrades according to the suggestions from Oracle support department.  • Integration of Exadata monitoring into our existing IT monitoring framework. Provide and implement performance and tuning recommendations of all components in the Exadata machines.  • Develop and record certified processes/procedures for all potential IT downstream support group to maintain and upgrade the Exadata servers.  • Migrating databases to Oracle Exadata Database Machine for different clients.  • Analyzing database performance and tuning database on Oracle Exadata using Real Application Testing (RAT)  • Implementing Best Practices for migration E-Business Suite and regular databases to Oracle Exadata.  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Enterprise Manager Cloud Control to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases.  • Zero Downtime Migration to Oracle Exadata with Oracle Dataguard and Oracle GoldenGate.  • Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects. Assisted in integration of Exadata applications into current IT actionable events and solutions.  • Comprehensive documentation of all activities  • Configure, manages and monitor oracle databases on Amazon Web Services(AWS)  • Knowledge transfer to new staff  • Monitoring for 24x7 Production environment, resolution of severe performance and user access issues  • Effectively used tuning packs like ADDM, AWR, ASH, Tuning Advisors to troubleshoot resource-intensive SQL, enqueues, locks.  • Using all RMAN and datapump functionalities.  • Managed ITIL tasks like Service Desk, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Configuration Management, Release Management, Availability Management, and Capacity Management which are related databases in Service Now.  • Managing incidents created by users for database related tasks.  • Creating Change Requests for performing any critical tasks in Pre-prod and for all tasks in Production as part of Change management and Release management.  • Updating configuration changes in repository as part of Configuration Management.  • Finding the RCA and providing the details as part of Problem Management.  • Handling capacity related alerts and incidents as part of Capacity Management.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/2-node RAC, OEL 5.8, IBM AIX, RHEL 6.5, Grid Infrastructure, CRSCTL, SRVCTL, RMAN, ASM, Physical Standby DB, Data Guard, Oracle Fusion Middleware Flashback, OEM Grid Control, Datapump, TOAD, SQL* Plus, Putty, Golden Gate SecureCRT, SSH Database Administrator / Graduate Assistant University of Illinois - Springfield, IL August 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed and documented database architecture.  • Managed Oracle 11g and Microsoft SQL Server 2008 databases  • Assessed malfunctions of hardware and software applications for determining appropriate actions to maintain computer, network, and database operations.  • Build database scheme, tables, procedures and permissions.  • Created, tested, and executed data management languages.  • Developed database utilities and automated reporting.  • Analyzed and sustained capacity and performance requirements.  • Monitored systems and platforms for availability.  • Oversee backup, clustering, mirroring, replication and failover.  • Performed maintenance operations daily, weekly and monthly on Oracle and SQL servers and databases, and information systems for the purpose of ensuring efficient program operations.  • Performed database backups and restorations and recovers corrupted databases.  • Evaluated and recommends new database technologies.  • Implemented and maintained database security and encryption.  • Developed, managed and tested database and information system backup and recovery plans.  • Developed standards and policies for data entry, and ensures compliance.  • Prepared written materials for documenting activities, providing written reference, and conveying information.  • Prepared and distributed reports, including but not limited to weekly and monthly status reports to the Computer Science Department Head.  • Attended seminars, conferences, in service training and staff meetings as required.  • Tutored undergrads for Database Admin and SQL programming related courses and projects.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/2-node RAC, IBM AIX, Grid Infrastructure, CRSCTL, SRVCTL, RMAN, ASM, Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Data pump,TOAD, SQL* Plus, Putty, SSH Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Home Dialysis Services - Chicago, IL January 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities    • Managed database on 11g R2 RAC  • Setup Data Guard between multiple data centers  • Excellent knowledge of 11g RAC srvctl, crsctl, ocrdump, ocrcheck and ocrconfig utilities  • Performed converting single node instance to RAC and Adding instance to the existing RAC  • Administered GI resources like ASM, SCAN Listener, node listener, OCR, Vote files using CRSCTL and SRVCTL utility.  • Followed Oracle best practice by moving password file and OCR and Votedisks on ASM in 12c by setting compatibility.asm = 12.1.0.1.0  • Successfully added nodes to the existing RAC cluster by extending GI and Oracle binaries.  • Troubleshooted Node eviction (split brain syndrome) issue due to flooded interconnect traffic.  • High availability and load balancing achieved with Services which was fully integrated with 11g/12c Grid Infrastructure.  • Client-side fault tolerance achieved by configuring TAF (Transparent Application Failover) in RAC as well as Data Guard env.  • Upgraded more than 15 db from 10.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.1 and then 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.2 including patchset updates using opatch.  • Successful installation/maintenance of 11.2.0.2/12.1.0.1 Physical Standby and Logical Standby db in Data Guard env for zero data loss.  • Effective use of tuning packs like ADDM, AWR, ASH, Tuning Advisors to troubleshoot resource-intensive SQL, enqueues, locks.  • 50% improved Performance of fetching LOB data by creating partitions. Data footprint reduced by purging older partitions to lowered operational cost.  • Data migration using Data Pump export/import to bring historical data from application so to analyze the growth of db over a period.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM  • Cloned databases using Export Import, Data Pump and RMAN Duplicated Databases.  • Migrated database from non-ASM to ASM  • Clone databases using RMAN duplicated  • Provided technical troubleshooting and give consultation to development teams.  • Performed Database Refreshes Used Oracle 10g AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and performance tuning.  • Applied High priority, security patches downloaded from Meta link  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes  • Manage production Oracle Business Intelligence Platform in addition to the analysis, development, deployment of customizations and extensions to the Oracle BI Platform.  • Data gathering, research and analytical abilities to develop insightful conclusions and generate solutions to address user needs.  • Monitor data warehouse performance, reliability, availability, and recoverability and ensure data warehouse standards are consistent with long-term infrastructure plans.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor database health and check log files for errors.  • Installed operating systems, patching, upgrading managing configurations  • Managed User accounts and granted directory permissions to secure UNIX systems in meeting industry practices  • Managed ITIL tasks like Service Desk, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Configuration Management, Release Management, Availability Management, and Capacity Management which are related databases in BMC Remedy.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/3-node RAC, OEL 5.8, IBM AIX, Grid Infrastructure, CRSCTL, SRVCTL, RMAN, ASM, Oracle Business Intelligence, Physical Standby DB, Data Guard Broker, Flashback, OEM Grid Control, Data pump, TOAD, SQL* Plus, Putty, SSH Jr Database Administrator KAM IT Solutions January 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering requirement, Analysis, Design.  • Created database objects including tables, views, synonyms, sequences, constraints, indexes.  • Created Pl/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Cursors.  • Prepared migration documents & other documentations. Monitored db performance via STATSPACK.  • Participated in design reviews for upcoming application enhancements.  • Performed data extracts/loads in the testing environment using SQL*Loader.  • Assisted developers to troubleshoot SQL and PL/SQL code and increase the efficiency of execution.  • Created daily, weekly, and monthly DBA checklists for each environment.  • Documented database/server configuration for production, test, and development databases.  • Setup Crontab jobs to automate the routine tasks.  • Installed operating systems, patching, upgrading managing configurations  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11g databases.  • Migrated databases from 9i to 10g and 9i to 11g databases.  • Installation, up gradation and Maintenances of Oracle Databases on Linux & Windows platforms.  • Backup of database Logical and Physical (hot and cold) procedures and also using RMAN.  • Perform database monitoring, capacity planning and performance tuning.  • Provided System support for both development and 24/7 production environment.  • Prepared plans for up gradation of all critical Production Databases from 9i to 10g on Linux and DATAGUARD implementation.  • Performed capacity planning and sizing of databases based on input from business.  • Taking care of all alerts for space issues and user requests.  • Managing database security. Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Configuration of tnsnames.ora, listener.ora and sqlnet.ora files after upgrading databases.  • Performed database cloning from old system to new system.  • Used EXPORT/IMPORT for table level and full database de-fragmentation.  • Transported tablespaces between production and development databases.  • Running scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.    Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, SQL*Plus, Pl/SQL, TOAD, SQL*Loader, SQL*PLUS, UNIX, VSS, OEM, Stats pack Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Master's in Computer Science University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL Skills Aix (2 years), AWS (1 year), Business Intelligence (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), databases. (7 years), Discoverer (Less than 1 year), EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP (Less than 1 year), ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (Less than 1 year), Linux. (4 years), Loader. (2 years), Middleware (1 year), MS SQL Server (Less than 1 year), OEM (5 years), Oracle (7 years), PL/SQL (4 years), replication (Less than 1 year), Solaris (1 year), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (Less than 1 year), Unix (6 years)