Database Developer/Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer/Analyst Database Developer/Analyst - BCBSIL Villa Park, IL Professional SQL/BI Developer seeking an opportunity where my skills, experience and education will contribute to a company's overall success. Work Experience Database Developer/Analyst BCBSIL - Chicago, IL April 2019 to Present This position supports the risk adjustment program as part of the implementation of the requirements of the Affordable Care Act overseen by the Actuarial Department. I am responsible for the planning, development, analysis, and implementation of procedures and/or processes to ensure accurate claims and enrollment data are submitted to the government.  Primary duties included but not limited to:  • Performed data analysis, data profiling and research to support business initiatives or solve data issues.  • Manipulated large data sets and interpreted results using data aggregation functions.  • Validated data to ensure accuracy, quality and integrity.  • Performed unit acceptance testing of solutions developed by IT team.  • Performed post-implementation verification after project deployment.  • Wrote SQL queries to illustrate the issue or test the solutions.  • Assisted in the documentation of business processes.  • Used SQL programming (DDLs, DMLs, aggregate/window aggregate/ordered analytical functions) in the creation and maintenance of the data mart.  • Used complex correlated subqueries, recursive queries, stored procedures to support the data mart.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE BI Developer Redbox, Oakbrook, IL March 2018 to March 2019 As a BI consultant provided end-to-end services for migration of SQL Server data warehouse to Amazon Redshift.    Projects summaries and responsibilities are elaborated below:  • As a BI developer in the Redbox provided frontline support to all BI end-users and other stakeholders, troubleshoots issues, implemented enhancements, streamlined processes, and proactively monitored the jobs and performance of BI applications.  • Worked on migrating from SQL Data warehouse to Amazon Redshift with S3 storage and monitored the performance of those processes.  • Extensively used SSIS ZappySys for loading data to Redshift.  • Provided technical support to Bigdata team to transfer data from SQL data warehouse to Redshift. Resolved all the jobs failure because of the data issues.  • Involved in all activities related to the development, implementation, administration and support of ETL processes for large scales data warehouses.  • Diagnosed, addressed, and resolved production issues by providing technical support for BI end-users during business hours and occasionally after-hours support as needed.  • Imported, exported and manipulated large data sets in multi-billion-row databases under tight deadlines.  • Worked on flat files and their associated data for rapid delivery to clients or loading onto internal databases.  • Involved in enhancements and maintenance activities of the data warehouse including performance tuning, rewriting of stored procedures for code enhancements.  • Created a list of the inconsistencies in the data load on the client side to review and correct the issues on their side.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Junior Database Developer/Report Developer Echo Global Logistics - Chicago, IL February 2017 to September 2017 Junior Database/ Report Developer in the Echo Global Logistics Data team, contributed to database management of large-scale web-based applications to enable Echo's business while supporting architectural vision of quality, scalability, performance and function.    Projects summaries and responsibilities are elaborated below:  Refactor Project  • Refactored the most inefficient reports to increase the efficiency & productivity by replacing the text queries on all Reports with the Stored Procedure (SP).  • Analyzed reports, collected the data metrics like number of executions, subscriptions, status on those executions, date of last run, status on users, render type, parent/child dependencies, etc.  • Created & ran the test cases on these existing reports prior to the refactoring.  • Debugged the reports that were not working due to deprecated SPs, missing parameter's values or no default / incorrect default values and no values in data filters.  • Found broken SPs due to; deprecated tables, missing schemas, or referencing to missing tables or databases.  • Gathered and identified business requirements to set functional specifications, design, implement, test, and deploy a solution for reporting applications.  • Developed stored procedures, queries and views necessary to support SSRS reports.    DeadEndCode Project:  • Encountered database warnings and errors at build time due to various reasons, which contributes to more time for overall build and adds complexity to the build and release cycle; eliminated errors and minimized warnings. Worked with several teams such as DevOps, QA, and other development teams to address these issues, eliminated all the errors and brought the warnings in the Visual Studio down to zero for most of these projects.  • Researched all incomplete code resulting in errors within the boundaries of scope. There were total of 17 databases and over 1,000 objects involved in this project.  • Started resolving Object/Code dependencies and other issues and QA tested.    Performance Tracking Process:  • Moved a file from FTP to the shared drive and imported it into a database; database allows HR to track employee changes and see what impact it has on their ability to perform their job. This data will be used for analysis and reporting by the Strategic Analytics Team for HR.  • Extracted the csv file from FTP server by using SSIS Package.  • Cleaned and scrubbed the data according to our requirement.  • Imported the data from the csv file to the Stage table.  • Loaded data from the stage table to SQL Server HR database. MS SQL & SSRS Developer (Office Support Associate & Record Administrator) Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL October 2013 to January 2017 As a part of the Record Management team, my role requires a broad range of skills and the ability to step into different roles depending on the size and scope of the projects.    Projects summaries and responsibilities are elaborated below:  • Developed different type of reports including: Major/Minor Declaration Reports, Advisee per Advisor Reports, Graduated per semester Reports, Enrollment Count Reports, Transfer Student Reports, Student Status Report, Active Students Reports etc. by using SSRS and SQL Server 2008R2/2012.  • Generated SSIS Packages to export and import Vendor Invoices data from CSV files, Text files and Excel Spreadsheets by using various control flow task and data flow transformation.  • Involved in designing High Level of ETL Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources like (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Merge, For Loop, Container, and Derived Columns.  • Worked on Data Cleansing, Data Scrubbing and Data Migration.  • Developed Data Dictionary. Documented and maintained database system specifications, diagrams, and charts. Office Support Associate & Record Administrator Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL June 2009 to September 2013 Primary duties included but not limited to:  • Developed university-wide databases for various departments to streamline data entry and maintaining the databases using Microsoft Access including forms, filters, reports, tables, and queries.  • Used extensively Joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables from different databases. Used aggregate strategies to aggregate data.  • Used extensively MS Excel to do data analysis and created graphs and charts in Excel showing trends over a time and presented to the higher management.  • Worked with business users, programmers, testing staff, and database administrators to develop database requirements, test plans and database schemas to transition MS Access databases to SQL Server. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL Skills DATABASE ENGINE, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL SERVER