Remote DBA Remote DBA Remote DBA - Computer Science Corp • Oracle Database Administrator with 5 years of experience with large-scale production environments across multiple platforms such as Data warehouse, Enterprise Applications, Client and Server.  • Capacity to give master level specialized technical support in all parts of database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, migration, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery. Active involvement with Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) and Data Guard.  • Able to work both as an individual contributor and as a team player.  • Excellent technical aptitude, troubleshooting and communication skills  • Creation of new tables, queried, stored procedures, reports and web pages  • Integration with other mainframe and non-mainframe applications  • Updating/refreshing test environments.  • Working knowledge of Oracle Golden Gate installation and configuration.  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 Production DBA Support.  • Design, develop and implement oracle database instances.  • Experience in performing database Upgrade from 10g to 11g.  • Performed migration from Windows to Linux.  • Extensive experience performing Backup/Recovery using RMAN.  • Extensive experience with database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using Auditing.  • Experience working with one or more of: enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, OLAP databases, business intelligence/reporting systems, application servers, middleware systems, learning management systems, or content management systems.  • Working knowledge of logical and physical database design, Oracle backup and recovery scenarios, tools, security management, resource management, applications, data integrity, and application development life cycle stages  • Experience in supporting roastery retail technology hardware including fixed POS registers, laptops and handheld devices Work Experience Remote DBA Computer Science Corp August 2018 to Present • Creating physical standby databases  • Developed custom scripts and implemented standard procedures to troubleshoot live production issues by leveraging Oracle ASH and AWR data.  • Troubleshoot database performance issues using OEM, AWR, and TKPROF  • Monitor production databases using various internal tools and custom scripts.  • Optimal database parameter, capacity design for heavy loaded High End OLTP systems.  • Installation of Oracle 11g, planning and Implementing of Oracle secure backup strategy.  • Follow up SRs for different issues like password creation  • Creating User  • Monitored user password  • Performed Switchover and Failover in High Availability Environment.  • Planning and Implementing of Oracle secure backup strategy.  • Performed Installation and Configuration of Oracle Primary and Standby (Data Guard: creating both logical and physical standby databases) Database and Switchover/Switchback of Database in 11GR2 RAC and 12CR1.  • Clone databases for development and test environments using RMAN and User managed cloning.  • Monitor and perform tuning of storage and indexing to improve performance  • Performed Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, Data Pump tools.  • Develop Recovery Manager (RMAN) scripts for database backup and recovery to include hot and cold.  • Perform User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users while altering  • Passwords of users and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  • Exposure to new 12c Features, Container and Pluggable Database, FAR-SYNC Instance, Cascade Redo Transport Destination, allowed usage of SYNC and NOAFFIRM to extend Data Guard Range, Moving online Data file, etc Oracle Database Administrator Wal-Mart.com - Brisbane, CA February 2017 to August 2018 • Troubleshot and maintained Oracle Data guard environment where TBs of log shipping and apply happened daily. Troubleshot performance issues using OEM, AWR, and TKPROF  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other  • Oracle related issues. Monitored production databases using various internal tools and custom scripts.  • Optimal database parameter, capacity Design for Heavy Loaded High End OLTP systems.  • Database capacity management (working with storage teams for ASM Disks) using automated scripts (Bourne/corn) /processes and reports.  • Responsible for configuring DataGuard physical and standby database setup for high availability and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Managed Tablespaces, Data Files, Archive Logs, Redo Logs, Standby Redo Logs and Logical Database Objects. Performed tuning of application using CBO, SQLTrace, Tkprof, Explain Plan, Statspack, AWR and ASH/ADDM.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts to automate business processes and daily backups  • Applied upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshed Dev and Test instances with data from production on a regular basis.  • Migrated database from one server to another server.  • Managed, monitored and optimized the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and provided recommendations.  • Monitored free space in tablespaces, space requirements of tables and indexes.  • Worked with RMAN to implement Backup/Recovery strategies and a clear understanding of the data structures and architecture provided by Oracle for Recovery in all kinds of disasters.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Supporting retail technology hardware including POS devices  Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C, Unix shell script, Grid Control, DataGuard, IBM AIX, Sun  Solaris, Oracle Linux, SQL*Plus, Toad, Various 10g and 11g Advisories, RMAN, AWR & Statspack  Reports, EXPDP/IMPDP, EXP/IMP, PL/SQL, Crontab, Tivoli Storage Management for DB  tape backups, BMC Patrol for DB monitoring, RHEL 5. Oracle Database Administrator OPEN TV Corp - Mountain View, CA March 2015 to January 2017 • Analyzed and tuned the database to identify potential database issues such as response delay, locking contention, even server down time by using tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.  • Backup and restore using RMAN utilities, Disaster Recovery testing, recovery Catalog and refreshing databases on multiple environment. RMAN backup and recovery strategy using incrementally updated image copy backup.  • Oracle performance tuning support pack and Statspack, AWR, ASH, ADDM, RMAN, Oracle Universal Installer, OPatch and Patchset. Used TOAD for database management.  • Supported Dataguard (11g Active Dataguard) for customer data service.  • AWR report generation and wait analysis for performance.  • Converted a single instance database to Oracle 11g and 10g RAC databases.  • Worked with latest 10g/11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin. Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Implemented Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g/10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance. Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump. Import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF and EXPLAIN PLAN. Used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning were done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Applied necessary patches during installation and in upgrade of databases on Oracle database versions 10g and 11g. Configured Dataguard broker between the primary and standby databases, performed switchover/failover and monitored the Dataguard status via DGMGRL and GUI.  • Implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN, which included hot backups and cold backups to tape, drives, and disks. Involved in query optimization, using rule-based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  • Performed database performance tuning, STATSPACK reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues.  Environment: RAC, Oracle 11g/12c, Data guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c Jr. Oracle DBA Knoxville Utilities Board - Knoxville, TN February 2014 to February 2015 • Planning and Implementation Security, Backup and Recovery Strategies.  • Installation of Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g.  • Applied patches as per Oracle support and Dell recommendations.  • Regular backup and recovery procedures.  • Supported data enter migrations along with upgrades for huge databases.  • Worked in DataGuard environment and performed quarterly switchover tests for High availability  • testing activities. Monitored database performance.  • Created explain plan for the SQL query and performance tuning.  • Database instance tuning, tuning memory allocation, tuning I/O, tuning Contention, tuning related to sorts and free lists and check points.  • Managed users and resources, controlled user privileges, roles and auditing.  Environment: RHEL 4.4, HP-UX, Oracle 10g/11g RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Education Master's computer science University of Delaware BS Computer Science University of Buea Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Aix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Databases: Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c  • Oracle Database tools: SQL*Loader, TKPROF, OEM, TOAD, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL, Developer, Grid Control  • Operating Systems: Solaris 10/9/8, LINUX, UNIX, AIX OEL, HP UX 11i, Windows 2000/2003 server