Associate Manager Associate Manager Associate Manager - CoreLogic Lawrenceville, GA Ugo is an experienced and results-driven security, compliance and SQL Database Admin professional, he is extremely passionate about innovative technologies as well as skill sets regarding expertise and experience to help implement competitive strategies and outstanding solutions that commemorates sustainable organizational structures. He has a clear understanding of key business processes, supporting IT systems, and insight of effective IT controls design and effectiveness. A team player with an eye for results, he is able to deliver on critical engagements for clients as a reliable advisor in information security risk and compliance.  Platforms & Tools Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Manager CoreLogic - Irving, TX February 2018 to Present • Review logs, update database statistics and index management  • AWS Migration from SQL to MySQL Aurora  • EC2 and RDS instance provisioning  • Replication using DMS  • S3, buckets, option groups, VPCs, etc Configurations  • Troubleshoot application performance issues, database maintenance & configuration, patching, and upgrading  • Security, auditing, configuring, documenting, enhancement & corrective changes, emergency changes  • Participate in DBA On-call monthly and document environments and processes where applicable  • Work with other DBA team members and various application teams  • Generate Health check report monthly.  • Auditing systems and developing standards and implementation of best practices for performance and clarity  • Coordinate change review meetings and facilitate in the management of incidents according to SLAs  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.    • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance  • Designed and implementing comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies    • Set up and Implemented and monitored different High availability solutions (Log-shipping, Mirroring, Clustering and AlwaysOn HA).    • Converting data between different database platforms to SQL Server.  • Clustering both on windows levels and on the SQL server level  • Experience writing stored procedures that access SQL server Database tables for optimal Senior SQL DBA Consultant CITI Bank - San Antonio, TX November 2016 to December 2017 • Manage the business relationship & perception of GIDA support    • Security architecture advisory - advise the business on the required security architecture controls.    • Consult the business when they want to make version updates and enhancements to applications or systems, in alignment with the GIS Technical Solutions, the vendor, CATE, HASI, CTI and other technology partners.    • Developing and prioritizing the requirements for client facing GIDA supported tools.    • Designing, Implementing, and maintaining database schema, entity relationship diagrams, data modeling, tables, stored procedures, functions and triggers, constraints, indexes, functions, views, rules, defaults, and complex SQL statements.    • Generate complex stored procedures and functions for better performance and flexibility    • Ensure database performance monitoring and tuning is regularly accomplished    • Advise the business where gaps exist and collaborate on solutions for remediation.    • Provides general IS consulting services including interpretation and/or clarification of IS policy, procedures, standards and or concepts    • Educates and advises the business on safe IS practices and current, changing, and/or recommended IS requirements    • Ensure database server security by implementing applicable security patches and maintaining appropriate security measures per company standards.    • Production DBA-Maintained the health and general maintenance of production Databases    • Worked on a migration project using SSIS and SQL server migration assistant.    • Perform diagnoses and performance tuning when needed using DMV and functions Senior Consultant Trnaswestern - Houston, TX February 2017 to August 2017 • Participated in the data warehousing of major deployment and Migration projects.  • Major part of migration to CLOUD (Amazon Web Services).  • Perform backups of all SQL servers 2000/2005/2008/2008R2/2012 daily, weekly and monthly.  • Automated and managed maintenance jobs that ensure stability and performance of database servers.  • Own, track and resolve database related incidents and requests, fulfill requests and resolved incidents within SLAs.  • Reviewed service related reports, database backups, maintenance, monitoring daily to ensure service related issues are identified and resolved within established SLAs.  • Helped design, maintained and controlled the corporate database and data dictionary.  • Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications.  • Work with a team of DBAs to implement and maintain database mirroring.  • Created, monitored, backup, recovery and tuning of SQL Server databases in a multi-platform environment. IT Risk Analyst NStar TECHNOLOGIES - Lawrenceville, GA January 2015 to November 2016 • Manage/led IT audits and reviews with all subsidiaries, coordinate with operational/ functional audit teams, develop detailed scope and test programs for audits and reviews.  • Provided solutions and coordinated the execution of control mechanism/testing against technical procedures to ensure appropriate execution and that risk is mitigated to an appropriate level.  • Scheduled and performed information risk assessments using organization's methodology; identify, document and communicate control deficiencies in business processes and technology systems.  • Assist Information Security Analysts with complex risk decisions and provide advice and guidance.  • Assist with Security and IS management, the Legal department, Fraud department, Human Resources and law enforcement agencies to manage security vulnerabilities or inquiries.  • Conducted meetings, interview control owners, generate documentation request lists, evaluate documentation and prepare recommendations for improvement.  • Engaged with technical process owners to understand technical process steps, identify risk, and drive toward a completed documentation that aligns with the IT Governance and Risk Management programs.  • Ensured audit action plans are closed in accordance with deadlines and act as a liaison between Internal Audit and the business.  • Actively involved in the implementation of SOX for clients using COSO and COBIT and applicable SEC requirements.  • Assessed Corporate Governance and IT Controls related to critical applications used for processing financial reports to ensure compliance with SOX. MSSQL DBA THE TECH-EDGE GROUP - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to November 2014 • Participated in the data warehousing of major deployment and Migration projects.  • Part of a DBA team ensuring 24 x 7 production support of all corporate databases.  • Perform backups of all SQL servers 2000/2005/2008/2008R2/2012 daily, weekly and monthly  • Monitor and maintain database performance; identify and recommend areas that need improvement.  • Automate and manage maintenance jobs that ensure stability and performance of database servers.  • Own, track and resolve database related incidents and requests, fulfill requests and resolved incidents within SLAs,    • reviewing service related reports: database backups, maintenance, monitoring daily to ensure service related issues are identified and resolved within established SLAs    • Helped Design, maintained and controlled the corporate database and data dictionary.    • Established and enforced all database standards.  • Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications.  • Work with a team of DBAs to implement and maintain database mirroring  • Established and enforced controls to ensure database integrity.  • Reviewed overall physical database structures for data integrity, quality, recoverability, maintenance and space requirements    • Experience in creating, monitoring, backup, recovery and tuning SQL Server databases in a multi-platform environment. SQL Database Administrator NNPC January 2010 to January 2012 • Provided technical assistance to computer user in classroom networks while answering questions and resolving technical issues for clients in person, via telephone or electronically  • Served in SQL DBA capacity.  • Completed daily over 20 service requests regarding from our internal ticketing system.  • Analyzed long running slow queries and tuned same to optimize system performance.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  • Migrating SQL Server 2000 data bases into SQL Server 2005.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters.  • Worked with SQL Server tools Like Enterprise Manager and SQL Query Analyzer. Education MBA in Management American Intercontinental University - Atlanta, GA Bachelor of Management and Information Systems in Management and Information Systems Covenant University - Lagos, NG Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, DB2, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, MYSQL, ORACLE, REPLICATION, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, SECURITY, CLUSTERING, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, ROLLOUT, UNIX, SQL SERVER REPORTING SERVICES, SSRS, MAINTENANCE, Microsoft Word, Organizational Skills Additional Information Expertise: SQL Administration, Databases, System Administration, AWS  Operating systems: Windows / Windows Server, UNIX  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, SQL 2000, 2005, SQL 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017  Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Access, Active Directory, SQL Profiler, SQL Server Reporting Services, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad, AWS SCT, MySQL Workbench  SKILL SUMMARY:  • Experience with managing and administering large environments and high transaction with includes Production, Staging, Development and Testing.  • AWS migration specialist  • Cloud Architecture    • Experience writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL, Stored procedures and SSIS Packages.    • Experience ensuring the technical integrity of corporate databases by protecting against the loss or misuse of information and designing backup/recovery strategies.    • Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL Server.    • Responsible for setting up and managing multiple SQL Server Clusters for SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016.    • Improvement and maintenance databases which includes release rollout and upgrades    • SQL Server Replication (Transactional, Snapshot, Merge and Peer to Peer).    • Experience with managing multiple MS SQL instances 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 for high transaction environments.    • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers    • Installation, Upgrade, Maintenance and tuning of SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 databases.    • Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, Policies, database Privileges and Roles.    • Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design).  • Expert at High Availability solutions Log-shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Always-ON Availability Groups.    • Report Building using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)    • Data transfer across servers using SSIS packages