Security Analyst Security Analyst Laurel, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst MUBUX LLC - Serven MD April 2014 to Present Develop, review and update Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans (SSP), and Security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB App. III A-130, NIST SP 800-18 and industry best security practices.  Developed policy and procedural controls relating to Management, Operational and Technical Controls for the Organization.  Advise Government Service Units and System Owners in the security of their IT infrastructure based on the guidelines of the Organization’s IT Security Directives and NIST Special Publication 800-53 Revision 4 Standards.  Performed the role of Security Control Assessor on General Support Systems (GSS), Major Applications and Systems to ensure that such environments are operating within strong security posture.  Create ATO package documents; SSP, SAR and POAM based on the security assessments performed on systems.  Create System Security Plans, Risk Assessment, Security Assessment Report and Plan of Action & Milestones Report and Authorizing Official’s Briefing Report.   Apply appropriate information security control for Federal Information System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53 rev4, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB A-130 Appendix III.   Update IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines according to department and federal requirements.  Reviewed and updated some of the system categorization using FIPS 199.  Created and updated Contingency plans and Disaster recovery plans for information systems using NIST SP 800 – 34.  Carried continuous monitoring after authorization (ATO) to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements. Information Security Analyst State of Maryland - Baltimore, MD June 2012 to March 2014 Perform security risk assessments, developed security risk mitigation recommendations, and identified security controls for systems, and networks.  Develop and modify Organization’s Security Policies, Standards, Processes and Procedures.  Formulate security assessment reports and recommendations for mitigating vulnerabilities and exploits in the system.  Perform the Assessment & Accreditation (A&A) on General Support Systems (GSS), Major Applications and Systems to ensure that such environments are operating within strong security posture.  Perform Security Assessments to determine if controls were implemented correctly, operating as normal and meeting desired objectives.  Create ATO package documents; SSP, RA, SAR, POAM reports, etc., based on the security assessments performed on systems.  Perform the role of Security Control Assessor by reviewing the artifacts and implementations statements provided by the ISSO on a system to determine if the security controls are being met. Database Administrator Maryland Department of Corrections - Jessup, MD January 2010 to March 2011 Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 8i,10g databases on Linux and Windows OS  Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other database objects.  Installed and manage Oracle Enterprise Manager.  Installed and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity  Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle connectivity problems.  Provided network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  Installation and management of Oracle database using database control  Created and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases  Performed bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  Performed standard and fine grain database auditing.  Updates Records of Inmates Intakes and Releases in the Database  Track Inmates movement within and outside the correctional Institution in the Database  Collation of Institutional Count to be reported to the Shift Commandant and the Security Chief and the Warden of the Correctional Facility  Conduct Institutional count that leads to State of Maryland Prison count for the Secretary, Department of Corrections  Ensure daily backups for restore and recovery of Database of detainees records   Move court ordered Inmates to Selected Drug Programs for proper housing Security Analyst Education BSC, Computer Network & Security in Computer Network & Security University of Maryland University College, Baltimore. MD - Baltimore, MD 2016 to 2019 High School Diploma in Social Science Ezekiel Private College. Iju Ishaga, Lagos Nigeria - Lagos 1998 to 2001 Skills Analysis and implementation of information security infrastructure framework. Monitoring the use of data files and establishing access-control criteria to safeguard information system. Performing security oversight on Information Systems to ensure compliance of security Policies and Procedures. Perform comprehensive assessments and write reviews of management, operational and technical security controls on information systems. Knowledge of cryptography, enterprise risk assessment, and intrusion technologies. Maintain effective interpersonal relationships with colleagues to facilitate a productive and friendly team. Ability to multi-task, work independently and as part of a team. Develop, review and evaluate System Security Plan based on NIST Special Publication Guidelines. Implement Network & System Security, Authentication and Access Control. (4 years), security (4 years), HTML, testing (4 years), access, Sharepoint, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, training, SQL Certifications/Licenses ORACLE Certified Associates (OCA), Certified Authorization Professional (CAP) - in view Present An Information Security Analyst with four years experience and in-depth knowledge of Risk Management Framework (RMF) using NIST SP 800 -18, 30, 37, 53 revs 1&4, 53a rev 4, 60 and 137.