Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - SUNTRUST BANK Arlington, VA Database Administrator with IT expertise of over 7 years in the industry. Gained knowledge and expertise in database designing, backup & recovery, migration, monitoring & tuning, upgrades, replication, and security implementations. Holds proficiency in assortment of technologies including oracle versions 10g, 11g and 12c, 18c, and MS SQL Server. Proven leader with motivational engagements and a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams. Possess exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. Energetic and dynamic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities well under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator SUNTRUST BANK April 2016 to Present • Designed backup strategies, following company SLAs execution of scheduled jobs for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively  • Performed database upgrade using the Oracle DBUA respectively. Cloned databases and championed migration for testing purposes using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Championed network setups on Exadata machines validating new ones by performing all necessary prerequisites before making it ready for application deployment.  • Constructed database security policies using the Triple A mechanism, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) as well as access restriction.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting of instances on UNIX/Linux, Windows server using oracle enterprise manager (OEM).  • Monitored reports (AWR, ADDM and ASH) as well as logs, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Developed and documented steps on kernel upgrades, disk storage management and performance troubleshooting on Linux/Unix OS.  • Generated scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Worked in a cross functional team which oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers. Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle databases.  • Administered Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (active DATA GUARD).  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Analyzed and performed some PLSQL codes reviews for data processing and automation.  • Maintained a frequent memory check and disk space, increasing swap space and storage space to maintain high performance of instance on our Linux OS.  • Handle functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Maintain highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances. Oracle Database Administrator EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS FEDERAL CREDIT UNION February 2014 to April 2016 • Managed database security by assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning issues on the database and oracle RAC servers.  • Championed Redhat Linux OS kernel upgrades and migrated data with the use of data pump for the required transactions.  • Managed Data guard in the environment to avoid loss of data and to maintain high availability 24/7.  • Worked in a team and we championed RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.  • Enhanced end users' understanding of database system by conducting pre-implementation workshops and creation some training materials for the team.  • Followed System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development implementations.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Used oracle opatch utility to apply quarterly Critical Patches on oracle instances.  • Configured and managed ASM/RAC instances on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Worked on ORACLE EXADATA Machines for the extreme performance of the database  • Scheduled backups in CRON for RMAN with the specific backup type depending on the database size, configured Control file auto backup ON while maintaining my redundancy set for all databases.  • Collaborated with peers to performed data manipulation and other administrative tasks on our MongoDB databases and oracle databases in the environment. Linux System Administrator INFOSYS TECHNOLOGY INC June 2011 to February 2014 • Assisted in the development and documentation of OS configuration when it came to kernel upgrades, disk storage management and performance troubleshooting.  • Championed installation, configuration, management and maintenance over Linux operating systems.  • Assisted and perform troubleshooting on network performance and helped create and maintain disaster recovery plans.  • Worked with network security manager/information assurance personnel to set up network security policies and procedures.  • Assisted in developing SLAs and exploring new technologies to improve efficiency and maximize performance.  • Planned and executed maintenance on UNIX/LINUX systems, including deployment of new OS releases.  • Strong knowledge on file system such as ext2, ext3, ext4 and volume management expertise.  • I was responsible for user administration tasks such as adding/deleting users, create and change groups and their ownership and also implementing ACLs on the system.  • Configured LVM and managed the volumes including disk storage management.  • Diagnosed user related issues and provided solution to them. Backed up, restored by using TAR.  • Package management using RPM and YUM, Disk management; partitioning tools like fdisk and parted. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Maryland University College Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba, Oracle Database