Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Long Island University Glen Cove, NY Savvy and highly technical Oracle database administrator with over 7 years' of demonstrated experience and technical proficiency in configuring, integrating, upgrade, migration, and setting up Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g for production and project support on different platforms. Strong expertise in developing database structure, implementing applications, enhancing system and ensuring security, utilizing Data Guard and Goldengate Configuration via Data Guard broker, and troubleshooting and resolving log gaps in Data Guard configurations, while design scripts and tools to automate routine task and improve monitoring of system. Acknowledged for taking initiatives to enhance information systems and optimize performance tuning, creating physical databases and logical database models, collaborating with technical teams and vendors for patches and upgrades.    Highlight of Qualification    • Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developing, integrating, and deploying all facets of Oracle DBA activities like production, database monitoring, Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Cloning, Troubleshooting production issues, and Physical Database Design.  • Experienced in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations.  • Skilled in using ASM for creating diskgroups, adding additional storage (DISKS) and troubleshooting ASM issues and setting up the unidirectional replication on oracle 11g databases using Goldengate.  • Able to maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage.  • Technical proficiency in troubleshooting issues related to Oracle RAC (Node Evictions, Node Reboots).  • Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listner, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Experienced in writing and designing the SQL queries as well as have extensive knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems. (Normalization, De-normalization, Entity Relationship diagram, DFD etc) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Long Island University - Brookville, NY February 2018 to Present • Build VMware on HyperV machines, install software and create databases Using DBCA and scripts.  • Upgrade databases from 11g to 12c and Monitoring the databases using OEM 12c and 13c cloud control.  • Schedule, Manage and monitor backups using OEM 12 and 13c, RMAN and Crontab.  • Perform Database refresh and schema refresh to get up to date data from production for development and testing using RMAN utility.  • Led the team in building a two node Real Application Cluster (RAC) on 12c with NFS file system on Centos platform and converted single instance databases (11g) to RAC Databases.  • Collaborated with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Worked New Features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  • Constantly Monitoring the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the database and viewing Alert log files and Trace files.  • Experience in installing OEM 12c and 13c cloud control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c and 13c agents.  • Perform Database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  Tools used: RMAN, SQL developer, OEM 12c and 13c, Datapump, Explain Plan Oracle Database Administrator US Foods - Rosemont, IL January 2014 to January 2018 • Coordinated the installation and configuration of 10g, 11g, 12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)and Windows server 2008, 2012 as well as Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and unix platforms.  • Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU(Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  • Supported in Performing GoldenGate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  • Successfully implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automated scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  • Actively involved in datacentre migrating large size database in multiple platform and implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and also used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11g, RAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes with Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Worked on Network data encryption to improve security while implementing SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Cox Communications, Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to January 2014 • Utilized technical skills to install and configure Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms while making optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Closely monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control and loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Successfully automated various processes like managing alert log, efficient backup etc. by developing UNIX scripts.  • Used TOAD for database management and RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Improved the recovery of databases and database objects through Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin.  • Monitored and upgraded Database from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's Skills AIX (1 year), Database (7 years), databases (7 years), LINUX (5 years), OEM (7 years), Oracle (7 years), Solaris (Less than 1 year), SQL (7 years), Sun (Less than 1 year), UNIX (5 years), Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present