MongoDB Developer MongoDB Developer MongoDB Developer - Intercept Pharmaceuticals • Up to Eight years of experience in working as database developer and administrator.  • Experience in handling, configuration and administration of databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Experience in working with databases like MongoDB, MySQL and Cassandra.  • Strong MySQL and MongoDB administration skills in Unix, Linux and Windows.  • Experience in upgrading different databases and also migration of data among multiple databases.  • Experience in analyzing and visualizing the data along with data modeling.  • Experience in managing large shared MongoDB cluster.  • Experience in scripting in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  • Experience in SQL coding and tuning.  • Experience in trouble shooting /performance tuning.  • Experience in diagnosing the problems and resolving issue across various servers.  • Experience in MongoDB installation, patching, troubleshooting, performance, tracking/tuning, back-up and recovery in dynamic environments.  • Experience in managing life cycle of MongoDB including sizing, automation, monitoring and tuning.  • Experience with complex data environments.  • Experience on working with MongoDB Ops Manager, Cloud Manager and Atlas Manager  • Experience in integrating databases like MongoDB, MySQL with webpages like HTML, PHP and CSS to update, insert, delete and retrieve data with simple ad-hoc queries.  • Self motivated, quick learner, goal-oriented, resourceful and innovative team player.  • Excellent team spirit and leadership qualities with good communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience MongoDB Developer Intercept Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Experience in developing java programs at the Application side. Developed Ruby/Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Administered, maintained Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.X/ 6.X and IBM AIX 6.X/7.X troubleshooting hardware, operating system, applications & network problems and performance issues.  • Installed and configured RHEL 6.X/7.X servers using Kickstart with PXE for Linux, Apache, MySQL and Perl/PHP installations.  • Creation, configuration and monitoring Shards sets. Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly. Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB clusters. Implemented scripts for mongo DB import, export, dump and restore.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate batch jobs through Cron.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design. Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements. Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Performed user administration & maintained centralized sudoers file replicating managed servers using rdist.  • Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Worked on multiple BSON type objects and used based on requirement.  • Responsible in all facets of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including requirements gathering, establish technical specifications, set deadlines and milestones, Designing, Coding, Testing, Quality Assurance and Production Deployment.  • Performed day-to-day Database Maintenance tasks including Database Monitoring, Backups, Space, and Resource Utilization.  • Configured replication with replica set factors, arbiters, voting, priority, server distribution, slave delays. MongoDB DBA Intercept Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY February 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Familiar with Clusters, Performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Used multiple read concern level options to make sure a level of isolation for application reads.  • Applied write concern for level of acknowledgement while MongoDB write operations and to avoid rollback.  • Configured to read data from secondary server to reduce load on primary in replica set environment.  • Considering storage optimization for small documents.  • Used document references to query data from multiple collections.  • Experienced in performing Backup and recovery using MMS and Ops manager.  • Installation of MongoDB RPM's, Tar Files and preparing YAML config files.  • Performed Data Migration between multiple environments using mongodump and mongo restore commands.  • Coordinated with application team in installation, configuration and troubleshoot issues with Apache, Web logic on Linux servers  • Evaluating the Indexing strategies to support queries and sort documents using index keys.  • Enabled Journaling across all mongo instances for auto recovery of data after unexpected shutdown.  • Used MongoDB internal tools like Mongo Compass, Mongo Atlas Manager & Ops Manager, Cloud Manager etc.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharding, replication and schema design.  • Worked with huge reporting collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements.  • Worked on creating different type of indexes based on different collections to get good performance in MongoDB.  • Configured delayed secondary's to avoid human failures in coding and development.  • Responsible for Ops Manager monitoring, performance tuning and trouble shooting tasks  • Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  • Experience in analyzing chunk migrations, splitting and balancing across the cluster.  • Experienced in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  Environment: MongoDB, Sharding, Replication, Shell Scripting, AWS, Java Script. Database Administrator Intercept Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY August 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed migration from MySQL to MongoDB V 3.0.11.  • Performed migration without any kind of impact on students, faculty and university administration.  • Installed MongoDB, configured, setup backup, recovery, upgrade and tuning and data integrity.  • Worked on creation of databases, collections and deployed JavaScripts using mongo shell.  • Performed query construction for further business requirements.  • Performed CRUD operations on the data imported.  • Overcame challenges like data migration from MySQL to MongoDB.  • Usage of tools like RoboMongo, MongoVue and NoSQL Manager for migration of data between databases without any kind of data loss.  • Responsible for managing MongoDB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Performed operations related to sizing, query optimization, backup and recovery, security and upgrades including administration functions as part as profiling under assistance. MYSQL DBA May 2014 to December 2015 Description:  Wisdom Sprouts has been continuously engaged with clients working on searching new techniques to have an optimized process of Data Migration. It worked on Migration between NoSQL and SQL databases, developed an end-to-end data migration, and also to migrate data from multiple system (s) or source (s) to ERP application.    Responsibilities:  • Designed an RDBMS database used as the analysis database while ensuring the analysis data confirmed to the designs set out for the database.  • Experience in diagnosing and resolving data integrity issues which ensures both consistency and accuracy.  • Experienced in maintaining backup, recovery policies and procedures for databases.  • Maintained security which includes creating and maintaining users and roles.  • Designated and assigned database and table privileges for those users and roles.  • Experience in setting up database tuning, monitoring and administration using dbForge studio  • Created customer-facing trend analysis and internal analysis reports and dash boards using tableau.  • Migrated SQl server database into MySQL using Data Transformation Services. MySQL Database Engineer January 2013 to May 2014 Description:  Innominds is a dedicated product incubator for technology industry clients seeking help with Design, Technology and Engineering solutions across all stages of their product life cycle.    Responsibilities:  • Developed database objects like tables, views, indexes, synonyms and sequences.  • Creation of tables, join conditions, correlated sub-queries, nested queries, views, sequences, synonyms for the business application development.  • Data purging to remove unnecessary columns eliminate redundant and inconsistent data by using SSIS transformations.  • Worked with various dataflow tasks like merge join, merge, aggregate, OLE DB command and conditional split while designing SSIS packages.  • Designed layout of SSRS reports and determine the best way to present data to end users.  • Developed SSRS reports and dashboards using Microsoft Reporting Services Platform (SSRS), Microsoft SQL, MS Excel, pivot tables.  • Implementation of support of ETL process using SSIS packages in SQL server 2008  • Created materialized views to calculate aggregated data, such as sum of monthly avenue.  • Developed PL/SQL code for updating payment terms.  • Development of PL/SQL program units and sharing them among multiple applications for processing business logic in the database.  • Testing all forms, PL/SQL code for logic correction.  Environment: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL *Loader, Forms/Reports 6i, UNIX MySQL Support DBA CommSure knowledge Solutions March 2012 to December 2013 Description:  Commsure is a training company which continues to grow on a tripod of verticals like campus training solutions, corporate training services and learning products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Installation and setup of MySQL 5.1 Enterprise and Community servers on Windows/Linux  • Configuration of primary and disaster recovery sites for application and database servers.  • Assisted in configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining application database related infrastructure.  • Managed Application Database system using MySQL and resolved all performance issues.  • Executed database security standards along with the database maintenance.  • Creating procedures and functions for reporting and ETL purpose.  • Database optimization by tuning queries for various modules in the project for better performance.  • Created validation rules for performing data validations based on the user profile and their record type.  • Created and customized reports and dashboards.  • Working with various MySQL tools like MySQL workbench, MySQL Administrator, MySQL GUI tools, MySQL performance monitor, MySQL migration toolkit.  Key Technologies: MySQL, Linux Server DBA Value Labs June 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in installation of SQL Sever 2012 and SQL Sever 2014 in newer environments.  • Installed and Applied patches to the existing SQL Sever and Upgrading SQL Sever.  • Installed SQL Sever Active-Active and Active-Passive clusters.  • Configured SQL Sever jobs for Index maintenance, Database Consistency jobs, Database backup jobs and Alerts.  • Ensured regular database backups and recommend the appropriate recovery models for the production databases as per the database usage.  • Setup SQL Sever Disaster Recovery.  • Automated weekly and monthly non-production database refreshes.  • Involved in providing SQL DBA Production support and Management.  • Configured High Availability practices like Log Shipping, Database Mirroring and Replication.  • Set up database snapshots on the secondary mirror database for reporting purpose.  • Responsible for maintaining SQL Sever security and granting access to users as per requirement.  • Performed SQL Sever Performance Tuning and optimization.  • Performed SQL Sever database sizing, partitioning and archiving/purging.  • Developed SSRS reports on the DBA metrics data.