Director of Payroll Operations Director of Payroll Operations Director of Payroll Operations Chicago, IL Payroll/HRIS Management Professional with 15 years of experience, with a background in processing and implementation of various Human Capital Management. Mastery to manage and create process and improvements. Highly collaborative corporate leader and trusted boardroom confidant. Communicates effectively, institutes initiatives and creates positive change, efficiently.    Extensive competencies in:  * Payroll Management * Full Life-Cycle Implementation * HRIS Systems  * Workforce, Talent, & Time Management * Data Conversion * Enterprise Trainer * Organizational & Staff Development * Program Management & Implementation Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Payroll Operations Lyric Opera of Chicago - Chicago, IL 2017 to 2019 Chicago, IL 2017-2019  Well-known opera company putting on lavish performances in the massive Art Deco Civic Opera House.    Director of Payroll Operations  Managed a team of 4 payroll professionals, processing 2 Weekly and 3 Bi-weekly payrolls for 1200 employees.    • Managed to transform the Lyric payroll department, by documenting processes and improvements for employees to process efficiently and in doing so saving the company over $100K.  • Managed to cross train all Payroll employees on all payrolls, allowing to have coverage and work life balance.  • Coordinated with Union Representative to ensure all Collective Barging Agreements work rules were adhered to as they relate to payroll and benefit payments. Resulting in reducing/eliminating late fees and penalties associated with late benefits payments.  • Served as a primary team member working with human resources, operation and Sr. Management teams for the conversion/upgrade of the payroll, time and attendance systems. Project Manager / HRIS Implementation Consultant Lyric Opera of Chicago 2016 to 2017 • Transition the Payroll system from Paylocity to ADP Workforce Now.  • Implemented the eTime time attendance for 250 employees over a 12-month period.  Metra - Program Manager / HRIS Manager  • Managed a team of 4 HR and IT professionals that ensured the HR system administration data integrity and security for union and non-union company employees records.  Museum of Science and Industry Chicago - Project Manager / HRIS Implementation Consultant  • Managed a team of 5 that cleaned HR/Payroll Data after their migration to ADP Workforce Now. Program Manager/ Database Administrator-HRIS/Payroll-HR PLS Financial Services - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2016 Chicago, Illinois 2013-2016  A financial institution providing, Loans, tax preparation, and other financial services.    Program Manager/ Database Administrator-HRIS/Payroll-HR  Managed the integrity, security, configuration and performance of ADP Human Capital Management Suite for 5000+ employees in 12 states.    • Led project that implemented ADP eTime time and attendance, saving over $3M a year in overstated timecards.  • Developed eTime training guidelines and document procedures which were adopted company wide. Education Master of Public Business Administration in Human Resources & Health Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Chicago, IL Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management & Human Resources in Business Management & Human Resources DeVry University - Chicago, IL Skills Adp, Kronos, People soft, Security, Oracle, Human Resource, Adp Payroll Additional Information Technical skills    * ADP Work Force Now * ADP eTIME 8.0 * ADP Portal Security/Administration  * ADP Reporting * People Soft * Ulti-Pro  * Oracle * Kronos Work Force Ready, Central and Timekeeping