Database Specialist II <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist II Database Specialist Ellwood City, PA Work Experience Database Specialist II Remote Database Experts - Warrendale, PA March 2016 to Present • Provided detailed monitoring of jobs and logs for SQL Server.  • Responded to issues within time determined by SLA, handle entry level database tasks for SQL Server.  • Database and Operating System troubleshooting and problem resolution to environments including, but not limited to, SQL and Windows.  • Maintained documentation in Word and Excel as well as Service Now workload management system.  • Developed scripts in Shell and VBS related to monitors and automation of checks.  • Responsible for maintaining the Big Brother monitoring tool. Billing Coordinator Brian Patten and Associates January 2018 to October 2018 Cranberry Twp., PA  • Coordinating, and has direct responsibility for, duties and sets of tasks related the billing team  • Facilitating work distribution to service team members (including self) as tasks and cases  • Serving as principal source of information on established team processes and procedures  • Drafting, editing and preparing payment artifacts  • Creating and running reports using benefits administration systems  • Communicating with clients is it relates to the payment process  • Overseeing and working audits  • Maintaining Salesforce billing team information by serving as the Salesforce point person  • Spearheading use of Salesforce when performing necessary duties  • Providing for smooth day-to-day flow of communications within the team  • Handles Email correspondence. Office Administrator Brian Patten and Associates February 2017 to January 2018 Cranberry Twp., PA  • Provides administrative support for Account Executives  • Assists in bookkeeping with accounts receivable; data entry and check invoicing with QuickBooks and MS Excel  • Handled database tasks using MySQL  ? Manually building deduction files & carrier feeds based off paperwork  ? Auditing paperwork against vendor files and deduction files  ? Researching policy/employee-level information such as: policy status, deduction status, employment status  ? Reporting changes to vendors such as employee terminations  • Serving visitors at the front desk by greeting, welcoming, and directing them appropriately  • Answering the telephone; screening and forwarding incoming phone calls  • Receiving and sorting daily mail and deliveries Operations Specialist Lifetouch National School Studios - Butler, PA February 2014 to February 2016 • Retrieved, organized, and processed student and staff data for picture day purposes  ? 550 accounts with over 100,000 student and staff  • Maintained accurate and complete digital and paper filing systems.  ? Provide clerical support necessary for territory including typing, ordering supplies, copying, and distributing mail  • Used decision-making and problem solving to meet individual and team quality and productivity standards within the production environment  • Ensured office equipment is kept in working order  ? Reduced product expenses by deducing from 2 printer systems to 1  ? Combined Color Printer and Fax machine into 1 system  • Entered photography job information into Lifetouch systems  • Communicated with processing labs, as needed, to work through job problems Substitute Computer Technician Ellwood City Area School District - Ellwood City, PA November 2013 to February 2014 • Uphold and Repaired Equipment  ? Replacements of Monitor screens, Keyboard keys, Discs drives, etc.  • Installed Hardware and/or Software systems  ? Set up Windows and OSX operating systems to new computers  ? Installed school-specific software  ? Formatted and/or updated older computers  • Set up computer security measures  ? Installed Virus software  • Configured computer networks  ? Configured IP Addresses to new computers  ? Ran and sliced Ethernet cables for district's security cameras  • Offered on-site technical support  * Troubleshoot a variety of computer issues, i.e. Printer issues Call Center Reporting Specialist Education Management Corporation - Pittsburgh, PA August 2010 to October 2013 • Newly developed position built to show various analysis of the Call Center department  ? Over 100 representatives  • Developed and maintained accurate database materials for reference  • Created accurate reports to assist management with performance, management, and productions results  ? Recruitment numbers  ? Employee performance metrics  ? Return on Investment Assessment - how quickly inquiries resulted in student retention  • Assisted with other data entry and supporting initiatives  • Solicited recommendations to management to improve service time and drive enrollment higher  ? Resulted in improved corporate efficiencies  • Became skilled with a clear understanding of student information systems and reporting tools Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology American Public University - Charles Town, WV November 2017 Bachelor of Arts in History in History Slippery Rock University - Slippery Rock, PA May 2009 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql, 80 wpm, Customer service, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2010, Office 2010, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows xp, Mac, Mac os, Excellent customer service skills, Written and verbal