Sr.Net Software Engineer Sr.Net Software Engineer Sr.Net Software Engineer - American Institute of Research Washington, DC • Over 8 years of hands on experience in IT, extensive expertise in Programming. Multi-tasking ability to sketch the plan, prioritize the work and manage the complex projects under aggressive timelines.  • Professional software experience in IT industry includes Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance, Enhancement & Production Support of Business Applications.  • Understanding business requirements, functional specification and designing the systems to meet the requirements.  • Expertise in creating Web Forms in ASP.NET, SPAs in Angular JS, Windows Forms using C#, ADO.NET, AJAX.  • Expertise in C#.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, MVC, .NET Compact Framework 3.5,OOD, ADO.NET, XML/XSLT, XSD, XQUERY, HTML/DHTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular JS, JavaScript, SSIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, MS Visio, IIS, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL server 2005/2008 R2, Visual Studio 2012/2010 and LINQ  • Extensive experience in N-tier architecture.  • Designing applications using UML-Modeling by applying Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and design patterns.  • Strong skills in .NET Technologies including .NET Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, Windows Forms, Web Forms, User Controls, Custom Controls, Enterprise Level Application Frameworks.  • Expertise in ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET State Management, ASP.NET Caching features, Securing ASP.NET Web Applications, creating Master pages, sitemap, membership, data access and exception handling.  • Extensive involvement in all stages of System Development Life Cycles (SDLC) including Requirements, Logical and Physical Architectural Modeling, Design, Development, Implementation and Support.  • Expertise in database design and database programming in MS-SQL Server 2008/2005 using stored procedures, functions, triggers, SQL Queries, indexes and cursors  • Well adept at using AJAX, CSS, Themes, Skins, and JavaScript to enhance the looks and features of the website.  • Experience in creating and consuming XML Web Services including XML Schema (XSD), SOAP and WSDL.  • Proficient in development of Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Triggers using T-SQL, PL/SQL.  • Working experience in Microsoft Enterprise library.  • Experienced in Unit test, Functional test, Integration test, UAT and Regression testing.  • Experience in the domains of Healthcare, Banking, Sales, Education, e-Business and Inventory Management.  • Proficient in schedule estimation, resource estimation, project management and tracking.  • Strong ability in communicating with Project Development Team and prioritizing workload  • Proven strength in problem solving, coordination and analysis, strong communication, interpersonal, learning and organizing skills matched with the ability to manage the stress, time and people effectively.    CAREER HIGHLIGHTS    ? Efficiently and productively analyzed all the projects undertaken  ? Experience with C# and leading edge software development models  ? Won appreciations from my superiors for my hard work and efforts shown in meeting the project dead lines  ? Sound ability to develop strategies to achieve personal goals as well as organizational goals  ? Resolved and facilitated my team in number of technical issues Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Software Engineer American Institute of Research - Washington, DC May 2017 to Present Project: TDS: it's a Test delivery system which provides online testing interface and functionalities to schools ranging from grade 1 to grade12 students. Developed and supported multiple applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and supported Havoc (Deployment tool) in C#, Web Forms and Bootstrap CSS for front end to support TDS  • Developed and supported admin application by adding new features and resolving bugs using Asp.Net Web forms, MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and SQL Server.  • Configured 3-layer encryption for the sensitive information we store in the database.  PROJECT SYSADMIN:  • Rewriting the admin application in Backbone JS, Marionette JS, MVC and SQL Server.  • Implemented Rest services using Web API. Thoroughly tested application using Unit Test cases.  PROJECT CONFIGSMANAGER:  • Developed the application in Angular JS, MVC and SQL Server.  For all the above applications:  • Configured single sign-on using RedHat SSO for the above applications.  • Created n-tier architecture, classes and core modules in C# for implementing business layer.  • Working with SQL Server as a backend database, writing stored procedures, performance tuning, query optimization using optimizer complex queries etc. Used ADO.Net and Entity Framework.  • Experience in implementing Web API/WCF.  • Involved in requirements gathering, design, developing and testing (complete SDLC) Life cycle.  • Configured builds and Deploys in Team City for code deployment.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, MVC, YUI, Bootstrap CSS, SQL Server 2008/2012, IIS 7.0, JQuery, ADO.NET, Net Framework 4.5, Visual studio 2010/2013, JavaScript, Source Tree, JIRA. .Net Developer Magellan Health - St. Louis, MO April 2015 to May 2017 It's a health care management company. Magellan Health Services co-ordinates and manages the delivery of Behavior, Health Care treatment services that are provided through its contracted network of third party treatment providers.  Project: TMR (Total Member Record): Worked on developing the call center application and a maintenance tool for that.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data specifications.  • Developed and support above application in C#.Net, Angular JS, Bootstrap CSS for front end and ASP.NET for some applications.  • Created controllers, services, directives, modules in Angular JS.  • Working with Mongo DB and SQL Server (Entity Framework) as a backend database.  • Developed the web application and all its components using Model View Controller Architecture (MVC).  • Experience in implementing Web API/WCF.  • Used LINQ to write Lambda Expressions to access the Entity Framework's entities.  • Effectively used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for Source Control.  • Used Generics in C# to accomplish complicated business logic.  • Used both Client and Server-side session management as a part of the project.  • Used Caching to display huge data on the web user interface.  • Developed Database Stored Procedures, User defined functions and Triggers using T-SQL.  • Created classes and core modules in C# for implementing business layer.  • Extensively Used XML for data interchanges between different systems.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Razor, Angular JS, Bootstrap CSS, Mongo DB, SQL Server 2008/2012, IIS 7.0, JQuery, ADO.NET,Web API, Net Framework 4.0, Visual studio 2010/2013, JavaScript, TSQL, UNIX, WINDOWS XP, Test driven Environment and SDLC .Net Developer/ Database Administrator Wyndham Worldwide - Parsippany, NJ February 2013 to March 2015 Wyndham Worldwide is a hotels chain. Developed and Supported admin tool for maintaining customer data of hotels. Also worked as a database admin.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Heavily involved in Business requirement gathering.  • Developed ASP.Net web forms using User controls for code reusability.  • Designed and developed application using MVC pattern.  • Used jQuery to perform client-side validations and to make AJAX calls to the business logic layer.  • Used LINQ to write Lambda Expressions to access the Entity Framework's entities.  • Developed custom DTO's to work with complex data structures.  • Implemented data access layer using Entity Framework to connect/retrieve/modify SQL Server database objects.  • Created stored procedures and functions to retrieve, insert, delete and update data in the database.  • Created and consumed WCF services using SOA principles. Used BasicHttpBinding for binding purposes. All Requests data/content exposes through a WCF service with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by defining end points.  • Used ASP.Net and C# extensively using n-tier architecture.  • Created and supported a secure forms authentication/role authorization-based system.  • Fine-tuned application performance using Caching and other techniques available in Microsoft.NET framework.  • Followed the AGILE methodology and TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Used Generics in C# to accomplish extensible and reusable business logic.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) to accomplish complex business requirement.  • The backend, database connectivity modules were designed using ADO.net with SQL Server as the database.  • Effectively used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for Source Control and Version History.  • Developed various reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to accomplish data transformations.  • Evaluated and validated solution interfaces, integration points and dependencies for .NET application development.  • Developed and tested the project in DEV and QA stages.  • Performed multithreading programming to improve the application performance.  • Developed MSI packages to deploy projects into multiple environments like QA and production.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010/2012, ASP. NET, C#.NET, MVC 4, Razor, Entity Framework, WCF, Telerik MVC Controls, Jquery, Jquery-UI, ,knockout, Team Foundation Server, SQLServer 2008, IIS 7.0, SQLServer Reporting Services. .Net Developer Mahindra Satyam - IN May 2012 to May 2012 This project is to develop a marketing site for Real Estate Agents, Owners and Advertisers. It provides the details about property for sale, rent, share accommodation, and for houses for vacation. Users can login publish their property details and get the responses from the clients.  This application includes interactive features like: Classifieds, Newsletters, Forum, Articles, Website directory, Advertisements and Real-estate finance and many more features. Admin module is designed to manage the site effectively keeping in view of the scalability and ease of manageability.    Responsibilities:  • Used Rational Rose to design use case diagrams from a requirement document.  • Involved in Developing Web GUI Using HTML, XML and ASP.NET Webforms.  • Responsible for development and documentation of Software Requirements Specification (SRS).  • Used Telerik web controls to design a complex and interactive web application.  • Involved in developing ASP.NET Security, State Management, Caching and Encryption.  • Design and developed Business Logic Layer and data access layer using LINQ2SQL.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Created tables, views and established relationship between the tables.  • Involved in upgrading the databases and wrote different Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Used Extensive .Net collections such as Array List, Hash Table for the data manipulation.  • Created ASP.NET user controls to reduce the complexity of user interface design.  • Control and Maintain the Log of Errors in Event Viewer.  • Used Web services for back-end operations and generic functions.  • Migrating historical data to MS SQL2005 from text files, MS excel and MS access.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET , VB.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.Net, XML, Web services, Sql Server 2005, AJAX, IIS, Infragistics, JavaScript, VSS. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Montana State University - Bozeman, MT August 2011 to December 2012 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2007 to May 2011 Skills ADO (5 years), ADO.NET (5 years), SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (5 years), ASP (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS    Programming Languages: ASP.NET 4.0, 3.5, 3.0, 2.0, C#, C++, VB.Net, HTML5, XHTML, WCF, Linq to SQL  Databases: Mongo DB, SQL Server 2008-R2, 2005 & 2000, MS-Access, Oracle 11g.  Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000/XP  Web Technologies: Angular JS, Bootstrap, CSS, AJAX, Web Services, jQuery, ADO.Net, WCF, WPF, AJAX Control Tool kit, XML, XSD, DTD and XSLT.