Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst Boston, MA • 6+ years of experience as Senior Business Analyst hands-on in managing large scale complex IT projects.  • Versatile experience working with clients across multiple sectors in Retail, Banking & Insurance.  • 6+ years of experience in JIRA, TFS, Wiki Confluence, XML.  • Hands on experience in Creating User stories for developing teams and business end users.  • Efficient in preparing Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD)/ Systems Requirements Specifications (SRS), Use Cases, and Test Case.  • Proven ability in client-engagement, onsite co-ordination and leading globally distributed teams.  • Experience in facilitating Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with Business User Groups, conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with IT Groups and Conflict Management with Project team members.  • Skilled in identifying, documenting, analyzing and review of business requirements towards new system implementations and enhancement.  • Experienced in working within Waterfall and Agile environment and prov en track record of delivering projects based on these methodologies.  • Expertise in working with range of Microsoft Suite such as Microsoft Project, Excel, Visio, Power Point, Word. Work Experience Sr. Business Analyst Santander Bank - Dorchester, MA June 2017 to May 2019 Santander bank is one of the largest banks in the United States and Spain that provides several financial services to its customers including online banking and mortgage services. For easy access to their online banking services which includes fund transfer, Bill pay and WF Sure-pay. This project involved creating and maintaining a web and mobile application where users can access their account information and use Santander services to which they are subscribed. The application's web interface was a full-fledged solution for client's daily banking needs from checking accounts to money movement. New enhancements were made to Accounts View, Bill Pay, Money Movement, and Alerts features.  Responsibilities:  • Performed gap analysis between client goals and existing procedures/processes; provided recommendations for improvement and change management services to achieve client goals  • Preparation of Business Requirement Document (BRD's) on various new and enhancement project  • Interviewed SMEs and Stakeholders to get a better understanding of client business processes and gather Business requirements  • Coordinated with QA and Developers for Business Requirement Clarification  • Perform a constant backlog refinement with the new user stories and defects in JIRA  • Experienced in techniques such as SPRINT planning, Product Backlog management, Agile estimation, daily SCRUM, Sprint summary report, Sprint review/retro meetings, etc.  • Conducted market cost analysis and recommendations of online services required by client which resulted in the client cost savings of $1,500  • Developed best practices for pipeline management and call strategies/training materials for sales reps as well as tracking measurements for department-wide and individual performance  • Facilitated requirements gathering sessions for business needs, and helped deliver by developing the functional design document, including UI/UX design  • Coordinated with the PMO group in defining timelines & schedules for the project and maintained/monitored project progress status using MS Project  • Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) with the stakeholders and business users, fixed the discovered issues.  Environment: Agile, JIRA, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Visio, MS Access, SQL, Quality Center Consultant Farmers Insurance - Zurich, CH August 2015 to August 2016 Farmers Insurance group is a leading insurance company based in USA with its headquarters in Los Angeles, California and insuring over 41 states. It deals with different Line of Business - AUTO (Personal Vehicles Insurance), FIRE (Home or Personal property damaged by Fire), IBOP, HBOP etc. The Farmers consists of two applications known as APPS and FPPS in 3 tier Architecture based on Web & Mainframe Application.  Responsibilities:  • Collaborated with Stakeholders on Business Requirements Document  • Assigned tasks among development team monitored and tracked progress of project following agile methodology  • Created Software Requirement Specifications Document (SRS) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD) based on RUP and Agile framework  • Prepared and analyzed the existing architecture and performed Gap Analysis. Created workflow scenarios, designed new process flows and documented the Business Process and various Business scenarios and activities of the Business from the conceptual to procedural level.  • Extensively worked on MS Visio for creating UML diagrams like Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Business Flow Diagrams and Data Flow Diagrams for project documentation  • Maintained the requirement Traceability matrix (RTM) to track the coverage of Requirements  • Created and maintained user account profiles and passwords, ensuring company-wide security  • Created training materials to ensure proper understanding of the new features. Involved in preparation of the test data required for executing test cases.    Environment: Agile, Windows XP/200, SQL Developer, MS Visio, VSAM, JCL and Quality Center 11, Power BI Consultant Capgemini India Pvt. Ltd June 2013 to August 2016 Consultant BNP Paribas Bank July 2014 to July 2015 BNP Paribas is a leading bank in Brazil and Netherlands. Working as a business analyst for Quality Assurance Team for Mobile and web application.  • Analyze the client's organization for alignment with the access certification tool  • Get device logs for web service calls and map with the UI data  • Collaborate with the application SME's to review the user stories and create new based on new requirements  • Track and update the latest status of the application development on various devices and oracle ERP  • Develop and maintain a Dashboard on the weekly migration status for the project  • Run analysis on both Simulators and Real devices based on the Device Priorities  • Mapping and masking sensitive customer specific data in both Device log XML    Environment: Agile, Scrum, MS Visio, MS Power point, MS access, Oracle ERP, JCL, Quality center Consultant Flipkart.com - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2013 to June 2014 Flipkart.com is one of the best online shopping platforms in India. I was providing support to their technical and stakeholder team. I was mainly responsible for creating faster billing and inventory tracking system. Also, helping the logistic team to maintain inventory in AWS and make sure software runs efficiently  • Created a prospective client database for the company to target more business  • Developed business architecture using requirements such as scope, processes, alternatives, and risk  • Coordinated deliverables and shipping logistics by incorporating and controlling business processes  • Applied SDLC methodologies to successfully implement a faster billing process on Azur platform  • Worked on Mainframe for maintaining merchandising products and for billing tracking  • Rigorous vendor selection process landed with cloud-based solution to eliminate costly processes related to traditional software development, testing, installation, maintenance and failovers.  • Monitored and controlled job cost process and tracked expenses, increasing sales and profits by 30%  • Developed strategies to maintain smooth workflow on AWS platform.  • Ensured all departments are well informed about project requirement to with daily meetings  Environment: Waterfall, AWS, MS Visio, MS Power point, JIRA, Tableau, Quality center, Oracle ERP Database Administrator Clover Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2010 to July 2011 Clover infotech is one of the growing information technology organization in inda. I have Managed administration of MS SQL Server for various industry clients. The jobs duties included enhancement of database performance, implementing recovery procedures, performance tuning, backup & restore of the databases and ensure technical/functional designs meet business requirements.  Responsibilities  • Configured and implemented disaster recovery processes for more than 25 mission critical databases for a leading mutual funds investment product of leading bank in India  • Upgraded over 20 SQL servers in period of 4-months at the largest adhesive manufacturer in India  • Improved vital processing jobs by reducing process duration by 80%  • Utilize components of Microsoft Business Intelligence Suite, including SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in designing, developing, and implementation and testing of the ETL, upgrading DTS to SSIS and automation of database wealth reporting system  • Implemented, maintained, and documented policies, procedures and standards to ensure security and integrity of test and production data and provide 24*7 database support to all deployed client sites.  Environment: ETL, SSIS, SSRS, MS SQL, MS Excel, Java, CSS, SAP Education Campbellsville University 2020 post graduate diploma Northeastern University of Boston May 2017 MBA University of Mumbai May 2013 B.sc University of Mumbai April 2009 Skills Html, Ms project, Php, Reporting tools, Visio, Xml, Sql server, Sql, Rup, Uat, Sharepoint, Tableau, Power bi, Uml, Use cases, J2ee, Java, Linux, Css, Crystal reports Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mayura-shekatkar Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Documents & Processes MS Projects, BRD, Use Cases, UML diagrams, UAT Test plans & cases, BPMN, SharePoint, ALM, Target Process.  Technologies HTML, J2EE, JAVA, XML, PHP, CSS  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, UML, RUP, Lean Principles  Applications MS Office suite, MS Project, MS Visio, Axure, Balsamiq, Scrum  Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8/Vista, Linux, Windows 10  Reporting Tools Tableau, Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reports, MS Office Suite, Confluence, MS Power BI