Oracle DBA/Developer Oracle DBA/Developer Oracle DBA/Developer - Hyundai Auto Ever America 7+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator has hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, shell scripting and documentation.    • Oracle Certified Professional having extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 10G, 11G and 12C with experience in very large-scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems running on UNIX, Linux &MS Windows platforms.  • Proficient in Oracle 12c/11g/10g and MySQL Installations, Migrations, Database Capacity Planning, Automated Backup Implementation.  • Extensive knowledge and experience on High Availability technologies such as RAC, Data Guard, ASM, Database replication and Clusterware.  • Extensive experience on RAC Clusterware installation using ASM, Configuration, administration and Patching.  • Extensive experience in Dataguard configuration, implementing and maintaining standby databases.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Expert knowledge of enterprise backup solutions such as RMAN & various media management systems.  • Experienced in installing, configuring and managing Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) grid and cloud (10g, 11G &12C) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics/job system.  • Experienced in RAC Databases, OEM upgrade and migrations.  • Data loading using SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP.  • Expertise in Database Patching and Upgradation.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers, Shell scripting  • Actively participated in several Oracle development projects consisting of design, testing and deployment into production communicating across various teams.  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA. Work Experience Oracle DBA/Developer Hyundai Auto Ever America - West Point, GA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Supported production, development and testing databases of Multi Terabytes DB sizes.  • Implemented Data guard, creating physical standby databases in 11g environment for production database  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Used Opatch utility for applying CPU and patch set Upgrade (PSU).  • Performed Successful Dataguard Switchover and Failover on production DB's to maintain high availability.  • Database refreshes using expdp / impdp and RMAN.  • Worked on Database Upgrade from 11.2.0.3 to 12.2.0.1 using DBUA.  • Install Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c.  • DB Migration from Non ASM to ASM & Non-RAC to RAC Database.  • Performance tuning of SQL statements using STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan and SQL Trace.  • Installed and configured Oracle OEM to monitor the DB.  • Monitored the Performance of the migrated databases using grid Control and features AWR, ADDM, ASH and generated the reports for metric collection and health check of the databases.  • Loaded data into database using SQL Loader.  • Provide administrative database security role by protecting the database, creating and managing users, restricting unwanted privileges and granting required roles. Oracle DBA/Developer Altice - Bethpage, NY March 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Successfully upgradedOracle11g (11.2.0.2) to Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4).  • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager 10G/11G Grid Control for Enterprise.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 10g and 11g databases.  • Dataguard administration in oracle 11G databases.  • Applied quarterly patches based on the database criticality.  • Patching and Rolling Upgrade in Dataguard Environment.  • Analyzing SGA and PGA memories for the performance improvement.  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and manual methods.  • Performed routine activities such as Query Optimization, Database Consistency monitoring.  • Wrote PL/SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Use of Crontab, DBMS JOBS to automate the monitoring jobs  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Managed logical/physical backups for these databases depending on the nature of database set up either full export, partial export or export of just the structure of schema objects.  • Monitored and audited database access for unauthorized access. Oracle Database Administrator Assyst International - Kochi, Kerala November 2014 to February 2016 Database administration, monitoring, reporting, and maintenance in Oracle and MySQL environments for the onsite project - National Population Register (NPR)- under Ministry of Home Affairs, Central Government of India.    Responsibilities:  • Served as a DBA in a very complex and high visibility national project and associated with design and maintenance of databases having about 400 Million data and databases having size more than 20TB.  • Configuration and installation of oracle 12c grid infrastructure in RAC and in the configuration, setup, capacity planning of the oracle database 12c and ASM  • Installed Oracle 12C and MySQL databases in both Windows and Red Hat Linux platform and performed basic server administration in Linux platform and performed database upgradation.  • Established and maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedures and Performed Backup/Recovery of Oracle databases using RMAN to tape drives, used EMC NetWorker to control tape  • Migrated MySQL to Oracle DB successfully.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and manual methods.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading, patching and configuring the Oracle DB environment.  • Subsequently responsible for patching and upgrading multiple RAC and single node ASM instances to the latest releases.  • Performed capacity planning, Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL*Loader and External Tables.  • Responsibility include participation in a 24 x 7 on-call production support rotation. Oracle DBA India Options Software - Kochi, Kerala May 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring oracle 10g and 11g RDBMS client and grid infrastructure software  • Testing and Implementation of quarterly security patch (CPU) of Oracle to all the servers.  • Troubleshooting the Patching bugs Patching 10G & 11 G RAC environments.  • Troubleshooting the binary level issues.  • Database up gradation from 9i to 10G and 10G to 11G.  • RAC installation and configuration.  • Adding nodes in existing RAC environment.  • Creation of new standalone database, Standalone grid database & RAC databases.  • Managing ASM disks and disk groups to store Data files, redo log files, and control files.  • Configured and restored backup using RMAN.  • Cloning databases using cold backup, hot backup and active cloning methods.  • Refresh of the database using Exp/Imp, data pump, cold backup physical files and RMAN.  • Schema refresh using export/import and Data pump.  • Using CRONTAB system utility to schedule the backups.  • Designing and implementing Security Policies. Deploying roles, privileges, profiles.  • Project management coordinating and scheduling the patches installation to all the auditable servers.  • Configuring the TNS names for the servers.  • User management and Tablespace management.  • Using SQL Loader utility to load data and Analyze AWR and ADDM reports.  • Adding OS Level & Kernel parameters for oracle software.  • Taking daily data Backups and restore the same if problem occurs or to create a new database in another system. Exporting and importing schema for temporary environment. Education Bachelor's Mahatma Gandhi University Skills Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL    Databases: Oracle Database 10G, 11G, 12C, MySQL  Tools & Utilities: AWS, OEM 11G 12C &13C cloud, ASM, Dataguard, AWR, ADDM, ASSM, RMAN, Datapump, MySQL Enterprise Monitor, SQL Developer, TOAD, Putty, SQL Optimizer  Languages: PL/SQL, C#, HTML, CSS.  Scripting: Shell Scripting, Batch script  Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX and Windows