MS SQL Database Administrator MS SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Database Administrator - KiawiTechIT Consulting Services San Antonio, TX • Proven Working Experience as a Database Administrator  • Responsible for daily maintenance of large environments comprising of over 200 servers, 500+ Instances and 750+ databases  • Enhanced database performance, implemented recovery procedures and achieved 99.9% up time on all SQL Servers.  • Increased efficiency 25% by providing optimum database performance with efficient backup and restore processes.  • Strong Experience with SQL Server 2008 through 2017 Administration standalone and cluster environments  • Configured and supported replication (Snapshot/Transactional/Merge/Peers to Peers) and log shipping in both SQL 2008 through 2014 Servers.  • Production level support for onsite and offshore - On Call 24/7 environment  • High Availability Solution- Clustering, Always On, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping  • Advanced skills in Monitoring Tools  • Query Store, Import/Export Wizard, SSMS, SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events and Tuning Advisor tools  • Interacts with clients, application team and project managers to design, implement and support solutions to meet client needs.  • Configured and Managed High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Solutions (Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always On, Clustering, and Replication), TDE (Transparent Data Encryption)  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  • Experience with partitioned schemas and tables, creating File groups using SQL Server.  • Experience in SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client Connectivity and Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC.  • Experience in Administering SQL Server security by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring user accounts, granting privileges to users and groups  • In charge of Server Lease Replacement, Server Decommissioning for the entire Work Experience MS SQL Database Administrator KiawiTechIT Consulting Services January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  Currents projects:  • Upgrading SQL 2008 to 2016 in our environment  • Setting up always on, replication and database mirroring  • Windows and SQL patching  • Responding to ticket queue (refreshing databases, creating logins and users)  • Performed all day-to-day aspects of MS SQL database administration. Responsibilities include database design, installation, security, managing users and logins, performance monitoring and tuning, database availability, backup and recovery, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  • Configured High Availability Solution- Always On Cluster, Traditional Failover Clustering, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Involved in ensuring data recovery, maintenance, and data integrity and space requirements for physical database. Creating and Modifying Tables, Views, Indexes, and Triggers etc. as requirement on SQL Server Environments.  • Responded to and resolved all database access and performance issues.  • Oriented other database administrators on SQL Server management including upgrades and migration.  • Ensured databases adhere to corporate standards and policies, including database auditing.  • Installed SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017 on advanced servers, applied security fixes.  • SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Query Store and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA) for performance.  • In charge of Server Lease Replacement, Server Decommissioning for the entire Datacenter. MS SQL Database Administrator Empire Data Systems LLC November 2014 to November 2018 • Installed and configured SQL Server  • Performed Backups, DBCC utilities, updated index statistics, monitored database and disk space  • Managed the migration of SQL Server 2012 databases to SQL Server 2016  • Created and maintained databases, users, Logins, tables, indexes, stored procedures, roles, permissions and other schema objects  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning & index tuning.  • Used Performance monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries and enhance the performance of database servers  • Used log shipping for synchronization of database  • Implemented and maintained Database mirroring as a DR solution  • SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016/2017 Administration  • Responsible to monitor and troubleshooting Log shipping  • Used Data partitioning, Snapshot Isolation in SQL server  • Update statistics, database integrity check and backup operations  • Creating and Maintaining database maintenance plans  • Configured High Availability Solution- Clustering, Always On, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Planning and implementation of Database backup/restore and disaster recovery  • Installed SQL Server 2012 on advanced servers, applied security fixes.  • SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Query Store and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA) for performance.  • Implementation of snapshot isolation  • Configured and supported replication and log shipping in both SQL 2008 and 2012.  • Maintained database response times in 24/7 Production environments.  • Monitoring standby Databases to ensure high availability  • Automation of DBA Tasks and monitoring  • Configured and managed Contained Database  • Configured and supported replication and log shipping in both SQL 2008 and 2012. IT Help Desk Analyst Empire Data Systems LLC August 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Receive inbound calls from Employees  • Troubleshoot and solved application issues  • Manage users in active directory (reset passwords, unlock accounts, disabled/enable accounts)  • Create, close and escalate tickets if necessary, to appropriate teams  • Remote desktop assistance  • Troubleshoot computer hardware and peripheral devices.  • Troubleshoot connection issues for remote employees' login in through the VPN  • Updating mail boxes in Exchange, adding and removing users  • Response to Customers via email or over the phone to resolve application / hardware issues It Helpdesk Support Analyst/Specialist/Analyst Bridgewell November 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Provided Help Desk support to end-users, both in the office and remotely. Assisted with hardware, software, and network issue  • Answered phone calls and responded to emails  • Document all issues appointed to in Jira's ticket system  • Escalate tickets to appropriate hierarchy  • Upgrade/remove computer hardware components and computer software.  • Configure, update, and maintain Company's Tablet systems as well as inventory check  • Follow up on end-user's tickets to assure issue was resolved  • On-board new employees with laptop, keyboards, mouse, monitors, and other accessories  • Configured and backed-up over 300+ iPad and several MacBook Pro Education Bachelor's Degree of Science in Computer Science Concentration in Software Engineering in Computer Science Salem State University - Salem, MA August 2017 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, ETL, Always on (5 years) Assessments Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tw13df4lt-yxt-vf Technical Support — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j4tuuhswteuaautu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.