Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - CCHC Inc • About 7+years of experience with leading industries with a focus on Business intelligence tools, Microsoft SQL Server, Dashboard Design  • Experienced in all the Business Intelligence Tools like Power BI, Tableau, and Crystal Reporting on various business domains like Finance, media, healthcare and manufacturing.  • Designing and implementing of KPIs (Key Performance Indicators)  • Created financial reports, dashboards using various software tools  • Effectively managed huge data for various departments IT, Creative, Health system and Hospital Administration.  • Hands on experience with healthcare specific software like PM-Practice Management and EHR- Electronic Health Records  • Experience in all the Latest Business Intelligence Tools like Power BI, Tableau, Crystal Reporting, QilkSense, Qlikview for Dashboard Design  • 3+ years of extensive data analyst, Tableau Experience in Enterprise Environment.  • Designed, Developed and Deployed Sql Server Integration Services (SSIS) Packages.  • Created database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers etc.  • Maintained referential integrity, domain integrity and column integrity by using the available options such as constraints etc.  • Identified columns for Primary Keys in all the tables at the design time.  • Created Entity Relationship (ER) Diagrams to the proposed database using Workbench 2012, MS Visio2013.  • Created functions to provide custom functionality as per the requirements.  • Redesigned Database to fulfill new requirements.  • Lead projects from start to finish using sound project management skills. Worked with the rest of the Business Intelligence Team and fully support them in their roles  • System administrator; building a database and migrating information from multiple databases into one database using Workbench 2012 Work Experience Data Analyst CCHC Inc - Glendale, CA March 2016 to Present CCHC operates five community health centers providing medical, dental, behavioral, and vision services to underserved people in metropolitan Los Angeles and the San Fernando Valley. At CCHC I am the only data analyst working in the finance department this motivates and encourages me to work hard and deliver the reports on time to the team and higher executives.    Responsibilities  • Conducted independent statistical analysis, descriptive analysis, and hypothesis testing and logistic regression.  • Provided assistance for health care projects through SSRS, EHR and analysis software tools.  • Assisted in development of data formatting and cleaning criteria from various data sources.  • Generated database reports, presentation and documentation of analytical methods.  • Performed ad hoc analysis of data sources for hospital administration, CEO, CFO, EVP, and internal team.  • Participated in refinement and technical documentation of database reporting requirement,  • Extensively used Tabadmin and Tabcmd commands in creating backups and restoring backups of Power BI repository  • Tested dashboards to ensure data was matching as per the business requirements and if there were any changes in underlying data.  • Connected Power BI to various databases and performed live data connections, query auto updates on data refresh.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, SSIS/SSRS/EHR/PM, Tableau Desktop 10.5/10.3, Tableau Server 9.3, MS Office Suite, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Informatics, Teradata, MS Excel. Database Administrator Work Comp Central Inc - Camarillo, CA April 2015 to November 2015 Work Comp Central is a specialty media company providing professional news, education and data content to the workers' compensation industry. I was immersed in lamp technology (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) created SSIS Packages designed and delivered various reports    Responsibilities  • Created Databases, Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures in SQL Server.  • System administrator; building a database and migrating information from multiple databases into one using Workbench 2012.  • Immersed in lamp technology (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) Documentation of the migration process and implementing to the database, plus, updated current UI (user interface).  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Developed Tableau Dashboards/Story's from multiple data sources using Data Blending.  • Developed Tableau workbooks to perform year over year, quarter over quarter, YTD, QTD and MTD type of analysis.    Environment: SQL Server 2008R2 Enterprise Edition, SSIS/SSRS/SSAS and SQL Management Studio 2008. SQL BI Developer/DBA TAP Series Inc - Woodland Hills, CA January 2015 to April 2015 TAP Series' unique teaching process allows for a real-time uninterrupted learning experience by using colorful graphics, animations, full motion video, audio and interactive learning exercises.  Data Warehouse project that I was part of enabled management to better leverage information collected within current operational systems to help in their decision-making process.    Responsibilities  • Work collaboratively with the IT team and Business users to identify and refine requirements.  • Implemented Tableau mobile dashboards via Tableau mobile application.  • Designing ETL packages for exporting heterogeneous data, different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, CSV and XML files etc.) and load the data into target data base servers by performing different data transformations (DTS) using SSISSQL Server 2012.  • Implementing Event Handlers and Error Handlers during creation of SSIS packages and notified process results to various users.  • Automated the ETL operations to Extract data from multiple data sources, transform inconsistent and missing data into consistent and reliable data, and finally load it into a Multi-dimensional data warehouse.  • Analysis Services & Reporting Services.  • Creating Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Experience in troubleshooting production servers for user and application issues.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, SSIS/SSRS/SSAS and SQL Management Studio 2012. SQL Developer/SSIS/SSRS Developer Ingrain Technologies Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2010 to June 2014 Responsibilities  • Migrated data from SQL Server 2000 to Server 2005 using Data Transformation Services (DTS).  • Perform the tasks of updating test plan status to the test manager on a weekly basis.  • Collaborate with Business Analyst to ensure comprehensive requirements based testing is achieved  • Created Databases, Tables and triggers to validate the data to meet the specifications.  • Created views and indexed views as required by front end developer for easier implementation.  • Created stored procedures and functions to support data storage and manipulation.  • Used linked / replicated servers and high-volume data storage.  • Converted the DTS Packages into SSIS using Migration Wizards.  • Involved in Testing and Debugging the Stored Procedures and T-SQL.  • Worked on Client/Server tools like SQL Server Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer to Administer Server.  • Built test scenarios and test cases (negative/positive) to validate expected outcome.    Environment: Windows Server 2003, SQL Server 2005, Visual Studio 2005, T- SQL, DTS. Software Tester/QA analyst Persistent Systems Limited - Pune, Maharashtra July 2009 to November 2009 Persistent Systems is a global company specializing in software product and technology services.    Responsibilities  • Performed: Smoke tests, BVT (Build Validation Test), System Testing, Retesting (after defect fixes), IAT (Integration Testing), Regression Testing, UAT (User Acceptance Testing), PROD (Test in Production).  Environment: ASP.NET, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, C#, Quality center, Load Runner, MS Word, Excel. Education MS in Information Systems in Project Management, Business California Lutheran University 2015 Skills Database engine, Data modeling, Database, Dbms, Access 2003, Ms access, Ms access 2003, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Tableau, T-sql, Etl, Sql server integration services, Power bi, C# Additional Information Technical Skills    Tools  SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), BIDS, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Performance Monitor, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Mail, SQL Trace, Redgate, Quick Test professional, Load Runner    DBMS/RDBMS MS SQL SERVER 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, ORACLE 9i, MS Access 2003, MySQL  ETL Tools SQL Server Integration Services  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services, MS Excel, Crystal Reports, and Report Builder 3.0., Tableau, Power BI  Languages SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, VB.NET, C, C++, C#, Python  Data Modeling MS Visio  Other Technologies ASP.NET 3.5, JavaScript, AJAX  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows XP/Vista, Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008R2