Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - CITI Group Irving, TX 8 years of experience in Oracle database administration in Linux, Unix and Windows platforms. Experience include Installation, Configuration , Upgrades, Space Management, System maintenance, Cloning, patching, data replication, Database security, Troubleshooting database design, Performance Monitoring, Tuning, Backup and Recovery and also includes RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Golden Gate ,Data Pump and Grid Control experience.    • Excellent experience in Installation and configuration of Oracle 12c, 9i,10g, 11g in UNIX/LINUX and Windows environment.  • Upgraded Databases from 9i to 10g ,10g to 11g and 11g to 12c on various platforms.  • Managed Databases in the range from 50GB to 30TB.  • Proficient in Database administration activities such as user management, space management, Monitoring, Creating Database, Managing Oracle Instance and Database security and Materialized Views.  • Worked on Performance optimization of large objects (LOB, BLOB, CLOB) by monitoring redoes generation, increasing log buffer size, blocksize and changing archiving procedures and Query tuning using Statspack , TKPROF and OEM.  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, Tuning Contentions) using oracle 11g tools like AWR, ADDM, Advisories, TKPROF, SQL TRACE,EXPLAIN PLAN for the better performance.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Database using Grid Control & Diagnostic pack (AWR, ASH ADDM etc)  • Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Experience in taking backup and performing recovery.  • Experience in performing point in time recovery at times of necessity.  • Design and implement backup and recovery including disaster recovery structures.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 9i/10g/11g RAC on two node and four node configurations.  • Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Linux for an OLTP application with Transparent Application Failover.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  • Experience in conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Experience in Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 4 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle Data Guard to perform quick disaster recovery.  • Experience in maintaining Data Guard to provide high availability by implementing physical standby database and snapshot standby and worked with Oracle 11g features, 11g Grid Control.  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning.  • Implemented data load by replication methods like Materialized views, Golden Gate from OLTP systems into data warehouse databases.  • Experience in recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Performed Export/Import through Data Pump, worked with data pump to take the logical backups of databases.  • Installed, configured and updated EXADATA machines.  • Implementation of Flashback Technology.  • Experience in Implementing Streams, ODI, Data Pump, Export and Import Utilities.  • Good experience in resolving issues related to installation, upgrades and patches.  • Applied Patch Set Updates to 10g and 11g oracle databases.  • Excellent troubleshooting skills in OS level and Database level.  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently.  • Experience in Administering Oracle Database using Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad, PL /SQL Developer.  • Familiar with Data Warehousing (ETL), Data Mining and OLTP concepts and ASM, SAN.  • Experience in SQL Server and Mongo Databases.  • Experience in UNIX shell programming.  • Experience in PostgreSQL databases.  • Strong skills in SQL* PLUS, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH), Import/Export Server Manager.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers etc.  • Exposure to several industry sectors - Finance/Mortgage, Internet/Web advertising, Telecom, State, Retail, Power, Banking/Credit card processing, Federal and Manufacturing.  • Possess good leadership, excellent communication and time management and presentation skills with excellent technical, analytical, interpersonal, problem solving and organizational skills.  • Expertise in leading the teams for maintenance of 24X7 high-availability applications and databases. Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA CITI Group - Irving, TX November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managing and supporting nearly 100 Oracle Physical and ORAAS databases, size ranges from 50 GB to 10 TB.  • Migrated Oracle databases from AIX to ORAAS (Citi's Internal Cloud) using Cross Platform Transportable Tablespace XTTS and Data Pump Export/Import methods.  • Responsible on migrating SQL Tuning Sets and Baselines.  • Worked on Export and Import of statistics during migration.  • Created Validation script for comparison of source and target databases after the migration.  • Building 2-node and 3-node RAC ORAAS databases based on the requirement.  • To install, administrate and troubleshoot Oracle Goldengate replication utility.  • Configuring Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication between multiple Oracle database instances using Oracle Goldengate.  • Implementing conflict resolution and detection measures to maintain data integrity between replicated sites.  • Implementing data load by replication methods like Materialized views, Golden Gate from OLTP systems into data warehouse databases.  • To recover Golden Gate corruptions and managing cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Setup automated monitoring of Golden Gate process and heart beat monitoring using Goldengate Management Pack.  • Verifying tables, rows and columns are in sync or not using Goldengate Veridata.  • Implemented partitioning on large tables, expertise in using composite partitioning, local indexes and global indexes.  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA).  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c cloud control.  • Worked on Database administration activities such as User management, Space management, Monitoring, Managing Oracle Instances and Database security.  • Taking Full and Partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Performing all daily Maintenance tasks including scheduling backup jobs, monitoring job failures and troubleshooting RMAN backup job failures and interacting with Oracle Customer service when required.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Upgrading Oracle Databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c.  • Converting Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Migrating Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Monitoring of database using Oracle's Enterprise Manager (OEM), Statspack Reports, Explain Plans, SQL Trace and TKPROF.  • Monitoring and analyzing database activity to proactively identify and prevent potential incidents and also recommending methods to improve performance.  • Analyzing the AWR reports and ASH analysis and recommending the changes to application team if required.  • To do Performance Tuning i.e. Tuning RAC, tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms using AWR/ASH reports.  • Generating ADDM reports to ensure optimal database performance tuning and use SQL Tuning Advisor and SQL Monitoring to tune SQL queries for long running SQL.  • To work on Performance optimization of large objects (LOB, BLOB, CLOB) by monitoring redoes generation, increasing log buffer size, blocksize and changing archiving procedures and Query tuning using Statspack, TKPROF and OEM.  • Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements, reorganize database objects and design indexes to improve response of queries.  • Applied latest Oracle PSU Patches on Physical databases and ORAAS databases.  • Applied CPU patches and bug fixes as and when required and performing database refresh from Prod to Dev.  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Applied one-off patches to fix problems, upgraded Grid and RDBMS software to higher versions.  • Written Shell scripts to Monitor activates like availability of database & listeners, space utilization, gathering statistic for the cost base optimizer, index rebuilding etc.  • Providing database administration support for application and development teams for Maintenance and Emergency software releases.    Environment: Oracle 12c, 11gR2, 10g, RAC, ASM, Golden Gate, Dataguard, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM), RDBMS, Explain plan, Statspack, Redhat Linux, Windows, PL/SQL, TOAD, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer, Shell Scripting. Sr. Oracle DBA Fitch Ratings - New York, NY June 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Administer over 300 databases across development, QA, UAT and PROD environments via use of command line and Oracle tools Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c.  • Manage large complex Oracle RAC clusters with 50+ applications.  • Installed Oracle 11g RAC and Upgrading Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12c.  • Set up Active Dataguard Configurations for oracle database 11.2.0.3 for thirty databases whose size varies from 5 TB to 20 TB on a 6 node RAC.  • Designed Golden Gate configuration for databases & implemented filters with rules to meet the business usage which will reduce load on the production databases for better performance with replication on multiple sites.  • Migrated and upgraded Oracle 11gR2 Databases from Sun Solaris 10 to Red hat Linux 5 using Golden gate.  • Experience in bi-directional and broadcast replication from source to target databases using Golden Gate 11.0 and Golden Gate 12.0.  • Implemented Golden Gate replication for new tables, support and patching.  • Worked on SQL Tuning and how to use the available tools outside of Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Worked on Performance Tuning, identifying large objects, analyze those objects and recommend changes to improve performance.  • Updated MVIEWS and test code to improve performance.  • Identifying objects no longer accessed and remove those objects which results in saving space in the databases.  • Worked on moving data from one storage area to another.  • Implemented Oracle Spatial functions and procedures for enabling spatial data to be stored, accessed, and analyzed quickly in an Oracle database.  • Installed and Administered Oracle 11g & 10g RAC software with ASM.  • Had fixed several performance tuning issues which relates to RAC & standalone databases by recommending better solutions that could save cost, virtualization, and resources.  • Implemented fast start failover on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and Snapshot standby database.  • Implemented & Managed Physical Standby and even Configured Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Worked on backup and restoring the data.  • Solid understanding of key Exadata features including Hybrid Columnar Compression, Exadata Smart Flash Cache, Exadata Storage Index and Exadata Storage Management & Administration.  • Implemented Database resource manager to segregate the current workloads at production database & reduce the resource consumption for high volume transactions.  • Implemented RMAN Image Copy Backup Strategy for very large Databases in minimizing the downtime for recovery.  • Worked on installation and setup of Mongo databases.  • Implemented different Partition methods.  • Provide 3rd level support for Oracle RAC, including applying patches (CPU, PSU and Interim), performance tuning, Backup and recovery issues with RMAN, trace analysis, service creation for the apps to fail over, cluster and system management.  • Refresh database using import/export from production to UAT, SQL*LOADER used to load the data from flat files to oracle tables. Used ETL to extract data from database and transform the data to different databases.  • Worked on installing PostgreSQL databases and troubleshooting PostgreSQL databases.  • Worked on PostgreSQL 9.3 and 9.4 databases.  • Worked with UNIX shell scripts, materialized views, Capacity planning.  • Worked closely with application and development teams to resolve production issues. Created database services for different applications.  • Applied one-off patches to fix problems, upgraded Grid and RDBMS software to higher versions.  • Worked on Performance tuning using AWR, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN & STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Patching and Upgrades of Oracle 10g, 11g databases to protect from VTM.  • Providing database support for development and deployment of database scripts in Development, Test, Pre-Production and Production environments.  • Monitor file system space, database resource consumption and verify efficient use of disk storage  to avoid out-of-space conditions.    Environment: Oracle 12c, 11gR2, 10g, RAC, ASM, Exadata, Golden Gate, Dataguard, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control(OEM), RDBMS, Explain plan, Statspack, Sun Solaris, Redhat Linux, Windows, SQL*LOADER, PL/SQL, TOAD, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer, PostgreSQL database, Mongo database, SQL server 2008, Shell Scripting. Sr. Oracle DBA Nashville, TN December 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Supported 400 databases including RAC production databases, a Datawarehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10g to 11g.  • Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  • Playing vital role in streamlining all the databases on AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris.  • Worked on setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS on IBM AIX 6.1.  • Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Installed and configured 6 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.  • Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.  • Implemented and administered Oracle Golden Gate (v10) for Database Replication between production and reporting node, by using Oracle Streams in parallel to secure data and having the availability of the database during regular the upgrade or maintenance operation.  • Hands-on experience in Golden Gate replication.  • Implemented Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis as per development and test servers.  • Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11g RAC (Real Application Clusters) with AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) reports and ASH (Active Session History).  • Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  • Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures (Cold/Hot backups, RMAN Incremental backups & Import/Export).  • Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Advisor).  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Maintained and monitored various production servers with Oracle 11g R1, 11g R2, 10g, and exadata servers.  • Migrated all the RDBMS database to EXADATA machine.  • By using EXADATA provided support to a combination of database system such as OLTP and OLAP.  • Wrote shell scripts for automation of tasks and used shell scripts with crontab for job scheduling.  • Involved in architecting the environment requirements for the project, hardware provisioning, instance strategy, patching strategy.  • Scheduled database maintenance tasks such as tables/indexes analysis, index rebuild, materialized views refresh and db exports.  • Maintained DATA GUARD to provide high availability by implementing physical stand-by database and snapshot-standby and worked with Oracle 11g features 11g Grid Control and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Troubleshooting Space Management & User accounts and privilege issues while coordinating with Unix and application teams.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Identify Top SQL's that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  • Applying Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Production support for Oracle database 10g/11g RAC.  • Actively involved in monitoring the lock processes, releasing locks in case of resource blockage and gathering statistics.  • Worked on SQL Server 2008 and 2012.  • Worked on different RDBMS and associated applications.  • Implemented and configured of Oracle Enterprise manager OEM 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases.  • Worked on different partitioning strategies on PostgreSQL databases.  • Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).    Environment: Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c, RHEL 6.x, IBM AIX 6.1, RAC, ASM, RMAN, OEM Grid Control 12c, Golden Gate 10.0, Data Guard, MS SQL 2008(R2), 2012,PostgreSQL. Sr. Oracle DBA Fidelity Investments, Raleigh - Durham, NC November 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • As Production DBA, managed all database issues including database capacity, re-orgs, backup & recovery, scripting and Performance tuning.  • Worked as team member to provide 24/7 on call production database support.  • Supported and maintained multi-terabyte high transactional OLTP RAC-enabled database.  • Implemented Upgradation and Migration of Database's from 10.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.1 and applying patches whenever required.  • Installed Oracle Clusterware to provide infrastructure for RAC and configured 2 node Oracle 10g RAC with ASM.  • ASM Setup and maintenance on RAC databases.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery.  • Configured and managed Data Guard for Production databases.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g RAC, developed 2 node RAC environments for a 25TB database by implementing WAN technology to reduce the network traffic.  • Responsible for Installing, configuring and maintaining Oracle Grid Control (10g grid).  • Responsible for regular Security Patching on Oracle Products and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Installed, configured and supported uni-directional and bi-directional Oracle-to-Oracle replicated environments utilizing Golden Gate.  • Monitoring of database using Oracle's Enterprise Manager (OEM), Statspack Reports, Explain Plans, SQL Trace and TKPROF.  • Regularly monitoring the Production databases using OEM 11g Grid control.  • Creating, maintaining, Tuning Standby databases, Disaster recovery using data guard Broker.  • Applied Consolidated Update, Critical Patch Update (CPU's), Security alert patches using Opatch.  • Monitor and tune database performance including SQL tuning.  • Implement complex enterprise changes as they pertain to the database environment.  • Written UNIX Shell scripts for monitoring the processes, sessions, transactions on Production RAC database after migration.  • Written UNIX shell scripts for partition splitting.  • Strong skill in PL/SQL procedures, packages, triggers and replication.  • Work with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently.  • Clear communication and documentation of technical specifications.  Environment: Oracle databases 10g/11g , Sun Solaris 5.9 and 5.10, Linux, Windows ,Veritas Cluster, Net Backup, VNC server, NETAPP Manager, TOAD, OEM 11g grid control, Datapump, Exp/Imp, Metalink, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, VNC, Oracle RAC, Data guard. Oracle DBA Intense Technologies - IN May 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for both manage and support 6 production databases and 15 development/test databases with sizes of databases varying from 50 GB to 550 GB.  • Installed and Upgraded 10g to 11g.  • Perform daily administration support for database backups, performance tuning and monitoring.  • Monitored and diagnosed database performance through monitoring of alert files, trace files.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Worked with Data pump to take the logical backups of databases.  • Worked in performing Point in time recovery using RMAN.  • Used Oracle configuration assistants like DBCA ( Database Configuration Assistant) for Creating databases, DBUA ( Database Upgrade Assistant) for Upgrading databases and NETCA (Network Configuration Assistant) for creating a Client-Server environment using Listener, TNS names etc.  • Standby database setup via 10g data guard for database Disaster Recovery.  • Implemented shell scripts to reduce the time for large code movements during cut over tasks.  • Storage Management Managing Space, Tablespaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary. Online/Offline Database Backups and managing database recovery with RMAN.  • Performance tuning via OEM, STATSPACK/AWR for 10g/11g.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, SQL*Net and IMPORT/EXPORT]]  • Involved in development of Triggers and handled packages.  • Maintenance tasks like bouncing the production database, services through Veritas.  • Created custom DBA script using DMVs, system tables for database management.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, IBM-AIX, HP-UX, Windows 2000, RMAN, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, exp/imp, SQL, SQL/PLUS, MS SQL 2008 / 2005. Oracle DBA Wind Stream Telecommunication - IN June 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for administration and supporting Oracle 9i and 10g databases.  • 24x7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Successfully migrated databases from windows2000/2003 running oracle 9i over to Linux boxes 10g.  • Installation, Upgrade and Configuration of Oracle 9i and 10g Databases.  • Involved in designing of disaster recovery plan using Data Guard, and High Availability using RAC.  • Schemas refresh using Export/Import Pump, Creating the database table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Configuration, Administration and tuning of Oracle 10g and 9i RAC.  • Used cross platform transportable table space (TTS) to transport table spaces across platforms.  • Data Refresh in Test and Integration Databases using Transportable Table spaces.  • Performed Setup Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Flash Recovery in RAC Environment.  • Oracle Streams Bi-Directional replication implementation at Table, Schema and Database Level.  • Implemented backup strategies using hot/cold, exp/imp used on the business req.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN and performed Table space point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN.  • Implemented Streams replication between RAC and non RAC database environments.  • Installed Oracle 10g Enterprise Manager (Grid Control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on test databases.  • Monitoring and tuning using tools like Enterprise Manager GRID, Oracle cost Based optimizer (CBO), SQL analyzer, automatic checkpoint tuning, SQL Advisors, Performance Manager, and Stats pack.  • Performed conversion single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Utilized Oracle Streams to capture, propagate, and apply the transfer of data, transactions, and events within managed databases.  • Provided database/application tuning including as reducing lock contention, analyzing objects.  • Downsizing and defragmenting the Very Large Databases by export / import, cloning those using RMAN duplicate features and then upgrading them to Oracle 10g and Production to development refresh.  • Experienced on Database Security by monitoring User Management, Privileges, and Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication and Risk management.  • Experience in Unix Shell scripting in csh, ksh for automating startup/shutdown, backup and recovery, Import and export procedure of databases, getting system alerts.  • Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc.    Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, HP-UX 11, Red Hat Linux4, Windows 2000/2003, Enterprise Manager GRID, RUP, RMAN, SAN/NAS, HSM, 10g RAC, Streams, CDC, Data Guard, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, ASM, J2EE, ToadV9.7 & SQL, Navigator V6.1. Oracle Database Administrator Citigroup Financial Services - Irving, TX Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Aix, Awk, Korn, Linux, Red hat, Sed, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix Additional Information Technical Skills  Database Utilities  DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC), Automatic Storage Management(ASM), SQL Navigator, , TOAD, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), Query Analyzer, VERITAS NetBackup, Developer 2000, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Golden Gate, Toad 7.6/7.5, SQL Developer    Databases Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g,11g, 12c,RAC 11gR1 ,RAC11gR2 ,Data-Guard 9i/10g/11g,Mysql,Microsoft Sql Server 2005,2008,Mongo,PostgreSQL.  Tool/Utilities TKPROF, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g/11g/12c,Sql Developer, Putty  Operating Systems Windows NT/2000/2003/XP, , Red Hat Linux 9/8/7.2/7.1/6.2,HP-UX, AIX 4.3x/5.1/5.2, Sun Solaris 8/9/10  Programming SQL,PL/SQL,MYSQL,C,C++,UNIX shell scripting, Perl, Korn, AWK-SED