Database Administrator II <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Raleigh, NC Results-oriented Certified MySQL DBA with comprehensive experience in an on premise database  and Cloud Database. Experience managing MySQL, medium to large scale database, in a complex  multi-tier enterprise environment. Strong administration skill in MySQL 5.1-5.7, and Percona  5.1-5.7, on Linux and Windows. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator II Bandwidth - Raleigh, NC August 2018 to Present * Experienced Data professional with deep expertise in SQL Server, MariaDB, MySQL  * Database Administration & Management of SQL Server-2014,2008, MariaDB, MySQL instances.  * Experience in working with high volume mission critical OLTP and Data warehouse systems  * Expertise in building Data Analytics, BI reporting solutions using SQL, Columnar DBs & Tableau  * Experience in designing and building data-centric applications  * Experience in database backup, recovery and disaster recovery procedures  * Implementing change control management of DB artifacts  * Experience working with NoSQL databases - Cassandra  * Experience in collaborating and engaging with multiple teams, mentoring Development teams.  * Leading and managing projects.    Specialties:  * Design and Architect highly scalable back end database platforms  * Database Performance Tuning, Query Optimization  * Database High Availability & Clustering  * Building Data Analytics, BI platforms   * ETL design & Data pipe line   * SOA using SQL Service Broker  * Replication  * Partitioning  * Big Data  * SQL Database Cloud Engineer Amazon.com - Seattle, WA November 2017 to Present Responsible for hosting and supporting production databases for hundreds of major international  corporations on large-scale, geographically diverse environments.  Perform on-demand support for Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL database infrastructure.  Interact with customers, resolving database engine and system/infrastructure-related issues and providing guidance on systems architecture, data model, and SQL query reviews as needed  Work directly with Amazon Web Service architects and interact with leading technologists around the world to help reproduce and resolve unique customer issues.  Drive customer communication during critical events on a global scale.  Test, validate and implement performance and resource optimization improvements in consultation with AWS development teams.  On call for large scale production database outages and root cause analysis of production related  database issues.    Drive projects that improve support related processes and our customers' technical support  experience.  Provide insightful troubleshooting and optimal solutions and discerning when to escalate issues to knowledge experts in the engineering team.  Write tutorials, how-to documents, and other technical articles for the database support community. Senior Database Consultant(Contract) Element Data - Bellevue, WA July 2017 to October 2017 Implemented MySQL database designs and data models.  Wrote and maintained technical and functional specifications.  Specified users and user access levels for each database segment.  Planned and implemented security measures to safeguard PII data.  Coordinated with project teams on database development timelines.  Created bash and python scripts for data ingestion and integration.  Provided administration support for high volume transactional and analytical MySQL database. DBA IPsoft, Inc - New York, NY July 2014 to July 2017 Responsible for managing multiple Enterprise Percona XtraDB Cluster and Galera cluster on a  daily basis.  Optimize MySQL in best performance, such as analyze tables, rebuild indexes, export/import data to improve performance.  Expertise in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, and Database Consistency Checks using  different utilities.  Managed database objects including tables, relationships, stored routines, triggers and users, as well as assist with capacity planning.  Perform upgrades of older version of MySQL.  Implemented 5TB of on Premise MariaDB to cloud AWS RDS Maria.  Provide on call support for Enterprise Customers via in person, over the phone and emails.  Assist development team with recommendations on best practices. Graduate/Teaching Assistant University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD August 2012 to April 2014 Prepared lessons according to course outline to convey all required material and deepen student  understanding of subject matter.  Taught small groups of students focused on specific parts of coursework.  Assisted faculty with clerical tasks such as copying papers, collecting assignments and preparing  materials for upcoming classes.  Documented attendance and completed assignments to maintain full class and student records.  Mentored students through office hours and one-on-one communication.  Checked assignments, proctored tests, and provided grades according to university standards.  Streamed classes online and uploaded videos for later viewing by distance and absent students. Junior Data Engineer International Data Management Services PLC - Lagos, NG June 2009 to August 2011 Lagos    Supported team that manages terabyte MySQL Cluster database, while supporting development  teams with database design, normalization of various tables, checking if the created tables are using the right data types.  Assited with writing store routines either store functions or procedures.  Gave recommendations on the best storage engine to deploy on new applications built.  Created triggers for tracking/ login activities by different users.  Rebuilt out of sync replication slaves.  Wrote checks for alerts and monitoring of cluster database.  Performed capacity planning for all the critical file partitions on the OS.  Provided on-call support for enterprise databases.  Troubleshooted and resolved replication issue such as slave delay, slave status issue, slave rebuild  includingdatabase problems and issues relating to applications, Disk Usage, Processes, Swap Usage,  Uptime, CPU Utilization, Max Session and systems.  Implemented procedures for performance optimization and development of database applications  whichincludes designing, capacity planning, security and accessibility functions of databases.  Involved in client expertise in configuring and scheduling the binary backups for the database as well as creating thebackup directory for the log files.Expertise in Performance Tuning, Query  Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using different  utilities. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Maryland - Princess Anne, MD 2014 Bachelor of Science in Economics and Mathematics University of Benin 2008 Skills DATABASE (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), AWS (3 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), APACHE (Less than 1 year), ETL, Postgresql, Sql Server, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, MySQL 5.6 Database Administrator August 2016 to Present MariaDB Certified Database Administrator 10.3 Associate February 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills  SQL Tableau Software  NOSQL Hadoop Ecosystem: Hive, pig, storm, flume,  MySQL NDB, HDFS  percona xtradb cluster, Platforms: Unix|Linux and Windows.  MariaDB, Middleware: Jboss, Apache WebLogic,  AWS RDS- MySQL WebSphere.  AWS RDS- PostGres Monitoring:  AWS RDS SQL-SERVER MySQL Enterprise Monitoring,  AWS Aurora- MySQL Percona Monitoring and Management,  AWS Aurora- Postgres Amazon CloudWatch, Nagios. ETC  Scripting in Bash and Python  Database migration and backup Tools:  AWS DMS, mysqlpump, mysqldump,  xtrabackup, Mysql Enterprise Backup ETC