Database Administrator/Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Analyst Database Administrator/Analyst - Berkley Medical Management Solutions Overland Park, KS Having 9+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Database Design, Development, Implementation, Debugging and Testing of software applications.  • Excellent T-SQL development skills to write complex queries involving multiple tables, great ability to develop SQL Objects and maintain Stored Procedures and User defined functions  • Expertise in building script using T-SQL (DDL and DML)  • Experience in debugging and optimizing Views, Functions, T- SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers  • Expert in developing Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML)  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity  • Created sub queries, Created Clustered and Non-Clustered indexes on Tables  • Good knowledge of normalization/de-normalization of database tables and building referential integrity for the Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)  • Experience in creating packages, Jobs, Sending Alerts using SQL Mail  • Experience involved in using tools like SQL profiler for Monitoring and Tuning MS SQL Server  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities  • Successfully implemented Log Shipping Technique to maintain a standby server backup for Disaster Recovery  • Experience in using SSIS for data extraction, transformation and loading  • Good understanding of developing Star Schema, Snow flake Schema and Dimensional Data modeling using MS SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) on a Data Warehouse  • Create/Edit/Maintain ETL processes utilizing Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) from a diversity of data sources including other servers, flat files, MS Access and Excel  • Experience in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server  • Hand-on working experience in creating SQL Server Reports using SSRS  • Hands-on working experience in Installing, configuring, upgrading and managing SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and required Service Packs  • Experience in supporting production Databases, monitoring, troubleshooting and documenting root cause analysis  • Experienced in handling Service Level Agreements (SLA's) as well as Operational Level Agreements (OLA's)  • A well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated effective team member with excellent troubleshooting, and problem-solving skills  • Excellent communication skills, analytical skills, understand business requirements in various domains  • Worked with Big Data and used HDFS was data storage purposes. While working as a Report Developer, used Hadoop extensively as a data source. Though most of data manipulation work was done with MS SQL Server or PostgreSQL, I did have to work with Big Data as the ultimate data source.  • Strong knowledge of how the Hadoop stack works in hand for ETL processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Analyst Berkley Medical Management Solutions - Overland Park, KS April 2018 to Present Berkley Medical Management Solutions provides a different kind of managed-care service for Berkley. Too often, vended managed-care services focus on billable services instead of getting injured or ill employees back to work quickly with the best possible outcomes. We started by reimagining the relationship between medical need and technology as a way to deliver the best outcomes. The goal was clear: combine solid clinical practices, proven return-to-work strategies and robust software into one system for seamless management of workers' compensation cases.    Responsibilities:  • Table creation with Keys, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes on tables, views, and columns.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning & index tuning.  • Provided problem solving techniques for performance issues and data fine tuning.  • Reviewed stored procedures developed by the developers and given recommendations for the code modifications for production.  • Worked with Team Foundation Server for source control and code repository. Used TFS projects to push code across, Development, Test, Stage and Production environments.  • Automated process using SSIS jobs and SQL Agent Jobs.  • Data manipulation through conversion, calculation, aggregation, etc.  • Wrote data to flat files, database tables, XML & other destinations.  • Scripted using T-SQL for DML operations, used temp tables.  • Created & modified tables and table indexes.  • Required to communicate effectively to clarify/define requirements to developers and business.    Environment: SQL Server 2016, SQL Server Reporting Service, SQL Server Management Studio 2016, Visual Studio 2015, Team Foundation Server, DBA support responsibilities, Production environment support. Applications Engineer KGPCo - Gardner, KS February 2017 to February 2018 KGPCo is the country's largest communications product distribution and service solution provider in the telecommunications industry. A Tier 1 woman-owned diversity business, KGPCo is the only large-scale organization that combines a comprehensive suite of communication network management, engineering, and implementation services with a national logistics network and portfolio of manufacturer partnerships    Responsibilities:  • Created & modified SSRS reports including parameters, table, matrix, charts, SQL expressions in the reports.  • Created & modified SSIS packages for ETL processes to reading data from flat files, database tables, XML & other sources.  • Configured and deployed SSIS Packages across development to test and production environments.  • Automated process using SSIS jobs and SQL Agent Jobs.  • Data manipulation through conversion, calculation, aggregation, etc.  • Wrote data to flat files, database tables, XML & other destinations.  • Scripted using T-SQL for DML operations, used temp tables.  • Created & modified tables and table indexes.  • Required to communicate effectively to clarify/define requirements to developers and business.  • Used Atlassian product JIRA to receive requests and view issues with reports, packages or business rules.  • Worked with a team of application developers and business analysts to document processes and procedures.  • Required to work through the life cycle of a request from beginning to end without direct supervision.    Environment: MS SQL Server, Oracle, SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Services (SSRS/SSIS) 2008 R2, MS Excel, JIRA, High availability environment, DBA support responsibilities. SSRS Developer Waddell and Reed - Shawnee Mission, KS April 2016 to December 2016 Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc. is an American asset management and financial planning company founded in 1937. It operates asset management and distribution subsidiaries, including Ivy Investment Management Company and Waddell & Reed Investment Management Company.    Responsibilities:  • Provided problem solving techniques for performance issues and data fine tuning.  • Worked with HP Application Lifecycle Management (HP ALM) for issues with existing reports and task allocation.  • Focused on modifying existing reports for changes in business rules.  • Worked closely with Business team and end users to translate reporting requirements into feasible end products.  • Worked with PostgreSQL DMBS as a data source for reporting purposes.  • Used SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for all reporting purposes, creation of new and modification of existing reports.  • Worked with Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) for data storage purposes.    Environment: SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS), PostgreSQL, Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), HP Application Lifecycle Management (HP ALM), MS Excel Database Developer USDA, Risk Management Agency - Kansas City, MO January 2015 to February 2016 Risk Management Agency is within the U.S. Department of Agriculture and provides risk and insurance coverages dealing with both insurance providers and the final end users. It maintains several internal and external applications.    Responsibilities:  • Table creation with Keys, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes on tables, views, and columns.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning & index tuning.  • Provided problem solving techniques for performance issues and data fine tuning.  • Reviewed stored procedures developed by the developers and given recommendations for the code modifications for production.  • Worked with Team Foundation Server for source control, working with CRs (change requests) and DRs (Deployment Requests).  • Worked with the largest DB maintained for the agency.  • Made changes and fixes that affect both databases and applications (both internal and external).  • Participated in Daily Scrum meetings for general updates and bi-weekly scrum meetings for a specific new project.  • Creation of required data structures, stored procedures and SQL Agent Jobs for new projects  • Attended mandatory government procedures and safety standards training for IT division  • Worked on POCs (Proof Of Concepts) for Data Virtualization with DENODO and CISCO.  • Worked in the Operations and Maintenance team on quick fixes.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, SQL Server Reporting Service, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2013, TFS, MS Excel, DENODO Data Virtualization software, CISCO CIS software, DBA support responsibilities, Production environment support, on High availability. SSRS/SSIS Report Developer Pfizer Pharmaceutical - Exton, PA February 2013 to January 2015 Pfizer is the world's largest research-based biomedical and pharmaceutical company. Pfizer also continues to be one of the world's largest animal health businesses. They're focused on disease prevention: animal vaccines and animal prescription medicines. The Project aim was to evaluate database objects and to maintain the database.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in creating Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views for applications  • Extensive knowledge on Joins and sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables and also optimized the procedures and triggers to be used in production  • Developed complex T-SQL code for the application  • Transferred data from various data sources/business systems including MS Excel, MS Access, Flat Files etc. to SQL Server using SSIS Packages and using various features like Excel source, Flat file source, transformation etc. Created derived columns from the present columns for the given requirements  • Analyzed the Data quality, Data validating, Data mapping to migrate data to SQL server SQL Server Developer Department of Health and Human Resource - Lewisburg, WV January 2012 to January 2013 Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2008, SQL Server Reporting Service, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2010, TFS, Enterprise Manager, MS Excel, Win 2k7 32/64, Win 2k8 32/64    Department of Health and Human Resource, Lewisburg, WV Jan '12 - Jan '13  Role: SQL Server Developer    Responsibilities:  • Experience in writing T-SQL scripts, dynamic SQL, complex stored procedures, functions, triggers, SQLCMD, and SMO  • Configured data partitioning/table partitioning on large tables containing millions of rows in Data ware house databases for better performance and performed Data Compression on large tables to reduce the Database size  • Setting up and monitored Disaster recovery environments like Database mirroring with in the primary Data center servers and Log Shipping between primary and secondary Data center servers including Mirroring conjunction with Log Shipping  • Configured and deployed SSIS Packages from Development to Production Environments  • Created, deployed and managed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Automated manual processes by creating SQL scripts, tables, indexes, views, and constraints  • Monitoring of database size, disk space in all (Production, Model & Development) the environments  • Set priorities on tasks that are available on my plate and perform as per their priority  • Involved in testing, bug fixing and documentation for the project  • Trouble shoot any application, network and security related problems, investigate and report my finding with possible solution and/or recommendation  • Discuss issues with program managers, developers and test leads so that we can come up with the solution    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008, SQL Server Reporting Service, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2010, TFS, Win 2k8 64 Bit Win 2k3, Win Server 2008 R2 MS SQL Server Developer Idea Solutions - IN October 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created Clustered and Non Clustered Indexes on tables, views, and columns  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning & index tuning.  • Reviewed stored procedures developed by the developers and given recommendations for the code modifications for production  • Performed the task of taking the backups and scheduling it according to the environment and recovery.  • Expert in Configuring, Managing and optimizing transactional replication  • Implemented, monitored and configured Database mirroring  • Configured and deployed SSIS Packages from Test to Production Environments.  • Created, deployed and managed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Developed and deployed OLAP cubes for reporting purpose using SSAS.  • Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.  • Configured IIS and Report server using Reporting services configuration.  • Monitoring the system bottlenecks - CPU, RAM, Disk IO and Networking using performance counters  • Used SQL profiler, Query analyzer System monitor, event log viewer,  • Monitor and tune the performance of SQL server and scheduled jobs, created alerts, notifications with SQL agent  • Worked with Application Developers and Business Analysts to produce all required documentation  • Experience in Importing/migrating data from different data sources using SQL server integration services (SSIS)  • Experience developed and generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)    Languages/Technologies/Tools: C#.Net, ASPOSE Cells, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server Reporting Service, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Management Studio, Windows NT/ Windows 95 Education Bachelor's Skills : MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008r2 (9 years), 2016 MS access, Hadoop (9 years), : C#.Net, VB.Net, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, XML (9 years), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS (9 years), Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Windows XP/Vista (9 years), SQL Server Management Studio (9 years), Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer (9 years), Profiler, Export & Import (DTS) (9 years), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) (9 years), DTS Packages, Server Reporting Services (SSRS), (9 years), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) ASP.NET (9 years), Internet Information Server (IIS 5.0/6.0) (9 years), Microsoft Office 2003/2007, TFS 2008, Visual Studio (9 years), SQL (9 years), SQL Server (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008r2, 2012, 2016 MS access, Hadoop  Languages: C#.Net, VB.Net, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, XML  Integration Services: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Windows XP/Vista  SQL Server Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Profiler, Export & Import (DTS)  Business Intelligence Tools: Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), DTS Packages,  Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  Web Technologies: ASP.NET  Internet Tools: Internet Information Server (IIS 5.0/6.0)  Other Tools: Microsoft Office 2003/2007, TFS 2008, Visual Studio