Audio Engineer Audio Engineer Roseville, CA Highly motivated Business Administration major from William Jessup University with advanced computer,  live production, and business administration skills who is eager to deliver the highest possible quality of  service to the end consumer. Work Experience Audio Engineer Mr. Soundman - California May 2018 to Present Front of House/Monitor Audio Engineer and Team Manager for concert productions. Includes setup and mixing live  sound using various consoles, planning of concert events including budgeting, and stage design. Cybersecurity and Database Administrator Runway Boutique, Inc - El Dorado Hills, CA January 2018 to Present SQL Database Administration, malware protection, and ransomware recovery services. Management of remote POS  terminal connections through RDP and VPN protocols. Audio Engineer William Jessup University - Rocklin, CA January 2016 to Present Live Audio Engineer for chapel services, concerts, and other special events. IT Technician January 2011 to Present On-call maintenance and repair of local area networks, workstations, and malware prevention. Volunteer A/V Specialist The Life Center Church - Orangevale, CA March 2018 to December 2018 Volunteer media production for weekly Sunday church services, including management of lighting and audio  production. Includes programming of DMX lighting and Dante audio interfaces. Media Services Coordinator Valley View Church - Lincoln, CA August 2016 to April 2017 Coordinated A/V media production including audio services and system design for weekly chuch services. Production Manager NGTV Productions - Chico, CA January 2014 to January 2015 Production management of educational start-up to producing animated educational films. Handling finances, employee relations and business plan formation. Education Business Administration Cal State University Chico - Chico, CA January 2016 to May 2019 Business Administration William Jessup University - Rocklin, CA 2019 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholas-bernardoni