Product Development Administrator Director Product Development <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Director Fraud and Database Specialist Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Development Administrator Director Eastridge Workforce Solutions / The Honest Company - Playa Vista, CA 2019 to 2019 • Liaison between internal Quality Management, Contract Manufacturing Operators, and Specialized Department for specification creation and changes.  • Create and transfer product specification from old template to new template per standard operation procedure purposes and tracking.  • Own process from transfer of information of template through internal approval with signatures to completion to COM, totaling 180 specifications completed from several product departments.  • Internal audits on current Box database specifications and updated existing specifications to be in current standings as the new specification input and created into the system.  • Research products material origins to ensure that the materials used and acquired were from vendor locations that shared the company statements and values of clean ingredients and safe labor practicing laws.   • Upload and create new registrations into WERC's UL system online and maintain current registrations.   • Maintain WERC's google sheet with updates for clear communication with sales team on registration status to completion into stores.  • Maintain current products in the packaging lab. Work with product managers to create protocol for sample/prototype retention in packaging lab and R&D areas.   • Conduct queries, manage, and monitor internal Box database daily.  Trust & Safety Specialist eHarmony Inc - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2018 • Complete incident case work independently, following department and company guidelines.  • Review, investigate, and communicate with customers regarding fraud and risk issues.  • Complete incident case work independently, following department and company guidelines.  • Document case findings and investigation outcomes via dossiers, ad-hoc reports and system notes.  • Document incident work performed in a clear and concise manner using required applications and tools.  • Research behavior trends, identify root cause, and recommend solutions to resolve customer issues.  • Proactively identify possible risks to eHarmony or eHarmony's customers and communicate to management.  • Demonstrate subject-level expertise in fraud prevention and investigation.  • Demonstrate proficiency in Customer Care systems (RightNow, Admin).  • Actively participate in team activities/meetings by generating ideas and offering solutions to problems faced.  • Provide feedback on new system implementations, new processes and current policies and procedures.  • Perform User Acceptance Testing related to project and new system implementations. Database Specialist & ComplianceWire Administrator Kelly Services/Neutrogena - Los Angeles, CA 2013 to 2014 • Administer the electronic Learning Management System (ComplianceWire) with training completion data entry and archival of training records.  • Conduct analysis studies to determine training needs at the plant site to improve overall skill qualifications, productivity, quality, and audit readiness.  • Review department monthly budget for new hire training to maintain cost.  • Retrained existing employees on updated local, global, and FDA standard operating procedures.  • Edit and update functional role task analysis for improvements and documentation.  • Assign training assignments and curriculum for job functions and roles.  • Collect and enter supporting training data and documents into ComplianceWire.  • Generated training reports and forms for new and existing procedures site wide.  • Analyze data and metrics for trends for site wide communications.  • Created and executed the Training Department's Records Retention Program for archival of training records and documents for storage at Iron Mountain to ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements.  • Oversee and provided all department staff with effective, easy to use processes for maintaining and retrieving information important to department operations.  • Conduct queries, manage and monitor ComplianceWire database as needed. Core Team Member Organizing For America - Culver City, CA 2012 to 2012 • Registered California residents to vote, via voting polls and absentee ballot voting.  • Educate new registered voters about voting, updates to current voting procedures, and essential values to voting based on individual stature.  • Collected donations and campaign funds for the organization by securing voter's signatures, voting education classes, appointments, and other voting polls initiatives during election.  • Organized phone bank setups at multiple locations for cold calls to battleground states. Quality Assurance Specialist MySpace.com/Fox Interactive Media - Beverly Hills, CA 2007 to 2011 • Documented processes and procedures and editing existing procedures that facilitate a standard level of support.  • Participate in analysis studies to determine training needs within the organization in order to improve overall skills, productivity, and quality.  • Assisted in the development and editing of existing work policies, processes and procedures.  • Created instructions, reference manuals, and training materials.  • Research and recommended solutions that helped improve company documentation efficiency, training, and learning management.  • Evaluated and tested software programs and software development procedures.  • Collaborate with subject-matter experts and management team to develop course specifications and gather course content.  • Coordinated and collaborated with Ad and Sales Departments to ensure ads meet advertising material specifications and align to policy (terms of service) during its run.  • Quality Assurance all campaign elements and ads (pre and post launch).  • Recommended program improvements and corrections to programmers.  • Trained new employees on the procedures of the team.  • Conducted audits to measure individual, departmental, and vendor responsibilities.  • Communicated new department guidelines to team and third party vendors.  • Restructured and improved the department's daily audit report. Education American Broadcasting School - Tulsa, OK 2000 to 2002 Spartan School of Aeronautics - Tulsa, OK 1999 to 2000 Hanahan High School - Hanahan, SC 1999 Skills Drug Safety, Investigation, Fraud Prevention, Investigator Additional Information Comprehensive computer skills using a variety of programs, such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, ComplianceWire, Outlook, Overlord, Oracle, Salesforce, RightNow, and Vendor Portals. Possesses strong customer service and communications skills. Very organized and can handle multiple tasks at once.