Database administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Database administrator Germantown, MD Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 6 years of experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Backup & Recovery, Cloning, Replication, and Security Implementations. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Work Experience Database administrator CSAAC May 2013 to Present • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution  • Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of Automatic Memory Management (AMM) and Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM).  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configured and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Configured and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education Bachelor University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD Skills Data analysis, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate SQL Fundamental Additional Information SKILLS  • Excellent and effective teaming skills  • Experience with Database security  • Experience with data analysis / analytical reporting  • Experience MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Experience with Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA  • Bilingual, Fluent in French and English.