Sr. Mongos DB/Oracle DBA Sr. Mongos DB/Oracle DBA Sr. Mongos DB/Oracle DBA - GameStop ? 8 years of experience as SQL Server / MongoDB Database Administrator with strong production support and operations experience. Good communication skills, team oriented, with a strong dedication to customer satisfaction. A proven team player with the ability to communicate at all levels. Mentored both on-shore and off-shore DBAs.  ? Over 4+ years of experience in /Java/J2EE and core java technology, developing websites using J2EE technology.  ? Extensive experience in developing Map-Reduce programs and aggregation frameworks using JavaScript's.  ? Experience with NoSQL databases, especially Redis.  ? Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  ? Experience in the analysis of the data, data modelling and data structures.  ? Over 4+ years of experience in MongoDB (versions 2.x, 3.0.0 and 3.0.5) installation, configuration and administration.  ? Multiple Neo4j and Rest API project  ? Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  ? Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  ? Experience in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, maintenance of software applications and testing Client/Server and web applications.  ? Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  ? Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products.  ? Experience in Agile development techniques.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Sr. Mongos DB/Oracle DBA GameStop - West Chester, PA January 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly.  ? Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB/ Cassandra clusters. Implementing on- premise MMS monitoring and backup solution.  ? Customized Neo4j Rest API and Data Import code using csv file  ? Provided operational support for MongoDB backup, disaster recovery, performance monitoring, sharding and replication across multiple environments.) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  ? Implemented ETL workflow to load XML files into Teradata Aster with help of Hadoop.  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Used existing ETL standards to develop these mappings.  ? Provide technical expertise and guidance during testing and deployment of Redis Labs software.  ? Experience in graph database (preferred Orient DB)  ? Involved in change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  ? Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle RAC for high availability.  ? Worked extensively on monitoring 10G/11g Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  ? Maintained 10g/11g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment. Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  ? Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  ? Installation of MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS. Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  Environment: Oracle 11g, MongoDB, SQL * Plus, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Oracle RAC, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP, Redis Sr. SQL Server and MongoDB DBA Fort Lauderdale, FL 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Performed Database refresh from Production to non-production servers.  ? Worked with offshore team to track and resolve database related incidents and requests within defined SLAs.  ? Extensively used SQL* loader to load data from flat files to the database tables in Oracle.  ? Help our customers realize and maximize the value of their Redis Labs subscription.  ? Designed and developed a decision tree application using Neo4J graph database to model the nodes and relationships for each decision.  ? Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan.  ? Troubleshoot database blocking and deadlock issues.  ? Used DTS packages to move logins and jobs from one server to another server.  ? Experience in mongo dump, mongo restore, mongo export, mongo import, profiler and indexes.  ? Provided guidance and training to junior DBAs on both SQL Server and MongoDB.  ? Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  ? Performed SQL Server service pack upgrades.  ? Provide On-Call support for MongoDB, Cassandra and other database platforms at the studio.  ? Tested database backup and recovery tools and made recommendations.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using Lite Speed for SQL Server.  ? Track open tickets and monitor ticket process and close tickets when problems are resolved.  ? Troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve technical issues relating to database deployment.  ? Setup of Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Disaster Recovery planning and procedures.  ? Performed DR exercises for applications using SRDF and log shipping.  ? SQL Server upgrade and migration from version 2005 to SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2012.  ? Provided documentation to perform the upgrade of SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 and SQL server 2005 to 2008.  ? Experience in Data Import / Export using DTS / SSIS Packages, BCP, ISQL, OSQL, SQLCMD and T-SQL Scripts. SQL Server / Sybase Database/Mongo DB Administrator Bank Of America - Pennington, NJ November 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Deployed, scheduled and troubleshoot SSIS packages.  ? Responsible for troubleshooting SSAS and SSRS issues.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Query optimization using Show Execution Plan, SQL profiler, System Monitor and Query analyzer.  ? Migrated oracle DBA Databases to Mongo DB.  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Deployed in Amazon Web Services using Neo4J server implementation. Application includes machine learning capability to expand the number of options.  ? Troubleshoot long running queries, time out and dead lock issues using SQL Server Profiler, DMVs, System objects and Query plans.  ? Installation of MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS. Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance.  ? Assisted in establishing standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis.  ? Designed / Developed many DTS Packages from varied sources for various projects.  ? Hands on experience on coding T-SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers for various projects.  ? Migrated several SQL 6.5 Databases to SQL 2000.  ? Migrated several Sybase Databases to SQL Server 6.5.  ? Developed many data conversion scripts using BCP. DBA MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO September 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Monitor SQL Server error logs and event viewer logs to isolate and correlate any issues.  ? Maintained seamless working relationships with offshore DBA team to ensure 24/7 coverage.  ? Automated Backup and Restoration process from one server to another using T-SQL and SQL Agent jobs.  ? Designed and Implemented SQL Server Disaster Recovery and High Availability Solutions within business Recovery Point Objective (RPO) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO)  ? Provided support for confidential U.S. Government TRICARE databases.  ? Created primary objects such as tables, views, triggers, indexes and SQL Agent Jobs.  ? Worked with development teams, system analysts to ensure data integrity, normalization as well as maintenance of database-structure changes.  ? Implemented database maintenance plans for backup and recovery of databases and transaction logs.  ? Converted the main production database platform from Access 97 to SQL Server.  ? Provided email, phone and onsite database support in SQL Server and Sybase. Programmer DHL May 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Developed Application using Java, C++ SQL and Unix.  ? Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running quickly with online features.  ? Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team  ? Used HTML, CSS, and Java script for front end applications.  ? Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  ? Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  ? Used Visual basic, JavaScript and JHTML at the front end.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  Environment: Visual Basic, Java, HTML, UML, Rational Rose, , Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, PVCS, Oracle 9i, Linux and Windows NT.