Business Analyst Business Analyst Business Analyst - Mr. Cooper Frisco, TX • Over 7 years of experience as a Business Process Analyst, Reporting Analyst and SQL Database Administrator in healthcare IT and  Mortgage industry.  • Experience Installing configuring, upgrading, and maintaining databases.  • Creating various database objects and creating users with appropriate roles and levels of security.  • Having strong exposure on preparing technical documentation.  • Excellent knowledge of different Software Development Life Cycles (SDLC)including Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • A creative problem solver who rapidly adapts to changing demands.  • Analytical and detail-oriented and able to identify and implement process improvements that increase accuracy, consistency and  efficiency.  • Energetic self-starter with strong communication skills, works well independently or on a team. Work Experience Business Analyst Mr. Cooper October 2018 to Present • Meet with different business units to understand and improve their processes  • Create SIPOC, process maps, flow charts, and control reports for various business units to help identify process breaks  • Analyze and discuss the current processes with the business units to identify any RPA opportunities  • Responsible for gathering and documenting requirements  • Extracted data sets using T- SQL queries on SSMS for control reports  • Converted raw data from SQL and Excel into Power BI report and dashboards for management and business units  • Work closely with developers and project managers to meet the project deadlines and deliverables SQL Database Administrator NTT DATA Services January 2016 to October 2018 • Perform backup/restore based on client requirements  • Grant user access per client requests  • Serve as a primary database support 24/7 as well participate in on call schedule to resolve possible database issues  • Execute various DB Scripts per client request  • Collaborate with external auditors(Deloitte) to perform security audits  • Install/configure new SQL Server installations  • Maintain detailed documentation on system design, data tables, data mapping, configuration and settings  • Monitor activities, stabilizing environment, maximizing database functionality and performance  • Scheduled full, differential, and transactional log backups for user created databases in production environments.  • Perform regular monitor of servers, including monitor backup jobs and disk space  • Provide Tier 1 & Tier 2 Production support of databases that belong to multiple accounts in accordance with NTT Data Total Quality  Management, SLAs and IT best practices Quality Assurance Analyst Carlisle & Gallagher Consulting Group, Inc - Farmers Branch, TX September 2015 to January 2016 Contract)  • Supported the delivery of Advisory services for the top 10 U.S. bank in response to the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) as part of the 2011 OCC Consent Order  • Analyzed loan workbooks in various loan populations consisting of multiple investor types, l iquidation events, default statuses, and state  fee restrictions to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations  • Audited loan workbooks to ensure accuracy and mitigate financial harm to borrower  • Special tasks include internal Quality Assurance, Test Automation, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), and discovery findings for client. Analyst Bank of America - Plano, TX April 2010 to January 2015 • Created SharePoint solution to track production data input utilized by reporting partners and management  • Audit production pipeline to ensure data integrity between multiple systems including SharePoint and LPS  • Created daily reporting utilized by VP level management  • Assisted business support with creation of new processes  • Tracked, analyzed and interpreted trends in production data in SharePoint and Excel  RELAVANT COURSESWORK  Robotic Automation Developer  • Analyze the Feasibility of existing process suitable for automation  • Participate in group meetings to demonstrate the capabilities for RPA on -going project  • Experience in building UI Path processes and business projects for various business systems in multiple projects.  • Create end to end process automation using UI Path.  • Experience in creating Robots and configure them with local machine and virtual machine using UI Path Orchest rator.  • Create Environments and deploy Robots and process in Orchestrator.  Enterprise Resource Planning/SAP  • Supply Chain Software - completed graduate level course in which we studied various supply chain management planning and production  processes and completed lab assignments using commercially available software such as SAP ERP and Advanced Planning & Optimization  (APO).  Database Fundamentals  • Designed database based on organizational needs  • Created and managed database using Structured Query Language (SQL).  Programming in Java/Mobile Web Development  • Used Eclipse to write and run programs in Java Developed programming skills using various programming techniques  • Designed mobile web application using programming knowledge and languages such as PHP, HTML and Java. Education Bachelors of Science in Supply Chain Management and Information Technology & Systems in Supply Chain Management The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX May 2015 Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, POWER BI, ECLIPSE Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ameen-syed-4500666a