Consultant - Supply Chain Management Consultant - Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Consultant Germantown, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant - Supply Chain Management Stanley Black & Decker - Towson, MD June 2019 to Present • Lead strategic sourcing, contract negotiations, and supply chain program management for closures and lighting commodities.  • Analyze, develop, and deliver end-to-end supply chain solutions development for local-based clients.  • Conduct supplier and supply market analysis and provide insights to sourcing management teams.  • Initialize and manage RFIs and RFQs for vendors of core items with top spend.  • Manage Agile projects in a Waterfall culture by focusing on transparent communication and prioritizing deliverables by business  value. Global Strategic Sourcing Consultant MetLife - Cary, NC June 2018 to August 2018 • Researched and analyzed 502 sourcing projects with total cost savings of $6.3 million for MetLife Asia. Research completed led to the discovery of inaccurate savings of $1.1 million.  • Utilized Excel and Tableau to conduct data analysis on Asia procurement tracker exported from SharePoint. Data analysis  identified inconsistencies, opportunities, and aided in providing a recommendation for project deployment.  • Presented strategic recommendations to MetLife Asia executives to employ internal systems along with ARIBA to increase  business efficiencies and ensure validity of savings negotiated by procurement or from any other sourcing activity.  • Created and executed requests for information (RFI), requests for quotes (RFQ) and requests for proposal (RFP) together with structured information analysis. MBA Supply Chain Consultant/Project Manager A.T. Kearney - Washington, DC January 2018 to April 2018 Mobilized a team of six student consultants to create a Microsoft Excel inventory tool that manages data for parts worth $500  million used across Dell's Procurement and Global Materials organizations.  • Implemented thresholds that either eliminated, reviewed, or maintained data sets. Thresholds allowed Dell to categorize parts more  efficiently and reduce inventory errors/costs by 25%.  • Built relationships with suppliers and led internal stakeholder groups to manage supplier performance against business  requirements and metrics. Monitored and reported improvements in supplier performance. Sourcing Analyst Stanley Black & Decker - Towson, MD 2014 to 2017 • Administered 50+ domestic SAP VMI scheduling agreements that resulted in cost reductions of over $280K.  • Identified and modified outstanding POs to ensure required stock levels. Successfully reduced costs by 15%.  • Influenced business process related decisions, offering solution alternatives for optimization, simplification, and standardization.  • Facilitated meetings with vendors, stakeholders, and contracting team to support the implementation of all savings initiatives.  • Presented detailed supplier and supply market analysis to management, including changes in technology and pricing trends. SQL Database Administrator Varen Technologies - Columbia, MD 2011 to 2014 • Resolved 80 complaints regarding reduced system performance, data redundancy, and data duplication.  • Generated first-in-class sourcing deliverables and shared best practices to colleagues throughout internal supply chain partners.  • Produced a strategic database maintenance plan to improve data efficiency. Plan reduced maintenance time by 20%, decreased  annual maintenance fee by $40,000, and increased database performance by 30%. Education Master of Business Administration in Supply Chain and Strategic Management Howard University School of Business - Washington, DC May 2019 MBA in Graduate Assistant Howard University 2017 to 2019 Bachelor of Business Administration in Information Systems Howard University School of Business - Washington, DC December 2014 Skills Supply Chain, Logistics, Apics, Procurement, SCM Certifications/Licenses MCSA November 2016 to Present