Customer Support Supervisor Customer Support Supervisor Customer Support Supervisor - Consumer Cellular Glendale, AZ Work Experience Customer Support Supervisor Consumer Cellular - Phoenix, AZ September 2018 to Present • Organize, direct, and monitor daily activities of customer service representatives.  • Distribute workload to customer service team; monitor and review performance.  • Monitor service calls to observe customer service representatives' demeanor, technical accuracy, and conformity to company policies; provide feedback as needed.  • Monitor and analyze productivity of customer service representatives; generate reports based on analysis.  • Field questions from customer service representatives and clients; recommend corrective services to address customer complaints.  • Establish procedures, prepare and coordinate schedules, and expedite workflow.  • Compile status and work-volume reports for management.  • Maintain records of customer service requests and complaints.  • Train, motivate, and reward customer service representatives.    • Manage workers and resolves grievances.  • Possess and maintains thorough knowledge of Telecommunications industry product information.  • Prepare reports and correspondence as needed.  • Perform customer service representative duties as needed Database Review Administrator/Supervisor Paychex Corporation - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to September 2018 • Performs general database administration activities, assist with DBA responsibilities on project teams and develops skills for database support  • Under guidance of another DBA, assists with installation and configuration of databases and database related software utilities to meet department needs  • Write SQL or OS scripts to be used to monitor and support database environments.  • Collect statistical data and perform analysis using well-defined procedure for capacity and performance monitoring  • Monitor progress against task estimates to provide status & assist with the database infrastructure build to meet project objectives  • Reviewed system design documents to understand assigned task Field Service Technician/Service Supervisor OMAX Corporation - Kent, WA September 2011 to July 2016 • Actively provided feedback for operational improvements to enhance quality, shorten production times and reduce costs  • Achieved personal and company goals by supporting production staff in order to meet benchmarks for completion  • Developed production tracking and quality control systems by analyzing quality, maintenance and operational reports to identify production issues  • Drafted a timescale for all jobs to ensure the most cost effective production methods were utilized  • Inspected finished products for quality and adherence to unique customer specifications  • Worked with management to implement the company's ongoing policies and goals  • Responsible for setting minimum standards and providing technical guidance and support for design, installation, operation and maintenance of mechanical systems used  • Calibrated or adjusted equipment to ensure quality standards using industry tools  • Travel domestic and internationally to customer sites for new machine installs as well as service and repair of existing equipment  • Ensure proper start up and shut down process with customers on site and troubleshoot any problems with equipment devices or software Education Bachelors of Computer Science in BCS University of Oklahoma - Norman, OK Skills SHAREPOINT, PRODUCTION SCHEDULING, SCHEDULING, BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, TIME MANAGEMENT, EXCELLENT WRITTEN, EXCELLENT WRITTEN AND VERBAL COMMUNICATION SKILLS, WRITTEN AND VERBAL, GOAL ORIENTED, SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT, RELATIONSHIP BUILDING, TRAINING, MICROSOFT OFFICE Additional Information Skills and Strengths  ? Strong Team Leadership  ? Policy and Procedure Expert  ? Reporting Specialists  ? Partner Relationship Building  ? Business Development  ? Production Scheduling Familiarity  ? Training Specialists/Subject Matter Expert  ? Strategic Thinker    ? Research/Analysis/Evaluation  ? Goal oriented  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills  ? Independent Worker  ? Time Management/Organization  ? Microsoft Office  ? SharePoint