Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Huntsville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Interfuse Infopro - Huntsville, AL August 2016 to January 2017 Oracle 12c Database development including table design, loading data, PL/SQL development of stored procedures, SQL Loader, development in Toad, data migration from Oracle 11g, and development of data quality procedures for critical infrastructure applications previously owned by the Office of Homeland Security. Principal Engineer TekSystems / General Dynamics IT - Montgomery, AL August 2015 to July 2016 SQL Server Database  Enterprise Server operations for Army Metering Program Included Operations, backup and recovery, setting up offsite cold backup and pre-production servers. Integration of new data in ETL procedures. Security implementation of DISA stigs, Total Data Encryption (TDE), day to day monitoring and implementing scheduling of key processes. Enterprise server receives data from 100+ gateways 24/7. Team received one of the first RMF certification for our system. Production Database Administrator Insight Global / Hewlett Packard - Fort Knox, KY January 2014 to July 2015 Production Database Administration Tasks for +50 databases:  • Datapump, back up and recovery   • Dataguard  • Cron job setup, Kornshell scripting  • Security and STIG compliance updates of database configurations  • Monitoring, backup and restore of development, test and production   • RMAN administration Education Management and Public Policy in Management and minor in Management Information Systems Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA August 1984 to June 1986 Metallurgical Engineering in Mineral Processing Metallurgy and Extractive Metallurgy Colorado School of Mines - Golden, CO September 1972 to May 1976 Skills Toastmasters and experienced community speaker (10+ years), Instructor Continuing Eduication Oracle Fundamentals (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional Database Administrator November 1999 to November 2016 I could have retaken one exam to update to current last year. I chose not to do that. Groups Toastmasters International December 1979 to June 2014 Held a number of offices President, Treasurer, VP Education, VP Promotions. Spoke many times in the Huntsville community. Optimist International August 2013 to June 2014 Served on Board, left Optimists because I had a job out of town,