CONSULTANT CONSULTANT Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CONSULTANT TATA CONSULTING SERVICES - Pittsburgh, PA May 2018 to Present • Coordinated the offshore team for the 1802 data privacy federal compliance project.  • Planned process of data deletion to eliminate use of sensitive data in non-production environments.  • Coordinated with SME's and application team for OIM onboarding for data masking of sensitive data.  • Managed team of database administrators to ensure timely completion of all tasks for the project. PL/SQL/ Oracle Database Developer PNC BANK - Pittsburgh, PA October 2017 to May 2018 Managed several PL/SQL Scripts by Creating new scripts, developing and altering old scripts to update several tables and databases.  • Created documentation for old Script for database conversion project  • Managed all cron jobs that helps in loading all ORACLE tables.  • Worked on debugging and testing all PL/SQL packages  • Managed Deployment of completed Scripts and created packages in preparation for deployment from one Linux server to other environments.  • Utilized several tools and expertise to convert Linux corn shell scripts and SQL scripts to ETL. Senior Oracle/MySQL Database Administrator PNC BANK - Pittsburgh, PA November 2016 to October 2017 Help monitor database across servers. Perform day to day support for the database, resolve incident tickets assigned from the IT service management board. Help with decommissioning databases. Perform moderately complex server-class database activities across various platforms and environments.  • Managed Oracle databases using the OEM.  • Resolved assigned incident tickets related to MySQL and Oracle databases and servers through ServiceNow database management application.  • Managed Oracle and MySQL server applications.  • Provided Support for other resources during upgrades and patching by making sure database was available and at optimum performance.  • MySQL administration on production environment - Oversaw installation, upgrades, tuning, backups, resources optimization and distribution, ensuring all versions of software and tools were up-to-date.  • Oracle build and configuration of single instance and RAC databases.  • Provided support for database Migration from one server site to another and helped ensure high availability of data and better performance.  • Created scripts for database backup, recovery, monitoring and maintenance. Senior MySQL/SQL Server Database Administrator CHURCH PENSION GROUP - New York, NY June 2014 to June 2016 Maintain data consistency across databases, data security and recovery. Monitor database performance and manage parameters for provision of fast and available data for end-users. Perform moderately complex server-class database activities across various platforms and environments. Provide MySQL administration on test and production environment.  • Managed conceptual, logical, and / or physical database design, creating data model for better mapping and management of database system.  • Performed routine programming and coding, automating and / or supporting database environment.  • Helped support ColdFusion / Ruby on Rails-based applications, ensuring scripts supporting applications were in working order.  • Managed MySQL database using Navicat / Sequelpro / MySQL workbench, creating complex scripts and stored procedures, monitoring database activities and querying database for data exports.  • Managed SQL server development, QA and production databases.  • Resolved all tickets on queue for the SQL server databases.  • Collected and Analyzed data using standard tools.  • Performed backup and restore on all database types. Senior MySQL/NoSQL Database Administrator DISCOVERORG LLC - Vancouver, WA September 2012 to June 2014 Established and monitored user access and security, refined physical design and met system storage requirements. Scrutinized database performance and helped optimize queries for front-end user accessibility. Maintained data standards, wrote documentation and developed data dictionary for all databases. Developed and tested backup systems; created data recovery plan.    DISCOVERORG LLC   • Performed replication in large-scale environments for scalability purposes, distributing load across many servers.  • Ensured completion of daily export backups, guaranteeing validity for restore and recovery.  • Managed user accounts and appropriate privileges, maintaining database security.  • MySQL administration on production environment - Oversaw installation, upgrades, tuning, backups, resources optimization and distribution, ensuring all versions of software and tools were up-to-date.  • Optimized MySQL queries and solved performance problems, ensuring efficient server performance (less memory usage) and providing faster result sets; adjusted database glitches, improving efficiency.  • Created user accounts and appropriate privileges, maintaining database security  • Managed the MySQL database using the AWS management console and command line interface.  • Monitored the Cassandra and Mongo DB using the admin tools, ensuring proper management of the NoSQL databases. MySQL/SQL Server Database Administrator UB LLC - Hanover, MD October 2009 to July 2011 Controlled access permissions; installed and tested new versions of database management systems. Ensured proper function of storage procedures. Wrote SQL scripts to create tables, indexes synonyms, views and other objects. Provided guidance for troubleshooting escalated issues.  • Performed moderate-to-complex programming and coding, automating and / or supporting database environment for better performance.  • Analyzed database metrics and assisted with capacity planning, monitoring and tuning performance.  • Configured and executed installations, upgrades and migrations, and implemented security controls, creating more efficient database access and improving security.  • Allocated storage, reducing redundancy by creating table spaces, adding and resizing data files to existing table spaces, creating and multiplexing redo log files, and enhancing capacity management.  • Performed all day to day administration on SQL server databases by configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting the servers.  • Set up backup and recovery, mirroring of the SQL databases.  • Managed all database security issues by creating SQL login accounts and roles. Education Master of Science in (MS), Healthcare Informatics / Database Design Southern New Hampshire University - Hooksett, NH Bachelor of Science in (BS), Biology University of Maryland Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mojoyinadeabolarin