Sr. DevOps/Cloud Engineer Sr. DevOps/Cloud Engineer Sr. DevOps/Cloud Engineer - BCBS Jacksonville, FL * Experience in Implementation of Office365 and Azure Active Directory for single sign-on, authentication, authorization, and Azure Role-based Access Control (RBAC) and configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, Security policies, and routing.  * Experience in Azure App & Cloud Services, Azure Data Factory, Azure SQL Data Warehouse, Power BI, Azure Blob Storage, Web API, VM creation, ARM (Azure Resource Manager) templates, PowerShell scripts, IaaS, Lift & Shift, storage, network and database.  * Experience in writing ARM templates for Azure IaC (Infrastructure as Code) using Terraform to build staging and production environments.  * Experience on building and maintaining systems in Windows Azure for development and production systems. This applies to standard VMs as well as other Azure services.  * Experience on automation of Azure deployments utilizing PowerShell. Worked on Azure Virtual Networks, Network Security Groups and access control rules.  * Experience with AWS services including IAM, Directory Services, Security-Groups ,Organizations, VPC, Code Pipeline, EC2, Lambda, S3, SES, SNS, SQS, CloudFront, API Gateway, Lambda, DynamoDB, RDS, QuickSight, Route53, WAF.  * Experience on working with AWS encryption techniques including AES-256, AWS CMK, CloudTrail and CloudWatch to monitor the logs.  * Hands on experience in implementing Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Beanstalk (EBS), AWS Kinesis, EMR, RDS, VPC, CloudFormation, IAM, code deploy, Ops work and RedShift.  * Expertise in migrating on-premise infrastructure to cloud platforms like AWS, Azure, GCP, OpenStack and PCF.  * Hands-on experience in testing a private storage cloud using OpenStack SWIFT software and worked as well with OpenStack Multi-node installation, Configuration and Administration.  * Unique experience with Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) architecture and design, troubleshooting, Configuring and deploying instances on GCP environments and Data centers, also familiar with Compute, Kubernetes Engine, Stackdriver Monitoring, Elastic Search and managing security groups on both.  * Good knowledge in Infrastructure as Code by using Terraform and CloudFormation and Worked on creating CloudFormation templates for dev, test, staging and production.  * Worked with Kubernetes to manage containerized applications using its nodes, ConfigMaps, selector, Services and deployed application containers as Pods.  * Experienced in OpenShift platform in managing Docker Containers, Kubernetes Clusters, Mesos and implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure and created Jenkins jobs to deploy applications to Kubernetes Cluster.  * Good Knowledge on Docker components like Docker Engine, Docker hub, Docker-Compose, Docker Registry, Docker container snapshots and Docker Swarm. Used Docker for local Application Deployment and Vagrant for different infrastructure setup and testing of code.  * Experience on Ansible and Ansible Tower to automate repetitive tasks, to deploy critical applications quickly, and proactively manage the changes and wrote many playbooks to manage Web applications,  * Experienced with build, design and maintain the platform automation infrastructure using Chef and Involved in setting up Chef Workstation, Nodes, Cookbooks, and Recipes using Ruby Scripting and familiar with Knife in Chef.  * Experience in creation of puppet profiles and role modules and implemented puppet modules to automate the installation and configuration for a broad range of services.  * Experienced in using Jenkins pipelines to drive all Microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  * Experience in Custom integration, plugins dev for different tools around CI/CD like Jenkins, Artifactory using API and other techniques.  * Architected Jenkins build pipelines in various Linux environments like RHEL, Centos and Windows to build and deploy Java applications.  * Experience in writing Jenkins Pipeline Groovy Scripts for Continuous Integration and build workflows and Used Jenkins uploading Artifacts into Nexus Repository.  * Extensively worked on automation tools like Hudson, Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous integration and End to End automation for all build and deployments.  * Extensive experience using build tools like Maven and Ant for the building of deployable artifacts (jar, war & ear) from source code.  * Experience in working on tools like TortoiseSVN, CVS, and GIT for source code management and version control.  * Implemented & maintained the branching and build/release strategies using SCM tools GIT, Subversion, Bitbucket and also experienced in migrating GIT repositories to AWS  * Proficient with Shell, Python, Ruby, Perl, Power Shell, JSON, YAML, Groovy, PowerShell scripting languages.  * Experience in load balancing and monitoring with Nagios and Splunk, ELK. Implemented ELK (Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana) stack for log indexing.  * Experience in deployment of applications on web servers such as Apache HTTP server, NGINX, Apache TOMCAT, Oracle WebLogic, Jboss and worked on Logical Volume Manager (LVM), Veritas Volume Manager, kickstart, Bonding, LAMP and LDAP.  * Application servers like Oracle WebLogic 9.x/10.x, IBM WebSphere 6.x/7.x/8.x, JBoss 4.1  * Hands on experience in Installing ,configuring and managing the RDBMS databases like MySQL, DB2, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, DynamoDB, Cassandra DB and Redis.  * Experience using Nagios monitoring system and different Bug Tracking Tools like Remedy, Jira, ServiceNow and ClearQuest.  * Experience in Splunk solution design, architect, deployment and configuration of Splunk components like forwarders, Indexers, Search heads etc.  * Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing, and Implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects.  * Experience in installing, configuring, supporting and troubleshooting Unix/Linux Networking services and protocols like TCP, SMTP, HTTP, SNMP, NIS, NIS+, OSPF, LDAP, DNS, NFS, DHCP, NAS, FTP, SSH and SAMBA.  * Expertise in Linux/UNIX system builds, administration, Installations, Upgrades, Troubleshooting on different distributions such as Ubuntu, CentOS, Red Hat, RHEL 4.x/5.x/6.x2. Work Experience Sr. DevOps/Cloud Engineer BCBS - Jacksonville, FL February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  * Migrated servers like relational databases (SQL) and websites to Microsoft Azure cloud and deploying applications on multiple web servers and maintained load balancing, high availability and synchronized on premises Active Directory users to office 365 with AD connect.  * Involved in migrating SQL server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard and used Python API to upload agent logs into blob storage.  * Extensive experience in Azure Active Directory in which have maintained the domain with LDAP's and created MFA's (Multi-Factor Authentication) for two-step authentication. Build data sync job on Windows Azure to synchronize data from SQL 2012 databases to SQL Azure. Configured Azure Traffic Manager to build routing for user traffic infrastructure migrations.  * Created and implemented ARM (Azure Resource Manager) templates and deployed them using the Azure portal, also used Azure Quick start templates for Cloud Infrastructure design and implementation to deploy Web Apps on Azure PowerShell Workflow.  * Building and installing servers through Azure Resource Manager Templates or Azure portal. Migrating an On-premises virtual machine to Azure Resource Manager subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  * Managed local deployments in Kubernetes creating local cluster and deploying application containers and coordinated with security, development, and operations team to migrate to Docker containers on Kubernetes.  * Performed automation tasks on various Docker components like Docker Hub, Docker Engine, Docker Compose and Docker Registry. Worked on Kubernetes and Docker Swarm tools to deploy containers in a cluster.  * Integrated Docker container orchestration framework using Kubernetes by creating pods, Config Maps and deployments.  * Adept in use of Configuration Management and Orchestration tools such as Docker, Ansible, Terraform and automated the infrastructure provisioning on Azure using Terraform and Docker.  * Orchestrated and migrated CI/CD processes using CloudFormation, Terraform templates and containerized the infrastructure using Docker setup in Azure.  * Developed Ansible Playbooks to setup a Continuous Delivery pipeline. Deployed microservices, including provisioning Azure environments using Ansible Playbooks.  * Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  * Created and configured Ansible playbooks to automatically install packages from a repository, to change the configuration of remotely configured machines and to deploy new builds and configured with Ansible Tower so that other users can run them with just a push of a button.  * Built EAR and WAR files with custom configuration settings using Maven Tool Kit and further developed Ansible playbooks to pull the artifacts stored in Nexus to continuously deploy the archives on to Apache Tomcat Web Server and WebSphere Application Servers.  * Automated configuration management and deployments using Ansible playbooks and Yaml for resource declaration. And creating roles and updating playbooks to provision servers by using Ansible.  * Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud service project as part of cloud deployment. Maintained GIT repositories in the Bitbucket for the services we developed for the project and set up automated testing and deployment using Jenkins.  * Configured SonarQube scanner for code analysis, code smell, finding bugs and checking the quality levels of code.  * Developed Python and Shell scripts for automation of the build and release process. Scripting in multiple languages on Bash, Shell, Python scripting etc. Wrote automation scripts in shell and python to enhance the CI/CD pipeline.  * Experience in using Splunk for log analyzing and improving the performance of servers. Configured Splunk with Azure services and Appian application to create reports and alerts for events and configure alert mail.  * Administrated, maintained documentation and provided training to the users through SCM based tools like JIRA, Nexus, Jenkins, and GIT.  Environment: Azure (SQL Azure, Azure Storage, Azure AD, Web Roles, Worker Roles), Splunk, Kubernetes, Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, Jenkins, Python, Ruby and shell Scripting, RedHat Linux 7.x, Terraform, JIRA, Configured plug-ins for Apache HTTP server, WebLogic server. DevOps/Cloud Engineer JM Family Enterprises - Miami, FL November 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  * Launched AWS EC2 cloud instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and configured launched instances with respect to specific applications. Created Snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI's) of EC2 instance. Worked on dynamically adding and removing servers from AWS production environment, automating backups by shell for Linux/Unix to transferring data into AWS S3 buckets.  * Used AWS Route53 to route the traffic between different availability zones. Deployed and supported Mem-cache/AWS ElastiCache and then configured Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) for routing traffic between zones.  * Implemented serverless applications on CloudFront, API gateway, AWS Lambda, SNS and created AWS Lambda functions to run scripts in response to events in Amazon DynamoDB table and S3 bucket to HTTP requests using Amazon API gateway.  * Used Amazon IAM to grant fine-grained access to AWS resources to users. Also, managed roles and permissions of users to AWS account through IAM.  * Setup Log Analysis AWS Logs to Elasticsearch and Kibana and manage searches, dashboards, custom mapping and automation of data.  * Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code. Generating artifacts by integrating Jenkins with Git and Maven and storing artifacts into Nexus and deploying into application server.  * Worked on Docker Container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing directory structures and managing containers. Composed the Docker file to build the Docker image and configured the Build step - Docker Build and publish in Jenkins to execute the Docker Build step.  * Implemented cluster services using Docker and Kubernetes to manage local deployments by building a self-hosted Kubernetes cluster using Terraform and Ansible.  * Utilized Ansible and AWS lambda, ElasticCache and CloudWatch logs to automate the creation of log aggregation pipeline with Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana (ELK) stack to send all our teams logs coming into CloudWatch to process them and send them off to Elasticsearch.  * Used Ansible to manage Web applications, environments configuration files, users, and Packages. Setup Continuous Delivery pipeline using Ansible playbooks. This primarily consists of a Jenkins to run packages and various supporting software components such as Maven.  * Managed security groups on AWS, focusing on high-availability, fault-tolerance, and auto scaling using CloudWatch templates. Along with Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery with AWS Lambda and AWS code pipeline.  * Experience in designing, installing and implementing Ansible configuration management system and in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications. Used Vault feature to encrypt any structured data file by using Ansible. Also encrypted arbitrary files, binary files using Ansible.  * Used Ansible to Setup/teardown of ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Log stash, Kibana) and troubleshoot the build issues with ELK and work towards the solution.  * Created ELK Dashboards and Parsing logs in Graylog and configured Elastic search, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with CloudWatch.  * Worked on JIRA agile projects like configured columns, filters and reports for sprints. Used JIRA as a change management/ work management/ SCRUM Agile Tool.  * Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in JIRA. Monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Ansible.  Environment: AWS (EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Deploy, Code Commit, Private Cloud, API, Route 53 (DNS), ECS, Dynamo DB, Cloud Watch, Kubernetes, Docker, Chef, Jenkins, Python, Shell, YAML, Maven, GIT, RedHat Linux, Bash, Shell, Python, Tomcat. DevOps/ Cloud Engineer Citi Bank - Irving, TX January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  * Responsible for managing Ubuntu, Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 instance by creating Chef Nodes through open source Chef Server. Experience in configuring AWS cloud infrastructure and perform continuous deployment through Jenkins.  * Developed AWS CloudFormation templates to deploy complete stack in multiple accounts. Developed Cloud-Init scripts to bootstrap newly spun instances on to the Chef Server. Copying on data from MySQL to MongoDB for the RBAC design and writing the server properties to Chef Server as attributes for nodes.  * Hands-on experience in creation of the custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images and Docker consoles for managing the application of life cycle. Conducted auto deployment of software applications in secure and managed environment using Docker Container technology.  * Deployed and configured Chef Server and Solo including bootstrapping of client nodes for provisioning. Created roles, cookbooks, recipes, and data bags for server configuration, deployment, and app stack build outs and managed Cookbooks to automate system operations.  * Written several Chef Cookbook and recipes to automate the installation of WebLogic domain and JDK installations and have customized recipes from chef super market to align with current requirements.  * Installed Maven and implemented Maven builds to automate artifacts like jar, war and ear and managed Nexus to download the artifacts during the build. Integration of automated build with deployment pipeline.  * Installed Chef Server and clients to pick up the Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments (Integration, QA, and Production).  * Installed, Configured and Managed Monitoring Tools such as Splunk for Resource Monitoring/Network Monitoring and Log Tracing. Worked on Splunk for user administration setup, maintaining account, monitor system performance, configured network and server monitoring.  * Experienced in installing, configuring and maintaining the Continuous Integration (CI) purposes by Jenkins, Nexus and for end to end automation for all builds and deployments. Also have experience in designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system: configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts (Perl & Python), and creating/ configuring VMs (Windows/Linux).  * Designed the Branching/Merging strategy for all lobs and to have unique build/release strategy across platform. Created post commit and pre-push hooks using Python in SVN and GIT repos.  * Managed version control tools like Subversion (SVN) and GIT enterprise; and automated current build process with Jenkins with proposed branching strategies to accommodate code in various testing cycles.  * Automated release processes by defining release process and automating most of the release activities using Jenkins, Maven, and bash which enable multiple simultaneous and seamless releases.  * Administered and engineered Jenkins for managing weekly build, test and deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod branching model for weekly releases.  Environment: RHEL, Solaris and Windows, AWS, Splunk, Chef, Jenkins, Maven, Python, Ruby, Shell, SVN, JIRA, Test Director, Virtualization. Build and Release Engineer Rally Software - Raleigh, NC August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  * Administered Bamboo servers which include install, upgrade, backup, adding users, creating plans, installing the local/remote agent, adding capabilities, performance tuning, troubleshooting issues, and maintenance.  * Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Bamboo with the Artifactory repository and resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA.  * Implemented and promoted use of Bamboo within the developer community. Validated Jenkins along with Bamboo.  * Installed and configured an automated tool Puppet that included the installation and configuration of the Puppet master, agent nodes and an admin control workstation.  * Wrote Puppet modules for installing different packages, managing versions, setting parameters and manage Web Applications, Config Files, Data Base, Commands, and Users Mount Points.  * Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  * Responsible to perform Build operations with ANT Scripts, while implementing the required modifications in the ANT Script to perform build operations, in accordance with requirements.  * Integrated Bitbucket with JIRA for transition JIRA issues from within Bitbucket Server and monitored the JIRA issues in Bitbucket Server.  * Involved in troubleshooting the automation of installing and configuring Java applications in the test and production environments.  * Reviewed existing manual Software builds, developed scripts to automate repeated tasks that are more susceptible to errors and risk using Perl and Shell Scripting.  * Implemented and configured Nagios for continuous monitoring of applications and enabled notifications via emails and text messages.  * Used Bugzilla for bug tracking and reporting, also followed up with the development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status.  * Involved in Building and configuring RedHat Linux Servers using KickStart server as required for the project. Maintained maximum uptime and maximum performance capacity for enterprise production, QA and UAT/staging.  * Performed configuration of standard Linux and network protocols, such as SMTP, DHCP, DNS, LDAP, NFS, SMTP, HTTP, SNMP  Environment: Jenkins, Artifactory, Linux, Maven, JIRA, Nexus, GIT, Shell Scripts, Apache Tomcat, Python, Vagrant, Bash, PowerShell. Linux System Administrator Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals LLC February 2012 to August 2013 Pittsburg, PA  Responsibilities:  * Held multifaceted responsibilities to configure, install, and administer network infrastructure, and telecommunications systems that supported over 200 employees.  * Analyzed and implemented plan for company hardware and software upgrades, taking into account future need.  * Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  * Use SCCM to apply patches and updates to all systems, install applications, provide IT reports, manage network accounts and assets, and assist users remotely  * Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP. Maintained Samba File Server for user authentication, syslog domain, and file sharing in Linux/Unix.  * Disk and File system management through Solstice Disk Suite on Solaris and other logical volume manager for other flavor of UNIX.  * Hands-on experience in installation, configuration of SSH to enable secure access to servers, deployment of VMs, Snapshots, and templates.  * Developed various bash shell scripts to automate resource, job monitoring and alerting.  * Created tickets to track, diagnose and resolve new and ongoing incidents using Nagios ticketing system.  * Participated in setup Storage Area Network (SAN) and file system backup and restore.  Environment: Solaris 10/9, RHEL 4.0/5.0, Windows 2003/2008, VMware Infrastructure, Sun SPARC and Intel Servers. SQL Server Database Administrator Medco Health Solutions Inc - Franklin Lakes, NJ December 2010 to February 2012 A Medco health solution is a leading pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) with the nation's largest mail order pharmacy operations. Medco assists its customers to moderate the cost and enhance the quality of prescription drug benefits provided to members nationwide. Ensuring that millions of Americans have access to affordable, high quality prescription healthcare is more than our business - it's our calling. EXPERTxT Advisor-In support of Client-facing teams (i.e., Account Management) and an increased focus on Client intimacy across the enterprise, we developed a new consultative web-based software tool called EXPERTxT Advisor. The design will include performance Metrics and related alerts, retrospective client-specific plan experience and analytics, rules-based logic and extensive modeling capability.    Responsibilities:  * Wrote complex stored procedures to process prospective customer information and balanced the processing load between front end and back end.    * Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues using performance    * Enhanced the old logical and physical database design to fit new business requirement, and implemented new design into SQL Server 2000.    * Filtered, purged and cleansed bad data from legacy system using complex T-SQL statements in staging area, and implemented various constraints and triggers for data consistency.    * Successfully migrated old data from legacy systems (FoxPro) and external system including text and excel into SQL Server 2005 using DTS, BCP, SSIS and ActiveX scripts.    * Developed & Deployed of various parameterized packages with SQL Integration Services 2005.    * Implemented the Master/Child Package Model so that only the Master Package has to be scheduled which will in turn fire the other packages.    * Generated management reports using MS Reporting services.    * Created and managed Interactivity to reports by using Reporting Service SSRS    * Monitor and SQL profiler and tuned queries and procedures to boost database performance.    * Created views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and triggers on them to facilitate consistent & data entry into the database.    * To work toward designing OLAP/MOLAP (SSAS), identify the dimensions, to plan schema designing strategy for implementing Cubes.    * Actively participated in user acceptance testing and troubleshooting various production issues    * Created stored procedures to backup transaction logs, flush/grow/shrink log files, maintaining and archiving tables.    * Responsible for database backups, data replication, encryption and database security    * CRM Salesforce.com Data Integration with MS Office using macro's and .net technologies.    * Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005 Enterprise Edition, Data Junction, Informatica, MS Access, MS Excel, DTD, Windows, SSIS, Erwin ,Smart draw  Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005, VB.Net, ASP.Net, XML, VB Script, VBA, Visual Source Safe, SSIS. Education Masters Osmania University, HYD Skills Docker, Git, Jenkins, Json, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Svn, Apache, Linux, Ant, Configuration management, Clearquest, Maven, Chef, Nagios, Virtualization, Bugzilla, Jira, nginx, Devops, AWS, Puppet, Bash, Openstack Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Cloud Technologies Azure, AWS.  • Operating Systems Ubuntu, CentOS, Redhat Linux and Windows.  • Build Tools Maven and Ant  • CI/CD Tools Jenkins/Hudson  • Configuration Management Tools Ansible, Chef and puppet  • Containerization/Orchestration tools Docker, Docker Swarm, Kubernetes  • Version Control Tools GIT, Bitbucket, SVN, TFS  • Scripting Languages Python, Ruby, JSON, YAML, Bash shell, Power shell,  • Virtualization Technologies VMware ESX/ESXi, Windows Hyper-V, Virtual box, Vagrant  • Web Servers Apache HTTP 3.x, Apache Tomcat, Nginx  • Monitoring Tools Splunk, Nagios, ELK, App Dynamics, Cloud Watch  • Repository Management JFrog, Nexus, Artifactory  • Bug Tracking Tools Bugzilla, JIRA, HP ALM, IBM ClearQuest  • IDE Tools Eclipse IDE, Netbeans  • Databases MySQL, MS Access, NoSQL (MongoDB, DynamoDB)