Youth Ministry Administrator, Small Group Facilitator, IT Support/ Database Specialist Youth Ministry <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Small Group Facilitator, IT Support/<span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist Youth Ministry Administrator, Small Group Facilitator, IT Support/ Database Specialist - Hope Christian Church Work Experience Youth Ministry Administrator, Small Group Facilitator, IT Support/ Database Specialist Hope Christian Church - Beltsville, MD August 2012 to Present • Engage with youth and families regarding needs of youth such as community service opportunities, counseling, behavioral concerns, mental health, and academic concerns.  • Facilitate small groups with youth discussing such topics as identity, financial principles, faith, relationships, family concerns, and decision making.  • Work with leadership team to develop and make decisions regarding programs, activities, and ministry opportunities and communicate to relevant parties the details.  • Schedule a team of fifteen leaders and a group of around 85 youth for weekly assignments.  • Organize events like conferences, parties, worship services, and outreach events.  • Responsible for researching, proposing, structuring, implementing, and training on new church management system, Church Community Builder. Trainings included group training held on-site, online Zoom sessions, and over the phone sessions.  • Produce monthly demographics reports on visitors.  • Conduct monthly and weekly maintenance and clean-up of database. Client Intake/Scheduler Greater Washington March 2018 to April 2018 • Conduct intake interviews for individuals in need of food and/or clothing while maintaining a professional and courteous demeanor.  • Track each client by inputting accurate data in the system for each visit Client Intake/Scheduler, (Volunteer) Rainbow Community Development Center March 2018 to April 2018 • Schedule clients in Access data base to pick up food in by phone  • Assist packing and distributing food to clients picking up food. Non-Profit Youth Program Director Hope Christian Church - Washington, DC August 2012 to July 2013 • Counsel students whose behavior, school progress, or mental or physical impairment indicate a need for assistance, analyze and address students' problems and arranged for needed services.  • Contribute in the development of organizational policies regarding as participant eligibility, program requirements, and program benefits  • Research and analyze member or community needs to determine program directions and goals, as well as established and maintained relationships with other agencies and organizations in community to meet community needs. Provide direct service and support to individuals or clients and resolved complaints.  • Establish and oversee administrative procedures to meet objectives set by boards of CEO or senior management. Assistant Administrator (Volunteer) PGCPS-Charles Herbert Flowers High School - Springdale, MD February 2010 to January 2011 Responsible for assisting director with tracking Science and Technology Program student success and testing, as well as sending out recommendations. Education Master of Arts in Counseling Psychology The Chicago School of Professional Psychology - Washington, DC March 2022 Bachelor of Arts in Human Relations Trinity Washington University - Washington, DC March 2017 Master of Science in Clinical Mental Health Counseling Washington Adventist University - Takoma Park, MD Skills Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint (10+ years) Assessments Active Listening — Expert August 2019 Actively listening and appropriately responding in conversations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d6grty1hgzhxirki Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Psi Chi March 2017 to Present American Counseling Association September 2018 to Present