BI Enterprise Data Warehouse Architect BI Enterprise Data Warehouse Architect BI Enterprise Data Warehouse Architect - Robert Half International, Madison WI Madison, WI Work Experience BI Enterprise Data Warehouse Architect Robert Half International, Madison WI - Madison, WI March 2019 to Present • Led and participated in analysis, design of data model and MDM, architecture, implementation and roll-out efforts for client's enterprise data warehouse  • Led a database team to create, deploy, automate ETL, and data integration processes into an enterprise data warehouse.  • Provide strategic advice to client decision makers on technologies and solutions that assists them in achieving their corporate goals and objectives.  • Delivered strong agile work environment experience including working from a ticket system like Jira, Cherwell or similar and collaborating through a distributed version control system like TortoiseSVN, or similar such as Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Appointed as key data warehouse SME; drove successful adoption of best practices, standardization of data provision, and proactive management of data refresh and accuracy.  • Developed and engineered full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operational management. BI Infrastructure Administrator TDS Telecom - Madison, WI October 2017 to March 2019 • Provided solutions for improving the quality and productivity of information systems by implementing, configuring, and maintaining BI infrastructures, hardware and software  • Administered BI tools to support, maintain, design, develop and enhance the business intelligence environments.  • Managed Tableau server and Alteryx server and data source administration, including, install, configure, migration, upgrades, patches, monitoring, troubleshooting, performance tuning, sever job scheduling, etc. to ensure reliable performance and scalability.  • Built custom tableau dashboards for monitoring Tableau Server processes and performance.  • Managed Alteryx server configuration and system settings and control Alteryx designer access to Gallery and user permissions to data connection and workflows.  • Led root cause analysis efforts for operational Tableau and Alteryx issues such as resolving them independently within the BI infrastructure team.  • Served as SME on Tableau and Alteryx server engagements of moderate to high complexity including service tickets requiring expert analysis.  • Performed capacity planning to ensure Tableau and Alteryx servers are adequately sized and configured to meet current and projected demand.  • Lead creation of SOPs, administration guidelines and rules regarding Tableau and Alteryx practices.  • Provided training to site admins on managing permissions and offer site admin best practices. Business Intelligence Administrator contractor for TDS Capital Computer - Madison, WI January 2017 to October 2017 • Responsible for Tableau and Alteryx server architecture, administration, upgrades, security and maintenance. Manage the physical database design and development of Tableau Data Sources.  • Provided technical leadership on the deployment architecture, development guidelines, data delivery layer (portal, dashboard and report) design and defines best practices on supporting Self Service BI.  • Tableau and Alteryx server and data source administration, including upgrades, patches, monitoring, troubleshooting, performance tuning, Cluster/Distributed Management, Cache/ History Management, User Management and change management.  • Creating and managing Tableau Sites, projects and workbooks.  • Tableau and Alteryx security, back-up and restore process.  • Maintenance and scheduling of Tableau Data Extracts using Tableau Server and the Tableau Command Utility.  • BI infrastructure build and maintenance, Schema design and Dimensional data modeling.  • Document the standards and best practices for Development and administration of the tableau Platform.  • Maintains the quality and integrity of data collected for decision making and works with the other areas of the organization to ensure consistent reporting of information. Database and Business Intelligence Consultant Robert Half International, Madison WI - Madison, WI February 2013 to January 2017 • Served as technical lead consultant to develop IT system specifications after evaluating customer's nature of work and business volume ( database and software development - domain includes program development, report development, business process improvement, information technology, strategy/analysis, and data analysis).  • Led large-scale enterprise technology integrations and process automation, business process reengineering, business intelligence, data modeling, implementation and maintenance.  • Exceeded client goals; 25% increase in client time to answering customer queries.  • Achieved agreed-upon objectives and stayed within budget while working independently for the Performance and Analytics department.  • Built and developed MS SQL data-mart and implemented Tableau Server and Tableau Desktop within the allotted time frame.  • Effectively trained reporting analysts on new implanted tool, improved report automation and streamline stringent reporting deadlines by 97%.  • Planned and executed upgrade and migration of Tableau environments as new versions, fix packs, bug fixes are released during scheduled and unscheduled outages.  • Helped define the architecture of a Decision Support System for the banking sector, covering many different aspects like Asset liability management, Risk management, client profitability.  • Managed ticket creation process with Tableau and other vendors and provide regular communication on status and help drive issues to completion. Data Engineer CPM HealthGrades Inc - Madison, WI December 2011 to January 2013 • Served as a database engineer providing maintenance support for multiple healthcare client's data files throughout the database life cycle, provide regular maintenance and use of the client's relational databases to store and retrieve information and making sure that the data are accessible to both internal and external clients.  • Managed data transformation, normalization, cleansing, aggregation, workflow management and business rule application.  • Developed and maintain database functionality to support corporate products and services.  • Created and maintained automated ETL processes with special focus on data flow, error recovery, and exception handling and reporting.  • Worked closely with business unit(s) to understand key business drivers and identify the individual business reporting software metrics and key Sales Support Specialist West Business Services - Middleton, WI September 2009 to November 2011 • Served as a lead analyst for technology projects, provides ongoing support to all levels of management and business staff and support upper management team using MS SQL and SSRS for the designing of reports.  • Produced dashboard SSRS reports under report server projects and publishing SSRS reports to the report server.  • Developed functional and technical documentation to assist in the design, development and/or maintenance of deliverables.  • Worked with technology team to incorporated database development and Tableau desktop and Tableau reader while acting as a SME.  • Created SSRS Data Model projects using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 and using Report Builder for report server to facilitate Ad-hoc reporting by the business users. Education Master of Science in Database Technologies in Database Technologies Regis University 2019 Certification Regis University 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System in Computer Information System Edgewood College 2013 Skills Data Warehouse, Big Data, Hadoop, DB2, ETL, Bigdata, Erwin, Tableau Additional Information • 8+ years of proven successful Business Intelligence (BI) and data warehouse experiences across multiple sectors that aligns with business and corporate goals.  • Have led complete project life cycle management from initial planning to final UAT and deployment in architecture environment.  • Overall solid knowledge base in the following: developing enterprise data structures and or architectural designs (includes implementing database solutions or strategies), building data models / frameworks / data warehouse designs, maintaining database, and identifying and resolving data issues.  • Team leader and team player with excellent project-management, interpersonal and communication skills.  • Deep expertise in data warehousing, dimensional modeling using ERWin.  • Always looking for ways to bring best in class practices regarding data management, ETL, data governance using Informatica and Tableau.  • Experience with analytical database systems: Tableau, SSAS, cloud computing (AWS & Azure), distributed & decentralized data environments, file systems, object-based storage and block storage such as Amazon EBS, MDM tools, Power-BI, ETL tools such as Alteryx, Tableau Prep and SSIS.  • Experience with conceptualization, design in implementation of new and existing systems, MDM, metadata, data quality, data warehouse and production architectures.  • Proficiency with SQL, PL/SQL, HiveQL (HQL), JavaScript, Python and R languages, BI toolsets.    Technology Summary:  Systems: Windows 7 & 8, Windows 10, Linux, Unix, Ubuntu, CentOS  Servers: Tableau Server, Alteryx Server, Oracle VM VirtualBox, VMware  Databases: MS SQL Server, DB2, Oracle 11g and 12c, MySQL, MariaDB, GreenPlum, Postgres, MongoDB, Hadoop, Cassandra, Neo4j, Oracle APEX, Oracle RAC and Data Grid, Oracle APEX, Informatica, MS Azure, Amazon RDS, Amazon EBS, Redis, OEM, Netezza, CouchBase, RightNow, RavenDB, Blockchain, Hyperledger Fabric, Hyperledger Composer, Hyperledger Sawtooth, Ethereum  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Python, R, HiveQL, CQL, Json, Bson, JavaScript, C#, C++, Cypher, GoLang, Solidity, Powershell, Shell script, Bash  Software: MS Office Suite, OnBase, Hyperion, SalesForce, Jira, Cherwell, SharePoint, Confluence, LogixMonitor, Oracle Developer Studio, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Plus, SSDT, Visual Studio, Business Object, Webi, Crystal Reports, Tableau Desktop, Tableau Prep Alteryx Gallery, PyCharm, Anaconda, R Studio, Sublime, PgAdmin