Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - Merrill Lynch Sebring, FL • Over 7+ years of experience as an Oracle DBA in various domains to deliver new products, upgrades with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c on Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux and Windows platforms.  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i with experience within a very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP systems in a variety of environments like Linux, HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Sun Solaris, RHEL and Windows.  • Expert in planning, creation, administration and troubleshooting of Oracle 11g/10g/9i, OLTP (multiple instances)/OLAP databases.  • Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Grid Control, Cloud Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM), configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database for high availability.  • Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Have Hands on experience in Oracle 10g, 11g 3-Node RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Cluster ware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Configuration and Patching, RAC Backup and Recovery).  • Solid experience in disaster recovery, Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Skilled in developing RMAN scripts for database back up including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.  • Extensive knowledge in Database Cloning using RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup, IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM).  • Have implemented replication and two types of standby databases logical standby and physical standby databases supported by DATAGUARD for DR high availability.  • Excellent experience in various migration techniques like export/import, Data pump, backup, restore, cloning, and data guard.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, import/export.  • Writing scripts in the UNIX based environments for managing the users roles and privileges, scheduled backups (using data-pump /cold backups), manage statistics, Disk space management.  • Experience on Oracle monitoring tools including Oracle Application Server monitoring and Oracle Linux monitoring using NMON and TOP commands.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Expertise in using EXPLAIN PLAN for query optimization and Performance diagnostic tools like SQL Trace and TKPROF.  • Experience in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers, various UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Knowledge on Exadata Smart Scan technology which improves query performance by intensive query processing and data mining scoring to scalable intelligent storage servers.  • Experience using Erwin as a Data Modeling tool.  • Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills combined with strong customer service attitude.  • Proven abilities in establishing effective task priorities, working independently, and participating as an integral part of a team in fast-paced and multitasking environment.  • Provided 24*7 on-call production database support and maintenance including remote database support. Worked on Automatic Storage Management with SAN storage for managing data in EMC symmetric.  • Knowledge of Data Normalization and its normal forms.  • Strong experience in providing 24/7 support for corporate databases, timely resolution of tickets, and on-call rotation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Merrill Lynch - Sebring, FL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Planning, implementing and validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 10gR2(10.2.0.4,)& 11g R1(11.1.0.7) & 11gR2 upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 11g upgrades.  • Minimum Downtime Migration to Oracle Exadata with Oracle GoldenGate  • Worked on Oracle 12C Grid Control including monitoring/setup and performance tuning purposes.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 11g database.  • Update existing 10.2 and 11.2 databases to 12c RAC.  • Installation of 11.2.0.3 RAC(3 node) from the Scratch and the maintenance of the high available Databases.  • Migrated OCR and VOTING disks to newer disks by adding newer disks from SAN and dropping the old disks by using ASM's native rebalancing feature.  • Installing and configuring Grid Infrastructure & Database software. (Troubleshooting using cluvfy & handling common issues that arise during integration of the whole - bugs, network issues, configuration files issues, OCR issue, deinstallation & cleanup of Clusterware).  • Performed migration of the oracle databases whose database sizes vary from 300 to 500GB from Oracle 10.2.0.4/11.1.0.7/11.2.0.1 to Oracle 11.2.0.3 using Exp/Imp and Expdp/Impdp.  • Implementing Physical and Logical Standby Setups Data Guard Configurations.  • Set up Active Dataguard Configurations for oracle database 11.2.0.3 for thirty databases whose size varies from 2TB to 5TB on a 3 node RAC.  • Strong knowledge of Oracle internals, tools including DBMS jobs, RMAN, SQLPlus, export/import, Toad, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • In-depth knowledge of Oracle internals and architecture.  • Experience with testing and debugging Oracle Internals, Architecture and Performance issues.  • Involved in Golden Gate CDC setup.  • Performance Tuning for Functions that are called from PL/SQL queries, where the functions might be executed millions of times. You will want to look at all performance features to make the function as efficient as possible, and perhaps a function-based index to precompute the results for each row and save on query time.  • Experience in setting up Golden Gate for CDC extraction of files for ETL.  • Experience in Implement and maintain monitoring tools for Golden Gate components.  • Scheduling jobs through oracle JOB SCHEDULAR, Control M, Crontab (UNIX), Scheduled Tasks (Windows) and Maestro 7.0 (Job Scheduling Tool).  • Knowledge of the Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG issues.  • Migrating databases to Oracle Exadata Database Machine for different clients.  • Analyzing database performance and tuning database on Oracle Exadata using Real Application Testing (RAT)  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Enterprise Manager Cloud Control to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases  • Configuring Data Guard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.  • Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB and automated the process through crontab.  • Ran Scripts for Health Check on Exadata Storage Servers.  • Implemented Oracle Patches CPU & PSU on the Compliance databases Device a plan to patch them.  • Checking Databases Backup and Restore validity periodically, and Data refreshes from Production to Non-Production environment, Creation Duplicate Databases using RMAN Backups.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK reports and AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility.  • Involved in Production Support for Critical Application Databases when needed.  • Installing agent 12c on the server. Adding High Available Database with CRS, Scheduling Backups through OEM12c.  • Scheduling jobs through oracle JOB SCHEDULAR, Crontab (UNIX).  • Closely Worked with Oracle support in identifying some long standing issues. Also extensively used oracle Metalink.  • Managing the cluster resources and performing health check of all instances within the cluster.    Environment: Oracle 11gR2 RAC/ASM/DATAGUARD/RMAN/SQL Tuning/Upgrade/Migration/Space Estimation/24*7 support Upgrade/Patching/Migration/Backup&Recovery/Mirroring 24*7 support Oracle DBA UBER Inc - Dallas, TX December 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Build 2 node RAC cluster  • Setup Maximum Availability Physical standby Data Guard  • Refreshed databases using RMAN duplicate database.  • Refreshed schemas using data pump.  • Deployed and supported Exadata.  • Worked with storage admins for disk space for ASM  • Migrated databases from UNIX file system to ASM.  • Applied CPU / PSU / one-off patches.  • Used 12c cloud control to monitor databases.  • Setup jobs/alerts using OEM.  • Utilized a combination of Bash and Korn shell scripting to integrate two sets of scripts  • Created and modified shell scripts  • Worked with shadow copy software to back up large databases and quantities of data  • Migrated data from one server to another  • Worked with CLI and GUI  • Worked with vi Text editor  • Modified existing RMAN scripts.  • Worked on Hitachi Shadow image.  • Generated Oracle Audit Remediation reports  Environment: Oracle 9i, 10G, 11G, & 12C, SQL, SQL*Plus, HP-UX 11.31 OEM, Data Guard, Sun Solaris Unix, Linux, Windows Oracle DBA Fed Ex - Nashville, TN February 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Proactive database monitoring using 11g grid monitoring tool.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of RAC, Stand by database. Installed and Configured Oracle 11g RAC, CRS using ASM.  • Implemented the Physical Data Guard in Maximum performance mode for production system in case of disaster recovery, maintain primary and standby databases.  • Database migrations from HP-UX11 to AIX 6.1 platforms.  • SQL tuning using statspack and explain plan, tkprof.  • Developer Environment Setup, Support, Cloning and Refreshes.  • Responsible for upgrade & migrating databases from 10g to 11g &11g to 12c.  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Upgrading development and production databases to Oracle 11g ,12c & OEM  • Install, configured and maintained Oracle 10g on Linux Red Hat 5  • Clone database from Production to Development, QA testing environments  • Create materialized view (snapshot)  • Installed, patched, and configured Oracle 10g and monitoring Oracle database.  • Upgrade OPatch  • Rolling install oracle patch in Oracle RAC 11g  • Upgrade database from 10g to 11g  • Managed table space  • Monitoring database in GRID CONTROL, OEM and OS level  • Provided support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures.  • Taking periodic Backup of the Database and the software using RMAN and VERITAS Netbackup.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed backup validations using RMAN.  • Implement Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans  • Customization and development of Korn shell scripts.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using Korn shell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users.  • Defining and Implementation of backup and recovery strategies.  • Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations / Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle Standby.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.    Environment: Sun Solaris 5.10, Aix 6.1, HP-UX 11.31 Oracle 9i, Exadata, 10G, 11G, & 12C, OEM, UNIX, SQL, Oracle Auditing, Oracle Partitioning, Oracle Replication, Hot Standby, Data Guard. Oracle DBA Verizon - Nashville, TN November 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Conducting case / system / process study for project planning, scoping, estimation, tracking.  • Implementing the of project plans within deadlines.  • Mentoring the team and deploying them with the task.  • Defining best practices for project support and documentation.  • Installing, configuring, upgrading and patching of Oracle server software  • Creating the table spaces, rollback segments, user maintenance, database security imposition by creating, maintaining and granting roles and privileges, performance tuning.  • Managing oracle security and oracle network tools.  • Handling the maintenance of Oracle Apps11i and R12 (single/multi node) on Linux platforms.  • Providing technical support to development teams.  • Evaluating oracle features and related products. Set-up and maintain documentation and standards.  • Interfacing with Oracle technical teams for upgrades, versions and utilities.  • Single and three node installation of Test, Development and Production servers on different Hardware platforms  • Regular monitoring of , database health check-up  • Performing Maintenance activities using AD-Utilities.  • Applying patches to Oracle Homes using opatch utility.  • Database Upgradation 9.2.0.3.0 to 9.2.0.8.0 & 9.2.0.8.0 to 10.2.0  • Upgraded 10g AS Homes from 10.1.2 to 10.1.2.3 and 10.1.3 to 10.1.3.5  • Converting Forms mode from Servlet mode to Socket mode and vice-versa.  • Collection of Diagnostics and Traces to debug issues.  • Interaction with Oracle support in handling the user related issues.  • Resolving errors faced by technical and functional users.  • Troubleshooting Apache, Forms, Reports and Concurrent Manager Components of s  • Making Configuration Changes using auto config.  • Managing tablespaces, control files and Database objects  • Create and maintain Apps users, responsibilities, menus and profiles etc.  • Managing and Controlling the Securities using System Administration  • Tracing & Debugging the s & Concurrent Programs  • Support& New Implementations for around 500 customers in 24/7 365 days    Environment: SQL, SQL*Plus, Oracle 9i, 10g, Sun Solaris Unix, Linux, Windows Jr. Oracle Database Administrator Alpharetta, GA June 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Creation of the Development, Test and Production Oracle 9i databases.  • Part of Migration team from 8i/9i test databases to 10g, my role was to test the migrated database in different scenarios with different loads, test different new features of 10g and how can we take advantage of those new features.  • Setting up and configuration of database with 10g in RAC environment with data guard.  • Worked in backup team and was responsible for configuration and implementation of backup strategies using RMAN and Data Guard in RAC environment.  • Team member of Strategic planning team was responsible for Developing backup and recovery strategy, database tuning strategies, capacity planning etc.  • Cloning of production database to the test environment using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Database Administration & Planning including logical design, physical design, backup & recovery.  • Managing Application user profiles and managing concurrent managers, concurrent processing, load balancing etc.  • Setting Oracle Streams for bi-directional replication between two databases.  • Worked with application developers on setting of 9i advanced queuing for data transfer between various applications.  • Extraction of data from different flat files into Oracle Database using SQL*Loader and automated the process by using UNIX Shell scripting.  • Daily DBA activities like Tuning of SQL/PLSQL, Performance Tuning, Database auditing and managing user groups, Database security, OS space monitoring etc.  • Documentation of Data Base Setup and administration of Server Environment.    Environment: Oracle 8.1/ 9.2.0/ 10.1/11, SOLARIS 8/9, AIX 5L, SQL, PL/SQL, Putty, TKPROF, Erwin, TOAD, SQL Loader, RMAN Education Bachelor's Skills Oracle (7 years), RMAN (6 years), Solaris (6 years), SQL (7 years), UNIX (7 years), Oracle Dba, MYSQL, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database, DB2, Sql Server, Documentum, Linux, ASM, RAC, Oracle Database Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems RHEL, HP-UX, Windows, Sun Solaris  RDBMS Oracle 10g R2, 11g R1/R2  High Availability RAC, Data Guard,  Languages SQL, Java, C, PERL, UNIX Shell, T-SQL  Tools RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, exp, imp, expdp, impdp, ERWIN, TOAD, etc  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, SQL Advisor, DBMS, Stats