Worship Director Worship Director Crown Point, IN Career services professional with over 15 years of proven leadership experience, pursuing a career in recruiting, human resources, and corporate training. I possess extensive experience in business relations, career advising, recruiting, training, marketing, and personnel management.     Through 20+ years in vocational ministry and in the marketplace, I have successfully utilized comprehensive organizational, analytical, interpersonal, verbal and writing skills.   I have success in forecasting, planning, and creating new opportunities for growth, along with proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Publisher, PowerPoint), Pro Presenter, and other business software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Worship Director Momentum Church - Crown Point, IN March 2015 to Present Provide weekly worship service leadership for multiple campuses  Technical leadership of Sound Techs and Media Operators for all services and events  Arrange, transpose, and organize weekly music  Recruit volunteers and conduct auditions for vocalists/instrumentalists  Monthly scheduling and all administrative tasks building solid weekly worship teams   Assist marketing team with promotional items including creation and distribution   Direct rehearsals and coordinate vocalists/instrumentalists/technical teams   Create engaging multi-media song/sermon/announcement presentations Career Advisor / Talent Recruiter WorkOne - Gary, IN 2014 to 2018 ~Responsible for improving area employers’ access to qualified workers.  ~Host hiring events and assist local employers with workforce recruitment needs in Northwest Indiana.  ~Continual communication and collaboration in filling vacant employment opportunities.  ~Active resume review and skill-matching to open positions online and through networking.   ~Provide continuous employer-readiness feedback to customers through individual coaching.   ~Case management activities ultimately resulting in quality hires by employers.   ~Customer focus, actively engaging customers during their job search until employment is reached.   ~Provide coaching services, rooted in strong employer intelligence and labor market information.   ~Responsible for maintaining a caseload of customers and assisting them with employer readiness skills, job search and interviewing skills, resume development, and other proficiencies related to obtaining, holding and advancing in their chosen career. Production Manager, Database and Systems Administrator Eat Enterprises - Mokena, IL 2012 to 2014 Responsibilities  ~ Accurate and constant front-end management of customer and menu databases   ~Creation of all production materials for kitchen staff in preparation and packaging of 12-15,000 meals daily   ~ Human resource management, including interviewing, hiring, orientations, and training  ~ Consistent and prompt customer relations with such accounts as the Northern Illinois Food Bank, Greater Chicago Food Depository, Geminus Corporation, and Catholic Charities.   ~ Data entry, including monthly menus, up-to-date meal counts, and customer/site contact and delivery information    Accomplishments  A streamlined approach to extremely detailed and multi-faceted operations. From data management in the office to production in the kitchen to packaging for delivery, I (along with 2 others) consistently work at making all data management, production, and logistics understandable and error-free. Owner Loyalty Manager/Marketing and Customer Relations Nissan of Chesterton - Burns Harbor, IN October 2011 to November 2012 ~ Leadership of dealership customer satisfaction through follow-up by phone, mailers, email, and online communications   ~ Responsible for maintaining customer satisfaction indices set by Nissan  ~ Dealership management of Nissan Rental Car services  ~ Operation of the Nissan One-to-One Rewards program to build Service Retention  ~ Facilitate continuous customer service improvement meetings for Sales and Service staff  ~ Earned highest average monthly customer satisfaction scores in the history of the dealership (August 2012) Education Bachelor of Arts in Leadership and Management Lincoln Christian University - Lincoln, IL May 2007 Diploma in Broadcast Technology The Illinois Center for Broadcasting - Lombard, IL June 1996 Skills Recruiting (10+ years), Career Development (5 years), Public Speaking (10+ years), Presentation Skills (10+ years), Relationship Management (10+ years), Multimedia (10+ years), Social Networking (10+ years), Interviewing (10+ years), Training & Development (10+ years), Customer Relationship Management (8 years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Strategic Planning (5 years), Word (10+ years), training, Marketing Links http://www.riverdrivetales.wordpress.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/scott-thomas-99a78578