Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Hogan Transport Llc Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Hogan Transport Llc June 2019 to Present • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Performed DBA daily activities including user management (creating users, synonyms, privileges, roles, quotas, tables, indexes, sequences etc.), space management (tablespace, rollback segment)  • Managing database security and roles. Set up users, roles and assign appropriate privileges to each  • Provided 24/7 on call support for all Production and development Databases.  • Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank May 2014 to February 2018 • Manage Oracle 11g to 12c multitenant Container and deleting legacy databases.  • Monitor storage use and work with application team to add more space/datafiles as needed.  • Database monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting and respond to alerts.  • Support Development Teams by implementing database objects in DEV/TEST/PROD and through on call rotation.  • Managing database security and roles. Set up users, roles and assign appropriate privileges to each.  • Manage SCSM Ticket Queue. Manage the queue - Service Requests (SR), Incident Request (IR)  and Change Request (CR).  • Excellent knowledge of Peoplesoft to administer RDBMS  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and set up  Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification.  • Schedule Physical backups (hot & cold) using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Support Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Profiling Authentication.  • Support & maintain the Production/Development databases on various servers.  • Support, monitor & tune the database instances for Oracle, which includes starting and stopping  instances.  • Manage the queue clearing open and unassigned Service Requests (SR), Incident Request (IR), Change Request (CR) and Manual Activities (MA).  • Basic scripting. Write scripts for data-pump jobs, backup and recover and database checks.  • Experience in code migration, database change management and data management through the various stages of the development life cycle  • Provided 24/7 on call support for all Production and development Databases.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Performed DBA daily activities including user management (creating users, synonyms, privileges, roles, quotas, tables, indexes, sequences etc.), space management (tablespace, rollback segment),  and monitoring (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, database network connectivity).  • Worked on different platforms, load user data to reproduce the problem, apply new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 Database Analyst UBA BANK June 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:    • Perform health checks and proactive monitoring using Oracle Enterprise Manager/Grid Control.  • Setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (Grid Control & Cloud Control) 10g/11g/12c for monitoring/performance tuning.  • Support Development Teams by implementing database objects in TEST/STG/UAT/PROD.  • Performance tuning using various aspects of the Database utilities like Stats-pack, Automated  Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM).  • Good Knowledge in Installing, Upgrading and Configuring Oracle Enterprise Edition.  • Upgrade Oracle 11g to 12c multitenant Container and decommission legacy databases.  • Database monitoring, tuning, troubleshooting, managing database security, roles, and profiles, create, setup, and respond to alerts.  • Provided full technical support to various application teams before databases went to Production.  • Tested and implemented different physical and logical backup and Recovery methods like point in time, media recovery, full/partial and export/import.  • Knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Listener, tnsnames, SQL-Net, V$ & DBA views.  • Installed and patched databases on a quarterly basis as well as update O-patch Installer.  • Managed Database Listener including starting, stopping and checking the listener status.  • Worked on administering 10 Production databases and more than 40 non-production databases of size ranging from 100GB to 5 TB on LINUX servers.  • Performed high level Troubleshooting and Tuning, Written Shell Scripts for monitoring  performance and health checks using scripts, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL tuning advisors and OEM.  • Applied Patches including PSU and Bug fixes for database performance issues.  • Involved in writing UNIX shell scripts for backup and recovery, Import and export procedure, PL/SQL functions, procedures, packages and triggers.  • Hands on experience in creating new redo log groups on ASM and NON-ASM environment to resolve performance issues by extending the existing redo logs.  • Evaluating and performing the Backup and Recovery Procedures periodically using RMAN.  • Restored backups from tapes and disk and validated the backups, performed day to day  administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  • Hands on experience in enabling auditing and finding the schemas failed login attempts, created  and dropped users, granting and revoking rights as and when required. • Assisted IT Analysts on technical database issues and features.  • Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once. Able to thrive in a fast-paced, time  compressed and dynamic environment. Solid skills and discipline for Change Management  practices processes.  • Performed timely database refreshes at schema and table level based on the requirement.  • Installed Oracle 12c database in the test environment and tested the upgrade from Oracle 11g - 12c.  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts. Education Bachelor in Computer Science University of Benin, Edo State 2000 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba