Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Buffalo, NY Technologically-minded professional and IT graduate with solid work experience. Excellent work ethic, able to quickly master new technologies and manage multiple projects efficiently. Goal-oriented and ready to learn. Currently seeking a position in which to utilize my skills as an IT professional and enthusiast, drawing upon my experience and ability to learn and adapt quickly in a variety of IT positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator RSVP Communications - Greensboro, NC January 2019 to Present SQL and FoxPro database work for a print company. Also print jobs, printer maintenance. Working with other depts. (fulfillment, billing, etc) Help Desk Support IBM/CTG - Buffalo, NY November 2017 to August 2018 Help Desk Technician 6 Fountain Plaza - Buffalo, NY April 2016 to April 2017 Provide product support for a Medicaid NEMT program; Provide product support for NEMT Dispatching program; Create/edit/manage knowledge based articles for each program; Update the company website with any new news, articles, updates; Handled on-boarding of new support personnel; HTML utilized; Tickets/call logs created for incidents as they come in; Live-Chat and screen sharing. Towards the end if my stay there I conducted meetings, help on-board and train new personnel and took over a managerial role. IT Tutor Buffalo, NY September 2015 to March 2016 Basic technical skills taught to clients on a per visit basis. Traveling to the students' locations to have face-to-face instructions in their area of study. Assisted college student in networking and security courses; Microsoft Office products uses and tools; proper internet, firewall and anti-virus usage, as well as properly organizing and sourcing their scholastic materials using the cloud and other tools. Earthlink/ProUnlimited - Amherst, NY March 2014 to May 2015 in a help desk environment. Supporting several different operating systems while maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction. Responsible for password resets, unlocking of accounts, and general troubleshooting responsibilities. Escalating problems not within our scope to the proper support group to have the problem resolved in a timely manner. Technical Host Support Olean Area Federal Credit Union - Olean, NY December 2012 to January 2014 1201 Wayne St., Olean NY)  Dec. 2012 - Jan. 2014    Maintain and update servers, end-point users, and hardware for the entire building. Keeping things running smoothly on a daily basis, while implementing new software and procedures. Running wires and physically moving equipment. Maintenance of ATM's and other Credit Union devices. Communicating/troubleshooting with MDT (Technical Host Support). Maintain Backup (tape). Domain control, new user setup, exchange server. Contract Work - NSI - Mississauga, ON November 2010 to December 2012 Took different contract jobs for a retail company based out of Canada. Imaged 2000+ PC's and 500+ HP Printers for shipment and installation of POS system for Glidden Paint Stores. Traveled around the country (30+ states) installing the hardware/software for the POS system. Repair/rebuild PC's for different clients on per order basis. Most recently working with college students as an IT tutor. Education Associate Degree in Information Technology Bryant & Stratton College - Buffalo, NY September 2009 to August 2010 Skills Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Active Directory, VPN, MAC