Environmental Protection Specialist Environmental Protection Specialist Environmental Protection Specialist - United States Department of Agriculture Alexandria, VA Work Experience Environmental Protection Specialist United States Department of Agriculture - Washington, DC February 2018 to Present February 2018 | Present  • Responsible for the acceptance and review of proposal related environmental impact analyses and documentation submitted by applicants for agency-financed electric, telecommunications, and  water and waste disposal proposals as well as providing technical guidance on relevant  environmental issues to staff, borrowers and consultants.  • Prepares reviews and analyzes proposal specific environmental impact analyses and documentation prepared and submitted by agency applicants and borrowers or their consultants for proposals which are categorical exclusions, Environmental Assessments or Environmental  Impact Statements for all Rural Development Utilities Programs (Electric, Telecommunications,  Water and Environmental Programs).  • Responsible for WEP Solar Projects acceptance of environmental reports and environmental  assessments to review and determine the correct course of action for these proposals.  • Provides expert advice and assistance for all program and proposal related impact analyses;  planning, coordinating, and facilitating interagency or public meetings.  • Works with and secures comments and input from agency staff and any government, tribal or public stakeholders. Analyzes all comments received and prepares the agency's responses and any  required correspondence.  • Consults with a variety of regulatory or resource agencies, tribal officials or the public with a high  degree of skill. Resolves and negotiates outstanding issues of a complex or sensitive ecological or political nature and prepares written comments reflecting agency views on the issue.  • Advises and make recommendations to agency approval officials whether the environmental  review process and documentation is in compliance with the agency environmental policies and procedures.  • Prepares and maintain digital, web based guidance and environmental compliance tools for agency staff, applicants and borrowers. Environmental Planner University of Puerto Rico - Río Piedras Campus - San Juan, PR March 2017 to February 2018 March 2017 | February 2018  • Research with the United States Forest Service to determine the value of ecosystem services and recreational characteristics from urban forests in Puerto Rico.  • Gave workshops and created checklists for community empowerment and training so poor  communities understood the value of their natural resources and how to maximize and optimize the resources that are available to them. GIS Analyst and Database Administrator Caño Martín Peña Land Trust - San Juan, PR June 2016 to August 2017 June 2016 | August 2017  • Assisted in the GIS Department in the Planning Office with database management and cartography while performing spatial and location based problem solving.  • Had extensive contact with an array of geographic source tools that included: topographic maps,  plat maps, land use/ planning maps.  • Entered new map data through use of a digitizer or by direct input of coordinate information  using the principles of cartography including coordinate systems, longitude, Latitude, elevation,  topography, and map scales. Environmental Planner Para la Naturaleza - Puerto Rico's Conservation Fund - San Juan, PR August 2014 to March 2015 • Performed environmental tests: selected testing objectives, determined statistical design and strategy, evaluated and communicated results and advised to the Conservation Fund Board.  • Assessed emissions of greenhouse gases, volatile organic compounds and risky air pollutants.  • Assisted in the creation and implementation of environmental documentation such as checklists,  reviews and environmental publications. Teaching and research assistant University of Puerto Rico - Río Piedras Campus - San Juan, PR August 2012 to May 2014 August 2012 | May 2014  • Assisted department professors by performing teaching or teaching-related duties, such as teaching courses, developing teaching materials, preparing and giving examinations, and grading  examinations or papers.  • Assisted in coursework for both undergraduate and graduate students. Courses include: Urban  Geography, Introductory GIS, Cartography I, Cartography II, Advanced GIS, GIS for  Community and Regional Planning, Statistics, Geo-demographics, and Urban Planning Methods.  • Assisted in Geographic Information Systems based projects including: computerized mapping,  remote sensing, GIS analysis, database design, aerial photos interpretation and integration of GIS and CAD. Environmental Planner Puerto Rico's Department - San Juan, PR August 2013 to March 2014 August 2013 | March 2014  • Gained experience in environmental research methods, exposure monitoring, pollution  measurement, technical writing, policy analysis, and environmental planning as part of an environmental justice research project.  • Involved in preparation of environmental checklists, Environmental Impact Statements,  environmental evaluations and assessments, permit materials, and special planning, urban design  reports, master plans and studies.  • Demonstrated expertise in the application of GIS theory, data management, analysis,  cartography, modeling, and the ESRI ArcGIS desktop environment. GIS Analyst Puerto Rico Political Board - San Juan, PR August 2011 to May 2012 Assisted in the creation of datasets and databases that included cadastre data for Puerto Rico  municipalities. These included queries by munipalities, barrios and communities.  • Assisted in the GIS Department in the Planning Office with database management and cartography while performing spatial and location based problem solving. Education MSc in Geospatial Science and Technology Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR March 2017 to August 2018 Juris Doctor in Law Inter American University - Law School - San Juan, PR July 2015 to May 2017 Master in Planning in Environmental, Urban and Economic Planning University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR August 2011 to May 2015 BS in Physical Geography and Geospatial Technology University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR August 2007 to May 2011 Skills DATABASE (8 years), DATABASE DESIGN (8 years), ARCGIS (10+ years), COLLECTION (10+ years), DATA ANALYSIS (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages: Python, Javascript  Software: Photoshop CS6, ArcGIS, ArcGIS Pro, Qgis, IDRISI, Geomatica    Technical Skills: Data collection, big data analysis, geospatial analysis, project development, database design  Social Skills: Americorps VISTA, Boy Scouts of America