Sales Associate Sales Associate Sales Associate Position -BOB'S DISCOUNT FURNITURE Cockeysville, MD * Possesses good communication skills.  * Sound customer relationship and services.  * Good mathematical and computational skills.  * Goal oriented and a passionate self-starter.  * Ability to decode and implement instructions.  * Friendly and a good team player.  * Ability to work under pressure with little or no supervision.  * Result driven and passionate about meeting organizational objectives.  * Sound information technology background and a quick learner.  * Ability to adapt to changing working conditions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Associate Bob's Discount Furniture - Cockeysville, MD March 2019 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  1. Dealing with customers on the phone, online and during in-store visit.  2. Assisting and guiding customers with selection and purchase of Merchandise and Accessories.  3. Processing transaction and payments using SAP software.  4. Processing Web orders and placing Delivery Dates.  5. Dealing with concerns and complaints by taking proactive steps that best satisfy customers.  6. Ensuring the store looks presentable during and after business hours by fluffing regularly.  7. Guiding customers through Alternative Financing options available to make purchases.  8. Follow-up and feedback on customers for better service.  9. Meeting and exceeding set goals and sales target weekly.  10. Communication with management team to achieve overall objectives. Cashier, Sales and Customer Service (Assistant Manager) Carroll Mart - Curtis Bay, MD February 2017 to December 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:   1. Use of Cash Register for Sales of Merchandise.  2. Regular update of Stock and Inventory control.  3. Branding and Sales.  4. Report generation and communication with management team.  5. Customer Service and Technical Support.  6. Placing, processing and making payments for Merchandise delivered by Vendors. Education Officer /ICT Instructor Dairy Farms School Complex, Agege Lagos State July 2013 to October 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:   1. Planning and presentation of lessons and practical sessions using the UBE Curriculum.  2. Performing administrative tasks and classroom management.  3. Maintenance of student records, Online classes and Website administration.  4. Coordinating groups to complete projects.  5. Working under pressure or variable terms to accomplish expected goals periodically. Systems Engineer, Web and Database Administrator Dopemu, Lagos State - Lagos, NG November 2011 to June 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  1. Operating Systems update, Installation and Configuration of Wireless Networks.  2. Development, Hosting and Maintenance of Static, Dynamic, Flash and Content Management Websites.  3. Developing, Installation, Maintenance and trouble-shooting of Database Engines and Servers.  4. Basic System Administration and Processing. Education Certificate of Membership Nigerian Institute of Management November 2011 Certificate of National Service Ibarapa East Oyo State October 2011 Bachelor of Science in (Education). Computer Science University of Benin, Edo State October 2010 Skills Database Management (Less than 1 year), Maintenance (2 years), Customer Service (6 years), Sales Management (3 years), Database Management System (Less than 1 year), Project Management (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years) Assessments Technical Support — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8tl8awazvaimce8u Problem Solving — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qjtwkzipumzz8-xb Organizational Skills — Proficient August 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cq8tirgtzbbnnugr Project Management Skills: Time Management — Familiar August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v1kcgxxzcenwg5sx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  * Efficient use of Computer and Digital devices such as micro, smart and handheld devices.  * Web Development and Administration which include Design, Hosting and Updating of Websites.  * Good understanding of Database Concept and Relative Database Management System (RDBMS)  * Developing and Maintenance of fairly robust database engines Microsoft Access, Structured Query Language (SQL Servers)  * Use and maintenance of Computer Laboratory Equipments, Presentation Tools and Online Conferencing.  * Use of SAP Software for Processing transactions.