Oracle Database Analyst Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst Junior Oracle Database Administrator Houston, TX A Certified Oracle Database Administrator with a DoD Top Secret Clearance (TS) and approximately 3 years of experience assisting with the installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 RAC databases in large-scale UNIX/Linux environments. Technical skills include Backup and Recovery procedures (RMAN), Performance Tuning, Security and User/Resource Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Analyst HP Enterprise Services, LLC - Alexandria, VA November 2016 to Present - Develop complex SQL queries and scripts for use in ad hoc reports, analysis of data quality, and data manipulation in Oracle 12c databases supporting Department of Defense systems.    - Network w/ System Administrators, Oracle DBA's, and Information Security Specialists to create and maintain efficient and effective production systems.    - Interpret functional requirements and build logical and physical data models in order to ensure a high level of quality in integrity, reliability, and performance.    - Assist DBA's in managing relational database tables and objects based upon both logical and physical data models. Junior Database Administrator U.S. Department of State - Washington, DC December 2014 to November 2016 - Assist Senior Staff in technical support, performance tuning, and maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 RAC databases supported by DataGuard.    - Perform root-cause analysis to troubleshoot and resolve database performance issues using various tools and techniques (i.e. AWR, ADDM and Alert Log).    - Assisted in performance tuning and optimization using the Cost-based Optimizer (CBO) to efficiently execute SQL statements.    - Assist Senior DBA's with high volume data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading (ETL) using Data Pump, SQL Loader, and Oracle Streams technologies.    - Responsible for developing and implementing comprehensive backup and recovery strategies for Oracle databases using RMAN. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Best Buy - Hanover, MD May 2014 to December 2014 - Assisted with the installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 databases.    - Developed and changed database objects such as tables, packages and indices using SQL DDL and DML statements.    - Created users, roles, and profiles to manage CPU resources and accessibility.    - Created and executed backups and developed recovery procedures using RMAN.     - Assisted with technical documentation outlining requirements, standards, and procedures for database processes. Education Bachelor of Science in Economics University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2011 to May 2014 Skills Real Application Clusters (RAC) (Less than 1 year), Oracle (3 years), Data Analysis (2 years), Database Management (3 years), SQL (3 years), Performance Management (2 years), Database Administration (3 years), Recovery Manager (RMAN) (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jared-williams-11206012b Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate (OCA)