SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - WellPoint, INC Silver Spring, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA WellPoint, INC April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation of MS SQL Server enterprise on Clustered Production, Test and Development boxes.  • Regularly monitor the performance of UAT and PROD server (CPU, Memory, I/O) using SQL  Profiler, Performance monitor, Dynamic Management Views, Wait Stats and Events.  • Installation of Service Packs and patches on SQL server 2012/2014 boxes.  • Create login ID, passwords and roles in production and non-production environment.  • Set up transactional and snapshot replication among SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 boxes.  • Monitor the status of transactional replication status using Replication Monitor  E-Mail: samson.zeu@gmail.com  Phone: (443) 628 7036  Maryland, USA  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Backing up system and user databases and restoring them when necessary.  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Create databases in DEV, SYS, UAT, and Production environment.  • Re-align the database structure for performance and space management.  • Run DBCC commands to check the database consistency and shrink the databases.  • Extensively used DMV, SQL profiler and performance Monitor, and Performance Dash board.  • Maintain index rebuild and re-organize indexes periodically.  • Transfer data among SQL boxes using SSIS, BCP, and Back up restore  • Monitor message from Nagios on SQL Server Load, and Space.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors,  hardware errors, security breach-technical guidance, task assignment and tracking.  • Provide 24/7 technical support and monitoring. MS SQL SERVER DBA Awash Bank S.co June 2015 to March 2018 Responsibilities  • Installation of MS SQL enterprise servers on production, test and development boxes.  • Drop and add users, logins, aliases, and groups to the databases and granting/revoking  permissions on Database objects.  • Written stored procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions.  • Extensively used SQL Server Management Studio, SQL profiler, SSIS, and SQL mail services.  • Performance tuning by dropping and rebuilding index.  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Data Transfers between various systems using BCP and SSIS.  • Performance tuning on the Production, QA and development Servers.  • Database and log backups and restoration, backup strategies, scheduling backups. Backing up  master and system databases and restoring them when necessary  • Regularly maintained database for database consistency check using DBCC  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Create a customized report using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors,  hardware errors, security breach, etc.    Environment: MS SQL Server Enterprise 2005, Windows Server 2003, SSRS, SSIS, MS SQL Management  Studio, MS Business Intelligence Development. Database Administrator East Gate Trading PLC October 2013 to May 2015 AA, ETHIOPIA    • Establish the needs of users and monitoring user access and security  • Monitor performance and manage parameters in order to provide fast responses to front-end users  • Map out the conceptual design for a planned database  • Consider both back-end organization of data and front-end accessibility for end-users  • Refine the logical design so that it can be translated into a specific data model  • Further refining the physical design to meet system storage requirements  • Install and test new versions of the database management system (DBMS)  E-Mail: samson.zeu@gmail.com  Phone: (443) 628 7036  Maryland, USA  • Maintain data standards, including adherence to the Data Protection Act  • Write database documentation, including data standards, procedures and definitions for the data  dictionary (metadata)  • Control access permissions and privileges  • Develop, manage and test back-up and recovery plans  • Ensure that storage and archiving procedures are functioning correctly  • Carry out capacity planning  • Work closely with IT project managers, database programmers and multimedia programmers  • Communicate regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database  integrity and security  • Commission and install new applications and customize existing applications in order to make them  fit for purpose  • Manage the security and disaster recovery aspects of a database.  • Installation and configuration of MS SQL Server and Clients.  • Create New Databases and maintenance of existing User Databases and System Databases.  • Performing Backup and recovery and Automation of Backup.  • Defining and Implementing the Processes required for proper data conversion from the existing  system the New System.  • Interacting with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designing and implementing the Database Schema.  • Responsible for Designing and implementing the backup strategy required as per the requirement.  • Running DBCC consistency checks, fixing data corruption on applications Databases.  • Performance and Fine Tuning of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries and User Defined Functions  • Implementation of Trigger to maintain data integrity.  • Performing Data Transfer/Migration using Export/Import and SSIS.  • Creating user logins and adding users to respective databases.  • Using Performance Monitor for monitoring memory, processor, Disk I/O and user connections and fine-tuning.  • Managing security tasks like granting and revoking permissions.    Environment: MS-SQL Server 2012, Windows 2012R2, Solaris 2.8, VERITAS Net Backup, Crystal  Report, MS-Project Education None in Immersive Data Analytics Data Analytics @ Montgomery College - Gaithersburg, MD April 2019 to June 2019 Bachelor's in Accounting Alemaya university - Ethiopia Skills DBA, Sql Server, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Database