Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fremont, CA High?performing, strategic?thinking professional with more than six years' experience in  in IT field at different organizations. Highly skilled at relationship building  with customers and across organizations and teams; exceptional writing, presenting, and  interpersonal communication skills. Adept at assessing needs, generating options, and  implementing solutions in collaboration with customers and co-workers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Afghan Coalition - Fremont, CA March 2018 to Present Configure database servers  Monitor and maintain system health and security  Design backup processes for server and associated data.  Create accounts for all users and assign security levels  Provide end-to-end technical support and problem resolution  Schedule and perform regular server maintenance  Create database management procedures IT Support Engineer Department of State/United States Embassy - Kabul October 2013 to November 2016 Provided phone, remote, in person, helpdesk support to customers.   ? Investigated application problems and provided solutions to customers.   ? Achieved the highest level of productivity, handled over 1000 calls per month.  ? Earned solid reputation for resolving complex issues and providing exceptional customer service.  ? Provided network administration and support for 1000+ company users under Multi-platform   environment with PC clients.   ? Trained and assisted users with policies and procedures for PDA, mobile computing device, and video   conferencing systems.   ? Utilized a CRM daily to track and work desktop support tickets such as hardware repairs, installing   software, cloning/ maintained user permissions, and answered users questions.   ? Generated procedure guides for several tasks such as user maintenance/access in Active Directory,   desktop deployment, and re-imaging laptops. Created, configured mailboxes for additional users and   configured mail account to use open web access by configuring mailbox features.   ? Installed and Configured mail clients on mobile devices which includes Apple mail and Exchange. Senior ERP Assistant Etisalat Telecommunication Company - Kabul January 2011 to October 2013 Performed as a member of an application support team for ERP systems users throughout the organization.  Worked with ERP systems users and management to determine appropriate system configuration and setup.   Assisted with testing new releases of ERP systems prior to use in a production environment.   Created documentation and procedures guidelines for ERP systems users.   Thoroughly understood ERP security subsystem in order to assign appropriate system access to users at different levels throughout the organization.   Thoroughly understood business practices and procedures in order to design, develop and maintain automated workflow processes.   Worked as a Systems Analyst with knowledgeable persons throughout the agency to help define user needs and develop data processing solutions.   Analyzed and troubleshoot ERP system issues reported by end users.   Designed, developed and maintained reports, forms, views and tables used by technical staff and ERP systems users. Assistant Programmer First Rate Inc - Arlington, TX April 2010 to December 2010 Used established procedures, coded, tested and debugged advance application programs, software components, and interfaces or modifying existing high-complexity software according to specifications.  Used established procedures performs unit or modular testing.  Prepared technical documents, user manuals, and help files.  Assisted in analysis, recording, tracking, and resolution of application problems.  Coded and executed programs to extract, transform, and load data for simple and advanced system conversions.  Assisted in gathering information and eliciting and documenting business requirements.  Assisted in developing functional specifications.  Participated in the design, testing and documentation phases of programs of moderate complexity and/or independently.  Performed the design, testing and documentation phases of the more standard or routine programs assigned.  Translated predetermined logic into appropriate programming language.  Utilized standard reference, resource or procedural materials to resolve problems. Student Intern Roshan Telecommunication Development Company - Kabul July 2009 to December 2009 Understood the client requirements and how they translate in application features.  Collaborated with a team of IT professionals to set specifications for new applications.  Designed creative prototypes according to specifications.  Wrote high quality source code to program complete applications within deadlines.  Performed unit and integration testing before launch.   Conducted functional and non-functional testing.  Troubleshooted and debugged applications.  Evaluated existing applications to reprogram, updated and added new features.  Developed technical documents to accurately represent application design and code. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Programming, Computer Networking, Database Management, Computer Hardware Kabul University - Kabul, AF March 2006 to December 2009 Skills Computer Networking, Active Directory, Telecommunications, Troubleshooting, Help desk/technical support, ERP Administration/Support, Interpersonal Communication, Database Administration, Web Application Development, Programming/application development, Mobile applications and device management, Computer Networking, Computer Management (6 years), System Administrator, Active Directory Awards Cash Award - United States Embassy Eagle Award - United States Ebassy Best Customer Service - United States Embassy Star Team Member - Etisalat Telecommunication Company Certifications/Licenses MCTS: Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009 MorphX Solution Development 2011 MCTS: Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009 Enterprise Portal Development 2011 MCP: Microsoft Exchange Server 2010, Configuration 2014 MCTS: Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009 2011 MCTS: Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009 Development Introduction 2011 CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ A valid IT Specialist certification