Technical Business Analyst Technical Business Analyst Technical Business Analyst Livingston, NJ Work Experience Technical Business Analyst New York University - New York, NY February 2015 to December 2016 Managed the end to end implementation of the Student Services moduleI worked as a BA with the IT Team at NYU. At that time, they were in the process of customizing the various modules within ServiceNow to meet the customer requirements. ServiceNow.  Talk about being a laison BA between the various Vendor teams  Fruition Partners  Queueless  Student Services  NYU  Different Department  AP workflow  Client Services: Customer servive  Knowledgebase:  Change Management  Incident Management    Student Services Module: Worked as a BA  Tools used:  For requirements: Word  For process models: flowcharts using Visio  For testing: excel    • Involved in stakeholder analysis, identifying and coordinating with various Business groups.  • Responsible for in scheduling the Current State Assessments (CSA) sessions with Operational and Financial groups.  • Articulated business and functional requirements into detailed testing scenarios and further translated them into test cases. Coordinated test case walk through. Coordinated and managed testing effort between teams across various time zones.  • Drive application design and requirements gathering sessions.  • Worked closely with stakeholders to understand their Business Processes, including current state and the desired "to-be" state and documentation of requirements and conceptual design from which application and solutions are developed.  • Communicated with client's business requirements by constructing easy-to-understand data and process models.  • Work with client to document future state processes for Incident Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, and Service Request Management.  • Provide guidance and input to stakeholders and leaders on ITIL best practices. Technical Data Analyst Deutsche Bank, New Jersey November 2014 to February 2015 • Analyzed and identified user accounts that were inactive, had elevated data access permissions and which violated data access standards.  • Worked with DBAs and Global Application owners to prepare a remediation plan.  • Created documents to capture audit violations and presented recommendations to eliminate the same.  • Conducted regular meetings with application owners to help closeout potential audits risks.  • Extensively used SharePoint for document management, Microsoft Excel and Access for analysis. Technical Business Analyst Credit Suisse - New York, NY March 2013 to April 2014 New York March 2013 - Apr 2014  Projects: Prime Services Environmental Review, Life Cycle Management, Quarterly Infrastructure Maintenance Project  Role: Technical Business Analyst    • Gathered, consolidated and modified raw technical data to create customer friendly dashboards.  • Developed metrics to determine inefficiencies and areas of improvement.  • Prepared Business Requirement Documents and successfully delivered necessary change in a manageable and non-intrusive way to help implement the HPAM software for inventory management.  • Participated in Functional and User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in workshops / training / presentations.  • Developed automated tracking sheets to help clients meet their End of Life (EOL) target dates.  • Provided Project Managers with transparent tracking that in turn helped them to meet and exceed their EOL target dates by 15%.  • Co-ordinated database activities as the DBA Lead for the Quarterly Maintenance Activity designed to ensure stability.  • Migration Lead for applications such as Microsoft SharePoint and Exchange.  • Administered the Hosting Services SharePoint site showcasing information such as a product data sheet, BoW and roadmap, requirements management.  • Developed dashboards to perform capacity management of the Database Hosting platform.  • Co-ordinated activates between the storage, server and database teams during datacenter migrations. Junior SQL Server Database Administrator Credit Suisse - New York, NY February 2011 to April 2014 • Implemented SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Migrated SQL server 2000, 2005 to SQL Server 2008 in Microsoft Windows Server 2008 Enterprise Edition  • Provided greater visibility into risk profiles by generating senior management infrastructure change metrics, reports and dashboards using ITSM6 data.  • Migrated multiple mission critical applications such as Sharepoint, Good, Blackberry to the latest infrastructure. Worked with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations  • Recovered the databases from backup in disasters. Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Worked on remediating audit point violations.  • Good experience with SQL Server Clustering and monitoring of database size and disk space in Production, Staging & Development environments  Project: Campus Recruiting Mobile Application  Role: Application Developer  • Worked with the 2011 TA class to develop and implement a recruiting mobile application for the iOS platform.  • Responsible for the development and testing of the two key modules.  • Coordinated data exchange with the Business Analysts. Stevens Institute of Technology January 2010 to December 2010 Project: Automated Accreditation Process  • Redesigned the student course evaluation forms for all the Computer Science courses  • Designed the University's first paper-less database driven programmatic accreditation system to digitally capture course performance.  • Developed and delivered Phase 1 of the online tracking system using the LAMP framework. Junior Developer JP Morgan Chase/Bear Stearns July 2006 to March 2008 Project: DerivClear  • Contributed in the development of a complex front-to-back-office web based derivative trade processing system used to support derivative operations.  • Contributed in developing screens to capture, display, process and validate Collateral Interest, Historical Collateral Data using the J2EE architecture. This involved creating JSP pages, using enterprise beans along with Calypso APIs to develop the business logic and SQL server to store the data. Education MS in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ December 2010 B.Tech in Computer Science in Computer Science Institute of Technology for Women - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2006 Skills Scripting, SDLC