Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Database Developer - VariQ Corporation Elizabeth City, NC Work Experience Database Developer VariQ Corporation - Elizabeth City, NC May 2018 to Present Operations Database Administrator Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, KS May 2016 to May 2018 ? Responsible for designing; planning; developing and; implementing databases; including back end rules and procedures; data scripts; security; access; and documentation  ? Participates in the design; coding; enhancement and of relational databases in a client/server environment  ? Analyzes and determines information needs and elements; data relationships and attributes; data flow and storage requirements; and data output and reporting capabilities  ? Participates in continuous improvement efforts in enhancing performance and providing increased functionality  ? Creates test plans along with data models and completes pre-production testing with user for modified rules, procedures and front end applications  ? Apply knowledge and experience with database technologies; development methodologies; backend programming languages (e.g.; SQL)  ? Use Agile/SCRUM, SDLC, EA, etc. methodologies to work through the development cycle  ? Maintaining and updating the Asset Logistics Management Information System that integrates the forecasting capability of the Aviation Computerized Maintenance Systems (ACMS) with the inventory management/fiscal accounting functionality of the Aviation Maintenance Management System (AMMIS) to improve inventory purchase/repair decisions and provide total asset visibility  ? Design, develop, test, integrate, and support ALMIS  ? Complete requests concerning ALMIS performance, architecture, reliability, stability, scalability, security from a development standpoint  ? Examine and evaluate alternative means of satisfying database requirements defined  ? Releases every 5-6 weeks with improvements and enhancements to the current ALMIS application  ? Work via ticketing system to complete all requests and updates required for releases and have all items checked in and tested at the designated times  Operations Database Administrator, Cerner Corporation  Kansas City, KS  May 2016 to May 2018  ? Report overall health status and performance of a database  ? Maintain compliance for Oracle parameter company standards  ? Monitor and maintain Oracle 11g RAC and single instances on Linux  ? DB Storage Provisioning  ? Restore archivelogs as needed  ? Perform sizing and capacity evaluations  ? Manage the stability and uptime of client databases in relation to service-level agreements in place  ? Troubleshoot and research issues related to database performance, query performance, space management, and other technical issues  ? Ensure database configurations, processes, and jobs comply with published standards and policies  ? Create and modify database tables, indexes, and other database objects.  ? Perform backups  ? Document database modifications according to Cerner's change control process.  ? Manage database permissions  ? Confer with appropriate managers regarding problems with and capabilities of database systems  ? Assess and manage Service Level Agreements  ? Develop and apply performance management practices  ? Provide advanced object optimization  ? Maintain highly available database  ? Create test data and test scripts to adequately test programmed functionality  ? Assist/develop first draft documentation for database functionality  ? Proactively detect and resolve database performance issues  ? Coach and mentor new associates  ? Perform intermediate-level database tuning, performance monitoring, and capacity management  ? Triage and troubleshoot database alerts and issues, identify root cause, and implement corrective action  ? Perform intermediate-level query tuning, and triage and fix performance tuning software issues  ? Set up and maintain database backups  ? Communicate with 3rd party software or hardware manufactures as needed to ensure optimal configuration and support  ? Develop standardized work plans, documentation, processes and automation Database Administrator Insignia Technology Services, LLC - North Charleston, SC July 2015 to March 2016 ? Monitor and Maintain Oracle 11g RAC Database on Linux  ? Monitor space usage and performance trends  ? Maintain all disaster recovery procedures, using RMAN and SAN system utilities  ? Startup and shutdown Oracle databases and services  ? Diagnose and troubleshoot errors  ? Perform sizing and capacity evaluations  ? Maintain all shell scripts used to support the Oracle database instances  ? Responsible for evaluating, testing, and applying all Oracle patches on the database and the Grid Control (Oracle Enterprise Manager) environment  ? Assist with implementation of database security infrastructure and create, manage, and maintain user access accounts  ? Maintain Oracle's Cloud Control (Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c) to manage the Databases  ? Assist with the process of planning, installing, and testing software upgrades and patches  ? Support database backups, tuning, user maintenance, and system maintenance  ? Create and modify SQL scripts, database triggers, and embedded programs for database objects  ? Implemented Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) into the lower environments  ? Match non-production schema names and tablespace names to those in production using online table redefinition and Data Pump Customer Service Manager Roses Discount Store - Florence, SC March 2014 to February 2015 Assist customer service representatives with duties such as refunds and exchanges  ? Assist store managers by creating break schedules, reducing associate lines, balancing associate registers, and cleaning up at closing  ? Assist customers with any issues, complaints, or compliments by documenting all incidents and reporting them as necessary Education B.S. in Computer Science Francis Marion University - Florence, SC May 2015