Application Support Specialist Application Support Specialist Application Support Specialist - JBT Aerotech Conroe, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Support Specialist JBT Aerotech March 2016 to Present Report Development using IBM Cognos Analytics.  ? Query Creation and Optimization for Flex Business Rules (Oracle and SQL = PL/SQL and TSQL).  ? SQL Server administration.  ? Customizations based on database functions and/or integrations, FlexSQL, extensibility framework, Java Scripts and Web services.  ? VMware and Hyper-V environment deployment for Infor self-hosted Clients, including installation, setup and administration of the self-hosted environment (Windows Server, SQL Server and/or Oracle).  ? Infor EAM administration and Asset Management. IT Support Synergy Workspaces June 2015 to March 2016 Administration of the complete network of a shared spaces based company  ? Install and maintenance of SharePoint server for sharing company information.  ? Administration of Office 365 site including Online Exchange Server and OneDrive for business.  ? Install, update and maintenance the Voice IP Phone System (Cisco and Polycom).  ? Install and Maintenance of an IP Camera System.  ? Manage of printer centers (Scanner, Printer, Copier, Fax).  ? Direct customer support, troubleshooting. Senior Software Engineer Europcar México October 2014 to February 2015 Part of ISCAR development team adding new functions and maintenance this ERP type system used by EUROPCAR Mexico (Delphi and Oracle).  ? PL/SQL development, to add new functions based in user's needs.  ? Analyze code for system testing and debugging improving the software stability.  ? Create test transactions to find, isolate and rectify issues  ? Development of Maintenance Module to control and automate the entire process of car maintenance.  ? Accounting Module Optimization adding new functionality like direct banks integration.  ? Query Optimization on different Modules improving the response time. IT Support Specialist AIESCUN September 2014 to October 2014 Query various database platforms.  ? Implementation of one tool to Accounting Department that control the money flow using C#, MVC and SQL, automatizing the entire process including synchronization with different banks by XML. This tool make possible the reduction of time used to generate payments by 70%.  ? Network Administration and Maintenance, Technical Support (Software and Hardware)  ? Server Platforms: Windows 2008/2012/R2 Server (Active Directory, DNS, Security, Backup/DR)  ? Desktop Platforms: Windows XP/Vista/7/8.1 (32/64bit) (Group Policy, Profile Management)  ? SQL Server Database Administration.  ? Backups Plan, Query Optimization, Transact SQL, Scripting, Stored Procedures, Functions, indexing, execution plans.  ? SSIS packages for improve the ETL process, using Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS). Database Specialist and Network Administrator TRD Caribe September 2011 to August 2014 SQL Server administration (SQL Server 2005), created Maintenance Plans, Triggers, Query, stored procedures, backup, recovery processes, performance troubleshooting and tuning to improve the SQL Server stability.  ? Query various database platforms to extract information required for users, prioritizing and executing tasks in a high-pressure environment.  ? Query Optimization for 6 different databases used from Accounting and Economic Departments., and database optimization changing indexing strategy, examining Query Execution Plans.  ? Define, document, and develop new interfaces between applications, databases, and third party systems.  ? Implemented High availability Techniques like data replication (between ours servers (Cienfuegos) and the national headquarter servers (Havana), clustering.  ? Mirroring, SSRS to create reports used later by applications developed in the IT department.  ? Created and customized an application to human resources department to personal control using advanced development and coding techniques.  ? Developed a data model and entity relationship diagram using ERWIN, and implemented using SQL SERVER 2012 (Entire Database Lifecycle),  ? Used SSRS reports and SSIS package development to with SQL Server 2012 high availability features.  ? Provided object-oriented design, programming and implementation support to Inventory Control of the IT Department using C# and SQL Server, member of a 5 programmer team  ? Network Servers Installation, Administration and Maintenance (Windows 2000/2003 Server, Active Directory, 2003 Exchange Server, WSUS, Cisco Routers, Virtualization VMware, DNS, DHCP, VOICE IP, Linux, Backups Systems. Workstation Installation and maintenance Windows XP/Vista/7.  ? Designed and implemented a Data warehouse System to support decision making to commercial department.  ? Temporal IT Department Chief  ? Direct department's projects (discuss project specifications, procedures, methodologies).  ? Prepare budgets and contracts.  ? Research about computers or computer-related equipment for commercial use in the organization.  ? Implement policies, and procedures for engineering and technical work of the department, including document and define policies for database development.  ? Monitor, manage, develop, operate, install, and maintain servers, network equipment, storage data and devices, basic software and applications technology.  ? Supervise the installation of computer or computer-related equipment and components.  ? Provide technical support to customers and departments members throughout the product development and implementation process.  ? Test hardware and support peripherals to ensure that they meet specifications and requirements.  ? Direct recruitment, placement, and evaluation of engineering project staff searching new departments team members. Professor of Database Systems I, II University of Informatics Sciences September 2009 to August 2011 -Relational Databases and advanced databases concepts, T-SQL scripts.  ? -Data Warehouse Research and Implementation, ETL processes  -Assist with the performance tuning of SQL scripts and procedures  ? -Work with various developer teams for query optimization, Data Modeling. Professor of Mathematics I, II University of Informatics Sciences September 2007 to August 2009 -Differential and Integral Calculus    Recent Seminars:  ? Advanced Databases  ? Knowledge Based Systems  ? Advanced Programming Techniques  ? Knowledge and Data Models    Languages:  ? English (Full professional proficiency)  ? Spanish (Native or bilingual proficiency) Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science Central University of Las Villas 2002 to 2007 Skills Data warehouse (5 years), database (8 years), Optimization (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information Skills Include:  Software Development - User Training & Support - Coding & Scripting - Debugging & Troubleshooting - Testing & Documentation - Network Administration - Database Developer - Database Administration - Optimization - Self Motivated, Attention to detail.    Technology Summary:  Languages/Programming: C/C++, C#, MVC, ASP.Net, VB.Net, Delphi, Perl, PHP, HTML, XML, .NET, JavaScript  Networking: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, FTP, LAN, WAN, NAS, VPN, VLANs, IIS, Routers, Firewalls, SNMP, Virtualization (VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V), OFFICE 365, Microsoft Exchange, Azure, AWS.  Databases: SQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Query Optimization, ETL process, Data Warehouse, Data marts, SSRS, SSIS.