Salesforce Database Administrator/ Project Manager Salesforce <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Project Manager Passionate Salesforce Administrator San Jose, CA Salesforce Administrator with experience in Community Management and Sales/Marketing I am seeking to  Serve a nonprofit a as Certified Salesforce.com Database Administrator Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Database Administrator/ Project Manager Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center - San Mateo, CA September 2018 to Present • managed the scoping, planning, development, implementation, and training of Salesforce Database from beginning to end.  • successfully completed the customization of Salesforce.com to meet all their business processes and CRM needs.  • consistently met deadlines and requirements for all projects.  • worked directly with Director of Operations to achieve successful implementation of Non Profit Success pack  • modified existing database to meet unique needs.  • coordinated with project teams on database development timelines.  • handled service requests, including initial troubleshooting and escalation. Salesforce Administrator Consultant Oakland Literacy Coliltion - Oakland, CA February 2019 to July 2019 • analyzed Existing Email Campaigns  • Worked directly with stakeholders to achieve successful integration.  • responsible for creative design for marketing Campaigns  • Verified data integrity and accuracy.  • combined broad, deep knowledge of technology and strong business foundation to drive productivity.  • partnered closely with infrastructure staff and departmental decision makers to identify, recommend,  • develop and implement cost-effective technology solutions. Real Estate Sales Professional Lionsgate Real Estate Group - El Segundo, CA January 2012 to January 2018 • licensed Real Estate Salesperson.   • originated Home Sales and Finance Transactions  • managed Sales operations Education Master's in Agile software development Jobhackers - San Francisco, CA September 2018 to May 2019 Skills Salesforce Admintrator (1 year), Salesforce, Visualforce, Apex, Salesforce Admin, Project Management (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Salesforce Administrator November 2018 https://trailhead.salesforce.com/credentials/certification-detail-print?searchString=0034A00002zwugdQAA Additional Information SKILLS    Salesforce Administration System analysis  Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills Project Management  Strong interpersonal and communication skills Excellent diagnostic skills  Team leadership information technology  Problem Resolution