Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA - NCCI Holdings Boca Raton, FL • 8+experience Year database by running DBCC statements and rebuilding\reorganizing indexes.  • Monitored the performance of Database Backup and other jobs in the maintenance plan Restoration and Point in-Time Recovery and optimized as needed.  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage, and solving problem as needed Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.SQL Server DBA NCCI Holdings - Boca Raton, FL April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provide Production Support for MS SQL Server Databases in High Availabilities  • Perform day-to-day administration on SQL Server environments  • Diagnose & troubleshoot issues, monitored the performance of the database and optimized to run more efficiently.  • Manage database Capacity growth, refresh data from production to lower environment  • Monitored databases, migrate SQ Server from SQL  • Support SSIS, SSRS, Data warehousing  • Manage and implement production release  • Lead the Disaster Recovery  • Used SSRS to generate reports by querying from database  • Generated many reports by querying them from SQL Database as per the business requirements.  • Install SQL Server Fail-over Cluster and Migrate SQL Server from SQL  • Set up and configure database Mirroring, Log shipping, support SSRS, SSAS  • Automate maintenance jobs, install services patching  • Work well in a team with excellent communication skills  • Identify problems, find root cause and perform tuning to ensure application performance  • Manage database Capacity growth, write stored procedures, triggers  • Maintain & manage Database security, install monitor tools on the Server  • Import and export data in Oracle Data Pump utility  • Manage User security access in SQL server and backup database SQL DBA Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ September 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, and Administered SQL Server 2012/2008/2005.  • Backed up databases using Full, Differential and Transactional log backup methods.  • Restored Database from database backups and file backups.  • Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery. Maintained logical consistency of the database by running DBCC statements and rebuilding\reorganizing indexes.  • Monitored the performance of Database Backup and other jobs in the maintenance plan Restoration and Point in-Time Recovery and optimized as needed.  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage, and solving problem as needed  • Maintained server level, database level and object level security best practices by creating logins and users, configuring permissions and assigning different roles to users.  • Configured Database Mail and SQL Server Agent. Created user access, monitored and optimized the performance of the database.  • Created SQL Server Event, Maintenance Plans and Performance Condition Alerts.  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including Backup, Index Optimization, Monitored Database health, Disk space and Backup verification.  • Set up Merge, Transactional and Snapshot Replication on remote server.  • Configured and administered Fail-Over Clustering, Transactional Log shipping, Replication and Database Mirroring using SQL Server 2012, 2008, and 2005.  • Performed database integrity checks using DBCC utilities and maintenance plan configuration wizard. Implemented troubleshooting of SQL Server performance issues using SQL Tools, execution plans, Trace, statistics, index tuning wizard.  • Performed database migration and upgrade from SQL Server 2005 and 2008 to 2012.  • Installed and applied Service Packs (SP) on SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2012 using SCCM.  • Deployed window server patches on Window server 2012, 2008 using big fix  • Installed, configured, and administered MS SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Integration Services (SSIS) and Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Performed Export & Import of databases from/to Flat file, excel Access, Oracle and MySQL to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP.  • Generated reports by querying from SQL database by using a variety of query design tools such as text-based query designer, report model designer and MDX designer to generate report  • Responsible for backing up and restoring databases  • Performed writing T-SQL, Trigger and Stored Procedures.  • Supported remote production and development servers, clustered/non clustered environment. Performed DBMS maintenance, backup and recovery.  • Performance tuning, Index optimize, maintaining and troubleshooting database problems  • Posses good analytical problem-solving skills, excellent communication and self-driven skills to get the job done SQL Database Administrator CaseNet - Waltham, MA September 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Develop and optimize T-SQL code, including database scripts, triggers and stored procedures for multiple TruCare applications  • Develop Microsoft SQL Server SSIS packages to implement ETL requirements  • Data modeling and data architecture  • Database performance monitoring, SQL tuning and analysis, troubleshooting, and data concurrency analysis  • Various database administration tasks in development and test environments  • Develop, enforce and maintain database standards SQL DBA Speedway LLC - Enon, OH June 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Work closely with project managers, business analysts, business clients and other SQL team members to define requirements, design, estimate, code, test, certify, pilot, and roll-out requested changes.  • Provide support to Speedway Departments to troubleshoot and resolve production issues.    • Provide 24 / 7 on-call support, this responsibility is rotated and shared    • Maintain development test environment    • Work with deployment team to build and test    • software deployment package for certification    • environment and live stores SQL DBA Unisys - Blue Bell, PA February 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities  • High-level technical resolution for incidents received from phone calls, emails or automated ticketing system during specific shifts  • Evaluate Root Cause analysis, looking for permanent fix, and preventive steps  • Automation View (preferably script ability - PowerShell/shell script)  • Provide client advisory on Database Technology, Architecture and best practices  • Install, patch update and Upgrade MSSQL & ORACLE Databases  • Learn new versions and provide guidance on migrations and new Standards  • Work closely with IT project managers, database programmers and multimedia programmers  • Developing, managing and testing Database backup and recovery plan  • Writing Database documentation, including Data Standards, procedures and definitions  • Troubleshooting Oracle issues  • Perform Database performance tuning and capacity planning  • Expertise in High Availability and Maintainability solutions for Master & Slave Cluster servers  • Lead and/or participate in project activities Education Bachelor's ,,,,, Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, SQL SERVER 2008