Office Assistant Office Assistant Office Assistant - Eagle Island State Park Boise, ID Work Experience Office Assistant Eagle Island State Park March 2019 to Present Promptly respond to information requests in person, via email, and phone  ? Prepare correspondence and maintain required records and files  ? Handle money including balancing and closing cash register, completing sales transmittals and making bank deposits Cafe Associate Panera Bread October 2018 to March 2019 Provided outstanding customer service through delivery, cashiering, drive-thru, and dining room  ? Worked with fellow associates as a team, and adhere to company safety procedures  ? Cross-trained throughout the cafe in order to remain well rounded in the company AmeriCorps VISTA Member The Arc of Idaho March 2018 to October 2018 Developed a sales and marketing plan for donation programs  ? Finalized necessary paperwork promptly as donations take place  ? Aided in recreational and vocational activities for people with disabilities Database Administrator Northwest Information Center May 2016 to December 2017 Performed daily data entry, processing, and hygiene tasks on historical records, reports and maps  ? Scanned, uploaded, and filed reports and resources  ? Continuously learned a variety of new and updating technology, including Microsoft Office and GIS Delivery Driver Mary's Pizza Shack December 2016 to September 2017 Fulfilled daily back of house needs, including but not limited to peeling, dicing, and cutting of items  ? Delivered food hot, fresh, and in a timely and accurate manner with exceptional customer service  ? Ensured nightly sanitization of all appliances, removal of trash, and floor sweeping and mopping Crew Member Sonoma State University Culinary November 2013 to January 2016 Set up and closed the food station, prepared food, and interacted with customers  ? For 3 semesters, managed dining and/or dishroom of up to 10 employees and trained on essential duties  ? Attention to detail and flexibility displayed as last minute changes and new circumstances arise Education Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology in Anthropology Sonoma State University May 2016 Skills Billing, MS Office, Data Entry, Filing