MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA - Wells Fargo Washington, DC • Over 6 years of experience in Database Administration, System Analysis, Design, Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2014/ 2012/ 2008 R2/ 2008/ 2005 in Production, Test, Development, Replication and Cluster Server Environments.  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with Server Configuration, Performance Tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Experience on High Availability/Disaster Recovery (HADR) solutions; Failover Clusters and AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring.  • Experienced in Upgrade/Migration of MS SQL Server 2008 to MS SQL Server 2008R2, from SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014.  • Experience working with application team and implemented databases as per the specification from LOB applications.  • Experienced in installation, configuration, maintenance and optimization of SQL Server HADR solutions.  • Experienced with partially contained databases.  • Experienced in Backup and Recovery, Query Optimization and Security.  • Experienced in monitoring the health and performance of SQL servers as well as home grown applications using SQL Server native tools and several other third party solutions.  • Adept at T-SQL, stored procedures, tables, indexes, views, functions, and triggers.  • Expert in creating DTS packages to utilize SSIS functionalities and DB dependency resolutions.  • Created various SSIS, SSRS and SSAS Packages to serve company needs.  • Familiar with PCI Compliance Standards required for Retail Industry.  • Expert in using DTA/Extended Events/PerfMon/SQL Profiler/Scripts and other third party tools to resolve bottlenecks, dead locks and slow running queries.  • Able to benchmark and load test new instance builds for performance with DB load simulators.  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, assigning permissions and roles.  • Good Knowledge of LiteSpeed, Diagnostic Manager and Log explorer for MS SQL Server.  • Strong System Administration background in Windows and Linux environments.  • Experienced in creating technical documentations and process archiving and change management.  • Experienced in working independently as well as in team-oriented environments.  • Expert in problem solving, analysis and conflict resolutions.  • Experienced in supporting and maintaining large databases and troubleshooting their problems.  • Excellent analytical, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience MS SQL Server DBA Wells Fargo - Washington, DC February 2016 to Present Wells Fargo is a 4th largest American multinational banking and financial services company in America. Working as a SQL database administrator with L2 support team.  Responsibilities:  • As a production L2 support, we are responsible for resolving incident tickets escalated from L1 support and handling critical incidents(Sev1, Sev2 high)  • Providing SQL Server implementation changes requested from application teams.  • Responsible for installing, configuring, and maintaining as per supported LOB applications.  • Writing and improving SQL Server T-SQL queries  • Created necessary T-SQL scripts, stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes.  • Responsible for providing SQL Server problem resolution and 24x7 production support and server outages.  • Responsible for disaster recovery and high availability solutions and large scale database migrations from SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008R2 and 2012.  • Created and migrated partially contained databases within AlwaysOn Availability Groups.  • Created automation of day to day operations, critical SQL server alerts and repetitive tasks.  • Monitored the health and performance of SQL, server instances and home grown applications using Extended Events, SQL server Profiler, PerfMon and other third party tools.  • Tested newly built servers for performance impact with DB load simulators.  • Setup and maintained Log Shipping between various environments.  • Created necessary T-SQL scripts, stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes.  • Operated and oversaw database and log backups and restoration, planning backup strategies, and scheduling.  • Backed up master & system databases and restoring them when necessary.  • Optimized the Indexes, adding/deleting them when necessary for better performance.  • Verified backups and error logs on the servers and troubleshoot any failures or alert problems, and open trouble tickets if necessary to work with technicians from other departments.  • Responsible for Installing, configuring and maintaining SQL failover clustering for production environments.  • Worked with installation, configuration and creation of SSRS.  • Deciding whether clustering, log shipping, mirroring, replication, etc are the right fit to solve a business problem  • On-call troubleshooting for SQL Server service outages  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, and taking care of permissions and roles.  Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 Enterprise and Standard Editions, Windows 2012/2008R2, Clustering, AlwaysOn, Mirroring, replication, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, SSIS, SSRS, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, TOAD for MYSQL, Microsoft Office 2013, Mongo DB. SQL Server DBA Consultant UHG - Phoenix, AZ February 2013 to December 2015 UnitedHealthcare, serves key markets and geographic regions with a broad range of health benefit products and services for both consumers and benefit sponsors.  Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQLServer2008 R2/ SQLServer2008 with backup jobs, database mail and configuration options.  • Upgraded SQL Servers with latest service packs.  • Migrated SQL Server databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases on Production, Test and Staging for various groups and ensured the availability of the database Servers.  • Configured and maintained transactional replication for flow of data from QA and Dev. Server to the replica servers.  • Monitored data activities like database status, logs, space utilization, locks and long transactions.  • Implemented SQL standards in writing stored procedures, Triggers, Views, SQL functions.  • Involved in resolving deadlock and blocking issues for concurrent users.  • Worked with developers to optimize the code if required to minimize the duration and look if the indexes were used appropriately.  • Provided appropriate access to users except system databases owners.  • Refreshed databases for pre or post data loads activities.  • Supported SQL server developers working on different projects with various requests.  • Converted and redesigned existing DTS packages to SSIS packages.  • Developed SSIS packages to import and export data from existing systems to upgraded system.  • Used database utility programs and 3rd party utilities to monitor database performance, such as  Blocking, expensive queries, Memory utilization.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2008/2005, T-SQL, Lite Speed, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Replication, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows 2003/2008 Server and ERWIN. SQL Server DBA Consultant Orange and Rockland Utilities - Spring Valley, NY June 2012 to January 2013 Database Adminstrator  Orange & Rockland Utilities Inc. (O & R), a subsidiary of Consolidated Edison, Inc., is an electric and gas utility which along with its two utility subsidiaries serves approximately 750,000 customers spread across seven counties located in New York, northern New Jersey and northeastern Pennsylvania.  Responsibilites:  • As a L2 support, we worked on incident tickets escalated from L1 support team.  • Responsible for MS SQL Server 2005 and 2008 and database administration.  • 24x7 critical production support for hundred and ten SQL Servers out of which 75 were mission critical production support.  • Created database maintenance plans for SQL backups, optimization, and integrity check and t-log backups.  • Created checklists for proper/unattended install of SQL Server, applied service packs and security fix.  • Configured and maintained transactional and Snapshot replication for 3 environments.  • Worked with SQL Disaster Recovery processes and documented/revised those processes.  • Worked with capacity planning, database sizing and monitoring.  • Created databases, tables, indexes, stored procedures and triggers, alerts and maintained user permissions.  • Involved in creating DTS Packages to import and export operations in and out of SQL Servers.  • Applied monthly patches and hot fixes. Worked with application team to test the successful upgrades.  • Maintained Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2005, T-SQL, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Replication, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows 2003 Server. Associate Database Administrator Teleflora - Oklahoma City, OK May 2010 to March 2012 Teleflora is a floral wire service company which brokers orders to local florists for delivery. Headquartered in Los Angeles, California, Teleflora, LLC is a clearinghouse for transmitting and processing floral orders to customers throughout the United States and internationally  Responsibilities:  • Created database maintenance plans for SQL backups, optimization, and integrity check and t-log backups.  • Responsible for MS SQL Server 2005 and 2008 and database administration.  • Worked on change requests, permission requests and refreshes requests.  • Created checklists for proper/unattended install of SQL Server, applied service packs and security fix.  • Configured and maintained transactional, Snapshot replication and merge replication.  • Worked with SQL Disaster Recovery processes like Log shipping methodologies, clustering and mirroring.  • Worked with capacity planning, database sizing and monitoring.  • Created databases, tables, indexes, stored procedures and triggers, alerts and maintained user permissions.  • Worked with application team to test the successful upgrades, migrations, installations.  • Maintained Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules.  Environment: SQL Server 2005, SQL server 2008, T-SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Windows 2003/2008 Server, Import & Export Data. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, VB, .NET, Java, PERL, ASP, PHP and XML  RDBMS & Tools  SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014, MS Access 2003/2007/2010/2013, Oracle 11gR2, MySQL, SQL Loader and Export/Import, PowerShell.    Backup Software SQLBackup, LiteSpeed, RedGate, Idera SQLSafe, VEEAM and Backup Exec.  ETL Tools SSIS, BI (BIDS/SSDT).  Data Modeler SSAS, SQL Developer Data Modeler, TOAD Data Modeler.  Reporting & Audit Tools SSRS, Report Builder and SSDT, Idera SQL Compliance Manager and SQL Secure.  Virtualization VMware and Hyper-V  Third Party Tools RedGate, Spotlight, and IderaSQLsuite,phpMyAdmin, Olas's Maintenance Scripts, Iometer, PuTTY, Wireshark.  DB Query Tools MS SQL Server Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, ETL, SSMS, Enterprise Manager, PL/SQL Developer, Toad for SQL/MySQL/Oracle.  Operating System Windows 7,8, 10, Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 and 2012 servers