IT Field Technician IT Field Technician Engineering Graduate Houston, TX Self-motivated Computer Engineering graduate with strong leadership and interpersonal skills capable of conceiving and developing creative technical solutions. Superb verbal and written communication skills with the ability to relate highly technical information concisely to numerous demographics. Possesses a strong work ethic, and commitment to excelling in fast-paced and deadline-driven environments. Work Experience IT Field Technician Independent Contactor - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present Self-employed performing in-office computer and electronics repair as well as IT/Networking jobs for businesses and individual clients. Gaining additional income and networking with new clients by taking advantage of flexibility offered by Uber/Lyft while seeking a career in Technology and Engineering.  Needles SQL Database Administrator/ Legal Assistant JOHNSON LAW GROUP - Houston, TX 2015 to 2018 Position held while completing bachelor’s degree. Primary responsibilities entailed managing all back-end aspects of the company case management database program “Needles”. Imported all new cases via CSV and formatted client data properly to ensure accuracy of retained information. Routinely performed mass updates to redistribute workload for entire company and managed a database of over 90k legal cases. Responsible for building out docket environments for Attorney’s to work in, as well as creating new fields to track custom information, and designing custom reports to query the database for targeted data. Performed document coding so letters could be mass generated to thousands of clients via Microsoft mail merge and Needles. Assisted in the design of several C# programs to automate tasks and aide productivity. Account Manager SONY - Houston, TX 2011 to 2014 Responsible for the promotion of Sony products and brand image in a single base location. Used interpersonal skills to build relationships with managerial staff prompting the increase of Sony sales performance. Worked within a team to cover all areas of Sony electronics. Held marketing events and promotions attended by retail employees. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Engineering University of Houston Main - Houston, TX December 2018 Associate of Applied Science in Process Technology San Jacinto College - Pasadena, TX Research Undergraduate Student Instrumentation Project. Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma White Belt April 2018 to Present