Job Seeker Work Experience EXTREME FITNESS - Lithonia, GA November 2017 to Present Controlled and monitored user access to the database. Optimized the performance of the database. Tuned SGA data dictionary and set database parameters  ? Reorganized data files, identified and eliminated contention factors like I/O, buffers and locks  ? Allocated the separate rollback segments for the Batch processing jobs in order to speed up processing  ? Reorganized data files, identification and elimination of contention factors like I/O, buffers and locks  ? Worked with Oracle Diagnostics tools such as Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF Used to analyze timing and execution plan for SQL query to tune the SQL statements  ? Monitored Customer Databases, physically located in U.S and Remote administration of fifteen Production Databases in UNIX environment  ? Performance tuning of application and database, identification and resolution of contention, defining and implementing Backup Recovery policy, and day-to-day monitoring of the Production database  ? Worked with the physical and logical designing of the database, which includes the distribution of data- files on different disks    ROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Oracle Database Administrator FastData Nig Ltd October 2014 to October 2017 Experience in applying Patches (PSU) quarterly per Oracle release.  ? Upgrade databases per customer requests.  ? Responsible for escalations during shift.  ? Reviews mailbox report every morning for all scheduled backups through autopsies tool.  ? Participate in Team Meetings and make recommendations to management to improve the environment and invest in new technologies.  ? Backup and recovery expert.  ? Good understanding of Oracle RAC, Golden Gate and Oracle internal architecture.  ? Taking Incremental backup using RMAN.  ? Creation and maintenance of databases.  ? Creation of tables, table+spaces, users, views and related objects.  ? Performed analysis and diagnosis of database performance statistics.  ? Implemented procedures to detect the poor database performance, collecting required information, root cause analysis, successfully tuned and improved the performance of the database.  ? Tuning performance using Advisors, AWR, ADDM, SQL tuning etc.  ? Tuning SQL queries when the performance is poor.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Responsible for planning, testing and implementing different backup and recovery strategies.  ? Alert monitoring and Ticketing.  ? Implemented downstream capture at the destination database using Oracle Streams.  ? Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  ? Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  ? Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  ? Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, and Oracle Standby.  ? Responsible for logical and physical database design, implementation, transforming logical data models into physical databases, and defining strategies for database implementation, high performance, replication & failover.  ? Used Shell Scripting to backup database.  ? Physical and logical data modeling using Erwin tool.  ? Responsible for granting required privileges and roles to users.  ? Duplicating production databases.  ? Renaming and resizing databases.  ? Used TOAD for database management. System Administrator UBA NIGERIA PLC August 2011 to September 2014 • Perform installations and configurations of Grid Infrastructure, Databases Clients and much more.  • Researched tested and made recommendations of Data Validation Tools.  • Provides recommendations to management on behalf of the team.  • Developing functional process diagram for Oracle Database Services.  • Providing support to developers working on SQL including development of best practices, hands on demos, and knowledge transfer.  • Assisting with procurement of hardware, software and services.  • Perform maintenance of the Data Backup.  • Deploy bug fixes Patches and Security updates to ensure system readiness, performance resource.  • Monitor server performance, network capacity and security issues.  • Assist with audits on existing software to verify authorized use and license certification.  • Remain up-to-date on products available in the market, support new technologies.  • Disaster Recovery Testing, working with multiple departments in testing Disaster Recovery Plans.  • Designed, installed, configured and Maintained High Availability (RAC, RAC One Node, Data Guard etc.)  • Monitored Backup Operations and schedules manual Backups as needed.  • Monitor Oracle trends for hardware system and user bad load utilization.  • Responded to and resolved Database Access and performance issues. Education BSc in Economics Methodist University College Ghana Skills Database administration, Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman, Business continuity, Security, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Application integration, Perl, Scripting, Storage management, Systems administration, Rdbms, Migrations, Auditing, Integration