TRV Specialist TRV Specialist IT Professional Wichita, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience TRV Specialist Sprint - Oklahoma City, OK July 2018 to Present In depth Network-Related troubleshooting with Sprint CDMA Towers, as well as various troubleshooting with mobile handsets, tablets, and computers. Regional IT Manager Sprint - Oklahoma City, OK December 2016 to Present Work within a corporate environment to quickly and effectively resolve computer/network related issues for employees of Sprint PCS within multiple areas of the midwest, racking servers, hardware replacement, arranging meetings with Network Operations as well as overseeing and developing network projects. Basic/Advanced troubleshooting, re-imaging computers, surveying risk of software implementation.    Experience with Citrix, SQL, Server environment, oversee a call center with a headcount of 800+, support work from home agents, oversee 50 fully staffed retail locations Advanced Technical Support Sprint - Oklahoma City, OK February 2016 to December 2016 Troubleshooting various phones, various network services, various mobile broadband and connection card devices, as well as providing outstanding customer service Tech Support Sprint - Oklahoma City, OK December 2015 to November 2016 Troubleshooting various phones, various network services, as well as providing outstanding customer service Database Administrator BlurTec Automotive - Moore, OK March 2013 to July 2016 I work with confidential customer information, keeping it up to date, managing the database and server, and providing technical support. IT Specialist ShadyHosting - Dallas, TX March 2011 to May 2015 Keep all computer hardware/software up-to-date and secure Web Designer Windemere Professional Partners - Tacoma, WA March 2012 to March 2015 Helped Marguerite Giguere of WPP design websites for customers. Education Dipoloma in Computer Science Moore High School - Moore, OK August 2013 to December 2015 Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), MySQL (5 years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Computer Repair, Computer Repair (10+ years), Customer Service (5 years), Management (3 years), Desktop Support, Tech Support, SERVER SUPPORT (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2019 CompTIA Network+ April 2020 Additional Information I graduated high school a year before my class, I'm a certified computer hardware/software technician. I've been working with/around computer software and hardware for a little under 7 years now, and I am fully computer literate. I can fix any issue with a computer, big or small, I can recover deleted data from hard drives, I can analyze risk within a network and operating system, and I'm very familiar with Microsoft Windows, 10 different Distributions of Linux, and the Mac OS. I can also type up to 130 words per minute.    I have experience in enterprise re-imaging software, mapping network drives, Microsoft Office Suite (2008+) as well as Office 365. I'm looking to further advance my career to gain more experience. I have my own reliable transportation, and will re-locate anywhere in the midwest within reason.