Certified Salesforce Administrator/ Database Coordinator Certified Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/<span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator Certified Salesforce Administrator Durango, CO Work Experience Certified Salesforce Administrator/ Database Coordinator Open Sky Wilderness Therapy August 2016 to Present Supervisor: Tom Holcomb, Phone available upon request  • Certified Salesforce Administrator with 3+ years implementing Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience to over 50+ users  • Effectively communicate with employees across the country, providing technical support to ensure the team can enroll clients 24 hours a day, 7 days a week  • Skilled and knowledgeable with the core functions of Salesforce including Process Builder, Reports & Dashboards, Flows and Workflows.  • Detail orientated eye for data quality, data security, and improving organization efficiency. Program Coordinator/Global Experience Director Liaison First Descents March 2011 to July 2016 Supervisor: Peta Sheridan, Phone available upon request  • Developed and integrated new best practice policies for improved program management.  • Managed a staff of up to 15 volunteers, providing exceptional customer care and service for many participants dealing with the emotional struggles of cancer.  • Professionally maintained a client database of sensitive medical and personal information.  • Gained experience in a wide variety of roles including web development, database management, finance management, marketing, and operations.  • Proficient in Microsoft Office applications and Salesforce. Office Manager/Kayak Instructor Renaissance Adventure Guides May 2010 to February 2012 Supervisor: Lyle Phetteplace, Phone available upon request  • Certified Whitewater Kayak Instructor teaching lessons to over 50 clients weekly.  • Led weeklong youth kayak camps that included river safety, kayaking, and rapid swimming.  • Counselor at the First Descents kayak program for young adult cancer survivors. Education Bachelor of Science in Recreational Studies in Recreational Studies University of Northern Colorado May 2010 High School Diploma Windsor High School May 2005 Skills Salesforce Admin, Salesforce Certifications/Licenses Certified Salesforce Administrator Present