Wireless Manager Wireless Manager Odenton, MD Work Experience Wireless Manager Wireless Advocates - Annapolis, MD August 2018 to Present Teacher Education Program Howard Community College January 2016 to Present Teacher Education transfer programs prepare students for transfer into four-year education programs leading to a bachelor's degree. Upon completion of the education degree, students may earn their credential to be certified to teach in the state where the credential is acquired. Maryland has reciprocal certification agreements with most states. Wireless Manager AAFES - Fort Meade, MD August 2015 to September 2018 Hardlines Associate Central Checkout August 2015 to September 2018 Sells a variety of merchandise to customers using salesmanship and courtesy. Explained technical or artistic details necessary to realize full utilization/enjoyment of products purchased or information and decorating service relative to specialized in membership programs. Oracle/SQL Database Administrator New Way IT Solutions - College Park, MD June 2014 to September 2017 Manage, troubleshoot and resolve oracle database, RAC and applications issues.  Perform database cloning for pluggable database. Part of team that converted a non-container database to a container database. Perform creation of Container Pluggable databases. Part of team that upgraded 11.2.0.2 database to 12c database. Perform patching of 12c database. Refresh/Clone Database and applications for development and testing purpose. Perform installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting and performance administration of Oracle 11g.  Perform Online and Offline database backups on schedule. Scripting (shell) of automated backup for Cold / Hot backups and also defining and Setting backup and recovery procedures. Develop backup and recovery strategies for different disaster scenarios. Review alert logs and dump files to check for any problems related to the database/user. Perform database cloning/exp/imp to setup identical databases in the production and development environments. Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and to see if these queries can be fine-tuned for better performance. Team Member SEARS - Columbia, MD February 2015 to September 2015 Responsible for providing excellent customer service, efficiently and accurately completing sales and service transactions at the cash wraps, as well as handle customer issues that may arise on the sales floor. member Junior Dance Company August 2012 to June 2015 classes are run by a variety of high quality instructors and dance studios with many options for days/times/locations. Dance genres include: dance basics, ballet, pre-ballet, tap, jazz, hip-hop, rhythm & steps, and creative movement. Team Member AMC Theaters - Columbia, MD May 2013 to November 2014 Sold movie tickets and AMC Gift Cards and informed guests about current featured films, policies, programs and more. Cleaned and maintained the auditoriums, restrooms and lobbies while controlling access to the theatre and the auditoriums. Prepared and served concession items to guests, cleaned the concession area and assisted with other theatre functions.  • Extracurricular Activities Cheerleader WILDE LAKE HIGHSCHOOL August 2013 to May 2014 A member of a group that performs coordinated routines typically combining gymnastic and dance maneuvers, originally including rhythmic chants to encourage spectators to cheer at an athletic event, but often in competition with similar groups. Education Associates in English, Dance, History Howard Community College - Columbia, MD January 2016 H.S. Diploma Wilde Lake High School - Columbia, MD August 2013 High school or equivalent Hammond High School - Columbia, MD August 2012 to June 2013