Quality Assurance Auditor Quality Assurance Auditor Calu Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Auditor Cook County Sheriff Department - Chicago, IL Present • Complete internal operational audits to determine compliance with the guidelines established by the department General Orders, department Rules and Regulations, the American Correctional Association Standards, Illinois Complied Statues, Illinois Jail standards and Duran Consent Decrees.    • Reviews completed work performed by the records office Administrative Assistant’s to assess completeness, accuracy and overall quality. Reports deficiencies to supervisors and make corrections as needed. Reviews court discharge records to confirm discharge disposition’s.    • Maintain a high level of interactive communication with professional staff, supervisors and managers in order to properly assess the clerical, secretarial and administrative needs and urgency’s of the department.    • In the Executive’s absence, ensures that requests for action or information are relayed to the appropriate staff member; as needed; interpret request and help implement action; make sure that information is furnished I a timely manner; notifies the Shift Commander of important matters, including emergency incidents. Court Appointed Special Advocate Volunteer CASA Of Cook County - Chicago, IL August 2003 to September 2010 • Process new cases assigned by the court, including reviewing relevant records, documents, and clinical data in order to be fully up-to-date on a child’s specific situation.    • Performed monthly in-home visits with children. Track child’s progress toward goals, alerting the court to any circumstances require modifications of a court order.    • Appeared in court on behalf of child attended all case reviews and staffing related to the child’s well-being. Verified the child received adequate counseling, education, social, and medical services.     • Interviewed social workers, foster parents, and other involved parties to ensure all relevant facts were available for court hearings. Prepared written reports for court and provided oral testimony when needed. Database Administrator Access Living - Chicago, IL October 2004 to August 2008 • Performed on-going database maintenance and upkeep. Generated data lists and reports, conduct a queries, and recommended methods to simplify and approve database coding. Assisted with developing and implementing database conversion plan.   • Collaborated with finance and development department’s to create simplified, consistent, and accurate reports. Provided training for Department staff to ensure database was used to maximum efficiency.  • Reconciled monthly contributions. Worked with Development Director to increase online giving capacity. Education Master's in Child and Family Law Loyola University Chicago - Chicago, IL August 2008 to May 2011 Bachelor's in Criminal Justice and Psychology Chicago State University - Chicago, IL August 2003 to June 2007 Skills Outlook, Quickbooks, Payroll, Administrative Assistant, Excel, Filing, MS Office, Receptionist, Word, Scheduling Awards Alpha Sigma Lambda Honor Society 2005-06 Additional Information LEADS certified (Law Enforcement Automated Data System)