Account Management Specialist Account Management Specialist Account Management Specialist - Hub Group Roswell, GA • Skilled in Microsoft Office programs, including Access, Excel, PowerPoint, & Project  • Detail oriented and highly organized  • Ability to comfortably switch gears and adapt  • Strong problem solver and critical thinker    • Leadership initiative as well as a team player  • Experienced in navigating multiple computer systems while interacting with clients or team  • Ability to effectively communicate and connect with a variety of internal and external customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Account Management Specialist Hub Group - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Acts as the primary liaison between the company and assigned VIP account  ? Develops proactive relationship with client through resolution of any issues or concerns  ? Manages, monitors, and reports order acceptance, order maintenance, and accessorial  ? Determines which accessorial can be billed while following business protocol for conclusion  ? Offers alternative transportation solutions as necessary by analyzing internal and external account metrics  ? Manages delivery appointment needs for customer by location and product  ? Maximizes margin, network efficiency, and OTP (On time Performance) while working to reduce customer cost exposure Logistics Analyst (Escalation Team) Mitsui O.S.K Lines - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to March 2018 Serve as the escalation point for unresolved issues for Import and Export shipments  ? Investigate and address complaints and critical incidents (up to 10 cases on avg daily)  ? Book and revise shipments for smooth transit  ? Seek to improve service delivery and limit process breakdowns  ? Document service challenges via a ticketing process and follows the incident through closure  ? Update manifest on bill of ladings to ensure legal regulations are being met at destination  ? Communicate with customer beyond traditional service; create close business relationship with customers through voice and email communication Import Logistics Coordinator Mitsui O.S.K Lines - Atlanta, GA December 2016 to August 2017 Monitored containers on marine and rail terminal  ? Managed high volume up to 70 phone calls daily and 50+ emails  ? Utilized all MOL service contracts, tariffs, and regulatory documents  ? Processed all manifest corrections, cargo releases, and demurrage invoicing  ? Acted as the liaison between customer, carrier services, rail team, and customs exam sites  ? Properly handled specialized shipments including west coast, east coast, and Canadian cross border shipments, and Free Trade Zones  ? Navigated through multiple operation websites to ensure accuracy of information Rental Management Trainee Ryder Systems - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to December 2016 Handled sales calls and exceeded goal of 200 calls monthly  ? Responsible for generating rental, lease and used vehicle sales leads  ? Collected from customers with outstanding balances  ? Performed vehicle damage inspections and obtained insurance estimates  ? Maintained current accurate data and reporting within the company's marketing database  ? Processed accident and insurance packages based on Ryder's policy  ? Generated daily operational reports to ensure customer accounts are non-delinquent  ? Reconciled all customer concerns, issues, disputes in order to maintain the ongoing relationship Database Administrator Robert Half - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to June 2015 Collected, organized, and assisted with planning of transitioning data to newer platform  ? Performed Quality Assurance software testing  ? Optimized documents to comply with regulatory policies and standards  ? Assisted with military credentialing screening Servicing Specialist Ultimate Staffing - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to March 2015 Collected, organized, and assisted with planning of transitioning data to newer platform  ? Performed Quality Assurance software testing  ? Optimized documents to comply with regulatory policies and standards  ? Assisted with military credentialing screening Customer Service Representative Shaw Industries - Cartersville, GA June 2010 to September 2014 Efficiently directed in excess of 100 calls per day to appropriate departments  ? Routinely addressed customers' questions and concerns regarding their orders and accounts  ? Processed requested in accordance with service level agreements in Excel Education Bachelor of Science Kennesaw State University May 2014 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sakira-lauren-ensley-b4564098