Noida as Sr. Database Administrator Noida as Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Noida as Sr. Database Administrator - Droom Technologies • Over 5 Years of experience in MongoDB, working as Sr. Database administrator.  • Extensive experience in MongoDB 2.6,3.0,3.2,3.4,3.6, MongoDB Ops Manager, Linux, Mysql 5.6,5.7 Shell scripting, robomongo, workbench, FileZilla, Putty, Javascripting.  • Installing various versions of MongoDB on Red Hat Linux/Debian/MAC/local machines.  • Creation of Database.  • Configuring & Restoring Backups.  • Porting data between databases.  • Monitoring System Performance.  • Setup of complex sharding cluster and management.  • Setup of Ops Manager to monitor the existing MongoDB Infra.  • Administering, maintaining the development and Test Databases.  • Exporting of data from operational database to dump files & Importing backup during crisis.  • Upgrading MongoDB Databases from version 2.6 to 3.2  • Automate routine tasks via scripts and tools.  • Secure MongoDB using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Configuring, implementing and supporting high availability (Replication) in MongoDB Cluster.  • Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  • Disaster Recovery setup and best practices, including planning, testing, failover testing.  • Design & implement indexing strategies for huge data sets.  • Migrate replica cluster form one datacenter to another without downtime.  • Manage and Monitor large production Mongodb cluster environments.  • Setting up MongoDB Profiling to get slow queries.  • Pro-actively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live MongoDB issues.  • Work with Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment.  • Monitor deployments for capacity planning and performance.  • Help Development teams to understand MongoDB design principals.  • Providing 24x7 on-call support for production and development systems.  • Installing Mysql instances on Red Hat Linux/Debian/local machines  • Exporting of data from database  • Optimisation slow query through indexing  • Backup and restoration of Database  • Creating Users and assigning privileges  • Tuning of Config file to improve mysql performance  • Monitoring and setup of replication Work Experience Noida as Sr. Database Administrator Droom Technologies July 2018 to Present Worked with Droom Technologies, Gurgaon as Sr. Database Administrator from Feb'17 to April'18.  • Worked with NewcallTelecom Pvt Ltd, Gurgaon as Database Administrator from Dec'14 to Jan'17  • Worked with Nokia Solutions, Noida as AME from Nov'13 to Nov'14    Technical Skills  Databases: MongoDB, MySql, Postgresql  Tools: FileZila, Putty, Jira, robomongo, workbench, Ops Manager  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Scripting Language: Shell Scripting, Javascripting Droom Technologies July 2018 to Present Sr Database Administrator Droom Technologies - UTTAR PRADESH, IN July 2018 to Present Domain: Telecom    Project Description:  The Project is to deploy MongoDB in dev, prod environment and to manage the same.    Responsibilities:  • Installation of MongoDB in Dev, Prod Environment  • Setup of Sharding to provide geographical distribution of data  • Implementation of shell scripts to monitor MongoDB stats  • Responsible for data distribution takes place across data centres with minimal latency  • Responsible for performing extensive load testing to check the reliability of sharding cluster  • Responsible for capacity planning and tuning of system Sr Database Administrator Droom Technologies - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN July 2018 to Present Project Description:  Dish is one of our biggest client. We have to provide offshore MongoDB database support to our client like setup of Mongodb Replication in dev/qa and providing support to resolve live issues  Responsibilities  • Setup of complex MongoDB replication and management  • Setup of complex Ops Manager tool to monitor MongoDB  • Secure MongoDB using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Pro-actively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live MongoDB issues.  • Help Development teams to understand MongoDB design principals.  • Optimisation and tunning of MongoDB Sr Database Administrator Droom Technologies - UTTAR PRADESH, IN July 2018 to Present Project Description:  Dish is one of our biggest client. We have to provide offshore MySql database support to our client like setup of Mysql master-master Replication or master-slave replication in dev/qa and providing support to resolve live issues    Responsibilities:  • Setup of complex MySql master-slave setup to provide high availabilty  • Setup of complex Mysql master-master setup to provide high availablity  • Secure MySql using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Pro-actively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live MySql issues.  • Optimisation and tunning of MySql servers DROOM TECHNOLOGIES PVT LTD February 2017 to April 2018 Sr Database Administrator DROOM TECHNOLOGIES PVT LTD February 2017 to April 2018 Duration: 1 Year 2 Months  Team Size: 2    Project Description:  In this we have to manage high traffic on droom database and to optimise the long runing queries. Also providing Support, installation, troubleshooting, configuration, maintenance, administration services and data exporting from DB for Mongo DB servers    Responsibilities:  • Setup MongoDB replication and management to provide high availabilty  • Setup of new Mongodb instance for Dev/QA team to tshoot.  • Setup of Ops Manager tool to monitor MongoDB  • Exporting of data from DB for analytics team  • Setup of MongoDB backup through gzip or archive method using MongoDB Dump utility.  • Secure MongoDB using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Pro-actively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live MongoDB issues.  • Help Development teams in designing MongoDB complex Queries  • Optimisation and tunning of MongoDB    Project #6 orange book value feb 2017 - april 2018    Organization: Droom Technologies Pvt ltd  Client: Droom Technologies Pvt ltd.  Role: Sr Database Administrator  Duration: 1 Year 2 Months  Team Size: 2    Project Description:  In this we have to manage high traffic on OBV database and to optimise the long runing queries. Also providing Support, installation, troubleshooting, configuration, maintenance, administration services and data exporting from DB for Mysql DB servers    Responsibilities  • Setup of complex MySql master-slave setup to provide high availabilty  • Secure MySql using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Optimisation and tunning of MySql servers.  • Exporting data for analytics team.  • Planning for Mysql database backup using percona xtrabackup utility. NEWCALL TELECOM PVT LTD December 2014 to January 2017 Database Administrator NEWCALL TELECOM PVT LTD December 2014 to January 2017 Team Size: 1    Project Description:  Wavecrust is one of the leading telecom company in UK providing voip and data services to client. We have to manage their user and billing database    Responsibilities:  • Setup MongoDB replication and management to provide high availabilty  • Exporting of data from DB for billing team  • Secure MongoDB using authentication, Creating Users and assigning privileges.  • Optimisation and tunning of MongoDB NOKIA SOLUTIONS LTD November 2013 to November 2014 AME NOKIA SOLUTIONS LTD November 2013 to November 2014 Team Size: 7    Project Description:  Providing monitoring support to proactively work and live alerts and raise to the concerned team    Responsibilities:  • Proactively monitoring of MongoDB servers  • Start/stop service running on MongoDB servers Education B.Tech Manav Rachna International University Faridabad