Application Developer Application Developer Application Developer - Adenus Nashville, TN Pursuing a career and furthering skills as an ambitious iOS Developer. Created iOS app, available on the app store called FiitFinder. Skilled in integrating, extracting, modeling, interpreting, and reporting business, quality, and financial data in various environments. Use Xcode to develop iOS applications for iPhone and iPad in Swift. Successful in managing and leading teams in multiple projects and implementing process improvements to enhance productivity, for accurate and timely data. Experience working with a range of computer applications (Swift, Obj-C, GitHub, FileMaker, SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Java, C++, R, SPSS, MS Excel, MS Office, Oracle, HTML etc.) systems, and tools. Including these frameworks (UIKIt, CoreData, Cocoa Touch, SQLite, AVFoundation, UIMessage, AVKit, MapKit, Core Location, Firebase Cloud.)    PROFESSIONAL HIGHLIGHTS    Highly motivated, self-starter  Proficient in SQL FileMaker Pro  MS Excel Project Management  Executive support Exceptional time management and problem-solving  Metrics/Report Generation Analyze complex issues and develop solutions  Effective verbal and written communications Creative, responsive and adaptive  Strong mathematical skills Database management  Developing visualizations, dashboards, and reports Swift  Web Development  Data, operational and business analysis skills  Deep understanding of relational databases  Develop universal applications without using storyboards  Strong understanding of application architecture and object-oriented design  Experienced building consumer applications with rich UI and great UX Work Experience Application Developer Adenus - Nashville, TN January 2018 to Present Managing and creating websites for operator use. Created website with interactive map, displaying site information such as (radio usage history report, HAWK Alarm Cases, HAWK Chart, MobileConnect link, Panel Web server links (Alarms / Logs / Status & Settings), SOP links, Driving Directions.) Creating and maintaining iOS application using Swift. For operator use that consists of, ticket information for operator sites, detailed site manual for operators, logs and reports of site data, shows site locations using google map API, backend using SQL database.    • Creating website with interactive map, displaying site information such as (radio usage history report, HAWK Alarm Cases, HAWK Chart, MobileConnect link, Panel Web server links (Alarms / Logs / Status & Settings), SOP links, Driving Directions.)  • Created dashboard that dynamically displays data from SQL database  • Creating websites using PHP, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL  • Expertise in working with iOS tools (X-Code, Interface builder and Instruments).  • Expertise in Development of native iOS applications.  • Strong knowledge in utilization of different frameworks (Foundation Kit, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, AVFoundation, Core Data, Core Location, Core Graphics, animation).  • Strong Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with strategically designing and implementing the software, debugging fixing and maintaining the software.  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns (MVC, Delegation, Target-action and Slide-out Navigation).  • Expertise in creating and customizing Views, Table Views, Tab Bars and Navigation Bar which are some basic functionality in a Multiview Application.  • Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON, to dynamically display data on iPhone/iPad  • Experience working with unit test code  • Experience and knowledge of HTML, JavaScript, JSON, RESTful API, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery mobile.  • Experience with SQL/PLSQL, Core Data, Oracle 9i/11g and MySQL database, SQLite database.  • Experience writing Functional and Technical Documentation.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes. Freelance iOS Developer Nashville, TN January 2016 to Present Brought several iOS apps from conception all the way through to publication.  Collaborated with UI/UX designer in order to build interactive, responsive, and intuitive UIs.  Setup push notifications and wrote API contract in order to integrate seamlessly with other developers.  Developed internal libraries in order to quickly set up authentication, push notifications and other common infrastructures.    • Expertise in working with iOS tools (X-Code, Interface builder and Instruments).  • Expertise in Development of native iOS applications.  • Strong knowledge in utilization of different frameworks (Foundation Kit, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, AVFoundation, Core Data, Core Location, Core Graphics, animation).  • Strong Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with strategically designing and implementing the software, debugging fixing and maintaining the software.  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns (MVC, Delegation, Target-action and Slide-out Navigation).  • Expertise in creating and customizing Views, Table Views, Tab Bars and Navigation Bar which are some basic functionality in a Multiview Application.  • Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON, to dynamically display data on iPhone/iPad  • Experience working with unit test code  • Experience and knowledge of HTML, JavaScript, JSON, RESTful API, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery mobile.  • Experience with SQL/PLSQL, Core Data, Oracle 9i/11g and MySQL database, SQLite database. Volunteer State Community College Functional and Technical Documentation - Gallatin, TN March 2017 to January 2018 Gallatin, TN 03/2017 to 01/2018  Director of Institutional Effectiveness    • Ensure all database programs meet company and performance requirements.  • Developed, administrated, documented, maintained and implemented troubleshooting of FileMaker Pro database.  • Created and modified fields, calculations, scripts, tables, and relationships.  • Developed new tables and data-relationships in FileMaker.  • Maintained data standard and system functionality.  • Create project documentation and develop project standards, procedures, and guidelines.  • Solved database issues, reduced errors and implemented system performance improvements.  • Conduct analysis of statistical modeling projects with minimal guidance.  • Managing research projects from beginning to end, including data collection, analysis, and presentations.  • Developing visualizations, dashboards, and reports  • Coordinate the College's assessment and institutional effectiveness processes.  • Analyzing, manipulating and mining data  • Manage the institution's survey administration  • Refactoring SQL code to improve the design and productivity of existing code, while making it more manageable and easier to work with.  • Assist administrators in developing tools and using metrics to measure progress.  • Assist in reporting to state and federal regulators.  • Manage scheduling and assignments for part-time and student employees.  • Create presentations for the President's Cabinet to advise on strategic initiatives and areas for improvement.  • Provide timely and accurate data to departments for use in accreditation and quality improvement initiatives.  • Conduct workshops on use of data for quality improvements. Database Administrator Genco Inc A Fedex Company - Lebanon, TN February 2014 to March 2017 • Basic troubleshooting for all databases involving Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL and Golden Gate, Cognos, Commerce, WebSphere, Fusion Middleware, Oracle EBS. Escalate more complex issues to senior levels.  • Delivered complete, accurate and timely data to the project team for use as the foundation for in-depth, customized client reporting.  • Applied conditions and scripting to automatically update customer status and track sales, taxes, charges, refunds, and cancellations.  • Designed mobile interface to enable access to data via iPad and iPhone.  • Data analysis including collecting and interpreting data from primary and secondary sources for daily, weekly, quarterly, and yearly reporting.  • Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Assisted in creating and presenting informational reports for management based on SQL data.  • Compiling and maintaining quality reports as needed by site management and presenting quality metrics at daily management meetings.  • Using advanced Excel functions and databases to generate accessible and automated pivot tables and spreadsheets for metric reporting.  • Developing and initiating more efficient data collection procedures.  • Working with management to adjust, expand, and improve business information requirements.  • Data verification and correction of processed systems to ensure accuracy and customer satisfaction.  • Ensure site is meeting performance objectives related to the accuracy, timeliness, and the effectiveness of processes including receiving, induction processing, material handling, sort, and shipping procedures to ensure SOP standards are met.  • Document and maintain records of process deficiencies identified during QA audits.  • Analyze problems, develop, and implement corrective actions.  • Training and implementing educational tools and updates as needed.  • Resolve site quality, safety, and security problems and ensure that products are processed and shipped out accurately and efficiently on a daily basis. Education Middle Tennessee State University - Murfreesboro, TN Skills HTML, Javascript, SQL, Sql Server, Jquery, XML