Special Education Aide Special Education Aide Columbia, SC Work Experience Special Education Aide Richland County School District Two August 2018 to Present Under direct supervision, provides general teaching assistance to assigned Teacher(s). Supports educational goals by delivering individual or small group instruction, implements plans for the remediation of student deficiencies, assists in the development of daily living, behavioral, and vocational skills, and carefully monitors the students at all times. Substitute Teacher Richland County School District Two January 2018 to May 2018 Instructs students and facilitates their learning in the absence of the regular teacher. Provides classroom instruction to students as outlined in lesson plans. Maintains a professional appearance as an example to students. Program Specialist Boys and Girls Club of the Midlands August 2017 to December 2017 Plan, implement, facilitate, and supervise activities and programs. Promote safety of members, quality of programs and appearance of the Club at all times. Resource Database Specialist United Way Association of South Carolina August 2015 to April 2017 Responsible for maintaining the statewide comprehensive, accurate, community resource database. This position is also responsible for assisting in any reporting from the database, approval of new agencies/resources, and including but not limited to, researching new agencies and resources throughout the state Customer Service Agent United Way Association of South Carolina March 2015 to August 2015 Handles incoming calls or inquiries from prospective customers or clients. Assists customers effectively by solving customer disputes. Provides customer additional information or explains services. Discuses products offered and ensures customer satisfaction. Tactfully handles confrontational or stressful interactions with the public. Completes supporting paperwork and data entry as required. Accurately captures customer information. Program Director Boys and Girls Club of the Midlands August 2014 to February 2015 Responsible for overseeing the delivery of all program areas within the Club. Plans, develops, and manages program implementation. Supervises program staff and performs other related administrative duties. Serves as a liaison between parents, schools, community groups and Club members. Works in partnership with the Unit Director to ensure that a myriad of pro-social and youth development opportunities are available to all Club members. Provides orientation and goal setting for all Club members. Administrator Coordinator/ Officer of the Day S.C. Department of Disabilities and Special Needs April 2013 to January 2014 To act as Chief Administrator on Midlands Center Campus in the absence of the Facility Administrator, or designee. Ensures the health, safety, accountability, and developmental needs of Campus consumers, by working with shift supervisors, in- charge staff members, direct support staff members, and others as appropriate (in accordance with required statues/policies). Directly supervises all supervisory staff at Midlands during assigned duty hours, when Facility Administrator or designee is absent. Initiates as necessary, reports for critical incidents, administrative incidences, allegations of abuse, exploitation, and neglect and other policies, as appropriate. Assist nursing managers with responding to all emergencies. Conducts required inspections of fire extinguishers, conduct fire drills, and other building and facility inspections by working closely with Campus Security and Public Safety. Supervise and monitor the performance of Information Specialists. Meet and greet consumers and Midlands Center Campus visitors. Human Services Specialist S.C. Department of Disabilities and Special Needs December 2012 to April 2013 Care for adults with Autism in both residential and community settings. Coordinate activities in residential facilities, group homes, or similar establishments. Order supplies and determine need for maintenance, repairs, and furnishings. Maintain household records and assign rooms. Assist residents with problem solving or refer them to counseling resources. Education Master of Education in Guidance Counseling Cambridge College - Augusta, GA December 2014 Bachelor of Science in Family and Consumer Science South Carolina State University - Orangeburg, SC May 1995 Skills CPR Additional Information SKILLS  CPI certified (Crisis Prevention Institute) LSCI certified (Life Space Crisis Intervention)