Oracle Apps DBA Oracle Apps DBA Oracle Apps DBA - Mazda North America Irvine, CA • I'm an Oracle APPS DBA Specialist, 9+ years of experience on Oracle DBA and Apps DBA with specifically supporting production environment including maintenance, upgrades and remote support.  • Experience in ASM, RAC and Data guard concepts of Database 11g and 12c.  • Database Performance tuning expert.  • Installing and setup in Oracle RAC in VMware and standard Linux servers.  • Upgrade experience in Oracle Application from R12.1.3 to R12.2.5  • Experience in R12.1.3, R12.2.4, R12.2.5 and R12.2.6.  • Experience in SYSADMIN.  • Experience in WebLogic Administration and Apache Administration.  • Experience in OEM 11g and 12c.  • Good Experience in applying the WebLogic patches.  • Analyzing stuck threads and clearing the logging threads.  • Used the WebLogic Server Administration Console to control production-specific deployment details.  • Developed scripts to work database vault with oracle EBS R12.2.  • Cloned Oracle RAC instances from production RAC to Support, UAT, DEV RAC & NON-RAC environment.  • Experience on patches including cpu patch, rollup patch, maintenance patch and one-off patch.  • Experience in taking logical backups, Physical Backup and Using RMAN.  • Good knowledge on Backup Recovery concepts.  • Support and implementation experience in Oracle Data Guard.  • Hands on Experience on shell script and cronjobs.  • Concurrent requests issues debugging and monitoring.  • Experience in Code migrations and automation of code migrations.  • Good exposure of using Oracle performance tools like AWR/ADDM, explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, opatch, exp/imp, expdp/impdp, analyze tables and Indexes.  • Efficient standardizing databases with processes of password change, index rebuild and auditing database for security.  • Worked Oracle Applications 11i/R12 Maintenance of (uploaded customized reports using FNDLOAD, performed password change using FNDCPASS), Patching Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance  • Monitor growth of Database with scripts and resizing and reorg of the tables, Responsible for High Availability.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting of Apache, Forms, Concurrent Manager and database related issues.  • Experience in SYSADMIN activities like user creation, deactivation, responsibility creation and Role Creations.  • Table Space Management  • User Management  • Oracle DBA 11g/12c administration, New Design, Upgrades, migration, regular maintained activities  • Support for Production databases  • Excellent communication skills and interpersonal skills  • Having the knowledge of setting up jobs for routine monitoring, DB shutdown, backup, DB startup and database builds.  • Worked on 24/7 high availability environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Apps DBA Mazda North America - Irvine, CA May 2019 to Present • Performance tuning of databases.  • Configured High Availability based environments in clusters.  • Configured JDBC and JMS servers on WebLogic server.  • Installed, configured and administered Apache HTTP 2.0  • Managed WebLogic clusters having 14 managed servers on cluster of machines  • Deployed multiple applications on WebLogic server and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality.  • Fusion middleware patches installation  • Concurrent requests handling and debugging  • Concurrent mangers tuning  • Oracle Apps DBA R12 administration, New Design, Upgrades, migration, regular maintained activities.  • Resolving day to day issues with concurrent managers, Printer issues, Reports issues.  • Oracle Applications R12 Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance.  • Oracle Apps on AD utilities.  • Cloning the Production databases to test instances.  • Patching the Test/DEV Instances  • Sql tuning  • Patch analysis for database and applications patches including, family packs, and one-of patches.  • Performed patch analysis for patches involving lot of pre-requisites.  • Responsible for backups of the Prod, UAT, QA and Dev Databases for daily backup. Tech lead Techmahindra Americas INC July 2016 to Present Oracle Apps DBA Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2016 to May 2019 Haier Group Corporation is a Chinese collective multinational consumer electronics and home appliances company headquartered in Qingdao, Shandong province, China. It designs, develops, manufactures and sells products including air conditioners, mobile phones, computers, microwave ovens, washing machines, refrigerators, and televisions.    Responsibilities:  • Attending Day-to-Day Issues using Service now.  • Configured High Availability based environments in clusters.  • Configured JDBC and JMS servers on webLogic server.  • Installed, configured and administered Apache HTTP 2.0  • Managed Weblogic clusters having 14 managed servers on cluster of machines  • Deployed multiple applications on WebLogic server and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality.  • Fusion middleware patches installation  • Concurrent requests handling and debugging  • Concurrent mangers tuning  • Oracle Apps DBA R12 administration, New Design, Upgrades, migration, regular maintained activities.  • Resolving day to day issues with concurrent managers, Printer issues, Reports issues.  • Oracle Applications R12 Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance.  • Oracle Apps on AD utilities.  • Cloning the Production databases to test instances.  • Patching the Test/DEV Instances  • Sql tuning  • Patch analysis for database and applications patches including, family packs, and one-of patches.  • Performed patch analysis for patches involving lot of pre-requisites.  • Responsible for backups of the Prod, UAT, QA and Dev Databases for daily backup.    ? Multiple projects -Oracle India Mar 2015 - Jun 2016    Worked on certification of products like R12.2.5, Data base 12.2, Data masking, and Db vault.  • As part of these certifications I have been doing the installation, upgrading and migrating databases and EBS environments.  •Doing some research kind of work on existing scripts which will improve performance of existing applications.  •Installation of RAC databases and certification of new release 12.2 database.  •Worked on Data masking and database vault certifications on EBS R12.1.3 and EBS R12.2 with OEM 12c. Senior Database Administrator 2015 to June 2016 Oracle APPS DBA Accenture Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to January 2015 Celgene is a global biopharmaceutical company committed to improving the lives of patients worldwide. At Celgene there is support IQTRAC tool, where tickets are queued up daily. We need to pick up tickets and resolve depending upon the severity of the ticket.    As a Oracle Apps DBA, I worked on the Production, UAT, SUPPORT and Development environments.  Responsibilities:  • Attending Day-to-Day Issues using Remedy tool  • Cloning the Code Trees for 10G RDBMS/CRS  • Installed RAC Database for Non-ERP Instances  • Patching the Test/DEV Instances  • Cloning Non-ERP Databases  • Created, configured and maintained Weblogic managed servers and server clusters.  • Deployed and maintained web, Java, and enterprise applications.  • Installed and configured plugins such as Apache, Tomcat, and Sun One with Weblogic.  • Configured JDBC with databases such as Oracle and Point Base.  • Pager Duty  • Schema Migration using Export/Import Utilities  • Space Management  • Supporting Monthly/Quarterly ERMO Activities  • Supporting Deployment Process  • Migration of 10g Databases to 11g  • Monitor alert logs, space and object growth related problems in the databases.  • Planning and managing database backups.  • Analysis of trace and log files to determine and resolve potential problem areas.  • Monitored and diagnosed database performance through monitoring of alert files, trace files.  • Post installation trouble shooting.  • Cloning from Production database to Support database and Testing.  • Perform a daily database refresh of the training and practices instances from pre-production and Production server.  • Patch analysis for database and applications patches including, family packs, and one-of patches.  • Performed patch analysis for patches involving lot of pre-requisites.  • Good exposure of using Oracle performance tools like AWR/ADDM, STATSPACK, Explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, ANALYZE Indexes Opatch.  • Object re-organization and other database maintenance task.  • Creating/rebuilding indexes, analyzing the schemas.  • Responsible for backups of the Prod, UAT, QA and Dev Databases for daily backup, weekly on RMAN and Snap.    Environment: Oracle Database 11g ,Sql developer, Excel 2013/2010/2007,Linux 5.5 Senior Software Engineer Accenture Pvt Ltd 2011 to 2015 Oracle DBA Accenture Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2011 to May 2012 UCAL Fuel Systems India limited Chennai the manufacturer in carburetor in India having 3 plants at different locations and they have implemented Manufacturing module AP, AR For their business process    Responsibilities:  • Applied patches (One-off, Mini-patch, Rollup Patch, CPU) and performing AD activities and Trouble shooter several worker issues and used default files to reduce patch timelines.  • Monitoring table space free spaces, re-sizing data files, Alert log trace files.  • Responsible for cold/hot and rman backups.  • Cloning production RAC to uat RAC & NON-RAC environment.  • Oracle utilities, SQL Loader, Export and Import and other tools of Enterprise Manager.  • Support: Provide Technical support, Troubleshoot and resolve issues related to the PROD/DEV environments  • Oracle Apps on AD utilities.  • Supporting to 300 users, daily issues resolving.  • Efficient in standardizing best database practices, processes and auditing database for security  • Monitor growth of Database with scripts and resizing the tables, Responsible for High Availability.    Environment:: Oracle Database 9i/10g ,SQL developer, Excel 2013/2010/2007,Linux 5.5. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications JNTU Skills ORACLE, SQL, LINUX, RDBMS, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server