Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Alexandria, VA An able, enthusiastic, skilled, and reliable Database Administrator (DBA), seeking a position that reflects my experience, skills and personal attributes including dedication, meeting goals, creativity and the ability to follow through. Work Experience Database Administrator Sevatec Inc - Falls Church, VA April 2012 to August 2013 Provided more than one year support to the development/maintenance of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) oracle database.  • Ensured system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades are adhered to.  • Implemented client's policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of government data, reports and accesses.  • Managed and ensured that users were given the right privileges and roles.  • Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure in the development environment.  • Worked with developers to analyze data problems and suggest solutions.  • Setup technical procedures and administrative policies for production, test and development databases physical design, administration, and maintenance  • Documented procedure and guide for the usage of Serena Dimensions application, regarding changes to requirements and software configurations set by the client, and deploy those releases in Serena Dimensions.  • Used different Oracle tools such as SQL*Plus, Database Control (Enterprise Manager) and SQL Developer to perform database administrative functions within the ATF development environment. DBA ISHGLO-ONE - Frederick, MD February 2011 to October 2011 Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Created database tables and table dependencies such as indexes, stored procedures, functions, packages, views, materialized views etc.  • Performed various DBA Maintenance tasks such as rebuilding indexes, validating constraints, reorganizing tables using the move command.  • Installed and verified the database software on the database server. Planned, prepared and scheduled software installation.  • Installed, upgraded and configured Oracle 10g and 11g on Unix/Linux and Windows.  • Applied patches; upgrade Oracle server and application tools, maintained the software at the latest stable release level and tested and verified the installed components.  • Used RMAN to perform database recoveries when necessary.  • Applied Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches on databases every quarter.  • Managed Archive logs and Redo logs. Education BS in Information Systems/ Database Management Strayer University - Alexandria, VA March 2011 Associate of Applied Science Computer Learning Center - Alexandria, VA May 1999 Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS    • Design, build and implement Oracle database.  • Able to do system upgrades, backups and retrievals  • Create and manage users.  • Manage client's database development environment.  • Analyze, troubleshoot database and software application issues and suggest solution.  • Ability to install and upgrade Oracle database software.  • Experience using Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Manage Archived logs and Redo logs  • Configure Flashback database and  Restore Point.  • Apply Oracle Critical/Security Patch Update (CPU)  • Use RMAN to perform administrative  functions such as database recoveries.  • Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring.  • Monitor Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • Use of Serena Dimensions application.  • Able to adhere to client's business policy.    OTHER SKILLS  • Excellent diagnostic and communication skills, and highly motivated.  • Excellent problem-solving abilities  • Oracle Database on Unix or Windows platform.  • Reliable and highly motivated.