HR Assistant / Database Administrator HR Assistant / <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> HR Assistant / Database Administrator Sunny Isles Beach, FL Work Experience HR Assistant / Database Administrator Supra Security Inc - Doral, FL January 2019 to June 2019 Design and Maintenance of a Winteam/Ehub database. Maintenance of a  Deputy database. Manteinance of an HR pipeline, and contact numbers of holding applicants.    • Verification and correction of personal information of our ADP database for the smooth and secure running of payrolls and other accountancy tasks made by the HR director. Supervision of the employment full cycle of our employees,  recruitment, interview, hiring and onboarding processes. Conflict Resolutions,  appointments, Disciplinary Reports, Scheduling. Promotions, demotions and terminations.    • Focused on compliance and manteinance of database, personnel sheet, HR  pipeline, and different forms and documents required for hiring and compliance with government institutions (I-9 form, W4, department of  Agriculture and Personnel Action Form), manipulation and keeping of documents with sensitive, license background check and confidential  information, in a tidy, methodical and discreet fashion. Customer Service / Host Rack's Italian Kitchen - Miami, FL 2012 to 2014 Utilize proper phone etiquette for all incoming and outgoing phone calls made to customer. Provide continuous attention to customer needs; greet, assist and thank customers in a prompt, courteous and friendly manner. Customer Service / Human Resources Representative Cordelería Hercules Cádiz, Cádiz provincia 2009 to 2012 Oversee our customer service team. Set reasonable guest satisfaction goals and work with the team to meet them on a consistent basis.    • Interact with customer on a daily basis, responding to their questions and guiding them to the appropriate service. Utilize proper phone etiquette for all  incoming and outgoing phone calls    • On-board new employees and train them based on your expertise and skill set.  • Create and implement an effective customer loyalty program. Education Master in Human Resources Administration EUDE Business School - Centro-Madrid, Madrid provincia June 2018 to July 2019 Bachelor Degree (4 years) in Social and Cultural Anthropology Universidad Complutense de Madrid - Madrid, Madrid provincia September 2012 to February 2018 Diploma in Graphic Design Assistant Preventec Consulting - Jerez de la Frontera, Cádiz provincia February 2010 to October 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Recruiting and Interviews (5 years), Database Entry (3 years), Winteam (Less than 1 year), Deputy (1 year), ADP (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/axel-colmenares-civila-9597ab176 Additional Information Bilingual (Spanish / English)  Willing and able to relocate.  Reference numbers and commendation letters upon request.