Vice President Vice President Nashville, TN Experienced Sales and Operations Manager - Skilled in large project management and implementation, sales planning and training, procedure analysis and optimization, and team-building. Skilled in data analysis, executive presentations, needs assessments, department development, sales, and financial management.    Method is to ensure best practices are implemented through a resource driven approach that includes good data, personnel management, and strategic planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Vice President Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN May 2018 to July 2019 Led Sales, Sales Administration, Billing, Purchasing, and Logistics departments of a $100 million company during a CEO transition and in the absence of a Corporate President.    • Modernized sales division with new CRM, tablets, and E-Signature  • Shortened month-end billing from a couple weeks to a couple days  • Implemented quality measures in supplies to identify over $250k in expired supplies and prevented future expirations  • Closed over $2 million in government bids  • Reduced stocking levels to one-month run rates of forecasting through manufacturer’s year end Director of Sales Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN January 2018 to May 2018 Managed 10 sales markets including: 10 market managers, over 15 sales managers, and over 100 sales representatives and specialists. In addition, directly managed the Managed Print and Sales Support divisions.    ·      Drove sales organization to producing over $100 million in annualized revenue  ·      Incorporated Salesforce implementation including CPQ and Adobe E-Signature  ·      Restructured Sales Support and Accountability to reduce customer loss by 5% monthly Director of Sales Operations Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN January 2017 to January 2018 Built and managed a successful business unit and implemented formulated best practices from it across all sales operations and business units.    ·      Expanded auto-fulfillment program to provide just-in-time automated supplies to customers reaching over 20% of all deliveries  ·      Developed best practices for selling managed printer services in other business units including quoting models and processes  Took over a delayed Salesforce launch to get it back on track within 6 months Director of Managed Services Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN June 2016 to January 2017 Developed a sales division for managed printer and managed IT services from scratch.  ·      Hired, trained, and managed 5 Regional Specialists covering from Dallas to Atlanta supporting over 100 sales reps Business Development Manager Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN April 2015 to June 2016 Pioneered a new business unit and operated as both manager and only sales rep.    ·      Closed over $500k in contracts during the first year  ·      Produced and established processes and best practices, including pricing and all relevant materials National Sales Administrator/ Database Administrator Novatech, Inc. - Nashville, TN February 2014 to June 2016 Managed CRM Database and sales administration team    ·      Redesigned and implemented a failed CRM to serve Salesforce  ·      Built an in-system quoting tool  Mobilized all sales divisions to collaboratively rebuild internal workflow system able to support thousands of deals annually Education MASTER'S DEGREE in GLOBAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP UNIVERSITY OF SAN FRANCISCO, IQS (Spain), Fu Jen (Taiwan) August 2012 to December 2013 BACHELOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in Finance UNIVERSITY OF SAN FRANCISCO August 2009 to May 2012 Skills Microsoft Excel (6 years), Salesforce (2 years), Sherpa (4 years), Microsoft Access (1 year), Microsoft Outlook (4 years), Six Sigma (3 years), Purchasing, Procurement, Logistics, Outlook Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Black Belt Professional (SSBBP) June 2019 to Present Credential ID: 27571699 5S Concept Certified (5SC) May 2019 to Present Credential ID: 26886182 Additional Information Honors & Awards:  - Nashville Business Journal: Employee of the Year (Company Culture Category)  - Team Leader Trip: 2014 - 2018  - Team Leader of the Quarter: Q1 2015