Program Assistant/ Front desk Associate Program Assistant/ Front desk Associate Program/Research Assistant Silver Spring, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Assistant/ Front desk Associate Inova Well - Fairfax, VA February 2019 to Present Worked with Inova Well as a Program Assistant/Front Desk Associate. Major achievements:  • Perform duties related to front desk, reception, and retail procedures  • Provide superior member service to each member, client and guest  • Process payments and memberships  • Maintain the front desk, reception, and retail areas in an organized manner  • Complete sales tours and calls as needed  • Complete admin tasks as assigned Certified Nursing Assistant Cobbdale Assisted Live In - Fairfax, VA November 2018 to Present ·        Provides patients' personal hygiene by giving bedpans, urinals, baths, backrubs, shampoos, and shaves; assisting with travel to the bathroom; helping with showers and baths.  ·        Provides for activities of daily living by assisting with serving meals, feeding patients as necessary; ambulating, turning, and positioning patients; providing fresh water and nourishment between meals. Dental Office Manager Nkutu Kirunda, DDS, PLLC - Washington, DC April 2018 to November 2018 Working with Nkutu Kirunda Dental Practice as a Front Desk office Manager. Major achievements:  • Managing the client tracking system to organize scheduling, reception, billing, and record keeping.  • Maintaining and expanding the client base for the facility.  • Supporting client satisfaction through enhancing customer care and addressing client feedback.  • Hiring, training, and supervising office and custodial staff.  • Managing the office supply chain system to ensure adequate stock of equipment and supplies are available at all times.  • Tracking dental office expenses, preparing financial documents like tax returns, and managing employee payroll.  • Coordinating office activities to promote efficiency and improve patient service. Volunteer Department of Health and Human Services - Rockville, MD October 2017 to November 2017 Worked under the direct supervision of the Director of the Working Parents Assistance Program. The Department assists eligible families by contributing to the cost of child care through the County funded Program. Major achievements:  • Supported with client flow management at the facility. Facilitated logistics and record management both manual and electronic  • Facilitated the update of the departments planner for their events, schedules, and other important dates. Volunteer ( Database Administrator) Computer Frontiers - Frederick, MD 2016 to January 2016 Played a critical role in the transformation of paper-based research materials into electronic format under the direct supervision of company's woman CEO. Major achievements:  • Photocopied and collated documents for assigned projects  • Managed and maintained designated filing systems  • Managed and maintained designated databases  • Monitored and managed designated email accounts  • Completed basic, routine purchasing transactions for inventories and supplies  • Assisted with organizing, updating, and editing electronic documents  • Performed clerical and administrative duties including filing, faxing, data entry, and scheduling Technical Administrative Assistant American Speech- Language Hearing Association - Rockville, MD May 2013 to July 2013 Worked within the non-profit organization's Information Technology department with the role of improving membership data information. Major achievements:  • Performed database tasks to maintain membership data in netFORUM.  • Coordinated marketing of ASHA resources and membership with decision support data for the action center.  • Performed data integration project support between Raiser's Edge and netFORUM.  • Acted as a data steward and report writer for membership in netFORUM.  • Conducted research and data mining to trace membership data deposited in ancillary databases.  • Supported international institution data registry in Higher Education module for netFORUM Research Assistant Stanford Faculty Development Center - Stanford, CA January 2007 to March 2010 Played a critical role within the medical consultancy analyzing, synthesizing, and interpreting medical teaching data  Worked closely with Sr. Leadership team. Major achievements included:  • Provided administrative support, managed logistics and financial component for SFDC annual medical teaching event.  • Assisted in development of training materials and evaluation instruments.  • Conducted post-evaluations to investigate impact of the training program and how it could be improved in the future.  • Authored demographic & pre-post summary reports circulated among SFDC senior staff.  • Specialized in data quality, organization and profiling using SPSS, SAS, Advanced Excel to create and deliver reports for SFDC medical training program.  • Performed and was acknowledged as an author of the data analysis in the Medical Teacher, a peer-reviewed journal article.  (https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01421590802638055?scroll=top&needAccess=true) Graduate Intern United Nations Development Program - New York, NY September 2004 to December 2004 While pursing my master's degree in Economics, I interned with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) under the direct supervision from Dr. Lamin M. Manneh a lead Economist at the African Bureau. Major achievements:  • Reviewed existing national policies, strategies and policy documents.  • Learned and applied UNDP Rapid Integrated Assessment methodology for policy alignment and mapping.  • Prepared policy papers on specific themes and assist in compiling charts, figures, tables and statistic annex. Education MA in AFRICAN STUDIES-PUBLIC HEALTH Graduate School of African Studies, Stanford University - Stanford, CA 2009 to 2011 ECONOMICS Graduate School of Economics, Northeastern University - Boston, MA 2003 to 2005 BSc in MATHEMATICS Makerere University - Kampala, UG 1999 to 2002 Skills Front Office, Spss, Sass, Advanced Excel, Microsoft office Certifications/Licenses Driver's License updated CNA Additional Information Current CPR for children and adults