Senior Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator Senior Systems Engineer/<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator Iowa City, IA Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator Infosys Limited February 2016 to July 2018 Client: Visa.- Colorado - USA  Role: Senior Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator.  Tenure: Feb 2016 - July 2018  ? Installed, upgraded and configured SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 for several applications with latest service packs.  ? Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition.  ? Installed and administered Eight-Node cluster Active/Passive on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  ? Migrated SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SSIS 2012.  ? Implemented Log shipping and mirroring as a part of HA and DR.  ? Performed installation of SQL Enterprise 2012 SP1 CU 5 64bit version on Windows 2012.  ? Worked on Always ON Environment and configured Always on in SQL 2012 version with 5 replicas which included 1 primary replica and 4 secondary replicas.  ? Supported customer service databases which are more than 1TB size.  ? Actively Participated in DR Test.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  ? Backup and Restoration of Databases using Backup and SQL native methods  ? Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  ? Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  ? Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  ? Ensured security logins and database access permissions  ? Scheduled Alerts and Jobs Using SQL Server Agent (Automation)  ? Deploy SSIS packages in various environments Development/test/Stage/production.  ? Proficiency in developing Maintenance plans, backup, recovery strategies and Rebuild/Reorganize strategies  ? Reviewing and verifying Database backup details, Database user privileges, Inactive user accounts.  ? Monitoring Year Old SQL Authenticated accounts, Sys Admin Accounts and Password Policy Check for SQL Accounts.  ? Experience with moving physical data and log file from one drive to another drive  ? Monitoring CPU resource usage and SQL Server disk management  ? Configured Database mail and linked servers between SQL Server to SQL Server, SQL to Oracle Servers Senior Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator Infosys Limited August 2011 to June 2015 Tenure: Aug 2011- June 2015    Worked in the team (Line 1 and Line 2) as a senior resource (Systems Engineer).Involved in various issues under incident management like handling. Break fix issues, incidents, requests etc. Maintained Microsoft Server for all the SQL Server related queries/issues and having good experience in configuration and troubleshooting High Availability Tools of Microsoft SQL server like, Replication, Mirroring, Log shipping and Clustering.    Responsibilities  ? As a SQL DBA for IMS team, I am responsible for responding to high-level troubleshooting requests from various teams and team members.  ? Implemented the issues as per the user requirements.  ? Troubleshooting on SQL Server Full, Differential, Transaction Log Backup Failures  ? Troubleshooting on SQL Server Database Data File Full/ Log File Full issues.  ? Good hands On Log shipping, Alwayson, Clustering and Mirroring.  ? Worked on 2node and geo clustering.  ? Worked under Active/passive Clustering environment.  ? Implemented Log shipping and mirroring as a part of HA and DR.  ? Supported Customer service databases which are more than 2TB.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  ? Played an active role in requirements gathering, blueprint, design, configuration and documented  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency  ? Complete documentation about the database Created groups, roles, users and assigned access privileges to users.  ? Scheduled jobs and alerts using SQL Server Agent.  ? Documented HA and DR strategies and actively Participated in DR Test.  ? Updating/Deleting Filestream Data.  ? Implemented Robocopy process with SQL Agent to automate the file transfer  ? Troubleshoot issues with Availability Groups/Replicas/Databases/Listener  ? Handling issues with Databases out of sync in Availability Groups  ? Configuring backup strategies for Databases in Availability Groups  ? Monitoring Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning, troubleshooting. Monitoring Dashboard Reports for Performance Tuning and finding bottlenecks in database.  ? Expertise in handling Incidents, Service Requests.  ? Replication, Always On Availability Groups and Clustering.  ? Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and leadership skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  ? Monitoring the alerts of the job failures, log file issues and data file issues  ? Involved In Building out New secondary Data- center servers, by configuring SQL 2005/2008/2012 with DR Strategy.  ? Geo-Clustering with 2 and 3 nodes (multi-subnet.  ? Experience working in Active/Passive, Active/Active cluster environment.  ? Experience with HA/DR SAN Production environment - AlwaysOn,  ? Expertise implementing high availability with Always on Availability Groups and failover clustering.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, Business Intelligence - MS SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS) and MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Agent, SQL Profiler, Comm Vault, Database Mail, T- SQL, Windows2003/2008 server, SQl sentry, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Database, Sql Server