Systems Analyst/Project Engineer Systems Analyst/Project Engineer System Support Specialist- Honeywell Raleigh, NC Work Experience Systems Analyst/Project Engineer Honeywell - Raleigh, NC September 2017 to Present Implementation Lead FUJITSU NORTH AMERICA - Durham, NC July 2016 to September 2017 Key member of Data Activity Monitoring team. Responsible for implementing security systems for the client that provide detection, prevention, containment, and deterrence mechanisms to protect sensitive data.  • Maintain the IBM Security infrastructure and software with system patches and upgrades in order to meet compliance standards.  • Experienced with deployment/administration of IBM Guardium v9/v10 and IBM PIM v 2.0/v2.1.0 data security tools.  • Demonstrated experience in configuring STAP/GIM agents on the databases servers and configuring inspection engines for Oracle, DB2 and MS SQL server platforms.  • Experienced with compliance requirements for database security (HIPAA etc.).  • Maintain access for GUI admin, access manager and account passwords.  • Responsible for alerting, reporting and RCA in case of any malicious or abnormal reported by IBM Guardium.  Highlighted Contributions:  ? Successfully Implemented IBM InfoSphere Guardium within an enterprise environment with about 350 production databases running on Oracle, SQL Server and DB2 on Linux, AIX, Solaris and Windows platforms.  ? Involved in planning and execution of Guardium upgrade from v9 to v10.  ? Successfully implemented and administered PIM monitoring in the customer environment.  ? Designed compliance and audit reports to clean up the traffic and implemented policies in place to monitor sensitive customer data.  ? Designed security solutions for business technology requirements according to HIPAA standards.  ? Implemented custom monitoring plans, Audit reports as per the customer standards in IBM Guardium.  ? Communicated with IBM (PMRs) for resolution of issues. Project Lead-Oracle Database Administrator FUJITSU NORTH AMERICA April 2016 to July 2016 Provided expert level support for creation of a brand new QA environment for critical applications. Responsible for formulating a process to transfer production data to the new environment and successfully integrate user encryption for QA users into the new region.  • Used RMAN strategies to transfer data from production to the new region.  • Evaluated technical documentation in an effort to resolve NAS issues.  • Installed, configured and maintained oracle databases to be customer ready in time.  • Tuned the new databases as per the requirements from developers/testers.  Highlighted Contributions:  ? Recognized by customer for delivering the critical environment for the application team before deadline.  ? Responsible for Installation of oracle software on the new UNIX servers.  ? Configured RMAN scripts to disk for backup and restore procedures.  ? Configured automated jobs for the new databases using control-m and Crontab.  ? Worked with application team to perform necessary database modifications.  ? Prepared technical documentation for the team. Oracle Database Administrator TUFTS UNIVERSITY February 2016 to April 2016 Provided technical support as part of Tufts Technology services to support over hundred production and development databases. Responsible for troubleshooting Oracle and Microsoft SQL server databases, improving performance of on-line applications and batch processing, and integrating new technologies into product.  • Provide production support of applications, databases and/or systems.  • Evaluate systems and processes in an effort to resolve technical problems.  • Install, configure and maintain oracle and SQL server databases.  • Manage and perform standard maintenance, performance monitoring, and tuning of database instances.  • Support existing databases while assuring optimized performance, stability and uptime.  • Assess databases to assist in troubleshooting and performance tuning.  Highlighted Contributions:  ? Responsible for Installation and upgradation of all existing databases to the current oracle version.  ? Configured SQL server databases for windows platforms.  ? Modifying existing database refresh standards and procedures.  ? Work with application to perform necessary database modifications.  ? Prepared new training documentation for the team. Project Lead-Oracle Database Administrator FUJITSU NORTH AMERICA February 2014 to November 2015 Provided 24x7 support to Production/Test/QA/Development databases to identify the root causes associated with bottlenecks related to database and application interaction. Additionally, provide support for application release changes. Served as a strategic thought leader and effective problem solver, leveraging leadership, technical, and project management skills to advance capabilities, establish protocols, and mitigate technical risks.  • Function in a lead IT capacity, tasked with leading administrative projects.  • Interacted with development and application teams to determine application data access requirements.  • Analyzed database resource consumption, for problem avoidance and trend forecasting.  • Installed, upgraded and patched Oracle databases to keep the environment current.  • Experienced in implementing High availability and disaster recovery solutions.  • Performed database performance tuning using approved solutions and utilities.  • Interacted with Oracle Support to resolve issues with respect to any new bugs.  • Maintained user reference by maintaining technical documentation about the environment.  Highlighted Contributions:  ? Upgraded analytical Databases to the current versions of Oracle.  ? Migrated databases over different platforms using data pump utilities.  ? Within the first two months of the consultant project, hand selected to take over all backup operations. Successfully overcame a long-standing technical issue by modifying policies and setup. Implemented a new method for setting up backups, trained team members and avoided a crisis situation.  ? Recognized by senior management optimizing the backup systems; simplified critical scripts and ensured they worked properly.  ? Performed fail over testing to simulate production database disaster recovery using SRDF replication. Business Analytics and Reporting Associate WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE June 2013 to August 2013 Worked under the mentorship and guidance of the IT Manager and VP; selected into a highly competitive internship tasked with analyzing the utilization statistics of OBIEE Enterprise Analytics and Reporting System for this global company with operating income of $910M.  • Provided useful inputs towards the wider OBIEE initiative in EBS reporting project planning.  • Performed quality assurance on Wyndham OBIEE training created as part of the OBIEE.  Highlighted Contributions:  ? Enhanced Internal Audit reporting for WWC and WER resulting in significant benefit and savings for the business.  ? Architected and optimized key reports modified their layout, transparency and clarity.  ? Managed and supported IBM Cognos production issues related to the BI environment. Infrastructure Analyst RANBAXY PHARMACEUTICALS, INC May 2010 to May 2011 Prepared a disaster recovery plan for the North American region operations. Tiered the applications accessed by users. Determined the RPO and RTO for various applications and data. Investigated and proposed DR site as per the user requirements for various data centers. Performed desktop support duties such as install new windows OS and upgraded existing software for the new laptops.  • Planned and concluded DR proposals using SAN based recovery, VMware options and back up based recovery using Data Domain Software.  • Conducted problem determination using documented procedures and available tools supporting computer software and hardware including Windows XP, Internet services, Hosted Email services, printing, scanning, telephone, and other technology services.    • Ensured problem resolution by updating the Track-It Case Management system for problem resolution, by initiating and tracking problem assignments to technical resources.  • Assisted meetings and carried out operations to tier different systems as per the OS requirements. Education M.S. in International Business New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ December 2013 B.S. in Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ August 2007 to December 2011 Skills Database Administration (5 years), Project Management (3 years), Change Management (4 years), System Administration (2 years), Cloud Computing (1 year) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation June 2017 to Present Cloud U May 2017 to December 2020 CAPM May 2018 to May 2023