Application Developer Application Developer Application Developer - Mizuho Bank New York, NY I've worked as a business and technology consultant and have a passion for cutting edge technology. I'm involved in many local and online technology and meetup communities to always expand my knowledge. I've played the role of Integration specialist with experience working on projects using a range of integration technologies including IBM, MuleSoft, Tibco, developing web services and APIs. Quick learner with solid experience in development, architecture, and business analysis. Industry experience in finance, healthcare, and pharmaceuticals with ability to discuss and define project requirements and deliverables with clients and team members, whether working on-site or remote. Strong team-building and collaboration skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Mizuho Bank March 2019 to Present Playing a key role in leading research and development of conversion of a large java application to IBM Integration Bus v10. Development and testing of large file transfer application. Application Developer Bank of America August 2018 to March 2019 Lead research and development in automated deployments for a large routing application developed in IBM Integration Bus v10. Created shell scripts and Jenkins pipelines for the application to trigger continuous integration. Went through proof-of-concept, production product, and migration. Lead Consultant Crypto Centric Blockchain Networks April 2018 to July 2018 Lead blockchain research and development. Attend industry related events and meetups. Implement blockchain software for real estate startup company dealing with tokenization of property assets. Integration Specialist, Leveraging Technology 2012 to April 2018 Lead technology research and present market opportunities to senior leadership. Member and leader of development teams for numerous enterprise and application integration projects. Responsibilities included the design, architecture, development and implementation of:  • Financial services application executing transfer of funds among commercial bank accounts.  • Health insurance application to calculate out-of-pocket maximums for health insurance patients.  • Integration solution to calculate patient payment delinquency using IBM IIB/Message Broker.  • Microservices for a healthcare company that included X12 270/271, as well as Rx claims using the NCPDP standard.  • Integration solution(using IBM IIB/Message Broker) to take in X12 277CA healthcare data from a state exchange, and process it against outbound 837I/P/D claims.  • X12 data integration from Tibco Foresight and Exchange Encounter Claims to support the All Payer Database requirement for the New York State Healthcare exchange.  • Pharmaceutical enterprise architectural analysis.  • RESTful microservices for a pharmaceutical company that included Rx Benefit Verifications, Major Medical Benefit Verifications, and Analytics.  • Application to find nearby pharmacies using importation of CSV file, RESTful API, Shell Script, and SQL Server.  • Web application for a mining company that tracked dispatches from various stockpile locations using Angular 4 web framework (Typescript, html, css).  • Api development and integration services for Healthcare Payer CRM. Database Administrator Thomas and Solomon LLP 2011 to 2012 • Maintained availability and integrity of data in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Designed front-end interfaces.  • Designed and executed queries to filter information for paralegals/lawyers. Education B.S. in Computer Science St. John Fisher College Skills Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql, Visual studio, Api, C++, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Python, Scripting, Svn, Visual basic, Xml, Xsl, Linux Certifications/Licenses IBM Certified Solution Developer – Integration Bus V9.0 MuleSoft Certified Developer – Integration and API Associate Additional Information Technical Skills  • Operating Systems - Unix, Linux (RedHat, CentOS, Ubuntu), Windows  • Languages, Runtimes, and Tools - Java, C, C++, XML, XSL, WSDL, ANT, SQL, HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Typescript, JMS, JDBC, Spring, JUnit, JSF, JPA, ESQL, DataWeave, Git, SVN, Shell Scripting, Visual Basic, Python, Express, Angular, Protractor, Nodejs, Node-red, Solidity, Truffle, Web3, Geth, Smart Contracts, Docker, Tomcat, Maven, Artifactory, Eclipse, Visual Studio, rfhUtil  • Software - IBM WebSphere MQ, WebSphere Message Broker, IBM Integration Bus, IBM API Connect, IBM MQMFT, IBM Bluemix, MuleSoft ESB, MuleSoft Anypoint Platform, Microsoft Azure, Tibco EMS, Tibco Business Works, DB2, SQL Server, VMWare, VirtualBox, JIRA, Horizon, Jenkins