Marketing Manager Marketing Manager Marketing Manager Bethpage, NY M.B.A. professional with over ten years experience in investment banking, asset management, fixed income, financial services, insurance, e-business and internet/information technology industries. Work Experience Marketing Manager Guardian Life Insurance Company - New York, NY 2003 to 2006 Agency, Leadership and Practice Development Group, Individual Markets Department)  • Implemented and supported the Advanced Marketing Firm Program in the general agencies, which led to a 37% annual increase in production.  • Promoted and encouraged individual and agency membership in professional associations: GAMA, MDRT, NAIFA and LIMRA. Oversaw production certifications, developed promotional materials, created and disseminated communication announcements.  • Wrote marketing articles, created recognition bulletins and maintained the new corporate website.  • Designed training PowerPoint presentations, user manuals, brochures and flyers for Guardian's CRM solution.  • Improved communication with the field, created multiple Lotus Notes Databases and access databases to produce quantitative and qualitative results to measure success of various programs and marketing initiatives.  • Supported agency Marketing Directors with their firm's target market strategies; developed monthly conference call topics, annual symposium and created welcome kit for new Marketing Directors.  • Consulted with agency heads and created individualized marketing plans for financial representatives. Internet Marketing Analyst, (Interactive Marketing Group Publishers Clearing House - Port Washington, NY 2002 to 2003 • Developed, implemented and analyzed Internet marketing campaigns results and overall effectiveness, resulting in 50% paid buyers increase from 87 million to 176 million in 6 months.  • Launched e-mail marketing customer retention programs through testing, surveys and introduction of new email mail messages to clients.  • Evaluated market trends and tracked response rates to promotional activities in order to recommend strategy adjustments. Project Manager Reuters America Holdings 2000 to 2001 Supervised product promotion campaigns involving global market research, market surveys, product testing, press releases and marketing collateral resulting in increased yearly sales of 27%.  • Created marketing communication materials, developed presentations and sales support materials.  • Successfully managed key client relationships to improve Reuters' presence in the fixed income market.  • Created MS Access database and devised a fixed income reference guide, which increased client satisfaction and aided in product management. Client Administrator, (Global Accounts Group, Client Administration / Sales Support Department), Reuters America Holdings - New York, NY 1998 to 2000 Managed product/service installation for several Fortune 500 companies.  · Collaborated with sales and technical to troubleshoot clients’ issues and trained staff on Reuters’ products Client Administrator Reuters America Holdings 1998 to 2000 Managed product/service installation for several Fortune 500 companies.  • Collaborated with sales and technical to troubleshoot clients' issues and trained staff on Reuters' products. Database Administrator Lazard Frères & Co.LLC - New York, NY 1996 to 1998 Increased efficiency across the organization by developing a consistent database for London and the U.S.   · Generated various MS Access reports for the marketing department and trained new associates New Accounts Assistant Lazard Frères & Co.LLC 1996 to 1997 Liaison between portfolio managers and clients.  • Prepared contracts, opened new accounts and handled client inquiries. Financial Consultant's Assistant Merrill Lynch - Manhasset, NY 1995 to 1996 Private Client Group  • Assisted in soliciting new business, organized investment seminars and compiled research for clients.  • Assisted in opening new accounts, including preparing documentation Financial Researcher Intern UBS Painewebber - Uniondale, NY 1995 to 1996 Private Client Group)  • Created recommendation lists for clients and developed prospecting letters to increase sales. Education M.B.A. in Banking & Finance Hofstra University, Frank G. Zarb School of Business - Hempstead, NY December 2000 B.B.A. in International Business, Minor in Banking & Finance Hofstra University - Hempstead, NY 1992 to 1996 Skills Customer Service, Marketing Strategy Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Areas of Expertise: Marketing, Market Research & Analysis, Product Management, Account Management, Project Management, Strategic Planning, Problem Solving, Process Improvement, Training and Consulting