Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Database Developer - Charles Schwab • Over 5+ years of experience in Oracle PL/SQL development and management skills with distinct phases of SDLC involving Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of business applications.  • Worked as a Business analyst and DBA requirements gathering, business analysis, testing, metrics and project coordination.  • Dexterous in solving with the SSIS, SSRS, SSAS in OLTP and OLAP (Data ware house) environments.  • Worked with the process of BICS usage tracking.  • Created Tables, Views, Constraints, Index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based).  • Developed complex SSRS reports using multiple data providers, Global Variables, Expressions, user defined objects, aggregate aware objects, charts, and synchronized queries.  • Skillful hands on Performing operations using oracle 10g,11g and 12c and Can create, develop and maintain SQL processes for channel performance data warehousing.  • Good understanding and knowledge in Logical Database Modeling and Database design (Start Schema).  • Skilled with the SDLC phases of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, testing and Support.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL code using Packages, stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, Views and Materialized views as per the business requirement for enhancement or to resolve issues.  • Knowledgeable in RDBMS and projects using Oracle, SQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL programming.  • Have experience in defining and implementing Enterprise Metadata Architecture, Standards, guidelines and data/integration architectures for a large project, illustrating mastery of design patterns and best practices.  • Ability to Implementations R12 with GL, AP,AR,FA,CE,iProcurement, iReceivables, iExpenses, E-business tax and Sub ledger Accounting(SLA).  • Knowledge installation and configuration of core Informatica MDM Hub components such as Hub Console, Hub Store, Hub Server, Cleanse Match Server and Cleanse Adapter in Windows.  • Skilled in applying SQL concepts like Normalization, Database design, Performance Analysis.  • knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes.  • Knowledge in solving Oracle Applications modules, Multi Org, Reporting Currencies Setups, Chart of Accounts, FSG, Budgets and Flex fields.  • Efficient with Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Proficient in Creating Package Configurations to deploy the packages through DEV, TEST and PROD Environments.  • Worked with the XML files.  • Good knowledge in LINUX, UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Expertise in Providing and making recommendations for physical database design, architecture, testing, performance tuning, and implementation of Oracle DB.  • Excellent in analytical, problem solving and communication skills with ability to be an effective team member and have capability to work under severe time constraints. Work Experience Database Developer Charles Schwab - Lonetree, CO January 2018 to Present The Charles Schwab Corporation is a bank and stockbroker based in San Francisco, California. It was founded in 1971 by Charles R. Schwab. It is ranked 13th on the list of largest banks in the United States and it is also one of the largest brokerage firms in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Created the databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers.  • Developed Custom Logging so user can know when a row is inserted in custom logging table by every SQL package that executes.  • DataStage jobs using stage variables, Derivations, functions, Constraints, etc.  • Filtered data from Transient Stage to EDW by using Complex T-SQL statements in Execute SQL Query Task and in Transformations and implemented various Constraints and Triggers for data consistency and to preserve data integrity.  • Involved in integrating different Database Applications using Microsoft Visual Studio packages.  • Creating packages that involves migration from legacy systems to centralized Database.  • Designed and tested packages to extract, transform and load data (ETL) using SSIS, designed packages which are utilized for tasks and transformations such as Execute SQL Task, Mapping the right and required data from source to destination, Data Flow Task, Data Conversion, For each Loop Container.  • Implementation of work on the weekly bases on the SQL development of the required Schemas & Procedures.  • Develop the Perl and Shell scripts to automate the finance billing file in the different environments.  • Use of the Jenkins for the deployment of the work done in to Production.  • Develop the post-processor script in PERL for American Funds ingestion process to move the pdf files to the NAS mounted directory structure based on the config file format.  • Develop the pre-processor and post-processor scripts in PERL for the Mercer Funds files to create the index files for the incoming zip files and to update corresponding DB2 tables during the post ingestion process.  • Experience as an EDI analyst performing verification and validation of the EDI transactions.  • Used For-Each Loop Container, Script task, Expressions, Execute SQL task, Send Mail task, Package Execution task to achieve business needs.  • Worked with various transformations in Informatica power center like Filter, Aggregator, Joiner, Rank, Router, Sorter, Source qualifier, and Update Strategy transformations.  • Running the AWR reports for the Database performance gathering and reporting.  • Create, manage SQL Server Azure Databases.  • Designed elevated level ETL architecture for overall data transfer from the source server to the Enterprise Services Warehouse.  • Designed and developed ETL processes using Data Stage designer to load data from oracle, MS SQL, Flat Files (Fixed Width) and XML files to staging database and from staging to the target Data Warehouse.  Environments: EDW, Toad,AWR (OEM), Data conversion, XML, Shell scripting, MS SQL,PEARL, Data warehouse, ETL, ETL Mapping, SQL Azure. Oracle PL/SQL Developer Freeport LNG - Houston, TX January 2017 to January 2018 The Freeport LNG marked a turning point in the U.S. oil and gas industry. For Freeport LNG, it meant taking our business in a new direction: transforming an import terminal into a natural gas liquefaction and liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facility.    Responsibilities:  • Oracle Applications 11g Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance Oracle Apps on AD utilities.  • Applied patches (One-off, Mini-patch, Rollup Patch, CPU) and performing AD activities and Trouble shooter several worker issues and used default files to reduce patch timelines.  • Resolve the view log/out files issue of concurrent requests, TAR support, database tuning, CM administration and Monitoring tablespace free spaces, re-sizing datafiles, Alert log trace files.  • Cloning Oracle RAC Applications R12 from production RAC to NON-RAC environment and Oracle Applications 11.5.9, 11.5.10.2 from production to NON-RAC environment.  • Have a balanced knowledge in Oracle Grid Control environment.  • Oracle 9i and 10g 2-Node and 3-Node RAC installation and configuration.  • Oracle Cluster ware installation and database upgradation from 9i RAC to 10g RAC.  • Good exposure of using Oracle performance tools like AWR/ADDM, STATSPACK, explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, ANALYZE Indexes OPatch.  • Have also Created the indexes on the columns based on the explain plan, TKPROF and analyzing the tables.  • Performance analysis of different database objects. Development of the front-end functionality.  • Create various Stored Procedures and Database triggers.  • Monitoring the Tablespaces Usage and Indexes usage regularly.  • Has been involved in the continuous enhancements and fixing of production problems.  • Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring Disk usage. Monitoring the Backup Status (Exports, Cold Backup, Hot Backup).  • Debugging the bugs in SQL using Toad and troubleshooting end user problems. Migrating data using Import and Export utilities.  • Creating RMAN backup, recovery catalog. Gathering Statistics by using Stats pack.  • Worked in creating System documentation such as Technical Specification, Unit Test Plan and System Flow.  • Automation of daily database backup task using windows task scheduler.    Environment: Oracle Applications 11i/R12, Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, RHEL 4.2, SQL, Windows 2003 with active directory, PL/SQL, OEM, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, ASM. Oracle PL/SQL developer Fidelity & Guaranty Life - Baltimore, MD August 2016 to December 2017 For over 50 years, Fidelity & Guaranty Life has been a catalyst to help others plan for tomorrow. With approximately 700,000 policyholders counting on the safety and protection features of our life insurance and annuity products.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Data Extract Process which is done on demand as per the user requirements. Upon their specific request, data is retrieved from various systems using SQL/PLSQL coding and delivered in their requested format.  • Actively involved in optimization and tuning of SQL queries through utilizing the explain plan to find out the problem area of the query.  • Used Temp Tables to reduce the number of rows for joins, to aggregate data from various sources for different reports.  • Provided alternative approaches when faced with performance bottlenecks. Approaches like range partitioning, global temporary tables.  • Created Indexes on tables for new database to faster retrieval of data for the Reports.  • Loading the data from UNIX server to external tables and managing the data as per the customer requirements.  • Created the database objects like tables, views, procedures, packages, triggers, materialized views using Oracle tools like SQL* Plus, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer.  • Proven skills in Data Cleansing, Data Archival, Data Migration, ad-hoc reporting and coding utilizing SAS on UNIX, Windows.  • Extensively involved in writing SQL queries (Sub queries and Join conditions), PL/SQL programming.  • Performed SQL tuning on complex queries using tools such as Explain Plan, TKPROF and DBMS Profiler.  • Involved in writing Bulk Collects, Cursors, Ref Cursors, and Exceptions within the various procedures.  • Support and modify existing code and Involved in migration of data from legacy application to Project View and involved in creation of Reporting DB from the Transaction DB and in creating UNIX shell Scripting.  Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, TOAD, Windows 7, UNIX. Oracle Database Administrator(INTERN) Spins LLC - Chicago, IL September 2015 to July 2016 At SPINS, we believe there's more than meets the eye to data. As the leading provider of retail consumer insights, analytics and consulting for the Natural, Organic and Specialty Products Industry, we strive to transform raw data into intelligent and actionable business solutions.  Responsibilities:  • Oracle Applications 11i/R12 Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance.  • Oracle Apps on AD utilities.  • Applied patches (One-off, Mini-patch, Rollup Patch, CPU) and performing AD activities and Trouble shooter several worker issues and used default files to reduce patch timelines.  • Resolve the view logout files issue of concurrent requests, TAR support, database tuning, CM administration.  • Monitoring tablespace free spaces, re-sizing data files, Alert log trace files and Responsible for cold/hot and rman backups.  • Cloning Oracle RAC Applications R12 from production RAC to uat RAC & NON-RAC environment.  • Cloning Oracle Applications 11.5.9, 11.5.10.2 from production to uat NON-RAC environment.  • Oracle 9i and 10g 2-Node and 3-Node RAC installation and configuration.  • Oracle Clusterware installation and database upgradation from 9i RAC to 10g RAC.  • Good exposure of using Oracle performance tools like AWR/ADDM, STATSPACK, explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, ANALYZE Indexes OPatch.  • Performance analysis of different database objects. Development of the front-end functionality.  • Create various Stored Procedures and Database triggers. Monitoring the Tablespaces Usage and Indexes usage regularly.  • Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring Disk usage. Monitoring the Backup Status. (Exports, Cold Backup, Hot Backup).  • Debugging the bugs in SQL using toad and troubleshooting end user's problems. Migrating data using Import and Export utilities.  • Creating RMAN backup, recovery catalog and Gathering of Statistics by using Stats pack.  • Loading data using SQLLDR from flat files. Jr Oracle PL/SQL Developer Readmind Info Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2014 ReadMind info Services is An ISO 9001:2008 Certified Company. Simply known very well as a rmis and its a fast growing, innovative HR Services provider especially Staffing and Recruitment for IT and NON IT segment and other services in various sectors.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with front-end team to provide them with necessary data using stored procedures and packages.  • Created the database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, packages, triggers using tools like, SQL Developer and SQL*plus.  • Implementing Backups and Restoring when necessary.  • Responsible for data migration between systems on different Oracle versions.  • Worked on creating technical specification document.  • Involved in writing complex SQL statements.  • Developed SQL scripts for maintaining Administration tasks.  Environments: Front-end development, SQL, SQL*plus, data migrating and Technical documenting. Skills Amazon Elastic Block Storage (Less than 1 year), databases (1 year), EBS (Less than 1 year), java (Less than 1 year), Loader (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), OEM (2 years), oracle (4 years), PL/SQL (3 years), RMAN (1 year), scripting (2 years), Shell scripting (2 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (1 year), UNIX (1 year)