Database administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Database administrator Irving, TX Energetic, dependable employee/student with academic experience in Information technology and digital  computers science and also with an experience of telecom domain during an internship. Currently seeking a full  time job to complement theory, excel my skill learned at the university level and also at internship. Solid  communication and leadership skills with a strong background in computers. Technically proficient in  Microsoft word, excel, power point and some of the programming languages. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database administrator Best Aid Pharmacy - New York, NY May 2017 to Present • Maintaining the database and Data Backup performed by micro merchant daily at mid night.  • Instead of doctors giving physical prescription they send electronic scripts (e-scripts) directly onto the system and all the insurance details of every patient needs to be already added into the data base to run the  prescriptions. Once prescriptions goes through it shows the profit/loss made behind each claim by comparing the prices to the whole seller's price. So the prices from the whole sellers also be needed to be  added to the system.  • Data Backup performed daily at mid night.    Worked as an Intern in Cell Packet Technologies. Ltd., IL, USA. July, 2016 - Dec, 2016  RF Engineer  • Responsible for Field Testing of LTE/UMTS/GSM devices, on field on AT&T Network on Samsung  devices.  • Responsible for capturing UE logs on Samsung proprietary tools NNEXT, Shannon view and preparing  detailed reports on the issues monitored while testing.  • Support to the IOT team to capture logs for analysis of issues in live radio network by checking both the messages exchanged with the network and internal layers primitives at protocol level.  • Interacting with client for more information on test cases and new updates.  • Providing Support in testing/reproducing various critical issues in the field like Call Drops, Data stall.  • Worked on testing Tablets and Phones based on Android platform.  • Performing tests on daily releases of new builds through different levels and phases of the software  development lifecycle and generation of formal release notes.  • Providing full R&D support and maintenance for pre and post launch products, including reproduction and diagnosis of problems.  • Resolving Customers reported field issues of device by playing an intermediate role between R&D and  Operator.  • Ensure the testing scope remains aligned with agreed priorities and in line with expectations and milestones set by the Company. Leader Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2014 in global IT services, BPO and Product Engineering Services, headquartered in Hyderabad, India  Software Support Engineer  • Responsible for providing laptop technical support over the phone to USA based HP customers.  • Resolving the basic software related issues over the phone by sometimes taking control of customers  laptop and fixing it.  • Well versed on multi tasking by documenting the cutomer details, issues they have on internal tools and at the same time providing them assurance to fix it  • Providing excellent technical support by fixing the issues in timely manner with full satisfaction of the customer.  • Responsible for understanding the issues quickly and routing them to the concerned dept, ifitisa  hardware issue or major software corruption.  • Responsible for providing complete details to the hardware teams, if it's a hardware failure and advice  them to ship the laptop, in order to replace the broken parts.  • Resposible for providing detailed warranty information to customer and help them extend it, if it's about to expire.  • Maintain track records for every call of different customer on internal database tools and manage them  effectively.  • Scheduling a call back with customer to make sure the issues are permenantly resolved and customers are  satisfied.  • Briefing the issues in weekly meeting with lead and manager.  • Mastered in meeting the customer needs to their complete satisfaction at the same item meeting the target of the company in keeping all the customers satisfied.  • Was awarded one of the best technical agent on the floor. Education Masters in Information Assurance Wilmington University - New Castle, DE 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Swami Vivekananda Institute of Technology, JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014