Platinum Patching Engineer/DBA Platinum Patching Engineer/DBA Platinum Patching Engineer/DBA - Oracle Corporation Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Platinum Patching Engineer/DBA Oracle Corporation March 2019 to Present * Experience working on EXADATA server's. Patching the OS systems, compute nodes ,Cells, IB switches.  * Worked on physical Exadata baremetal and also VM's Environments. Also performed GI upgrade.  * Resolved conflicting patches and checks.  * Performing Non Rolling and Rolling modes of patching  * Experience in preparing the patch plan for the patching event and also running the Prechecks to resolve all issues which may disrupt patching    Role: Cloud Patching/Devops  • Experience working on OCC ( Oracle Cloud and Customer) and Exacc (Exadata Cloud and Customer)  • Performered patching activities on the Cloud, upgrades and Post upgrades.  • Experienced working on the CWD ( Cloud Watchdog) Oracle Apps DBA Infosys/Verizon Limited December 2018 to March 2019 • Creating invoices and vendors  • Creating streamlining rules and dynamic rules  • Experience using the ESPX scheduling tool for jobs  • Experience using the COGNOS IBM tool for reporting and helps to see invoices  • Setting up vendors  • Performing wireless calculations and revenue Accounting  • Performed deployments Oracle Database Administrator Dynamics Resources - Chicago, IL February 2016 to 2018 • Monitoring and Troubleshooting of Database Replication issues using Golden Gate, dealt with conflict resolution and performance issues.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 11g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Implemented Initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate.  • Implementing Best Practices for migration regular databases to Oracle Exadata  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction issues.  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, restore and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11gRAC& 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Experience on Solaris, continuous innovations of delivery and data security.  • Hands on experience with data modeling ,relational modeling which uses a table based format, minimization of data redundancy, minimization of data restructuring ,minimization of I/O by reducing the transaction sizes, enforcement of referral integrity which helps to determine the logical structure of the database.  • Experience managing windows server 2008,2009 and 2010, creating and managing databases    • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Strong mastering in T SQL and PLSQL that adds several features to the structure query language and error handling, row processing and declared variables.  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Experience with databse packages ,groups related PLSQL types and using constant variables.  • Handled and managed SAP HANA database for high performaces.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues. Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group. Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries Oracle Database Administrator Unica Corporation - Waltham, MA July 2012 to January 2016 • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM.  • Experience using PLSQL and T SQL tools for errors handling  • Implemented data modeling to determine the logical and physical structure of the database  • Experience with working on SOLARIS which is the most advanced OS enterprise for data security.  • Excellent knowledge and skills with Golden gate implementation and configuration.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11gRAC& 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.    • Experience managing windows server 2008,2009 and 2010, creating and managing databases    • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from 10g to 11g and 12C ,Successful in Appling PSU and CPU patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Experience working with SAP HANA databases  • Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine grained Auditing.  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  • Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications. Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  • Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Install and Configured Data Guard Disaster Recovery Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  * Team player with excellent interpersonal, analytical, critical resolution, documentation and communications skills with skilled experience in using OEM, TOAD and SQL Developer.  * Experience with AWS  * Experience with managing SAP HANA databases.  * Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  * Experience with JAVA/J2EE, Web services and MariaDB and some basic web applications  * Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for users with EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ASH, ADDM, STATSPACK, SQLTRACE, 11gOEM Grid and OEM cloud Monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using sqltrace and Tkprof utilities.  * Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  * Experience in managing large Oracle databases (VLDB) which includes OLTP as well as DW databases.  * Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  * Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery of databases using RMAN. Worked with company's SLA to determine backup and recovery strategies of small and large databases. Performed incremental backups, scheduled backups using CRONTAB.  * Configured Oracle on different Operating Systems for OLTP & Data Warehousing environments.  * Implementation of high availability (HA) solutions with Oracle 11g RAC installation and Management of multiple nodes accessing ASM storage. Installed ASM, configured disk groups.  * I have managed my day to day business activities using ERP.  * Experienced in Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Oracle and other Support.  * Created and managed users, Grant and revoked privileges. Implemented standard, value-based and fine-grained auditing to monitor user's activities. Implemented TDE, data masking and data reduction for advanced security.  * Experience working on EXADATA server's. Patching the OS systems, Cells, IB switches.  * Worked on physical Exadata baremetal and also VM's Environments. Also performed GI upgrade.  * Resolved conflicting patches and checks. Education Bachelor's degree in Accounting and Finance in Accounting and Finance University of Bamenda Skills DBA, MYSQL, Postgresql, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba