Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Data Analyst - Innovative Management Solutions Plano, TX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Systems Analyst Innovative Management Solutions October 2016 to Present ?Analyzed application raw data and transformed data into a reporting format, allowed colleagues back up for reporting tasks.  ? Worked closely with customers and developed project/portfolio management dashboards. Provided  executives live info for decision making at any time and saved report-generating time.  ? Developed internal sales shared information dashboards, and saved 10+ licenses cost for sales team.  ? Created dynamic SQL stored procedures to enable the database name & schema name to be dynamic.  Reduced new customer development circle time from weeks to hours.  ? Created SQL views and stored procedures for dashboards. Methodologies used includes nested joins,  subqueries, sorting, grouping, rollups, CTEs, row control, union and string controls, etc.  ? Assessed new reporting products and services by meeting with vendors, consultants and strategic partners,converted existing reports and dashboards to new BI tool twice.  ? Troubleshot operational support issues for development and productions problems across multiple  environment and operating platforms.  ? Automated internal travel request process, new employee on boarding process and document approval process using Process Director. Saved a lot of time on communication between departments. Database Administrator Innovative Management Solutions August 2014 to October 2016 ?Worked closely with customers and developed customized quoting system. Provided customer a much  quicker and accurate quoting tool.  ? Designed and implemented internal IT support hours tracking system. Improved communication between sales and IT team.  ? Supported enterprise database integration, including: business intelligence, data warehouse, reporting and application development  ? Interacted with staffing team and automated the employee/contractor on-boarding process. Integrated online  questionnaire, HR processing and helpdesk in this project.  ? Tier 1 helpdesk agent, go-to agent for database related tickets, backed up for tier 2 and tier 3 tickets. Got almost all 5 star feedbacks in 2 years. Education Information Systems The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX December 2014 B.S. in Gifted Science Program Beijing Jiao Tong University July 2011 Skills SQL (4 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), Python (2 years), Tableau (2 years), SAS (2 years) Certifications/Licenses MCP for Querying Microsoft SQl Server September 2016 to Present Oracle Business Intelligence Foundation Suite January 2015 to Present Python Programming on Coursera by University of Michigan March 2018 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  Language: SAS, SQL, Python, C, HTML, CSS  Software: MS SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SAS Enterprise Miner, Oracle Primavera P6, Process Director  Reporting Tools: OBIEE, Tableau, iDashboard, Periscope, Domo, Tibco Jaspersoft, Logi Analytics, Visio