Senior Technical Specialist Senior Technical Specialist Senior Technical Specialist - George Mason University Burke, VA With over 8 years of professional experience in the IT field, and nearly 5 years in application, database, and system administrator capacities, I have the knowledge and expertise that ranges from the help desk to implementing IT service management tools in both SaaS and on-premise environments. My understanding of ITIL Foundation, business intelligence tools, networking, IT security, and customer service are what make me effective in every role I hold. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Technical Specialist George Mason University - Fairfax, VA November 2017 to Present • Lead a team of over 10 employees who manage, repair, connect, and coordinate installations across 10,000 pieces of computing equipment used by faculty and staff at the university.  • Train and educate team members on emerging technology.  • Serve on the university's ITSM Steering Committee as a subject matter expert.  • Serve as a technical expert on multiple large-scale projects such as staff moves, building openings, and software governance.  • Work with multiple departments such as HR, IT Security, Networking, and system administrators to ensure the customers' needs are met. ITSM Database/Application Administrator George Mason University - Fairfax, VA June 2013 to November 2017 • Implement and administer the university's ITSM application, both SaaS and on-premise.  • Administer SQL Databases and manage data imports and exports.  • Develop reports using business intelligence tools and SQL queries.  • Assist departments with designing and refining their IT processes.  • Serve as a subject matter expert to upper-management.  • Develop and manage various integrations to access data residing in LDAP, Active Directory, Web Services, and other software APIs.  • Frequently communicate with key stakeholders to determine their functional needs and translate their requirements into technical specifications.  • Work on multiple large-scale projects involving identity management, knowledge management, IT service management, a university web site redesign, and rollout of a new service catalog.  • Train users and create documentation. Support Center Analyst George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2011 to June 2013 • Provide support to 40,000 users in the Mason community over the phone, through email, via live-chat, and in-person.  • Wrote an application used by all university faculty/staff to migrate local Mozilla Thunderbird email into the new Office365 platform at a 90% success rate. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science George Mason University - Fairfax, VA August 2012 to May 2019 Skills Database, MySQL (5 years), Sql (5 years), Asp, Coldfusion, Asp.net, Firewalls, ITIL (6 years), Ssl, Sftp, Single sign-on, Html, Javascript, PHP (10+ years), Python, Scripting, Visual basic, Xml, Bash (7 years), Java (10+ years), ITSM (5 years), LDAP, Active Directory (5 years) Certifications/Licenses HDI Support Center Analyst Present FAA Private Pilot December 2017 to Present Airplane Single-Engine Land with Instrument Rating