Freelance/Contract Work Freelance/Contract Work Project Manager, Editor, Office Admin Lewiston, ME ? 2-3+ yrs experience in project management, editorial, supervisory, and office admin roles  ? Concise and adaptive written and verbal communication skills  ? Exceptional research and analytical abilities, as well as attention to detail  ? Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Acrobat, Google Products, and others within work experience Work Experience Freelance/Contract Work Multiple - Lewiston, ME July 2018 to Present Miscellaneous copy editing, alt text/image accessibility review, and specialty moving (art hanging and valuable crating) work for various companies. Project Management Team Lead SPi-Global - Lewiston, ME August 2017 to July 2018 * Provide client-specific training and guidance for new and experienced project managers.  * Gather productivity and finance details of all team projects for internal and client-facing reporting.  * Develop training manuals and procedural walkthroughs for client-specific workflows.  * Track team member development and progress, providing positive and corrective feedback.  * Collaborate with client contacts to resolve procedural issues and promote workflow efficiency. Project Manager - Textbook Production SPi-Global - Lewiston, ME October 2016 to August 2017 * Managed downstream print and digital textbook production.  * Hired and coordinated editorial freelancers (copy editors, proofreaders, indexers), assessing their work and providing constructive feedback with working knowledge of typecoding and CMOS, APA, and AP styles.  * Scheduled and orchestrated workflows of various key contributors such as authors, art houses, permissions groups, alt-text groups, and offshore composition teams.  * Reviewed, consolidated, and clarified input from all project contributors as needed.  * Analyzed textbook design and page proofs against manuscript to ensure consistency and quality.  * Copy edited, proofread, and wrote alt-text for interdepartmental needs. Office Administrator Cunningham Security Systems - Yarmouth, ME February 2015 to September 2016 * Resolved inbound calls regarding AP/AR, technical problems, sales prospects, and account management, following-up via phone or email whenever necessary.  * Generated itemized invoices for services/materials provided for residential and commercial alarm system installation, maintenance, and inspection.  * Processed shipping details and packaging for customer equipment orders and faulty item returns.  * Composed office training documents and walkthroughs for technical and administrative processes.  * Wrote informational letters to customers and content for the company's Wordpress and web page.  * Utilized varied applications to support company needs such as: DocuSign, Transaction Central, Authorize.net, Wordpress, Ranger, DLX900, Compass, Alarm 7, Manitou. Project Manager - Database Development Lufthansa Technik - Auburn, ME March 2014 to February 2015 * Coordinated data entry and progress reporting for the conversion of early 1900s blueprints into a database of parts for refurbishing an antique aircraft.  * Presented weekly status updates in interdepartmental meetings with international stakeholders.  * Researched and sourced replacement aircraft parts for out of date blueprint requirements.  * Primary point of contact for all Access and WinAir database inquiries and troubleshooting.  * Trained all new engineering and data entry employees on database procedures and functions. Staffing Supervisor BONNEY Staffing - Lewiston, ME June 2013 to November 2013 * Interviewed candidates for jobs in various skillsets, including light industrial, office, and accounting roles.  * Corresponded with clients regarding employee issues, orders, and potential candidates.  * Provided HR for 20+ active employees, and assisted other supervisors' employees as needed.  * Conducted client-specific orientations and safety procedure training to new employees.  * Performed various data entry, reporting, and payroll duties. Technical Support Nexxlinx - OpenTable - Orono, ME August 2012 to May 2013 * Provided IT helpdesk services to fast-paced restaurants via in/outbound calls, email, and remote access.  * Remotely installed software and configured router and network settings for customers.  * Supported upscale restaurants by troubleshooting network and proprietary software issues. Education BA in English University of Maine - Orono, ME 2007 to 2012 Skills Copy Editing (3 years), Proofreading (2 years), Supervising (1 year), Microsoft Office (5 years), Adobe Acrobat (2 years), Office Administration (4 years), Technical Support (1 year), Human Resources (Less than 1 year), Alt Text Writing (Less than 1 year), Written Communication (6 years), Wordpress (1 year), Creative Writing (8 years), Project Management (3 years)