Database administrator at client side <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> at client side Database administrator at client side - Sephora • Having 10 years of Professional experience on MySQL, Mongo, Cassandra Database Administration on Linux and Windows environments.  • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra servers for Production, Development and POC.  • Having experience include Design, Installation, Creation, Maintenance of Databases, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Optimization and Database Security.  • MongoDB software installation, configuration, upgrading/patching, monitoring, tuning/optimizing, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Worked on Migration of Databases to cloud(AWS).  • Solid experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability MYSQL solutions, including Replication (Master-Slave and Master-Master) and Clustering.  • Searched new ways of using MySQL databases in applications or using databases in innovative solutions. Interacted with developers and data modelers to ensure that overall application design is optimal.  • Worked on performance and fine-tuning MySQL and Mongo databases  • Automate regular tasks by writing shell and Ansible scripts.'  • Effectively managing the workload and handling offshore team.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and meet deadlines, able and willing to learn quickly.  • Working in 24/7 production database environments. Work Experience Database administrator at client side Sephora January 2019 to Present Duration: Jan 2019 to Present.    Description: Sephora is a leader in global prestige retail, teaching and inspiring clients to play in a world of beauty. Owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's leading luxury goods group, Sephora has earned its reputation as a beauty trailblazer with its expertise, innovation, and entrepreneurial spirit.    Responsibilities:  • Database administrator at client side for 24*7 support on different Production and Stage environments    • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra servers for Production, Development and R&D use  • Maintain backups, monitoring system health, track down and troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various databases and applications    • Extensive Performance optimization by Server variables and query tuning, Indexing, Kernel parameters tuning on EC2 servers for MongoDB and Cassandra installations  • Replication configuration in MySQL, Replica Set configuration in MongoDB with Tags and Priority  • Installing the replica set through ops manager  • Configure and Support RDS MySQL Database, Managing Parameter groups  • Upgrade MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra versions, Performed various upgrades for MySQL 5.1 to 5.6, MongoDB from 2.4 to 3.2, Cassandra from 5.0.X to 5.1.X.    • MongoDB Cross Region DR between Physical Data Center and AWS cloud. Also, seamless cutover between Physical Data center to AWS cloud  • MongoDB encryption at rest  • Plan and handle database changes with minimum downtime to application  • Configure MONyog, CloudWatch Monitoring for MySQL and Ops Manager for MongoDB  • Troubleshoot any kind of issues DB servers for Physical and AWS environment  • Handle database outages and co-ordinate with application owners and other support team to resolve the same  • Analyze and Monitor the implementation of new requirement and enhancements. Suggest any changes if required  • Work closely with Application Developers for any database requirement  • Carry proof of concept of latest trends in database technology which can be beneficial for application supported  • Lead and coordinate with the team for smooth operation in project  • Fixing the client requests as per the priority level. Monitor daily tickets and ensure that SLA's are met  • Enforcing database standards  • Engage in DB server security audits and work with other team to enforce security measures  • Writing shell script for automating regular tasks like DB refresh, On Demand AWS RDS Read replica for backup. Use of MySQL Event scheduler  • Worked on various shell and Ansible Scripts to save time and money Capgemini North America July 2017 to Present IGATE March 2014 to Present Capgemini acquired IGATE) Database administrator at client side NBC Universal March 2014 to Present Duration: March 2014 to Present.    Description: NBCUniversal is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production, and marketing of entertainment, news, and information to a global audience. Formed in May 2004 through the merger of NBCUniversal and Vivendi Universal Entertainment, NBCUniversal owns and operates the No.1 television network., the fastest growing Spanish-language network, a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment networks    Responsibilities:  • Database administrator at client side for 24*7 support on different Production and Stage environments    • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra servers for Production, Development and R&D use  • Maintain backups, monitoring system health, track down and troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various databases and applications    • Extensive Performance optimization by Server variables and query tuning, Indexing, Kernel parameters tuning on EC2 servers for MongoDB and Cassandra installations  • Replication configuration in MySQL, Replica Set configuration in MongoDB with Tags and Priority  • Installing the replica set through ops manager  • Configure and Support RDS MySQL Database, Managing Parameter groups  • Upgrade MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra versions, Performed various upgrades for MySQL 5.1 to 5.6, MongoDB from 2.4 to 3.2, Cassandra from 5.0.X to 5.1.X.    • MongoDB Cross Region DR between Physical Data Center and AWS cloud. Also, seamless cutover between Physical Data center to AWS cloud  • MongoDB encryption at rest  • Plan and handle database changes with minimum downtime to application  • Configure MONyog, CloudWatch Monitoring for MySQL and Ops Manager for MongoDB  • Troubleshoot any kind of issues DB servers for Physical and AWS environment  • Handle database outages and co-ordinate with application owners and other support team to resolve the same  • Analyze and Monitor the implementation of new requirement and enhancements. Suggest any changes if required  • Work closely with Application Developers for any database requirement  • Carry proof of concept of latest trends in database technology which can be beneficial for application supported  • Lead and coordinate with the team for smooth operation in project  • Fixing the client requests as per the priority level. Monitor daily tickets and ensure that SLA's are met  • Enforcing database standards  • Engage in DB server security audits and work with other team to enforce security measures  • Writing shell script for automating regular tasks like DB refresh, On Demand AWS RDS Read replica for backup. Use of MySQL Event scheduler  • Worked on various shell and Ansible Scripts to save time and money    Project#2: MySQL DBA IPSOFT June 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  We have total 20+ clients all around 500 MySQL servers with different levels of support and our responsibilities are mentioned below:    • Daily server checks: We check host and MySQL statuses on each server.  • MySQL Installation: Usually we do RPM and/or Binary MySQL/ Percona installation on Linux systems  • Backups and restoration: We either use mysqldump or percona's xtrabackup utilities to take hot backups or normal cold backup procedure in maintenance window period.  • Table optimization: We do optimization of tables to defragment them either by (ALTER TABLE ENGINE=) or Percona's latest pt-online-schema-change utility.  • Server optimization: We do server optimization at config. (my.cnf) level.  • Query optimization: We used to do query tuning as per client's demand or according to the slow query logs.  • Replication: We set MySQL replications (Master-Master, Master-Slave, Master-Slave-Slave)    Project#3: MySQL DBA IPSOFT June 2013 to March 2014 DBA eLibrary February 2013 to May 2013 DBA Attano Media Education Pvt. Ltd March 2012 to May 2013 Description:  Attano elibrary is a India's first digital library solution for educational institutions all over India. Here students from a education institute can login and borrow books from huge collection of books from major publishers all over the world. This system is completely customizable to suit the needs of different institutions. System smartly manages the borrow and return process based on the rules specified by the institute. The eBooks borrowed can be read in three different platforms like PC, Android and iPad.    Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation of Database  • Monitor database instances daily to ensure availability. Resolve unavailability  • Creation of databases and users and assigning necessary privileges to them.  • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL database servers for Production, Development and R&D use.  • Maintain backups and monitoring system health.  • Track down and troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various applications and databases.  • Taking daily backup and incremental backup and restoring databases if required.  • Writing shell scripts to automate database operations.  • Optimization of queries which take long times to execute.  • Works hand in hand with the application developers.  • Test Zmanda MySQL dump tool for incremental backup.  • Monitor the production Server for space and usage.  • Installing and Configuration of MySQL database.    Project#4:  Name: Myeducation.in  Database: MySQL 5.1  Role: DBA  Duration: March 2012 - May2013 Attano Media and Education Private Ltd November 2011 to May 2013 DBA Attano Media Education Pvt. Ltd November 2011 to May 2013 Description:  My-education.in is the Android App which is designed exclusively for Samsung devices. App enables user to purchase different types of eBooks based on their interest and their age category. This is the app where user can get the different types of books. App is an excellent tool for downloading the books instantly after the purchase for the desktop and android versions. App has unique features for customization like highlighting the important points, taking notes for the future reference and writing inline assessment in the book. App is also capable of calculating the consumption report and for the books which have assessments it generates reports based on the performance in the test.    App also consists videos mapped to different curriculums where user can avail them freely.    Responsibilities:  • Monitor database instances daily to ensure availability. Resolve unavailability  • Creation of databases and users and assigning necessary privileges to them.  • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL database servers for Production, Development and R&D use.  • Maintain backups and monitoring system health.  • Track down and troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various applications and databases.  • Taking daily backup and incremental backup and restoring databases if required.  • Writing shell scripts to automate database operations.  • Optimization of queries which take long times to execute.  • Works hand in hand with the application developers.  • Test Zmanda MySQL dump tool for incremental backup.  • Monitor the production Server for space and usage.  • Installing and Configuration of MySQL database.    Project#5:  Name: Attano.com  Database: MySQL 5.1  Role: DBA  Duration: November2011 to May 2013  Company: Attano Media Education Pvt. Ltd    Description:  Attano is India's first digital education marketplace for interactive educational eBooks, from Kindergarten and Class 1 to 12, to Higher Education. Here a user can purchase the books from different major publishers for different platforms like android, iPad and Desktop. Attano has developed a unique reader which lets the user to download the book instantly after purchase and have futures for customization like bookmark, highlight, add notes and comments for referring them whenever needed.    In addition to this we have large number of educational free videos mapped across different curriculums    Responsibilities:  • Monitor database instances daily to ensure availability. Resolve unavailability  • Creation of databases and users and assigning necessary privileges to them.  • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL database servers for Production, Development and R&D use.  • Maintain backups and monitoring system health.  • Track down and troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various applications and databases.  • Taking daily backup and incremental backup and restoring databases if required.  • Writing shell scripts to automate database operations.  • Optimization of queries which take long times to execute.  • Works hand in hand with the application developers.  • Test Zmanda MySQL dump tool for incremental backup.  • Monitor the production Server for space and usage.  • Designed the database based on requirement.  • Writing more effective SQL code based on requirement.  • Day-to-day management, monitoring, performance tuning, and troubleshooting.    (ChandraSekhar.L) Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills Database, Mysql, Replication, Mongodb, Nagios, DBA