Senior MongoDB DBA Senior MongoDB DBA Senior MongoDB DBA - Merrill Corporation • Having 7 years of experience in Database design, Administration and development in Mongo DB, Oracle and MySQL.  • Over 3+ years of experience in MongoDB Installation, Configuration and Administration.  • Experienced in NOSQL Database design and principles ( MongoDB, Cassandra)  • Proficient in designing MongoDB dynamic schemas and Data modelling concepts.  • Experienced in Design, Analysis, Administration and Development and implementation stages of several Client/Server applications using Java/J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, Object Oriented Programming, SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle.  • Experienced in implementation of backup and recovery process for various databases like MongoDB, Oracle and MySQL.  • Experienced in MongoDB document Schema design. Work Experience Senior MongoDB DBA Merrill Corporation - Saint Paul, MN January 2017 to Present Description:  Merrill's team of experienced professionals to successfully navigate the secure sharing of your most sensitive content, perfect and distribute critical financial and regulatory disclosures, and create customized and compliant communications. With nearly 50 years of deep domain expertise, exceptional service and innovative technology, Merrill unlocks productivity and provides the solutions, so you can secure the business of moving ahead.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for administration, maintenance, Performance analysis, and Capacity planning for Mongodb 2.x, 3, 0.x and 3.2 versions.  • Environment consists of Red Hat Linux servers with replica sets in Dev, Test, Stage, and Production.  • Created replication and Mongodb Sharding clustering in Azure cloud environment.  • Managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database clusters across the globe.  • Working on Azure cloud, Aws cloud and on-prime environments.  • Be a part of cluster sizing, and machines count.  • Worked on Multiple data center deployments.  • SSL encryption, Mtools, Analysis of data usage for proper index creation and data modeling.  • Coordinate and plan with Application teams on Mongodb capacity planning for new applications.  • Analyze usage of data and work with application teams on implementing collection index strategies, proper use of aggregation/query frameworks, event changes to the document model.  • Ensured System sizing and Tuning with proper Mongodb use of memory, pre-heating data, and proper configuration of storage read ahead, NUMA, and Huge Pages.  • Participate in scalability testing to ensure Mongodb high performance  • Upgrade Mongdb replica set and sharded cluster to multiple versions.  • Analyze Mongodb log, OpLog file, MongoStat, Server Status, and MMS/OPS manager, to determine and validate root cause analysis of outages and performance bottlenecks.  • Implemented UNIX shell script to automate password changes, gathering performance statistics, collection stat, mlogfilter and mtools query performance analyzer.  • Planned and Implemented SSL encryption for Mongodb intra-cluster communications.  • Knowledge of Configuration Management tools (Puppet) in developing and Experience with Performance Analysis and Troubleshooting in developing.  • Analyzed data to determine appropriate Shard key.  • Analyzed performance activity to determine if data required balancing in sharded cluster.  • Backed up databases from replication secondary server.  • Implemented indexing for better performance.  • Implemented MMS for Mongodb monitoring and backup process.  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  • Worked on creating indexes on secondary nodes.  Environment: MongoDB, Cassandra, Ruby, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup Scheduler, Data guard, Sharding, Replication, Python, Shell scripting, Perl, PyMongo, JavaScript Senior MongoDB DBA Laclede Gas - St. Louis, MO October 2016 to December 2017 Description:  Laclede Gas Company has provided safe and reliable natural gas service to Missouri for more than 150 years. Now including customers from Missouri Gas Energy, we are the largest gas distribution company in Missouri, delivering some of the nation's cleanest energy to more than 1.1 million customers.    Responsibilities:  • Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL ( MongoDB) systems.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Applied patches and upgraded from 2.4 to 2.6 and 3.0. Worked with multiple storage engines in MongoDB.  • Implemented LVM snapshots and MMS backups for large scale MongoDB systems. Administering MongoDB databases using various Mongo utilities.  • Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  • Developing Data modelling for data from RDBMS to MongoDB for optimal reads and writes.  • Worked on custom map/reduce engine to analyze MongoDB databases directly using the on-disk format. Faster and more memory-efficient than other solutions. Used for generating metrics to drive business decisions.  • Complete understanding of Software Development Lifecycle and Core area of experience in to validate end-to-end business scenarios of B2B (Business to Business) applications.  • Worked on API server and maintained, written using Python Twisted and my own MongoDB driver. Handles data synchronization to millions of mobile devices from a single machine.  • Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis. Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Point in time Backup and recovery in MongoDB using onsite MMS.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  • Manage and maintain MongoDB servers across multiple environments.  • Migrated large amount of data between mongo clusters using mongodump, mongorestore, mongoexport and mongoimport.  • Worked on creating GridFS collections and loading GridFS data using Mongofile utilities.  • Implemented CR Authentication, SHA-1 Authentication across different MongoDB versions.  • Worked on restoring rollbacks when primary node is switching in replica set because of system failures.  • Worked on cloud based Azure, Aws and on-prime environments.  • Knowledge of Configuration Management tools (Puppet) in developing and Experience with Performance Analysis and Troubleshooting in developing.  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  • Worked on creating indexes on secondary nodes.  • Implemented Tag awaresharding depending upon the data requirement and balancing chunks in sharded cluster.  Environment: MongoDB, Cassandra, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Database Administrator Walmart - Bentonville, AR May 2015 to November 2016 Description:  Walmart is the world's largest retailer, it takes a lot of really talented people to make this happen. You can join the millions of associates - 2.2 million, to be exact - who are already making a difference in our customers' lives each day.    Responsibilities:  • Managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational MySQL and NoSQL ( MongoDB) systems  • Administration and management of the entire development, QA and production environment.  • Installed and configured MySQL on Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Worked on creation of MongoDB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  • Responsible for managing MongoDB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Assisted with sizing, query optimization, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  • Worked with the engineering team to implement new design systems of databases used by the company.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication.  • Designed databases for referential integrity and involved in logical design plan.  • Performance Tuning on a daily basis for preventing issues and providing capacity planning using MySQL Enterprise Monitor.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  • Proficiency in Unix/Linux shell commands.  • Created and deleted users, groups and set up restrictive permissions, configuration of the sudo files etc. Configuring/Installing/Troubleshooting PHP.  • Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff. Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Supporting management with different database related decisions.  • Handling Release management and user acceptance.  Environment: MySQL, MongoDB, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. MySQL developer Minneapolis, MN February 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Recognized and fine-tuned the database for its specific behaviors. Monitored running database server and performed tuning techniques.  • Collaborated with developers, architects, and business stakeholders to create high-performance, cost-effective solutions.  • Ensured data integrity with good process and detected errors and misuses of data.  • Administered Mysql database installations and upgrades, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery, space management, capacity planning and resource utilization.  • Researched new database technologies and methodologies. Enabled required data extract, transform, and load procedures and packages. Involved in creating customer invoice reports.  • Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  • Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Version control through SVN.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  Environment: MySQL, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, replication, python, shell scripting, Sql, Pearl, Java script. Software developer Mind Infotech - New York, NY June 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Review SQL and PL/SQL for Production and sub-environments to ensure accuracy and optimization.  • Performed daily monitoring of databases for availability and performance metrics.  • Reviewed log files from overnight and batch processes for significant events.  • Created Database tables, views and indexes.  • Creation of functions using PL/SQL. Creation of DML, DDL, DRL, TCL, DCL using SQL. Creation of Joins, Equijoin, Sub quires in SQL.  • Invoices are imported from the Excel sheets to the Oracle Database using SQL * LOADER  • Developed Reports as per client requirement.  • Involved in creation of SQL and PLSQL scripts. Creation of Packages, Stored Procedures & triggers using PL/SQL and loaded data using SQL*Loader.  • Created HTML and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery Scripting and framework.  • Worked and involved in development, enhancement and testing of the application. Defined different media queries for different devices.  • Got chance to interact with business team on regular basis and gather requirements.  • Successfully wrote and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures and Triggers in SQL Server  • Heavily interacted with the end users and stakeholders for design validation.  • Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of the designs.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  • Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  Environment: SQL, JavaScript and windows XP, Oracle 9i, Developer 2000, XML, Windows NT 4.0, MS Access 2000.