DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - STARCON ENGINEERING Lawrenceville, GA Highly engaged and motivated technical employee with eight years of proven success in enterprise infrastructure and data support. Reliable Oracle Database Administrator with expertise in crisis management, performance tuning, and high availability to increase reliability, maximize productivity and ensure system efficiencies. I am seeking a long term position where I can utilize my skills in a dynamic team environment. Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR STARCON ENGINEERING January 2017 to Present • Set up new database and provide all database related support for the production environment as well as provided consultancy services as needed to other organizations. Performed application installation, space estimation, performance/memory tuning, 24/7 server/ database monitoring, configuration and troubleshooting. Interacted with system administrator and design team on the best database practices. Managed team of 5 and mentored other staff.  • Installing and configuring Oracle Enterprise/Red Hat Linux operating system and Windows for Oracle Relational (RDB) Databases.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Grid infrastructure and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) Instance to meet the current needs and upgraded as required to meet the expansion needs of the company.  • Implementation of high availability solutions with 10g and 11g RAC, disaster recovery infrastructure (Physical and Logical Standby) using Oracle Active Data Guard, Materialized views. The project involve replication across geographical time zone.  • Migration of large data from across different RAC clustered environment.  • Installed, configured Oracle 10G, 11gr2, and 12C on Linux, Sun Solaris and HP servers.  • Migration of standalone databases to RAC and ASM.  • Hands on experience in creating application contest packages for VPD configuration  • Created login triggers to monitor users access in the database using VPD technology  • Created synonyms, objects and grants on security packages to users  • Created and applied security policies to VPD tables  • Involved in the complete SDLC, Database design, System analysis, design and development.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High availability configuration.  • Installation and Configuration of 11g and 12c Grid Control.  • Installed OEM Grid Agents on UNIX, LINUX and Windows for monitoring of production databases.  • Implemented Oracle Database 11g/12c 2 to 3 node Real Application Cluster (RAC) using Oracle Cluster ware for achieving high Availability on ASM.  • Setup and maintain RMAN backup and recovery strategy for RAC and Single instance Databases.  • Worked on Oracle 10g/11g/12c migration projects with low maintenance window and applied patches to various databases.  • Worked on OEM Grid Control 11g and OEM Cloud Control 12c scheduling and troubleshooting OEM jobs and deploying OEM agents. Scheduling Backup Jobs and troubleshooting failed jobs through OEM Cloud Control.  • Disaster recovery implementation using physical standby databases for high availability.  • Worked for Incident & Problem Management and Change Release Management to meet business SLAs (Service Level Agreement).  • Monitored the Performance of the migrated databases using grid Control and features AWR, ADDM, ASH and generated the reports for metric collection and health check of the databases.  • Work with software vendors and Oracle support to ensure all database and application related issues are resolve timely and efficiently.  • Performance tuning and optimization of Oracle applications and databases ( Database Buffer cache, Library catch, Dictionary catch) AWR reports, SQL Trace, explain Plan. Identify problems and implement solutions; ensure the database is running at optimum speed and efficiency.  • Engineer System Administration-related solutions for various project and operational needs.  • Install new / rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure / add new services as necessary.  • Perform ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades and resource optimization as required and configure CPU, memory, and disk partitions as required.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary.  • Provide Experienced and participated in shift rotation and on-call 24/7. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR COINGROUP November 2014 to November 2016 • Experienced in installing and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) / Grid Control for monitoring and administrative tasks purposes.  • Experienced in database backup and recovery using RMAN, Data pump, Import and Export utility.  • Modifying database object's structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements.  • Cloning of production databases to test environment for testing and training purposes.  • Experienced in troubleshooting ORA-xxxx errors, adding data files to tablespaces during dataload operation if required.  • Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any hitches and unusual situations.  • Identified, resolved, and provided recommendations to various instances of performance problems which include Database performance problems, I/O hardware performance problems etc.  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.  • Administering and maintaining databases including daily monitoring and performance analysis using Stats pack, ADDM, AWR Report etc. Gathering and analyzing AWR report for troubleshooting purposes.  • Working with other IT professionals for database designs and reviews; troubleshooting database issues, and deploying timely fixes; maintaining regular and proactive database patches, updates and performance enhancement.  • Enhancing SQL statements performance using Explain Plan and Oracle optimizer hints  • Ability to manage high availability solution centers using Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) with several nodes.  • Creating database that meet the constantly changing requirement and need of the company and clients.  • Configuring the Oracle Network environment including Oracle Net Services and Listeners, configuring and managing oracle network.  • Developing SQL scripts to carry out routine checks on databases. This include checking if the Listener is running, optimal running of all databases, Unix error messages, disk space availability etc.  • Experienced and participated in shift rotation and on-call 24/7. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR OKLA MART ENTERPRISES January 2012 to October 2014 • Reviewed and integrated application requirements, including functional, security, integration, performance, quality, and operations requirements.  • Manual configuration of Oracle Database using commands  • Worked on single-instance databases running on HP-Unix.  • Implementation, installation, configuration and upgrade on Red Hat Linux advance Server on Development  • Performed Health Checks for database auditing purposes to involve running scripts to gauge security exposures and subsequently implement resolution to violations.  • Performed upgrades to databases while coordinating with Application DBAs.  • Used Explain Plan for performance issues  • Provided production support for single-instance, multiple systems utilizing  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database. Plan and lead training sessions IDEA KONSULT LIMITED November 2009 to December 2011 NOVEMBER 2009 - DECEMBER 2011  • Support and troubleshoot network and connectivity issues  • Configure and support PC, laptop and peripheral hardware including installing and configuring software programs  • Diagnose and solve hardware problems  • Provide subject matter expertise for projects; Manage projects as appropriate.  • Keep abreast of current software and hardware technology trends and new technology.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a wide range of software, hardware and network issues  • Prioritize and escalate issues where required  • Plan and lead training sessions for new and existing users  • Monitor, log and track all phases of help desk support  • Provide responsive and competent end-user support for technology and application questions and problems Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF IBADAN October 2008 Skills Oracle, Oracle 10g, Aix, Linux, Solaris Additional Information Skills & Abilities    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX Sun Solaris, Linux, AIX, HPUX    Databases: Oracle 10g R2, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c