Digital Ad Ops Associate Digital Ad Ops Associate Digital Ad Ops Associate - Simmons Boardman Publishing Corp New York, NY My job at Simmons Boardman Publishing Corp. has given me the opportunity to wear a variety of different hats. My main focus is overseeing all digital ad operations within the company, and improving on digital ad delivery performance. Outside of digital ad operations, I've been given the opportunity to work hands on in a variety of topics including, web development, google analytics, and search engine optimization.    Outside of the office I enjoy digital photography, reading, and staying in shape. I am currently working toward's a Photography Certificate from Pratt Institute and one day hope to incorporate what I've learned into my career. Work Experience Digital Ad Ops Associate Simmons Boardman Publishing Corp - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Coordinate with agencies to create, execute, and optimize client's paid email and display campaigns, provided  reporting on campaign KPI's in addition to leading all client facing communication  ? Develop data driven, actionable strategies to improve ad server delivery performance and efficiency across 100+  annual client paid campaigns in multiple verticles with over 1,00,000 in advertising spend per year.  ? Worked closely with editorial and publishers to educate, troubleshoot, strategize and implement best SEO  practices to increase organic traffic, resulting in an 18% increase in network wide organic traffic over a four month  period.  ? Ran a UX/UI analysis to develop and implement a company-wide website rebranding strategy to improve UX  ? Played a key role in print production activities for six publications through collaboration with editorial and art  departments to place 2,500,000 copies into circulation  ? Represent the company at national trade shows and act as first point of contact between company brand and potential or present clients Shipyard Contracts Database Asst Simmons Boardman Publishing Corp - New York, NY October 2016 to January 2017 Logged 3,000+ shipbuilding contracts into Marine Log's premier lead generation and research tool Digital Marketing Intern CMDS - Colts Neck, NJ August 2016 to November 2016 Shadowed VP of client services; sat in on morning debriefing meetings with web design team, visited client offices  to discuss ongoing products  ? Conducted preliminary research for web design team for upcoming client projects, surveyed client's customers to gain better insight to customer satisfaction of ongoing projects Assistant Office Administrator, Admissions Office Manhattan College October 2013 to December 2015 Maintained weekly office hours, organized, filed, and assisted with student applications and supplementary  materials  ? Gave tours to prospective students and their families upon visiting Manhattan College Education Bachelor of Science in Business in (B.A. Sc.), Marketing Manhattan College - Riverdale, NY May 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-fuhrmann-ba1b72106