Unified Communications Engineer, Level Unified Communications Engineer, Level Unified Communications Engineer, Level - Morgan Stanley Contact  Jawan Gaines  Jawangaine@gmail.com  (240) 339-4103    • 7 years of experience Microsoft Exchange Engineer / Lync/Skype for Business.  • 7 years of experience in IT Systems Engineering.  • Expert in Microsoft Exchange server 2003/2007/2010/2013.  • Expert in Exchange server 2016/Exchange Online/Office 365.  • Expert in Windows Server 2008R2/2012.  • Skilled in Active Directory, PowerShell and Microsoft Azure (Azure AD Connect).  • Experience with using PowerShell 4.0 and PowerShell 5.0.  • Skilled in Lync 2013/Skype-for-Business.  • Planned and implemented Exchange on premise to cloud & hybrid.  • Interacted with the team and internal customers to ensure continuity and customer satisfaction with Exchange messaging and services.  • Responsible for deliverables of technical projects relating to Exchange/Lync messaging systems, collaborating with enterprise solutions design to deliver build diagrams and run documentation for operations.  • Worked with business leaders to recommend enterprise solutions to address business requirements relating to Exchange and messaging.  • Success at migrating an enterprise environment to the latest version of Skype for Business to include cloud migrations such as Office 365 services.  • Experience with routing and switching protocols, TCP/IP, QoS, VLANs, DNS and WAN protocols related to voice technologies in Exchange.  • Strong Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2016.  • Skilled in network captures and network troubleshooting.  • Working knowledge of load balancing solutions.  • High level of initiative and critical thinking applied to network solutions.  • Understand the integration of Lync/Skype systems within a Cisco IP telephony infrastructure such as CUCM and Cisco Telepresence.  • Experience with Microsoft ADFS, Microsoft Azure (Azure AD Connect) (DirSync), SCCM and SCOM.  • Expert knowledge of PowerShell to include parameterized scripting and toolmaking.  • Expert in designing actionable Key Process Indicators around Lync and Skype for Business.  • Working knowledge of MOF/ITIL best practices.  • A highly skilled Office 365,Skype for Business enterprise voice consultant capable of leading a global implementation. Work Experience Unified Communications Engineer, Level Morgan Stanley - New York, NY November 2018 to Present This project required a global migration from Exchange 2010 on-prem to Exchange 2016 on prem with a UC migration from Lync 2010 to Skype 2015.  • Migrated users and public folders in an on-prem migration from Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2016. Responsible for performance and troubleshooting of all migration related tasks and resolutions of any issues. Responsible for Active Directory and ensuring consistency in all Active Directory attributes.  • Implemented Skype-for-Business 2015, and created sip trunks policies pulls server pools, and services.  • Performed server performance monitoring using Splunk Exchange monitoring SCOM.  • Resolved any issues related to the Exchange 2010 environment.  • Observed in the global policy. And how it affected users. Added in change global policies. To better assist performance of outlook. Looked at registry keys. Can work with Microsoft support to remediate any use user issues?  • Performed SQL server audits, maintenance plans archiving, and check for any inconsistencies.  • Worked with linked accounts in a Unix environment.  • Troubleshot issues with Active Directory and duplication.  • Created certificates and enrolled certificates for Skype-for-Business and updated any  • expired certificates for Exchange, uploading certificates into ISS & MCC certificate manager.  • Assisted various teams with troubleshooting, administrative concerns, automation, cleanup, and Active Directory, Identity, SCCM, SCOM, etc.  • Assisted with hotfixes, updates and patching.  • Set-up Skype-for-Business dial-in conferencing numbers with added sip trunks and dial-in numbers to regions.  • Used PowerShell scripts to performed user moves and bulk operations in Skype.  • Troubleshot and resolved Skype SQL job failures.  • Added authorized action to the proper group and checked for consistencies in the maintenance plan.  • Preformed business-to-business isolation link conferencing test and resolved issues with Microsoft support related to the Skype infrastructure.  • Troubleshot issues with archiving and forwarding.  • Manual user account provisioning and automated provisioning of Google apps.  • Created SCOM management pack for Skype 2015 and Exchange 2016.  • Created thresholds and services required for the management pack.  • Created Outlook Best Practices user guide to improve operations and performance.  • Implemented Outlook client with multiple delegates and found root cause of delegates in calendar slowness and AD account population errors.  • Resolved issues with database backup failures resulting in timeout, and gathered transaction logs manually.  • Performed isolation testing for global blackout events that included Data Center shutdown and replication to continue regionally in another location.  • Resolved issue of broken reports and other jobs running under the wrong permission or included missing job step.  • Resolved issues around the clock global Exchange and Skype-for-Business affecting users based in China, London and other time zones.  • Participated in global on-call rotation for engineers to maintain the messaging environment in ready state for business during the weekend  • Due to high volume failure recreated stored procedures and databases, and made sure that the maintenance plan was consistently being purging.  • Mounted public folder database and created PowerShell script to resolve suspended queues.  • Worked with vendors in high priority financial events to restore services and performed routing from Global Traffic Manager A10 and F5.  • Routed fax traffic through MSA and MTA in order to provide convert email to fax. Enterprise Operations Messaging Engineer III Northrop Grumman - Chester, VA July 2017 to September 2018 This project provided support and assistance in the transition of the state of Virginia messaging services to Google services. This was a hybrid Exchange environment consisting of Exchange 2010, Cisco IronPort ESA 670, Lync, Veritas HMA, NetBackup , Microsoft Server and Active Directory, Windows PowerShell, Blackberry Enterprise system, AirWatch MDM, FileZilla SCOM SCCM, Server Virtualization (VMware preferred / Hyper V), RightFax, Listserv Distribution service, Cloud based archiving, F5 Load Balancing Services.  • Opened and created Firewall rules and F5 VIP configuration to provide communication to new software appliances and to create load balanced environments; to create and define ratios of F5 IronPort and exchange thresholds.  • Use of virtualization including VMware.  • Responsible for Windows server management.  • Responsible for email services including Exchange 2013, Exchange 2016 and Office 365.  • Managed and configured GPO, Active Directory, as well as server installations and configurations.  • Cisco IronPort ESA upgrade installation and configuration managing IronPort Cisco; reported high volume of mail, created and configured blacklist and whitelist.  • Installed and configured Lync server after failed update; decommissioned Lync server and joined Lync server to the server quorum and configured Lync accounts.  • Decommissioned Exchange environment and created Exchange recovery databases to conduct mailboxes for investigations.  • Data backup and recovery using NetBackup and Quest for Exchange environment.  • Performed mailbox restores and data restores.  • Managed RightFax environment and server and maintained uptime and operability.  • Conducted EMC PowerPath upgrades to Windows Server 2008 and Windows 2012 Server environment.  • Network and security management using Cisco.  • Configured and maintained listserv 3rd party application server for distribution list for the Governor of Virginia.  • During a bottleneck of Listserv the governor needed to send a distributed message where Exchange could not deliver the message due to a limitation of recipients of 4000. As a solution I reconfigured Listserv services and used logs to trace the source of the bottleneck. I removed the bottleneck thus allowing the governor to distribute the urgent message.  • Created scripts to verify if databases were mounted on primary server, if email sending threshold reached over 5000.  • Managed and administered an environment over 70,000 mailboxes and 200,000 distribution and security groups.  • Managed Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and messaging services environment for the Governor's office. I cleared any outages caused by peaks in traffic, server failure, or stopped services. I created and removed mobile device accounts and managed mobile device groups. For example: During the election of for the Governor of Virginia, operations set-up a "War Room" that provided 24 hour support and with engineers working 8 hour standby rotations.  • Mitigated a SAN failure where disk failed at a rate of 2 per month; the data migration from a EMC unity san to a clarion AX4 over 4 TB of Exchange data consisted of drive mapping, cluster configuration,  • Published and managed the functionality of internal applications and policies to MDM that assisted over 70 agencies in mobility and messaging; verified service compatibility with Exchange and version upgrades are compatible with OS and environment.  • Conducted several upgrades to the AirWatch SAAS which maintained over 10,000 device connectivity to email and other applications and enabled security policies to aid Data Loss Prevention and other prohibited actions within Airwatch MDM.  • Load balanced Cisco IronPort through F5 Load balancer for agencies for State of Virginia, which substantially reduced email delays during peak times and improved overall mail flow.  • Identified emails that were hacked by phishing or spoofed content and created policies that monitored and reduced spam and malware content.  • Created and configured accounts for hosted mail archive using a 3rd party archiving solution Verified if information was accurate and valid using PowerShell scripts on the following systems: Senior Exchange Messaging Systems Engineer Gulfstream - Savannah, GA November 2015 to July 2017 • Remediated security vulnerabilities including but not limited to firewalls, software, peripherals, computers, and mobile devices on the Windows server network including Exchange.  • Lead migration of multiple servers (MS Windows Server, Exchange server, Active Directory (AD) Server, File/Print Severs, antivirus.  • Architected, installed, upgraded Windows Servers, Exchange Servers.  • Planned and managed migration of Microsoft Exchange 2013 to hybrid Exchange 2016 with Exchange Online/Office 365 with Microsoft Azure (Azure AD Connect).  • Identify Management process testing and documentation for migration to MIM 2016 and Azure.  • Planned and managed Office 365, Microsoft Exchange email and Microsoft Azure hybrid environment.  • Created Access Controls for authorized users.  • Proposed, implemented systems enhancements that improved reliability and performance Exchange messaging system.  • Planned migration of ILM 2007 to MIM 2016, as well as other Identity related products.  • virtualization using Microsoft Hyper V for testing and secure applications use in select cases.  • Managed system platform using PowerShell, and SQL.  • Developed PowerShell scripts and SQL as needed to manage Exchange messaging system and windows servers.  • Used Microsoft Hyper V virtualization to migrate applications, data and active directory from Microsoft Server 2012 to Microsoft Server 2016.  • Planned and lead implementation of data protection plan, including building in redundancy and backup storage.  • Responsible for managing response to server, network and storage alerts  • Investigating error messages and determining resolution  • Created batches using scripting knowledge via PowerShell for eventual mailbox database moves to Exchange Online.  • Appointed migration endpoints for mailbox moves on Exchange.    Microsoft Systems Engineer  Exchange/Windows Server Northrup Grumman - Schriever AFB, CO October 2014 to November 2015 • Configured interoperability between Exchange and Lync servers.  • Monitored Microsoft Lync and Microsoft Exchange through SCOM server alerts and triggers.  • Setup of voice policies for Exchange /Lync messaging system.  • Knowledge on Lync client logon process in central site-backup site-branch site.  • Worked with Lync server logging tool and snooper tool.  • Worked on-call rotation for messaging and collaboration service environment.  • Added Polycom devices to Lync trusted systems for conferencing capabilities.  • Transitioned remaining Exchange 2007 mailboxes to Exchange 2010 and set legacy servers for decommissioning.  • Monitored certificate validity for Lync and Exchange for information security.  • Set thresholds for Lync networking utilization and monitored usage.  • Lead effort to verify and decommission Exchange 2007 servers and provided status  • Active Directory support through site build outs, group policy implementation and design support.  • Responsible for the management and maintenance of HP and SUN servers.  • Build servers for production and test environments following strict build procedures.  • Set-up Windows Server2008R2, working with Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP  • Managed Microsoft Windows Cluster Servers  • Responsible for Windows Server 2003 upgrade project; migrated older servers to Windows Server 2008R2  • Windows server monitoring and maintenance.  • Troubleshoot server hardware issues and work with service providers to facilitate repairs.  • Monitored file servers and file systems for replication and availability of resources on Exchange system.  • Checked and verified firewall configurations, Interface settings, and managed datacenter reporting.  • Reported on business performance, it infrastructure, and web applications. Database Administrator & Microsoft Systems Administrator United Parcel Service - Mahwah, NJ May 2012 to October 2014 • Provided database support for global users and UPS employees by using Microsoft SQL Server. Database support included creating scripts that implemented trace jobs, scheduled backups for the database, and provided solutions to access the database.  • Created Windows PowerShell scripts to access information about Windows Active Directory users from multiple servers in order to reorganize the Active Directory system. Successfully created backups, rebuilt, and restored the master database after information was deleted from the server.  • Messaging technical administrator responsible for the continued support of Microsoft Exchange 2007  • Plan and implement migration of OCS 2007 to Lync 2010 unified communications high availability environment.  • Provided end-to-end user and environment support and remediation.  • Set up Exchange mail forwarding and send as permissions on mailboxes as needed.  • Initiated Exchange mailbox clean ups and database reclaims with maintenance windows.  • Created distribution groups, shared mailboxes, and room mailboxes for company use on Exchange.  • Troubleshot external and internal connection to Exchange server mailboxes and resources.  • Responsible to applying patches and updates to Exchange servers and testing after application.  • Tested Lync front end services with synthetic transactions and service assessment.  • Updated user information within the GAL, modified SMTP addresses, and assigned delegation of permissions.  • Troubleshot connection of Lync clients to backend services and configured company conferences.  • Manage and maintain servers and computers (Linux, Ubuntu, Mac OS, Windows)  • Implementing Roles of Server 2008 R2, Active directory, and Server Infrastructure  • Develop or update project plans for information technology projects including information such as project objectives, technologies, systems, information specifications, schedules, and funding.  • Prepared project status reports by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing information and trends, cost-benefit analyses, and ROI.  • Managed data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace  • defective components when necessary.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Configured, monitored, and maintained virtual machines and software, email applications or virus protection software for Exchange system. Issue Mgmt., Problem Mgmt., Change Mgmt VMware preferred / Hyper V 2010 to 2013 MDM (Android and iOS) Airwatch BES 3rd party application  ITIL (Issue Mgmt., Problem Mgmt., Change Mgmt.) met all SLA and verified if tickets were breached.  • Created Exchange recovery databases for the Virginia Department of Corrections investigations using Recovery NetBackup to complete the restoration of personal data and outlook mailbox.  • Participated in a 24/7 on-call support rotation perform overnight patching, updates and upgrades on live system and recovered corrupted systems from failed or inoperable states.  • Administration and creation of PowerShell scripts.  • Created Active Directory objects, like containers users and groups, applied licenses and group policy based on security groups.  • Managed and maintained a 100000+ user environment consisting of Exchange on premise.  • Managed Exchange Servers through multiple product lifecycle environments, from development to mission-critical production systems to support the needed changes of the organization  • Configured and maintain Exchange servers, systems and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security  • Independently analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end  • Assisted helpdesk staff troubleshoot complex email issues for end user resolution and train team members for correct resolutions  • Provided 24x7 support for critical production systems.  • Performed scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities after hours.  • Shared domain and technical expertise, providing technical mentorship and cross-training to other peers and team members  • Troubleshoot Exchange service outages as they occur, including after-hours and weekends.  • Active Directory Administration and Domain Management.  • Responsible for Enterprise Firewall Administration.  • Maintained needed files by adding deleting or restoring files on the network servers.  • Ran Backups to safeguard organization information in the event of network problems. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Natural Sciences Kean University - Union, NJ Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Dhcp, Tcp, Virtual machine, Vmware, Vpn, Visual studio, Back end, Php, Visual basic, Database administration, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql Additional Information Technical Skills  • Microsoft Enterprise Systems  Microsoft Exchange Server 2013  Microsoft Exchange Server 2016/Exchange Online  Windows Server 2016 (NT 10.0)  Windows Server 2012 R2 (NT6.3)  Windows Server 2012 (NT 6.2)  Microsoft PowerShell 5.0  Microsoft PowerShell 4.0  Microsoft Active Directory  Microsoft Azure (Azure AD Connect)  Outlook Client & Outlook Web (OWA)  Transport pipeline, Managed Availability, Exchange Admin Center (EAC)  Lync Server  Exchange Online, Microsoft Office Client and Microsoft Office 365  Windows XP/7/8/10  Microsoft HyperV    • Network Systems  LAN/ WAN/TCP/IP | DHCP/DNS/VPN | DNS, SIP, MAPI, SMTP. POP, IMAP | Networking Protocols Linux/Unix    • Virtualization  VMWare, VirtualBox, Virtual Machine, Microsoft HyperV.    • Database Software  SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Database Administration, Query writing    • Messaging Systems  Pool, High availability, Resiliency, SQL, Web Services, Simple URLs, Reverse Proxy, Survivable Branch Appliances (SBA), Session Border Control (SBC), SIP, SIP Trunk, Migration, Edge server, Dial-In/Dial-Out, Lync Online, Front End Server, Back End Server, Director Server, Cloud servers, Active Directory, PowerShell    • Software Microsoft office, Project    • Programming Languages & IDE  PowerShell, Visual Basic, Visual Studio, Macro Writing, SQL Queries, Java, PHP, HTML4/5/CSS