ETL developer ETL developer ETL developer - USAA / HCL Technologies San Antonio, TX Looking for SQL server database administrator position where I can utilize my experience and educational background. Work Experience ETL developer USAA / HCL Technologies - San Antonio, TX July 2018 to Present Good experience on creating all reports such as matrix report, drill down report, drill through report, sub  report and chart report etc.  • Created and Deployed reports to Report Manager and Troubleshooting for any error occur in execution  • Proficient in the use of T-SQL for developing stored procedures, triggers, tables, user-defined  functions, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing  • Experience in Performance Tuning and Optimization of queries and stored procedures  • Created and managed users, roles and assigning necessary permissions for SQL Server security.  • Handling dead locks, scheduling and maintaining jobs and automatic e-mail notifications  • Database development experience with Microsoft SQL Server in OLTP/OLAP environments using  integration services (SSIS) for ETL (Extraction, Transformation and Loading).  • Database Administrative skills including, backups, recovery, database maintenance.  • Experience in transforming unstructured data from various data sources using SSIS Transformations  like Conditional Split, Lookup, Merge Join and Sort and Derived Column for cleaning bad data, validating data  • Designed ETL packages for loading and scrubbing vendor data Database Administrator Regis University - Denver, CO May 2017 to May 2018 Managed and maintained Regis University's database using SQL 2012  server.  • Oversaw performance tuning and optimization of data, indexes, stored procedures and queries.  • Troubleshot and corrected SQL Server performance issues  • Created stored procedures and SQL scripts to create database and database objects.  • Oversaw the backup and restoration of the database.  • Maintained data integrity by Creating checks and constraints  • Created user credentials, system privilege and appropriate roles for users.  • Provided technical support for database users.  • Oversaw the database for referential integrity, data consistency, and proper indexing to maintain high  quality data that can be used for reporting  • Utilized T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, user-defined functions, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing. Education Master of Science in Database Technology in Database Technology Regis University - Denver, CO May 2018 Certificate University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ June 2016 Bachelor of Science in Management and Information Systems in MIS Unity University - Addis Ababa, ET September 2013 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, Etl, Olap, Ssrs, Tableau, T-sql, Shell scripts, Unix, Unix shell, Web sphere, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Data Warehouse, Ssis Additional Information • 2 years of experience in role of a Microsoft Business Intelligence Developer  • Experience in installation, development, administration, tuning, jobs, and backup of SQL server databases.  • Experience in MS SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2012 with Business Intelligence in SQL Server Reporting Services and SQL Server Integration Services  • Experience in using the Microsoft Suite (Management Studio, Business Intelligence Development Studio) (SQL) Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting  Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)    Software Proficiencies:  • Microsoft Office (Word, Access, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint)  • Databases: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012; Oracle 11g  • Programming Languages: T-SQL  • OLAP Tools: SSRS  • ETL Tools: SSIS, IBM Web Sphere Data stage and Quality Stage  • Unix Shell Scripts  • Tableau