Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Symmetry Corporation Irvington, NJ • 3 + years of experience as an information technology (IT) professional with technical expertise in Oracle Database Management and SQL Systems and enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications.  • I have experience maintaining Oracle Databases running on Unix/Linux and Windows Operating Systems.  • Possess extensive knowledge on database administration (DBA) for Oracle 11g and 12c, specifically working with very large scale database environments and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 11g RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation).  • Experience in Performance Tuning using SQLTRACE, AWR and ADDM.  • Able to setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (11g) & Cloud (12c) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  • Able to create and manage Oracle 11g databases, various Database Backups; such as RMAN (Full/Incremental backups), in traditional hot/cold backups, LOGICAL BACKUPS and Database migration tools with DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable Tablespaces.  • Excellent in writing/editing UNIX ShellScripts, PATCHING & UPGRADATION - With expertise in upgrading Oracle Development and Production databases from 11g to 12g, DataGuard configuration, implementing and maintaining standby databases.  • Possess good communication skills by having to coordinate with fellow co-workers, clients, system administrators, business data analysts and development teams company wide. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Symmetry Corporation - Cleveland, OH August 2015 to Present Install and configure Oracle 11g software on Windows and Linux OS platforms.  ? Plan and review database design with the application team using entity relationship diagrams. Create Oracle 11g databases using, DBCA.  ? Run DDL scripts to create objects in the database, load database with data using DMLs. Support multiple instance RAC databases for high performance and availability.  ? Manage and tuned storage resources for effective accessibility and on-time delivery of work required.  ? Used PUTTY and command line to run and executed manually written scripts. Backed up and Recovered database files and full databases using RMAN and Dataguard.  ? Created User accounts, roles and granted required access permissions and privileges to the division users.  ? Responsible for planning, designing and implementing a backup and recovery strategy using RMAN.  ? Performed the Installation, Configuration, Tuning and Migration of various schema objects and Database Upgrade from 11g - 12g and 11g to 12c.  ? Provide daily activities such as daily error checks and monitoring database physical resources such as, disk space and memory.  ? Managed, maintained and troubleshoot when necessary and taken the necessary backups needed for implementation. Education Kudrant Academy Business Administration Union County College Skills DATABASES (3 years), SQL SERVER, ORACLE (3 years), LINUX (3 years), RMAN (3 years), Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Oracle Database, Sql Dba, Sql Database, RAC Additional Information Technical Summary:  OS/Databases: Software/Application Tools: Languages: Oracle 11g, R2 DBCA, DBUA PL/SQL SQL Server 2000 Recovery Manager (RMAN) SQL*PLUS, DBCA, OUI Windows 10, XP, Linux  OEM, OEM Grid Control Oracle DataGuard, Oracle Management  UNIX Shell Scripting  Solaris Service (OMS), ASM, SQL AIX Real Application Cluster GUI Tools: Tuning Tools: Web Tools: OEM SQL, TRACE, AWR HTML STATSPACK, ADDM  Putty, NX Client, Winscp  XML  Navigator