Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I am ethical, reliable, honest, inventor and fast learner of new technologies. Flint, MI Why should you hire me?. I'm System analyst programmer with over 5 years’ experience in developing three-tier applications and distributed architecture applications using Java ,PL/SQL, Oracle forms, Oracle reports and Oracle Databases. Work Experience Database Administrator Atlantic Telecom - Lomé January 2011 to July 2011 Manage Oracle and MS SQL Server databases administration assignments for the company. Enhance database  performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct  regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  Key projects:  · Served as DBA in the configuration of an automated backups on the EMC Networker using RMAN for  Oracle Database.  · Developed and tested storage strategies and disaster-recovery plan for the company’s operational  databases, delivering solution that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability Programmer Union Systems GH Ltd, - Accra August 2006 to October 2010 Developed applications, procedures, functions, scripts and reports that were instrumental to the success of high-priority development projects.  Key projects:   • Technical team leader in the development of a banking software based on a distributed centralize  database technology using Oracle Forms and Java.  • Technical team leader in the implementation of the banking software, linking 30 branches at First  National Bank GH Ltd, Accra, Ghana.  • Develop custom financial and auditing reports using Oracle Reports. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Science University of Michigan - Flint, MI January 2013 Oracle Certified Professional in Database Administration NIIT - Accra January 2010 to January 2010 Associate Degree in Management of Information Systems IMIS - Accra January 2004 to January 2006 Skills Oracle Database Administration Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional December 2010 to Present Oracle Database 10g Administration Certified Professional