Platform Operations Analyst Platform Operations Analyst Platform Operations Analyst - FreedomPay Inc Lansdale, PA Furthering my career by pursuing a position as a Platform/Production Analyst. Experience working as a Data Analyst and DBA in global eCommerce environment and working as a Platform Analyst for an industry leader in P2P encryption in the payment industry. Extensive knowledge of working in a 24x7 day-to-day operations sites, platforms, applications and technologies. Worked in a DBA role to further my technical expertise by also working with developers and BI/ETL teams to ensure data availability to clients were possible during all times of business. Transitioned back to the Incident Management/Platform Analyst role to continue working in the high pace environment of maintaining application platforms. Work Experience Platform Operations Analyst FreedomPay Inc - Philadelphia, PA August 2017 to Present Currently employed at FreedomPay, which is an industry leading PCI DSS Certified Point to Point Encryption (P2PE) handling hundreds of millions of payment transactions per year. My responsibilities as a Platform Analyst are to be responsible for monitoring the overall performance of the FreedomPay production platform resources. This position requires individuals to diagnose platform related issues, responding and escalating alerts to appropriate teams or individuals. Internal communication of incident issues is also a key aspect of this role. Responsibilities was to also be responsible for investigating failed scheduled jobs and performing analysis to understand cause of failure. This position also requires individuals to develop a knowledge of FreedomPay applications, creating applicable monitors via Splunk or New Relic, and creating PowerShell scripts for everyday tasks to streamline any productions processes.    Primary Job Responsibilities  * Incident communication and resource engagement for issue resolution.  * Troubleshoot and remediate failed scheduled jobs.  * Collaborate with other team members to determine root cause quickly to any type of service derogation and look for key indicators of potential issues  * Monitor overall performance of FreedomPay production platforms  * Effectively communicate with third parties, partners, and internal teams regarding technical issues  * Application of Windows patches for resources throughout FreedomPay platforms.  * Use acquired knowledge to suggest, edit, and write knowledge base articles  * Review of production log files on defined frequency. Identify anomalies and escalate appropriately  * Obtain a deep understanding of the platform and custom application stack to help resolve issues.  * Create new alerts to support the operations of FreedomPay production systems Database Administrator eBay Enterprise/Radial - King of Prussia, PA June 2015 to March 2017 Employed as an Database Administrator with an emphasis on Oracle databases in a 24/7 environment with additional exposure to MS SQL Server, and MySQL. This includes maintaining integrity of databases during all seasons. Executing SQL (DML, DDL) statements on user requests that have been approved by the companies Change Control Team. Executing Database Changes to bring databases up to necessary industry standards. Perform scheduled reboots, tune databases, or execute failover protocols according to industry standards. Execute database backups and restores as part of company wide disaster recovery plan as needed. Approve all production schema changes. Using tools such as Confio or Oracle's Grid Control to track the health of databases and provide data to requested managers or VPs. Also worked with BI/ETL, developers, and clients teams to ensure data availability between Production DBs to Reporting DBs, DEV/TEST DBs, and failover DBs via Oracle's Streams process.    Highlights of my time as a DBA  - Being available 24/7 to respond to any issues reported by either GRID Control or database users  - Ensuring Database Backups are being executed per company wide policy  - Creating Unix Scripts to provide information to non DBA users to easily provide requested information without executing long query statements.  - Helped bring about a simple transition to non DBA to join the team to further company unification.  - Worked in supporting the PeopleSoft HRMS which including maintaining, upgrading, and 24/7 support  - Generating reports based upon client requests if available BI tools are unable to provide.  - Work with Change Control team to simply process for requests to be completed by customers within the companies designated SLA process. IT Production and Data Analyst /Incident Manager eBay Enterprise/Radial - King of Prussia, PA December 2011 to June 2015 Employed to work in a fast-paced 24/7 incident management team within an e-commerce environment. Using my broad knowledge of Oracle SQL, Linux, and other internally developed applications to triage multiple production issues that arise on a daily basis while resolving within the company's designated SLA. This role also requires collaborative focus relationships and eliciting symptom and impact details from end-users, clients, 3rd-party vendors, operations resources, developers and other sources, then recording those details and pursuing a remedy in a timely and efficient manner. During my tenure, the Production Support Team has grown and has continually evolved to obtain a much broader field of technical skill set to meet the changing requirements of the company and its clients.    Highlights of my career with eBay Enterprise include:  • As a technical lead I am responsible to identify potential issues/incidents by troubleshooting incidents using Oracle SQL, Linux/Unix, and other internally developed applications  • Empathetic to customer needs skillfully employing tactics to improve the customer acceptance of change  • Create formal bulletins targeting specific users and reporting changed requirements  • Develop, launch and grow a secondary organization specifically for Unix/Linux systems administration  • Serve as an escalation point for issues of broad impact; coordinating resolution plans with the required personnel  • Develop and enact contingency plans as needed; by escalating and directing activities of all operations teams  • Publish root cause analysis reporting for incidents and report on SLA impact  • Research and review RFP, FRS and similar project documentation IT Systems Administration Intern Summers and December - King of Prussia, PA June 2007 to August 2009 Education Certification Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA Present M.S in Computer Science Kendriya Vishwavidyala Tamil Nadu University 2010 to 2012 B.S in Computer Science Kendriya Vishwavidyala Tamil Nadu University 2007 to 2009 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Databases: Oracle 11g, 10g, SQL Server 2012.2014, MySQL  Packages: SQL* PLUS, Toad 7.x, SQL Developer, SSMS, SSRS  Languages: SQL, UNIX/Linux, PL/SQL. T-SQL, Unix Shell Scripting, Python, PowerShell  Operating system: Windows, UNIX/Linux, Red Hat, Windows Server  Web technologies: HTML, XML, CSS  ETL: Cognos 10.2