SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - Defense Health Agency Chantilly, VA • Experience in Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Query Optimization and Security.  • Strong experience in Upgrade/Migration of MS SQL Server 2000/2005 to MSSQL Server 2008, 2008r2 and 2012.  • MySQL Workbench installation and maintenance.  • Strong hands on T-SQL, stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes.  • Experience in creating and maintaining ETL routines as well as assisting with reporting needs.  • Strong hands on DTS packages and converting them to SSIS packages  • Experience with developing and maintaining complex SSIS, SSRS and SSAS Packages  • Acted as a production and development DBA.  • Experience in Using Performance Monitor/Profiler to resolve Deadlocks and Long/Slow running Queries.  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, assigning permissions and roles in both MS SQL Server and MySQL.  • Strong knowledge of Database Mirroring, Hardware/Software Clustering and SAN technology.  • Acted as a system administrator of various Windows operating systems.  • Hands on experience and knowledge on high availability SQL Server solutions, Replication and LogShipping.  • Hands on experience of Microsoft SharePoint 2007 and Microsoft SharePoint 2010.  • Excellent experience in working independently as well as in team-oriented environments.  • Involved in problem solving and conflict resolutions.  • Excellent analytical, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Defense Health Agency - Silver Spring, MD October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Upgraded SQL Server 2012 & 2014 and 2016.  • Configured and maintained the Transactional replication between the production environments.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2016.  • Developed and maintained Database backup and restore strategy.  • Developed, Maintained and published the Standard Operating Procedure for close support in SharePoint.  • Identified and addressed database performance issues and capacity issues.  • Installed, modified Access Databases  • Experienced in converting Access Database to SQL Database  • Experience in Installing, Configuring, Patching and Upgrading MySQL  • Configured and maintained the replication between the production environments in MySQL.  • Experience in writing PowerShell scripts to maintain the databases for routine backups.  • Used PowerShell Scripts to accelerate various tasks and query.  • Administration and Manage SQL Server 2008 and 2012 with Cluster Environment.  • Analyzed current maintenance and configuration; evaluate and adjust as required.  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used DBCC to check physical and logical consistency of database.  • Experienced in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS and ETL.  • Collected SQL Server performance statistics for Server monitoring and performance tuning.  • Managed User Security and User Connections.  • Implemented SSL and TDE for new installations.  • Experience in writing and modifying TSQL/PLSQL scripts.  • Wrote SQL queries and compared data across databases and tables.  • Verified raw data conversion to usable CMS Reports elements.  • Wrote stored procedure to audit SQL Servers, establish and enforce security auditing mechanism, performance tuning and optimization. SQL Server Engineer/DBA Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service - Washington, DC January 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Maintained SQL Server 2008R2, 2012 and 2016 versions.  • Writing the Transact-SQL code to create report with SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) as well as configured and maintain the reporting servers.  • Involved in End to End migration of 15 SQL Server 2008R2 instances to SQL Server 2012.  • Configured always on 4 nodes in SQL Server 2012.  • Database and Log Backups and Scheduling Backups by creating and deploying SSIS packages.  • Created SSIS process design architecting the flow of data from various sources to target.  • Involved in security plan meetings filtering the obsolete logins and users.  • Created linked servers between two SQL Server 2012 servers.  • Created packages in SSIS with error handling and worked with different methods of logging in SSIS.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting various servers and issues respectively.  • Analyzing long running queries and tuned the same to optimize application performance.  • Contribute the ongoing development of technology and production Processes Company wide.  • Keep abreast of new design tools hardware software & technology and make recommendations for future deployments.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from flat files to SQL Server using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Created and configured crystal reports based on custom SQL statements.  • Involved in disaster recovery techniques like Clustering, Mirroring, Log shipping.  • In depth query performance tuning -detailed understanding of the query optimizer, execution plans, plan cache, Contest Imation, indexes and statistics.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Good experience with SQL Profiler, index tuning wizard and performance.  • Used Bulk insert, BCP and database consistency checks using DBCC command. SQL Database Administrator Mitsubishi United Financial Group - Rockville, MD February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Upgraded SQL Server 2012 & 2014 and 2016.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016.  • Experience working with SharePoint Developers to update and maintain SharePoint Databases and Servers.  • Completed full-fledged migration from the legacy system to the new system and build the servers and databases from ground-up based on the business needs.  • Configured LogShipping and Mirroring for all the Servers from Production to DR Servers based on the business requirements.  • Experienced in migrating Databases for SharePoint Servers  • Experience in maintenance and operations of SharePoint Servers  • Developed, Maintained and published the Standard Operating Procedure for support in SharePoint.  • Experienced in Server and SQL Patching  • Developed and maintained Database backup and restore strategy.  • Identified and addressed database performance issues and capacity issues.  • Collected SQL Server performance statistics for Server monitoring and performance tuning.  • Managed User Security and User Connections.  • Wrote SQL queries and compared data across databases and tables.  • Verified raw data conversion to usable CMS Reports elements.  • Wrote stored procedure to audit SQL Servers, establish and enforce security auditing mechanism, performance tuning and optimization.  • Experienced in Database capacity planning, Maintenance planning, SQL Agent Jobs scheduling and troubleshooting.  • Administration and Manage SQL Server 2012 with Cluster Environment.  • Installed and Configured Operating System, Windows Server (2000, 2003 & 2008 and 2010).  • Write Transact-SQL scripts to perform a wide range of tasks, including monitoring and maintenance tasks as well as Writing PowerShell scripts to maintain the server and databases  • Analyzed current maintenance and configuration; evaluate and adjust as required.  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used DBCC to check physical and logical consistency of database.  • Working experience with SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS and ETL. SQL Database Administrator Department of Veterans Affairs, West - Virginia, WV, US July 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Upgraded SQL Server 2012.  • Configured and maintained the Transactional replication between the production environments.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012.  • Developed and maintained Database backup and restore strategy.  • Developed, Maintained and published the Standard Operating Procedure for close support in SharePoint.  • Identified and addressed database performance issues and capacity issues.  • Experience in Installing, Configuring, Patching and Upgrading MySQL  • Configured and maintained the replication between the production environments in MySQL.  • Experienced in converting Access Database to the  • Collected SQL Server performance statistics for Server monitoring and performance tuning.  • Managed User Security and User Connections.  • Implemented SSL and TDE for new installations.  • Wrote SQL queries and compared data across databases and tables.  • Verified raw data conversion to usable CMS Reports elements.  • Wrote stored procedure to audit SQL Servers, establish and enforce security auditing mechanism, performance tuning and optimization.  • Experienced in Database capacity planning, Maintenance planning, SQL Agent Jobs scheduling and troubleshooting.  • Experience in writing PowerShell scripts to maintain the databases for routine backups.  • Used PowerShell Scripts to accelerate various tasks and query.  • Administration and Manage SQL Server 2008 and 2012 with Cluster Environment.  • Analyzed current maintenance and configuration; evaluate and adjust as required.  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used DBCC to check physical and logical consistency of database.  • Experienced in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS and ETL. SQL Server DBA EagleForce Associates - Herndon, VA March 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for MS SQL Server and MySQL server database administration.  • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2 in development, test and production environment.  • Responsible for Logical & Physical database designing, implementing and Data Modeling.  • Involved in upgrading SQL Server 2005 and 2008 R2 to SQL server 2012 and SQL server 2014.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012.  • Worked on database user administration and granted required privileges to users.  • Tuned Stored Procedures and SQL Queries.  • Created and maintained databases, tables, indexes, stored procedures and triggers.  • Performed performance analysis using CPU, I/O and memory counters using performance monitors.  • Worked with capacity planning, database sizing and monitoring.  • Experienced with converting Access database to the MS SQL Server environment.  • Configured and maintained the Transactional replication between the production environments.  • Maintain Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules.  • Scheduled database maintenance tasks to improve the database performance.  • Applied monthly patches and hot fixes.  • Experienced in database backup and restore operations.  • Involved in maintaining database with maximum database availability, resolve any database issues.  • Worked with tuning and configuration of production and development database servers.  • Experienced with DBCC commands, to check physical and logical consistency of the databases. SQL Database Administrator Sprint Nextel Corporation - Reston, VA March 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installing, Configuring, Patching and Upgrading SQL Server Software  • Implementing and maintain high availability, including use log shipping, clustering, database mirroring.  • Moving a database from a busy server to a less busy server.  • Maintaining Documentation  • Managing SQL Server-based Applications  • Maintaining Servers and Databases ensuring all maintenance gets done on a timely basis.  • Monitoring performance, monitoring server disk space, monitoring logs, ensuring jobs have run successfully, checking for errors.  • Monitor performance and to determine ways to optimize database performance.  • Implement the replication, and then manage it once it is up and running.  • Writing the Transact-SQL code create report with SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS) as well as configured and maintain the reporting services  • Creating the jobs example backups, data imports or exports, or rebuilding indexes, shrink database and managing them.  • Creating SQL Server login, database users, assigning permissions, moving security between servers, and maybe even implementing data encryption.  • Write Transact-SQL scripts to perform a wide range of tasks, including monitoring and maintenance tasks as well as Writing PowerShell scripts to maintain the server and databases  • Implement Export/Transform/Load (ETL) operations in SQL Server. By using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) SQL Database Administrator Deloitte - Harrisburg, PA May 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2 & 2012 in development, test and production environment.  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering.  • Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Configured and Maintained Replications and Log Shipping as part of a high availability solution.  • Upgraded databases in testing and production environment.  • Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server.  • Wrote script to move database backup from production server to test server and restore in test server.  • Exported and Imported data from Flat files, CSV files, Oracle, MySQL and Access to & from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS and BCP.  • Used Toad Data Modeler and Visio for Data modeling.  • Generated Report using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services).  • Expertise in database Performance Tuning.  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, and Disk space usage and solved problems as needed. Junior SQL Database Engineer Time Warner - New York, NY January 2010 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2 in development, test and production environment.  • Worked on database user administration and granted required privileges to users.  • Tuned Stored Procedures and SQL Queries.  • Performed performance analysis using CPU, I/O and memory counters using performance monitors.  • Experienced with converting Access database to the MS SQL Server environment.  • Scheduled database maintenance tasks to improve the database performance.  • Experienced in database backup and restore operations.  • Involved in maintaining database with maximum database availability, resolve any database issues.  • Worked with tuning and configuration of production and development database servers.  • Created the stored procedures, views and scripts for application development.  • Experienced with DBCC commands, to check physical and logical consistency of the databases. Education Bachelor's in information systems in information systems City University of New York Skills Data modeling, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Pl/sql, Sql, Etl, Cognos, Ssrs, T-sql, Remedy, R2, Raid, .net, C#, C++, Html, Reporting tools, Visio, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills  Database: SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and 2014  Hardware: SAN, RAID  Tools: Idera DBA Suite, Idera (SQL Compliance Manager), Quest (LiteSpeed), Toad Data Modeler, Microsoft Office Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio and NotePad++  Admin Tools: SQL Server, Idera, Toad for SQL Server, SpotLIte, SQL Monitor, Putty.  Database Query Tools: MS SQL Server Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, ETL,  SQL Server Management Studio and Enterprise Manager.  Data Modeling: Visio  Operating System: Windows 95/98/XP/Vista and 7, MS-DOS,  Windows NT/2000/2003/2008/2008r2/2012 Servers.  Programming Languages: T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, VB, .NET, C#, C++, and Java  Tracking system: Remedy, Version one  Reporting Tools: SSRS, Cognos and Business Objects XI.