DB2 Database Administrator DB2 <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DB2 DBA WITH 10+ YEARS OF EXPERIENCE Florida • Having 10+years of overall experience in the IT industry, which comprised of working with the Mainframe environment, the various tools/utilities associated with it.  • DB2 DBA skills with hands on with production databases.  • Experience in converting IMS Databases to DB2 migration process.  • Backup and recovery scenarios including Disaster Recovery for the DB2 Databases.  • Good Knowledge on BMC toolset, IBM toolset-Data Studio, DB2 connect, TSO / ISPF skills, Z/OS JCL, Rexx, Omega-man,ExplainReports and MISC Reports.  • Explain reports, Work Load Manager Stored Procedures, performance tuning.  • Maintain DB2 relational databases.  • IBM DB2 Utilities and BMC DB2 Administration, Backup, Recovery and Utilities.  • Providing end user support and customer service management.  • Responding to email, clients, support calls, IT management.  • Tracking, monitoring, and reporting IT jobs and processes using various software products.  • Communicate and prepare reports for IT management and end users.  • Sharing knowledge and mentor/coach other team members.  • Strong knowledge of DBMS principles, methodologies, techniques, and analysis  • Plan and design application database solutions that are consistent with the company's overall business objectives and technical architecture vision.  • Troubleshoot and consult with project teams for resolution on the most complex technical issues or business situations and make recommendations to improve or enhance   existing architectural direction for future system offerings.  • Proactively monitor database activity, participate in benchmark test activities, and collect capacity and performance statistics to analyse and effectively plan for database capacity and cost.   • Database Consultants design and implement effective database security, protection, and integrity controls. Database Consultants manage vendor relationships and evaluate product functionality, scalability, and maintainability for purchase recommendation and   Integration. Responsible for researching and recommending architecture for next generation applications.  • Actively participate in the creation and review of requirements and design.  • Help build features that meet design solutions and that are compliant with current design practices.  • Help integrate solution components to produce the final deliverable.  • Conduct code reviews during development to share knowledge and experience.  • Help define database level coding and design standards.  • Address quality issues.   • Assist in the evaluation of software tools and packages for appropriate use and need.  • Design reporting databases that meet the current and project client reporting needs.  • Having Good knowledge in the Quality Assurance Testing.  • Proficient in COBOL, JCL, DB2, VSAM and CICS.  • Good knowledge in SQL and in Hierarchical database IMS.  • Flexible in work environments.   • Good communication skills and have ability to implement projects with demanding objectives.  • Zeal to learn new technologies and applying thoughts in an effective manner. Work Experience DB2 Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions - Florida August 2016 to Present • Having 10+years of overall experience in the IT industry, which comprised of working with the Mainframe environment, the various tools/utilities associated with it.  • DB2 DBA skills with hands on with production databases.  • Experience in converting IMS Databases to DB2 migration process.  • Backup and recovery scenarios including Disaster Recovery for the DB2 Databases.  • Good Knowledge on BMC toolset, IBM toolset-Data Studio, DB2 connect, TSO / ISPF skills, Z/OS JCL, Rexx, Omega-man,ExplainReports and MISC Reports.  • Explain reports, Work Load Manager Stored Procedures, performance tuning.  • Maintain DB2 relational databases.  • IBM DB2 Utilities and BMC DB2 Administration, Backup, Recovery and Utilities.  • Providing end user support and customer service management.  • Responding to email, clients, support calls, IT management.  • Tracking, monitoring, and reporting IT jobs and processes using various software products.  • Communicate and prepare reports for IT management and end users.  • Sharing knowledge and mentor/coach other team members.  • Strong knowledge of DBMS principles, methodologies, techniques, and analysis  • Plan and design application database solutions that are consistent with the company's overall business objectives and technical architecture vision.  • Troubleshoot and consult with project teams for resolution on the most complex technical issues or business situations and make recommendations to improve or enhance  existing architectural direction for future system offerings.  • Proactively monitor database activity, participate in benchmark test activities, and collect capacity and performance statistics to analyse and effectively plan for database capacity and cost.  • Database Consultants design and implement effective database security, protection, and integrity controls. Database Consultants manage vendor relationships and evaluate product functionality, scalability, and maintainability for purchase recommendation and  Integration. Responsible for researching and recommending architecture for next generation applications.  • Actively participate in the creation and review of requirements and design.  • Help build features that meet design solutions and that are compliant with current design practices.  • Help integrate solution components to produce the final deliverable.  • Conduct code reviews during development to share knowledge and experience.  • Help define database level coding and design standards.  • Address quality issues.  • Assist in the evaluation of software tools and packages for appropriate use and need.  • Design reporting databases that meet the current and project client reporting needs.  • Having Good knowledge in the Quality Assurance Testing.  • Proficient in COBOL, JCL, DB2, VSAM and CICS.  • Good knowledge in SQL and in Hierarchical database IMS.  • Flexible in work environments.  • Good communication skills and have ability to implement projects with demanding objectives.  • Zeal to learn new technologies and applying thoughts in an effective manner.  • A highly self-motivated, energetic individual and a team player with excellent communication and Interpersonal skills.  • Good Knowledge inFinance Domain.  • Good Knowledge in the Auto Finance Domain.  • Good Knowledge in the Quality processes.  • Good Knowledge in PEGA Upgrade process right from Pega 5.5 to 7.17 or higher  • Managing and maintaining data in all production and non-production DB2 (mainframe z/OS )  • Handling DATA REFRESH from production to test environments, based on user requirements.  • Managing the maintenance of the production DB environments including backups, health checks, monitoring, capacity management, and upgrade QAs.  • Experience with all DB2 utilities including but not limited to Back-up, Reorg, Recovery, Runstats, etc.  • Performs performance tuning by analyzing database and OS performance and implementing tuning and optimization recommendations;  • Manages the QA of upgrades ; must have experience in testing all software upgrades  • Managing the design and distribution, performance, security, availability including High availability solutions and access requirements for large complex databases  • Involved in Design and developing physical layers of various databases making use of advanced features such as partitioning,UTS,Identity columns etc.  • Handling testing, reporting, back-up and restores.  Technology  Below is a list of important hardware, software products, tools that I have worked with.    Hardware Software Products Tools  IBM Mainframes, MVS (OS390), MS Windows 2K/NT/9X.  COBOL, JCL, DB2 V9,V10,V11, CICS, IMS-DB/DC, MQ Series and VSAM,PEGA.    IBM Utilities, Serena Change man,  Performance monitor, BMC Catalog Manager, BMC SQL Explorer, BMC Utilities, BMC Apptune, CDB Utilities,  Manage Now, Application Inventory Management, Meta Data Management, Zeeke, Control-M, Jobtrac, CA7,ERStudio.Endevor,Xpediter,Smile,TSO/ISPF, Panvalet,QMF,SPUFI ,ZEKE,EORS,  Service Center,Alarmpoint,  DB2,File-Aid For DB2,TWS,REMEDY SERVICE REQUEST,DB2 LUW Education CIS in Maths, Natural Science Municipal High School 1997 to August 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronicsand Instrumentation Engineering Rajiv Gandhi Memorial College of Engineering and Technology 2003 to June 2003 Maths, Physics and Chemistry SriBalajiJunior College 1999 Skills COBOL (10+ years), JCL (10+ years), Db2 (10+ years), CICS (7 years), Data Analysis (8 years), Testing (5 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Oracle Database