Panera Bread Associate Panera Bread Associate Maple Grove, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Panera Bread Associate Panera Bread - Plymouth, MN March 2019 to Present Hired as a prep associate, ended up being trained as a line chef. As a line chef I regularly handle fast-paced, high-pressure situations. I make sandwiches and salads, prepare soups, and assemble customer orders as well as large catering orders. Retail Sales Consultant Office Depot OfficeMax - Maple Grove, MN July 2017 to Present As a retail sales consultant for Office Depot, my main responsibility is to ensure every customer leaves happy and ready to bring their business back to us. This includes ensuring a smooth, enjoyable experience at the register, as well as providing assistance with locating items on the floor, ordering items that are out of stock, and building an overall trust with the customer.    My duties at Office Depot are not limited to quality interactions with customers. I must be a team player and help out wherever and whenever help is needed. As a result, I am cross trained in the tech services department as well as the copy and print center. My experience in tech services includes running diagnostics on customer computers, setting up new computers for customers, data transfers, and virus removal, to name a few.  My time in copy and print has taught me a lot about designing banners, flyers, business cards, and other advertising material for businesses. It has also given me experience using advanced printers, dealing with difficult customers and other issues that may arise, and single-handedly running a high volume print shop from open to close. Sales Consultant Victra - Verizon Authorized Retailer - Medina, MN October 2018 to March 2019 As a sales associate at the Medina Verizon store, I was a key carrier for my entire time with the company. I was required to learn and operate multiple advanced computer systems, interact with customers, speak on the phone with customer care and Verizon customer support, and create solutions to advanced problems. I also operated the store completely alone, as the only employee, for the entire month of January while we were without a manager. During that period I was the sole key carrier, opened and closed the store every day alone, and performed managerial tasks such as deposits, inventory counts, cash-ins/outs, and interacted daily over the phone with the district manager. Database Administrator Asset Protection Services - Champlin, MN June 2014 to July 2017 As the database administrator, I was responsible for bringing the backbone of the business online. This involved the tedious process of scanning every hard copy of clients' files into the computer and organizing them into a cloud-based system. I was also required to attend a series of classes by the company that designed the database software we used to not only ensure that I was able to use the program to its full potential, but to also teach everybody in the office how to most effectively use and manage the database going forward. Education High school in High School Diploma Minnesota Online High School - Maple Grove, MN September 2015 to June 2019 Skills Customer Service, Cellular, High-volume printing (1 year), Microsoft Office (5 years), Technology Services (1 year), Data Entry (5 years), Database Management (4 years), Sales (2 years)