Database Administrator (Graduate Assistantship) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Graduate Assistantship) Database Administrator (Graduate Assistantship) - California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) La Puente, CA MBA candidate with Business Analytics concentration with a background in both data analysis and management, seeking to transform organizations data into leverageable actions that increased market share and maximize profitability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (Graduate Assistantship) California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) January 2019 to Present Using the System Design Specifications, model, porotype, and implement a new custom databases  security features, and applications to assist agents with diary entries, manage contracts, leases and memos, as well as providing an easy to read dashboard.  • Establish and maintain project priorities, apply federal, state, departmental and organizational policies  and procedures, to produce a database with a high degree of data quality, integrity, uniformity, as well as structure for statistical analysis.  • Produce a standard budget reporting tool and desk manual for the division of Budgets and Planning that  analyzes and documents the current fiscal status of various funds and appropriations. Senior Data Analyst HR Unlimited October 2018 to January 2019 Designed standards and methods to help train and support analyst and increase the company's reporting  uniformity and accuracy amongst the various teams of analysts.  • Utilizing human resources data and US Census employment information, generated a two-tailed  hypothesis test to isolate statically significant outliers (issues) within a company's HR practices.  • Created Affirmative Action programs for federal contractors within OFCCP regulations and standards, and provided guidance for improved employee application, hiring, and promotional practices, and  increasing the diversity and quality of said organization workforce. Business Intelligence Consultant Sunset Equity Funding August 2018 to October 2018 • Generated aggregate monthly sales forecasts, as well as forecasts by marketing channel and officer.  • Constructed target customer market segments, that more precisely focused the available marketing  funds, and led to double the loan closure rate and revenue generated.  • Using loan, marketing, and CRM data, devised Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the management team to measure the closing rate, quantity, and quality of loans closed by the loan officers.  • Established new technology practices, processes, and procedures for the executive management team to create and implement a new company website and digital marketing plan. Facilities Manager The Haven Community Center April 2016 to August 2018 • Led the selling of a $1.67M property, its relocation process, and terms for a financial Trust.  • Produced and maintained a yearly operational budget, federal and state-mandated regulatory  documents, such as the Statement of Information and IRS tax documentation, allowing the organization to continue running as a 501c3 nonprofit exempt organization.  • Organized and supervised staff and volunteers on various community projects, with an emphasis on  helping individuals in underrepresented communities, as well as homeless and low-income families. Predictive Diagnosis of Physician Overdose Relating to the U.S. Opioid Epidemic National Finalist 2018 to 2018 Utilized 2015 U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to construct a logistic regression  model of the various factors influencing CMS medical professionals to prescribe higher than average  dosages of opioids, a potential cause of the U.S. opioid epidemic.  • Modeled diagnostic accuracy metrics: specificity: 98.5% and sensitivity: 68.3%  • Software utilized: XLminer, Excel, SPS Statistics, SAS Miner, and Tableau. indeed.com Supply and Demand for the High Skilled Tech Industry Honorable Mention - Silicon Valley, CA 2018 to 2018 Utilized indeed.com dataset, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data and information from U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), identified seasonal hiring periods of higher than the average applicant cycles specific to only high-skilled tech industry jobs within Silicon Valley.  • Our study isolated a unique applicant pattern specific to only high skilled tech jobs within the SF Bay  Area in October, January, and March, and possibly due to visa application deadlines.  • Software utilized: R Studio, Excel, SPS Statistics, and Tableau. IT Specialist ADATA Technology January 2015 to March 2016 January 2011 - December 2013  • Utilized the development life cycle, created test use cases and System Test Specifications to resolve  hardware and software issues, as well as reports of problems and possible solutions to stakeholders.  • Identified infrastructure system requirements, conducted research and analysis to recommend system  upgrades, cost-effective solutions, and process improvements, and led various projects to implement  improvements, for example, SAP ERP System, new servers, and IP office phone system.  • Performed health checks, troubleshoot, and resolve complex system anomalies by conducting a root  cause analysis of a system, database, or operational issues on various systems and applications. Account Manager OfficeMax, and TigerDirect March 2008 to December 2010 • Increased sales revenue by 125% ($750K) for critical accounts (e.g. Amazon, OfficeMax, and TigerDirect) maintained tight inventory controls, utilized JOT, and ERP analysis.  • Generated Cost-Benefit Analysis and ERP Inventory Management Reports planned new product  implemented roadmaps and promotions for Amazon and OfficeMax.  • Reviewed business contracts, agreements, and processes to ensure the maximum potential profit.    STRENGTHS AND EXPERTISE  Programming  Software Excel Skills Analytical Abilities  Languages  • SQL • Tableau • Embedded SQL • Forecasting  • R • SPSS • Pivot Tables • Data Mining  • Python • SAS • Power Query • Logistic Regression  • C# • FileMaker • H and V - Lookup • Statistical Modeling Education Master of Business Administration in Business Analytics California State University December 2019 B.A. in Business Administration California State University May 2018 Skills Sql Dba, DBA Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/g-hernandez Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Lean Black Belt February 2019 to Present Six Sigma Champion April 2019 to Present