Construction support specialist Construction support specialist Construction support specialist Sugar Land, TX I have experience in end-to-end implementation of various projects including designing, development, coding and implementation of applications with Agile project methodology. I have knowledge of handling Software Development Life cycle (SDLC). Involving in requirement gathering, development of functional specifications, design & development and coordination with a customer using N-tier architectural format. Domain expertise includes e-Retail, Data warehouse, ETL and EPC. Adept in developing, creating and modifying web based applications software, analysing the user needs and developing software solutions. An effective leadership with proven abilities in leading teams during the project phase, training & guiding team members and enabling knowledge sharing among the team.    SPC/SPF(EPC Tools) Database Model Certified with over 6 years of experience in Project Management , 3+ years of experience on Construction IT automation including SPF/SPC (SmartPlant) Administration (Construction) and Custom software Development. Currently working as SPC/SPF IT automation engineer and administrator in Tengizchevroil's Future Growth Project-Wellhead Pressure Management Project (FGP-WPMP) is the next major expansion of oil production at Tengiz and is of significant importance to the Republic of Kazakhstan. Work Experience Construction support specialist Fluor Corp. - Sugar Land, TX August 2019 to Present AWP Tool Administrator Smart construction administrator Kazakh Institute of Oil & Gas (KING) - Bolashak Atyrau - KZ October 2017 to July 2019 Smartplant construction administrator Construction Automation Engineer Fluor Corp. - Tengiz October 2017 to July 2019 Kazakhstan  Period Oct 2017 - Current  Client TCO -FGP-WPMP, Tengiz, Kazakhstan  Role Project coordinator, Custom Developer , Reporting and data analyst and L3 Support.  Environment .Net Framework 4.6, SQL Server 2012, Oracle 10g, IIS 7.0,XML,IIS 7.5,Crystal Report, VBA    Application Deliverables  • Preparing custom queries, functions and Store procedures for the 5NF database (SPF data warehouse database).  • Configure XML data format for performing CRUD operation on the 5NF form of database.  • Developing C# application, VBA Access and Excel macro for data validation and processing.  • Developing custom ETL code for merging different format of data in XML format for loading in the dataware house.  • Working on the 5NF application database for preparing data queries for reporting and data qualities check.  • Preparing onsite support and training document for end users.  • Provide support on Production application and Production database.  • Engaging in formulating and application configuration documents, IIS server setting.  • Code review and updating code according to client requirement and validating code as per requirement.  • Fix bugs and deliver the solution on time.  • Streamline day to day operations by utilizing and implementing processes that exceeds organizations' needs.    SmartPlant Deliverables  • Accountable for configuring the SPC/SPF user's roles, access groups, methods level security matrix.  • Publishing Engineering Models and Engineering 2D document from SP3D and IFC model from Intergraph interop publisher.  • Publishing fabricated document from ISOGen publisher.  • Stream line publishing process from authoring tools to SPC.  • Database clean-up process through the defs files. Preparing defs file for updating and removing data from SPC database. Develop Access and Excel macro as per requirement for data processing.  • Working on SPF and SPC Database (5NF) for preparing data reporting for Construction Work Package and IWP processing on site and other data reports of Models/Drawings/Resources/Register components/ROP Validation/Project Configuration Validation/IWP processing /Material request by IWP/Fabricated Document validation.  • Preparing Sql queries, procedures and function on SPF database.  • Providing onsite support and training to FGP-KPJV's IWP planners and contractor for SPC usage.  • Engaging in formulating and publishing SmartPlant Construction configuration documents, Rules of Process (ROP), Retrieve mapping and Project configuration files as per Fluor Corp. standard requirements.  • Involving in mapping configuration between Contractor Fabricated documents, SP3D 3D Models, IFC Models, SPF, and SPC for documents publishing in SPF and retrieving in SPC.  • Engineering data analysis for 3D Models to fabricated document correlation in SPC.  • Managing external filters, SID for material and other categories filter.  • Managing the SPC configurations for TCO-FGP project as per the Fluor Corp.'s standards.  • Preparing Defiles for SPF loader for changing data in SPC. Clean up bad data in SPC and SPF.  • Preparing procedures for loading cable scheduling through the loader in SPC.  • Involving in SPF/SPC server setup for system performance improvement.  • Streamline the procedures for SPC performance improvement.  • Proving SPC training for Workface Planners.    Title J3 Project Manager Reliance Corporate, IT Park Ltd July 2016 to September 2016 since Apr'13 -Feb'15 SPF/SPC IT Administrator and SPF/SPC development Lead Reliance Industries Ltd April 2013 to February 2015 Environment Asp.Net with C#, .Net Framework 4.0, Toad, SQL Server 2012, Oracle 10g,IIS 7.0    Deliverables  • Worked on oracle database (5NF) for preparing historical oracle data reporting for Refinery Construction Work Package processing on site and other data reports.  • Handled the construction IT automation for Reliance J3 Refinery & Petrochem Project at Jamnagar, Gujarat, India.  • Liaised with Intergraph Corporation, USA (Product Centre, USA) for the construction automation tools for PDS, Spoolgen, SmartPlant Material, Primavera, SPF and SPC integrated framework implementation for J3 Project.  • Preparing custom queries, functions and Store procedures for the 5NF database (SPF data warehouse database). Working on the 5NF application database for preparing data queries for reporting and data qualities check.  • Preparing XML files for performing CRUD operation on the 5NF form of database.  • Developing C# application, VBA Access and Excel macro for data processing.  • Developing asp.net application for data reporting.  • Developing custom ETL code for merging different format of data in XML format for loading in the Dataware house.  • Preparing onsite support and training document for end users.  • Provide support on Production application and Production database.  • Engaging in formulating and application configuration documents, IIS server setting.  • Code review and updating code according to client requirement and validating code as per requirement.  • Fix bugs and deliver the solution on time.    Title CMTS - Construction Management Tracking System IT Manager Reliance Industries Ltd - Jamnagar, Gujarat 2013 to 2015 2017, SPF 2009 and 2014, Spoolgen Publisher, ISOGen Publisher, SmartPlant interop Publisher, SP3D 2011 R1, Automation publisher for SP3D    Please refer to the annexure for the projects handled Database and application development, code reviewer, and bug and defect fixing Reliance Industries Ltd April 2013 to August 2013 Period Apr'13 - Aug'13  Environment Asp.Net with C#, Window Forms, .Net Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2012  Team 3 members  Role Database and application development, code reviewer, and bug and defect fixing    Deliverables  • Handled all material requests for construction and managed the vendor request to batching plant issued flow  Facilitated the transfer of material from one plant to another plant tracking  • Team member of development team for multi-environment (Web/Desktop) application for concrete management for the refinery.    Title Product Type Buildout Wizard  Company Datamatics Global Services Ltd WalMart November 2012 to March 2013 Environment Asp.Net with C#, .Net Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2012, Entity framework  Client WalMart  Team 6 members  Description The Datamatics "Product Type Build out Wizard" is the best way out for the categorization, item setup and catalogue building teams of e-Retailers when it comes to creating those zillion lines of product inventory and their attributes. This web application software is used for Walmart warehouse for managing the products based on category and specifications characteristics of product.    Title Proligent® Data Sourcing Service (Data Transfer Protocols) Mumbai as Sr. .Net Developer Datamatics Global Services Ltd November 2012 to March 2013 MSI Installer CloudZon Infosoft March 2012 to June 2012 Period Mar'12 - Jun'12  Environment Asp.Net with C# 4.0, Windows Service, .Net Framework 4.0, Mef, Xml, Installaware, Unit Testing, MSI Installer, Novell LDAP Libraries For C# 4.0  Description Data Sourcing Service was actually the primary foundation for building the larger and more capable Proligent® Supply-chain. This subsystem's primary objective is to inject information into the Proligent® Data Warehouse for subsequent analysis. It provided data transfer protocols, data format mapping, and data load into the data warehouse. It consisted of both design tools and backend services.    Title Proligent® Data Sourcing Service (Data Format Mapping) Software Developer Cloud Zon Infosoft Pvt. Ltd., Vadodara August 2011 to June 2012 Xml, Installaware, Unit Testing, MSI Installer CloudZon Infosoft August 2011 to February 2012 Period Aug'11 - Feb'12  Environment Asp.Net with C#4.0, Windows Service, .Net Framework 4.0, MEF, Altova Mapforce 2012, Xml, Installaware, Unit Testing, MSI Installer  Description Data Sourcing Service was actually the primary foundation for building the larger and more capable Proligent® Supply-chain. This subsystem's primary objective is to inject information into the Proligent® Data Warehouse for subsequent analysis. It provided data transfer protocols, data format mapping, and data load into the data warehouse. It consisted of both design tools and backend services.    Title DR PC 108-108 Helpline  Environment Asp.Net 3.5 with C#, Win Forms With C#, Ms Sql Server 2008, Linq, Ajax, Framework3.5, SMS Gate-Way Database Designer, Coder, Tester DR PC May 2011 to August 2011 Description DR PC is providing helpline system for provide computer service at home within specific time. Vadodara as .Net Developer Alpha Dezine NZ Ltd February 2011 to August 2011 Database Designer, Coder, Tester Company Inc March 2011 to April 2011 Period Mar'11 - Apr'11  Environment Asp.Net 3.5 with C#, Win Forms with C#, MS SQL Server 2008, Linq, Ajax, Framework3.5, SMS Gate-Way  Role Database Designer, Coder, Tester  Description Nordic Company Inc Site developed on Base of Content Management System, Which manage the administration site as well as client lookup site. Administrator can manage the product price, updating the products and managing discount based on user types.    Title Examination Processing System and Examination Department Site (http://www.vnsguexam.org) Team Leader, Designer, Data Base Designer, Coder, Tester Veer Narmad South Gujarat University June 2009 to February 2011 Period Jun'09 - Feb'11  Environment Asp.Net 3.5 with C#, Win Forms with C#, MS SQL Server 2008, Linq, Ajax, Framework3.5, SMS Gate-Way  Role Team Leader, Designer, Data Base Designer, Coder, Tester  Deliverables Involved in handling marks tabulation and result preparation and maintaining the databases of examination section Oversaw the design & generation of hall tickets, attendance, candidate list, result sheets, mark sheets and other reports in Crystal Reports Instrumental in developing around 300 reports for examination process Surat as System Programmer Veer Narmad South Gujarat University May 2009 to February 2011 Source Management 2010 to 2010 Reporting Tool Crystal Report for VS 2010/2012, HTML  Testing Unit Testing, Acceptance Testing, User Acceptance Testing  3rd Party Tool Install Aware 2012, Altova Map force 2012, Toad Votre Vue System July 2008 to June 2009 Title Online Pet Animal Registration and Control System  Company Votre Vue System.  Period Jul'08 - Jun'09  Environment Asp.Net 3.5, Java Script, Ajax Control Toolkit, MS SQL Server 2005, Crystal Reports, Linq, Framework 3.5  Client Hackensack Corporation, NJ  Deliverables Developed the system for online registration of pet animals giving features like maintaining owner's basic information, issue and renewal of animal licenses, keeping track of complains like animal bite-complaint and general complaint, maintaining general health and vaccination record of the animal It was designed for generating Crystal Reports for license fees data, animal bite data, owner data and license renewal reminders The system carried out financial analysis for the registered license owner and took care of year end process and backs up the database Vadodara as Web Developer Votre Vue Systems July 2008 to April 2009 PowerShell Script 2008 to 2008 2008 R2 & 2012, FoxPro, Oracle 11g, Scripting Language Java Script, JQuery, AJAX Toolkit, CSS, PowerShell Script  Operating System MS - Windows NT/XP/Vista, Server 2003, Win 7.0,10  Languages C# 4.0, VB.Net, XML,VBA Excel, VBA Access Education Master's