Microsoft SQL Database Administrator Microsoft SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Experienced SQL Database Administrator Vermilion, OH Self-driven professional with extensive troubleshooting, computer networking, business reporting, and SQL programming/administration skills. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, with a 'Can Do' attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Microsoft SQL Database Administrator TradeMark Global - Lorain, OH January 2019 to Present Microsoft SQL Database Administrator  Trademark Global Inc - Lorain, OH  • SQL Server backup and server administration  • Code review and query tuning  • Systems security Business Systems Specialist Sierra Lobo - Norwalk, OH February 2017 to April 2018 Business Systems Support Specialist  Sierra Lobo Inc - Milan, OH  • SQL database administration (tuning, backups, optimization)  • System support for accounting, project management, purchasing, and reporting systems, in support of NASA and DoD projects.  • General IT Support - Mobile, Networking, Server Administration Business Systems Analyst AmTrust Financial - Cleveland, OH October 2015 to February 2017 Business Systems Analyst  AmTrust Financial Inc - Cleveland, OH  • Collecting report specifications from business sponsors  • Maintaining ticketing system for reporting requests  • Testing and analyzing report results, deployment Reporting Specialist Harley-Davidson - Independence, OH March 2014 to October 2015 Knowledge Center Reporting Specialist  Harley-Davidson Dealer Systems via Beacon Hill Staffing - Cleveland, OH  • SQL development for dealership and corporate financial reporting  • Maintaining scheduled data extractions for customers and HDMC sales team  • Report formatting with Crystal Reports software  • Customer sales, billing, follow-up Data Migration Analyst BackOffice Associates - Norwalk, OH January 2012 to March 2014 Data Migration Analyst  BackOffice Associates - Norwalk, OH  • Troubleshooting a web-based SQL interface and underlying SQL procedures  • Assisting with data cleansing and transformation  • SQL Server Administration - backup, restoration, tuning, storage optimization Education Associate Degree of Science in Computer Networking Specialist Bowling Green State University - Huron, OH Skills SQL (8 years), Database Management (4 years), ETL (2 years), Crystal Reports (1 year), Report Writing (5 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database Additional Information March 21, 2018     Dear Sir or Madam:     It is my pleasure to recommend Nathan Harting for employment with your organization. I have known Mr. Harting for almost one year during which time he worked as an Associate Business System Support Specialist in my department.     Mr. Harting was a valuable asset to my team and I thoroughly enjoyed my time working with him. He is honest, dependable, has a high level of integrity, and is incredibly hard-working. Beyond that, he is very detail oriented and a self-starter, which served him well managing projects.     His database knowledge was a huge advantage for our company. These skills allowed him to successfully lead the contract management system implementation on one of our new contracts as well as support the existing contract management systems on our other contracts. In addition, Mr. Harting was responsible for the implementation of our security awareness training and phishing program. This was in addition to his support of Unanet, our timecard and expense report system, ReQlogic, our purchasing system, and Microsoft Dynamics SL, our accounting system.     Along with his undeniable talent, Mr. Harting has been a joy to work with. He is a true team player and is able to coordinate with fellow employees, consultants, and vendors to bring a project to a successful completion.     Mr. Harting’s separation from Sierra Lobo was in no way related to his performance, but was instead due to his position being eliminated as part of a corporate-wide reduction in force.     I confidently recommend Mr. Harting to join your team. As a dedicated and knowledgeable employee and an all-around great person, I know that he will be a beneficial addition to your organization.     Please feel free to contact me should you like to discuss Mr. Harting’s qualifications and experience further. I’d be happy to expand on my recommendations.     Sincerely,           Mark T. Tyler  Information Management Operations Manager  Sierra Lobo, Inc.  (419) 706-3428  mtyler@sierralobo.com   