Consultant Consultant Consultant Work Experience Consultant California Strategic Growth Council, CA January 2019 to May 2019 Researched smart growth and other related state-level growth management policies as well as utilized methods for evaluation. Summer Intern Epicenter, CA June 2018 to August 2018 Worked closely with the Office of Resilience and Capital Planning in accordance with the Earthquake Safety Implementation Program. Led the development of a database of concrete buildings as the first step in producing an evaluation system to determine necessary levels of retrofit. Gathered building data and assisted in implementation of PowerBI as an analytical tool. Data Analyst Homebridge, Inc February 2016 to March 2018 Program Data Assistant May 2015 to January 2016 Worked closely with management to develop reporting protocols for homecare organization data. Analyzed and interpreted trends in data and made recommendations to management about policy and procedural changes based on that analysis. Developed reliance on data by implementing live reporting connected to large database via SQL queries of varying complication to stand alongside static point-in-time reporting, to allow end users direct access to relevant data. Database Administrator/Logistics Coordinator Marine Chartering Company, Inc October 2014 to March 2015 Oversaw migration of data from single-user Excel documents to multi-user database. Coordinated and followed up on logistics for international shipments of goods with customers and vendors via email and phone calls. Prepared data for and edited documentation related to international shipping. Resident Life Staff Galilee Episcopal Camp & Retreat Center, NV June 2014 to August 2014 Independently planned, organized, and led group activities such as evening music events, improvisational theatre, backpacking, kayaking, and rock climbing for groups of 8-15 youth, aged 7-17 years. Worked as a participant leader for communication and conflict resolution training, supporting open and fair lines of communication for all campers and staff, representing a diverse range of personalities and worldviews. Education Master of Public Policy in Public Policy U.C. Berkeley, Goldman School May 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics. Music Earlham College May 2012