Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - West Corporation Columbus, OH Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator West Corporation - Columbus, OH 2015 to Present • Utilize Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and AWR report to reduce DB time by diagnosing key problems such as Expensive SQL statements, I/O performance issues, locking and concurrency issues, Excessive parsing, Resource bottlenecks (including memory and CPU bottlenecks) and recommending a solution.  • Perform backups and loaded data into development, UAT, and TEST databases, resolving any performance issues that arise as well as blocking issues, snapshots failures, and replication problems.  • Used Oracle Advanced Replication to ensure data availability, table maintenance, and performance tuning.  • Implemented database monitoring alerts for Oracle databases via shell script  • Installed and implemented Oracle's Automatic Storage Management services utilizing Oracle Managed Files  • Implemented an Oracle Goldengate environment for migrating a production database from Stream replication on Solaris to linux server environment.  • Implemented an Oracle Stream replication database running with version 12C for internal billing system  • Installation of Oracle database software 11g/12C to support TFCC business JP Morgan Chase Bank - Columbus, OH June 2011 to October 2014 Database Administrators  • Creating and installing databases for various application implementation while tuning and designing reliability standards in stand-alone and distributed environments.  • Set up database users, manage database permissions and setup database roles, and enable database auditing for database security.  • Managing Oracle file systems using apps; ASM to increase efficiency while reducing overhead cost with standardized processes for shared services.  • Apply Oracle Patches and software upgrades (quarterly) using My Oracle Support (MOS)/Metalink to ensure database availability, reliability, accessibility, scalability and security. Migrating and upgrading databases from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Responsible for minimizing downtimes on applications by ensuring the daily backups/ exports of database, archive logs to disk/tape systems. Set up and maintained backup procedures for database using RMAN.  • Participate in team building and certification projects impacting database platform with goal of delivering and implementing a reliable solution to support or enhance infrastructure.  • Collaborate with the Linux Systems Admin in O/S Configuration, patch application, users/disk space management, tape back-ups, documentation and day-to-day operations.  • Performed backups using RMAN for complete and valid restore and recovery purpose Data Analyst Discover Financial /TechniSource - New Albany, OH June 2009 to June 2011 • Provided strong system administration in Linux/Unix application for database design/modeling  • Performed Physical and Logical Design of the database which included Database creation, tables-spaces creation, table and index partitioning and also mapping of different objects with disks.  • Performed ongoing capacity planning and expansion to meet requirements of database growth.  • Maintained database for troubleshooting and problem solving to ensure that the system met requirements.  • Maintained multiple databases which supported production team to ensure consistency and stability.  • Provided root cause analysis to identify remediation of database issues trends such as contention and abnormal application locks.  • Cloned databases as needed for testing purposes. Education Master Computer Systems Networking Keller Graduate school of Management Cols Ohio 2013 Master Data Modeling and database Administration Keller Graduate School of Management Cols Ohio 2012 Bachelor Computer Information Systems Devry University - Columbus, OH 2009 Skills Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA