scrum master/ Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) scrum master/ Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> engineer (sr analyst) scrum master/ Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) - Citigroup inc Irving, TX Experience Scrum Master with proven track of deliver high-quality software, on time and within budget. A professional with over 3 years of experience with abilities in reinforcing Agile practices for Continuous Integration (CI), pair programming, test-driven development (TDD). Team-oriented individual promoting exemplary presentation, project management and risk oversight skills. A demonstrative scrum master with a background in communicating effectively with and leading high-performance teams. An expert in prioritizing tasks and optimizing workflows.    An Oracle DBA with over 5+ years experience in Oracle database (18c,12C,11g, 10g,9i) upgradation, designing, backup and recovery, migration, performance tuning, data guard configuration, security enforcement and implementation, high availability solutions implementation and configurations in a variety of environments like UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX, AIX), LINUX & Windows NT 4.0/2000/20003 in a production, test as well as a development environment.    Strong verbal, written, interpersonal communication and negotiation skills.  Familiarity with common Agile practices.  Understanding of iterative development as well as backlog tracking and task definition.  Experience working with development products and teams.  Ability to rapidly prioritize competing requirements.  Acts as a buffer between the team and process overhead, so each team member can focus on the timely delivery of the project goals.  Shields the team from interruptions and removes obstacles that may impact the delivery of the product.  Keeps stakeholders, collaborates, and other interested parties well-informed of the team progress and activities.  Coordinates with QA to eliminate obstacles and ensure tickets are deployed before their due date.  Organizes and facilitates weekly ceremonies with team members and stakeholders.  Expertise with JIRA, Confluence, and the rest of the Atlassian suite and using JIRA's Agile performance metrics to drive accountability and continuous improvement.  Attention to detail, quick learner, have a positive attitude, self-motivated and able to work in a fast-paced environment.  Comfortable with leading agile conversations and presentations for areas such as prioritization, story pointing, and writing user stories.  Experience with leading an agile transformation throughout an organization, not just within development teams.    ASM disk storage management experience.    Hands-on experience with configuring and supporting Oracle in high-availability such as Data Guard, RAC and Golden Gate.    Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c.  Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches.    Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.    Successfully developed and implemented Client/Server applications on multiple platforms. Actively involved in software development, implementation, software maintenance, software support, troubleshooting, documentation, trainning.    Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP, DSS and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.    In debt knowledge of installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.    In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.    Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases.    Monitor and maintain system security and Auditing.  Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.    Hands on experience in Performance Tuning and Memory (SGA) Tuning by identifying top Sqls/Sessions and Tuning.    Gathered database/Objects statistics using DBMS_UTILITY, DBMS_STATS packages and ANALYZE command.    Scheduling and Troubleshooting Database performance issues using Statspack, Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM).    Efficient in SQL query Optimization using Explain plan, Auto trace, TKPROF, Gathering statistics, pinning objects.    Monitoring & Reorganizing Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.  Skilled in using tools such as SQL Developer and TOAD.    Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.    Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN.    Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience scrum master/ Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) Citigroup inc January 2017 to Present Facilitates Daily standup calls, Product Backlog Refinement Session, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings for the smooth execution of the sprint.    Coached new Product Owners on how to create user stories and worked with them to keep the backlog prioritized.    Proactively identified and found ways to resolve issues to prevent distractions and keep projects on track.    Resolved impediments for the development team by actively working with stakeholders and extended team members.    Collaborated with clients from concept through final delivery of product or service.    Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services.    Helped teams' transition from Waterfall to Agile Methodology and facilitated Scrum  Ceremonies to help in the execution of the project.    Extraction of business rules for the utilities and documenting it as High level and Low level design.    Trained and mentored team members on the best and most effective ways to use scrum processes.    Supported and implemented an automated environment infrastructure utilizing OEM 13c  Documented Processes and procedures to support CBS environment.    Assisted in technical direction for database design, maintenance, and administration.    Evaluate and recommends available DBMS products after matching user requirements with system capabilities.    Help developed and formulate standards, procedures, and conventions for database use.    Performed software installation/administration/configuration/migration of multiple versions of Oracle enterprise databases and Oracle application (web) servers on variety of platforms.    Implement high available solutions along with Cross platform database migrations    Maintain, secure database and software environment by deploying patches.    Proactively improve existing database infrastructure and reporting mechanisms.    Utilized OEM 13c to help implement database performance reporting mechanism such as Oracle BI Publisher, database auditing along with automated notifications.  Analyzed the application performance and recommended changes to improve performance such as schema denormalization, recommend code changes etc.    Implement sound database backup and recovery practices.    Perform Oracle database tuning using a variety of tools and techniques.    Perform and support Disaster Recovery (DR) for Reporting and Failover Purposes Oracle Database Administrator Pinnelas county Government - Tampa, FL January 2016 to December 2016 DBA for production and project support. Managing over 120 databases ranging from 200G to 1terabytes on both linux and windows platforms.    Scheduled backups on both oracle scheduler as well as crontab and monitor database backups.    Scheduled maintenance jobs to monitor file system usage.    Set up threshold for and data storage management.    Install, patches and maintain all Oracle software.    Approve all production schema changes.    Approve changes to database design.    Control all migrations of Oracle schema objects.    Design and implement a backup & recovery system  Implement Oracle failover technology.    Implements and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  Performs ongoing tuning of the database instances.    Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing, education and production usage.    Provides technical support to application development teams. This is usually in the form of a help desk.    Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  Create new database users as required.    Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.    Kahak solutions Oracle Database Administrator November 2013 to December 2015 DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production, involving daily configuration, administration all running on LINUX Database sizes ranging from 4GB.    Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of Oracle databases    Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.    Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, oracle Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper, DBArtisan and dbXpert for Oracle).    Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application.    performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 11g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.    Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle traditional exp/imp and data pump.    Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.    Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.    Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.    Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.    Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).    Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.    Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.    Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.    Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.    Backup/Recovery monitoring and reporting using Oracle RMAN  Technical documentation of all configurations, installations, implementations, monitoring and testing projects for future utilization.    Work closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production.    Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.    Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.    Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.    Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 11g to 12c.    Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches. Education BACHELORS DEGREE in EDUCATION BANKING AND FINANCE UNIVERSITY Skills JIRA (3 years), rman (6 years), oem gid control (6 years), Linux OS (6 years), Oracle database management (6 years), maintenance, Outlook, Estimating, Scheduling, Scrum, Agile Scrum, Scrum Master, CSM Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master Additional Information Technical Skills    Databases Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g , 12C &18c  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware  Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2    Remote Tools Cisco VPN, Checkpoint VPN, Remote Admin, VNC, Remote Desktop  Scrum tools Jira