Scrum Master/Project manager Scrum Master/Project manager Scrum Master/Project manager - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC A seasoned certified Scrum master with over 5 years of experience. Results-driven, goal-oriented and a solid track record of success in delivering projects on time and within budget. Distinguished ability to employ problem solving and decision making skills to quickly deliver solutions to complex problems. Adapt at driving full project lifecycle from concept, design, development, testing, and delivery. Able to establish and maintain productive relationships across all organizational levels. Bilingual in English and French. Work Experience Scrum Master/Project manager Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to Present • Working with the Team and the Product Owner to define Team specific norms  • Scheduled and facilitated agile ceremonies, Sprint Planning, Daily Sprint, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings. Followed with good interpersonal relationship and communication skills, both with technical and non-technical audience.  • Prepare project documentation, deliverables, finances, resource allocations, and status.  • Supported the Product Owner to ensure the backlog has sufficient prioritized user stories at a ready status to stay ahead of the Team.  • Collaborate with participants to determine project timeline.  • Removing barriers and impediments that are preventing the team from completing work.  • Provide internal and external communications to improve transparency and accountability.  • Established and maintained effective relationships with the customer and key stakeholders of the project  • Help to establish and maintain a culture of self-organization and self-accountability amongst the team  • Build trusting environment where the team is comfortable raising issues without fear of blame, retribution or being judged, with emphasis on problem solving.  • Experience coaching, and coordinating efforts with, multiple teams, agile coaches and Scrum masters within a matrixed technology organization.  • Good knowledge with Agile methodologies; Scrum, SAFe, etc.  • Represented my Scrum team at Scrum of Scrums meetings.  • Highly organized with the ability to multitask.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (Continued) Scrum master/Project Manager Baxter International Inc - Denver, NC February 2015 to January 2018 • Facilitate Daily Standups, Retrospectives, and Sprint Planning meetings to remove impediments.  • Coordinate team events to build team collaboration.  • Improve team collaboration through individualized coaching.  • Ensure that Agile principles are being kept.  • Work with Product Owner to ensure that user stories meet the acceptance criteria of DOR (Definition of Ready) and DOD (Definition of Done).  • Use Jira to estimate project delivery.  • Foster self-organization and self-accountability amongst the team.  • Managed end-to-end project delivery.  • Work with team to identify capacity to ensure they can meet sprint commitment.  • Ability to communicate effectively with various stakeholders.  • Ability to set goals and work with little directions.  • Developed project plans with forecasts, estimates, and resource assignments.  • Shield the team from external interference to enable optimal functionality and productivity. Oracle database Administrator-Information security Analyst Tempus Resorts International - Orlando, FL November 2014 to February 2015 • In-depth experience provisioning access (i.e. Creating Users, Deleting Users, Granting Privileges) on the following platforms Oracle, SQL, Teradata, Unix.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Managed data files, control files, redo log files, tables, indexes, constraints for performance and availability.  • Proficient in Database Administration activities such as installation, configuration, database creation, sizing, backup and recovery, performance tuning and capacity planning.  • Ticketing system experience (ART, Remedy)  • Good exposure of Oracle DBA tasks Installation, Patching, Cloning, and Upgrade of Oracle Databases.  • Performed daily database administration tasks: User management, Space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning, Alert Log monitoring and backup monitoring. Education Bachelors of Science in Law in Law University of Bamenda Skills Team management, Oracle, Jira, Sharepoint, Linux, Software development, User stories, Highly organized, Metrics, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Conflict management Additional Information SKILLS & CAPABILITIES  • Microsoft Office (Advanced Word, Excel + Financial, PowerPoint, and Outlook, project)  • Agile Methodology and Waterfall  • Highly organized with the ability to multitask  • Strong knowledge of good software development practices  • Conflict Management  • Team Management    • Scrum as an asset; strong knowledge of all the concepts: tasks, backlog tracking, burn-down metrics, velocity, user stories  • JIRA  • SharePoint  • Oracle Linux