Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Office Star Products 4+ years of professional experience with knowledge in Data Modeling, Data Warehouse, ETL, T-SQL development, MS BI Tools like (SSIS, SSAS and SSRS) in SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005.    * Well versed in creating OLTP relational data models and OLAP dimensional models using ER-Win.  * Strong knowledge of Data Warehouse methodologies, including Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, Fact and Dimension Tables, worked with high volume databases with partitioned data.  * Proficient in writing T-SQL queries for creating Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Cursors, Triggers, User Profiles, User Defined Functions, Relational Database Models and Data Integrity in observing Business Rules.  * Thorough knowledge on working with database maintenance including using Database Management Views, Dynamic Management Functions and DBCC commands to improve table fragmentation and index performance.  * Proficient in Database performance optimization, debugging and tuning using the Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and SQL Server Debugger. Work Experience Database Administrator Office Star Products - Ontario, CA July 2019 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  * Build database systems of high availability and quality depending on each end user's specialised role.  * Design and implement database in accordance to end users information needs and views.  * Define users and enable data distribution to the right user, in an appropriate format and in a timely manner.  * Use high-speed transaction recovery techniques and backup data.  * Minimize database downtime and manage parameters to provide fast query responses.  * Provide proactive and reactive data management support and training to users.  * Determine, enforce and document database policies, procedures and standards.  * Perform tests and evaluations regularly to ensure data security, privacy and integrity.  * Monitor database performance, implement changes and apply new patches and versions when required Business Analyst Steadfast Co - Irvine, CA March 2018 to May 2019 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Gather requirements, design, develop & operate business intelligence solutions.  * Use data to create models, reports, dashboards & analytics that provide data analytics, insights, and support business decisions.  * Utilize relational database management (RDMS), data integration (ETL), online analytical and transactional processing (OLAP), data mining, and reporting systems.  * Work closely with developers, product teams, business stakeholders & management to develop requirements, testing plans, project plans, training, release documentation and manage timelines.  * Assess and communicate status, risks & deliverables.  * Engage in business & technical discussions and have strategic influence.  * Adhere to the system development life cycle and be responsible for time estimates for development efforts, and completion of deliverables within project timelines  * Utilize computers and other technologies to create, display and produce financial charts, graphs and models that accurately relay financial performance in relation to underwriting criteria as requested.  * Participate in the implementation of technologies that promote cost savings and enhanced efficiency with regard to database gathering, tracking, and reporting  * Other duties, responsibilities and special projects as assigned.  * Uphold the Steadfast Core Values and Mission Statement.  * Determine operational objectives by studying business functions; gathering information; evaluating output requirements and formats  * Recommend controls by identifying problems and designing modifications  * Define project requirements by identifying project milestones, phases, forming project team, and monitoring project progress by tracking activity  * Conduct insightful, ad hoc analyses to investigate ongoing or one-time operational issues  * Utilized the Dynamic SQL for user customizable queries to be answered by the SQL Server.  * Managed the entire ETL process involving the extraction, analysis, transformation, loading and presentation of information to the company Business Intelligence Application for the end users.  * Set up security levels for the BI application to control viewable and not viewable content for certain users as well as keeping up with recurring data updates and security updates  * Bring internal data and third party data to the application from either FTP server, API, or a SQL query from the internal database  * Assist with creating budgets, budget variance, and forecasting  * Provide great customer experience by thoroughly answering tickets in a timely manner  * Organize, setup, and conduct meeting with end users or business owners to gather requirements and information in order to create dashboards and widgets  * Conduct weekly team meetings for updates, weekly one on one meetings with manager for projects discussions, and monthly department meeting for department updates. SQL/ETL Developer Quantum Datawarehouse - Anaheim, CA March 2016 to April 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Was responsible for analyzing various dimensions and facts that could be included in Data Warehouse design using best suited Star-Schema and created logical and physical model of DW in design software  * Created Stored Procedures, Views, and User Defined Functions to facilitate the automation of data entry by a front end application.  * Utilized the Dynamic SQL for user customizable queries to be answered by the SQL Server.  * Was responsible for identifying sources, creating staging database, and data warehouse  * Managed the entire ETL process involving the extraction, analysis, transformation, loading and presentation of information to the end users.  * Created packages with several Transformations in each Package making sure that the data is cleaned and confirmed before being sent to the Staging Area.  * Created complex SSIS packages to pull data from Excel and flat files to SQL server  * Implemented various different SSIS features like loggings, transactions, checkpoints, deployment, and configuration on designed end-to-end ETL strategy so that the developed packages could be optimized to the fullest depth.  * Implemented the Master Child Package Model for easier maintenance and better performance.  * Implemented package configurations on the development, test, and production environments.  * Was responsible for securing the entire database with various types of encryption techniques along with the use of certificates.  * Implemented appropriate high-availability solution like log-shipping and mirroring which best suited the business needs according to the functionality and the budget requirements.  * Created several reports using SSRS such as Drill Through reports, Linked, and sub reports.  * Managed very large reports that return a large volume of records and optimized their performance using techniques such as Cascading Parameters and Filters.  * Devised dashboards to contain drill-down capabilities to view requested user information through summary reports and trend charts.  * Scheduled jobs like backups, restoring of databases using the SQL Server Job Agent. ETL Developer New Century Health - Brea, CA July 2015 to March 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Ensured data consistency by creating primary key, foreign keys and appropriate constraints.  * Optimized SQL queries using SQL profiler, indexed views and indexes.  * Wrote complex queries, stored procedures, UDFs in support of the ETL processes, front end applications and reports.  * Created DDL and DML triggers to maintain database integrity  * Used BCP utility and bulk insert for transferring data between SQL server and flat files.  * Created ETL process using SSIS for populating data store in SQL Server 2005.  * Successfully transferred old data from various sources like flat files, MS Access, and Excel into MS SQL Server 2005 and SSIS packages containing C# with .net framwork.  * Performed various transformations like conditional split, sorting and included data about the environment using the audit transformation.  * Developed data access queries/programs using SQL Query to run in production on a regular basis  * Facilitated data retrieval and manipulation through implementation of Views, Procedures, Triggers and Cursors.  * Successfully implemented indexes on tables and views for optimum performance tuning.  * Supported some business specific relationships, and advance constraints by embedding triggers on tables.  * Set up scheduled Jobs and alerts for updates and backups.  * Involved in designing of shift based reports, chart reports (line and column), parameterized reports for performance analysis.  * Set up report delivery schedules and report back up schedules by configuring subscriptions and snapshot respectively.  * Designed strategies for securing the reports created depending upon the level of sensitivity of information that the report contained. SSIS/Reports Developer Union Bank - Brea, CA February 2015 to June 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Worked with Business Analysts and end users in gathering requirements and specifications.  * Wrote complex stored procedures for Data Profiling, Backup the databases as well as handling the index fragmentation.  * Implemented error handling techniques like try catch blocks, error functions in T-SQL scripts and stored procedures to support the applications.  * Developed complex Stored Procedures, triggers and User Defined Functions for implementing business logic and process in backend, for data extraction, reports and other client interfaces.  * Involved in Query Optimization and Performance Tuning using tools SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  * Created views as required by front end developer for easier implementation on web pages, and wrote instead of triggers on those views to provide efficient data manipulation.  * Developed complex mappings using SSIS to transform and load the data from various source systems like Excel, Flat files, Oracle into the SQL 2008 R2 Server target staging database.  * Included transformations like Slowly Changing Dimensions, Look up, Derived Column, Aggregate, Fuzzy Lookup, Multicast, Conditional Split, Data Conversion, etc. in SSIS Packages.  * Implemented the Master/Child Package Models to ensure that only the Master Package is scheduled which will in turn fire the other packages.  * Created event handlers on every executable in an SSIS package.  * Optimized ETL packages by optimizing queries and using proper transformations.  * Implemented package configurations on the development and test environments.  * Created several reports, drill down, drill through, sub, linked, cached and snapshot reports using reporting services.  * Involved in Report creation using SSRS and Excel services and deployed them on SharePoint server  * Deploying and scheduling Reports using SSRS to generate all daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly Reports including current status.  * Formatted and extended interactive SSRS reports by creating parameters within reports, multi-value parameters as well as embedding functions with expressions.  * Actively involved in securing the reports created depending upon the level of sensitivity of information that the report contained. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, SQL, POWER BI, VISUAL STUDIO, ORION, R2, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 8, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, BI, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  * Operating Systems: Windows 8, windows 10, Vista,7, Windows Server 2003/2008/R2/2012  * Database Packages: SQL Server 2005/2008/R2/2012/2014, MS Access, Visual Studio 2012  * BA Tools: Power BI, Orion BI