Administrative Assistant (Temp) Administrative Assistant (Temp) Administrative Assistant (Temp) - EXPRESS EMPLOYMENT PROFESSIONALS Jersey City, NJ Self-Motivated, Bilingual, Administrative Assistant with executive organization skills seeking a full-time job in corporation with opportunity of growth. Professional & Reliable with skills in prioritizing, customer service, communication, multitasking under tight timelines & detail orientation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Assistant (Temp) EXPRESS EMPLOYMENT PROFESSIONALS October 2018 to Present • Updating MAI system with RO's (receipt orders of technician's everyday task), inventory of what's in-house and transferred, and inputting invoices & purchase orders from vendors.  • Providing team on the field with information on movie/show rental updates and changes from different locations.  • Daily on field mapping of truck & trailers on our lot.  • Handling HR Duties by updating management reports, accident reports, copy, filing and reporting to main office in Pittsburgh PA  • Inbound/Outbound calls, scheduling & coordinating vendor appointment for repair on Trucks & Trailers (which include tire repair, flooring, buffing, carpet cleaning services etc.)  • Assisting truck drivers, production managers, captains and field workers when arriving at our facility with location their rental, lost & found items, taxi services to airport or train station.  • Assisting Office Manager with Account payables/receivables  • Ordering & tracking supplies for office and coming from main office in Pittsburgh, PA  • Maintained office neat & organized. Database Administrator MAGGY LONDON - New York, NY December 2017 to April 2018 • Updating PLM system with garment details, price and/or changes made by designer/sales team  • Daily communication with overseas factories for garment samples inquiries & pricing  • Once prices obtained, review them with CEO to finalize project production faze  • Working with Sales team on special Private Label projects to obtain pricing for external designers  • Liaison between designer & production on final stages of project & update PLM system with final choices Product Development Associate SUUCHI INC - North Bergen, NJ July 2017 to December 2017 • Liaison between Designer & Production (worked with about 15 projects at a time)  • Aiding, understanding and constantly updating the client on stages of their project.  • Working with all departments of company to meet time deadlines of each project.  • Making sure to stay within client's budget, and/or inform of any financial changes if need be. Analyst, Sales Audit (Temp) GUCCI/KERING CORP - Secaucus, NJ January 2017 to July 2017 • Resolve daily sales variances and monitor exceptions.  • Review and evaluate deposit information.  • Communicate with stores to ensure all tender information is recognized properly.  • Ensure ongoing communication with assigned stores to resolve procedural questions and to support effective balancing processes.  • Perform detail audit of store processes including: shortage performance, balancing timeliness, paid out and void after documentation, and communicate changes to Accounting Dept. Manager Billing Clerk (Temp) Bergen Logistics, LLC - North Bergen, NJ October 2014 to October 2015 • Billed 100-200 companies per day for services, shipping, receiving, and damages  • Organized and billed all of backup processes  • Responsible for maintaining consumers' files and saving back up  • General agency administrative tasks and customer service  • End of the month invoice assistant to General Manager  • Maintaining records organized in database  • Checking for errors, misspelling on invoices Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Administration, Organization, Product Development New Jersey City University - Jersey City, NJ September 2011 to December 2015 Skills Outlook, Excel, Filing, Scheduling, Administrative Assistant, Business Development, MS Office, Word