Database administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Database administrator Brooklyn, NY Seeking a position in an Information Technology environment  where I can utilize my skills and increase my knowledge and  experience in IT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database administrator Dlight Network - Lagos, NG January 2016 to July 2017 Upload product into company database.  ? Controlling and monitoring users' access to the database.  ? Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database.  ? Carried out backup and restoring of database information.  ? Trained staff on how to create tables in database. Fiber optics technician Mobile spread limited - Lagos, NG September 2014 to April 2015 Worked as an intern with the project manager to carry out installation of optic fiber cable  ? Helped with cabling and running fiber optics underground  and underwater.  ? Worked with team members to install and maintain all fiber  optic systems, to ensure they are working properly.  ? Carried out proper splicing and encasing of fiber cable.  ? Assist in connection of fiber cable in cell sites.  ? Worked along with the project manager to create a detailed, written plan for the installation of fiber optic cable.  ? Gave account of my everyday activities. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Concordia University of Wisconsin - Mequon, WI May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Physics and Electronics Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba - Lagos, NG September 2015 Skills Oracle, Sql, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Excel, Microsoft excel, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, Autocad, Inventory, Sql Dba, MYSQL, DBA Additional Information Computer Skills:  Software and Tools:  Oracle, SQL, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft  PowerPoint, Atom, Microsoft Visual Studio, AutoCAD.    Art and Gallery  Concordia University of  Wisconsin Mequon, Wisconsin  Theater department September  2017 - Present    • Work hand-in-hand with light board operators, in other to  plan everything out in advance to match the artistic vision  of the show.  • Scenic carpentry role, creating sets and structural elements  of the production as requested by the production manager.  • Theatrical makeup artist, ensuring all actors have the perfect  look for their roles.  • Making sure costumes fit the stage talent, keeping them in  good condition between shows, and helping actors in and  out of them during the show.  • Took inventory of make-up room and costume room.