Customer Support Agent Customer Support Agent Customer Support Agent - Data Research Group Raleigh, NC Information Technology graduate fuses technical knowledge with customer service expertise to provide personable guidance and sound technical solutions in a client-focused setting. Determined problem solver driven by passion for technology to successfully build, fine-tune, and troubleshoot computer systems. Proficient in several programming languages and knowledgeable in database systems and networking concepts. Work Experience Customer Support Agent Data Research Group - Culpeper, VA February 2019 to Present * Proactively building relationships with 54 clients through solving their day-to-day issues or questions.  * Use SQL database knowledge to create custom reports to meet client's needs.  * Travel across the country to integrate clients from their current platform to our platform  * Scheduled training with my clients to teach them in becoming efficient in our user interface platform.  * Keeping a 100% satisfactory rating with every client. Software Engineer Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA January 2018 to May 2018 * Solved CarMax transportation inefficiency through analyzing previous data and collaborating with other students.  * Utilized CarMax database and VBA to create a user interface and map to show the most optimal route.  * Briefed CarMax employees on key finds and solutions to transportation inefficiency.  * Placed 3rd out of over 60 teams. IT Administrator Internship Klockner Pentaplast - Gordonsville, VA May 2017 to August 2017 * Responded to queries, ran diagnostic programs, isolated problems, and determined and implemented solutions. Acted as main help desk to resolve client's problems promptly and efficiently.  * Used Hardware/Software knowledge to complete new component installations for clients.  * Apprenticed under head network engineer to successfully replace off site servers. Database Management and Computer Tech Combat Engineering International - Orange, VA June 2014 to August 2016 * Worked hands on in manufacturing plants to ensure parts and products were completed and sent on schedule.  * Created a data base of thousands of potential clients to efficiently market products and services.  * Directly worked with the owner to ensure his vision was successfully realized through aggressive marketing campaigns. Skills Sql, Python, Vba, Networking, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Data analytics, Linux, Software troubleshooting Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES    * Networking: TCP/IP, Packet Analysis, IP Addressing  * Languages: SQL, Python, VBA  * Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  * Data Analytics  * SQL Query Design  * Hardware/Software Troubleshooting  * Hardware Configuration