Junior Software Developer and Database Administrator Junior Software Developer and <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Software Developer and Database Administrator MATHNASIUM LEARNING CENTER - Basking Ridge, NJ May 2018 to June 2019 • Modify existing software to correct errors, allow it to adapt to new hardware, or to improve its performance.  • Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design system and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.  • Design, develop and modify software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design.  • Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation.  • Maintain Firebird database ensuring performance and data integrity.  • Collaborated on building a custom CRM system for the business   • Collaborated on project that connects to QuickBooks and feeds customer information from Firebird Database Part Time Mathematics Instructor EYE LEVEL LEARNING CENTER - Piscataway, NJ January 2017 to May 2018 • Provide academic coaching to students in Mathematics, according to grade level.  • Administer tests and quizzes to students at end of their study level, to advance to the next study topic.  • Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues.  • Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction.  • Oversee development and implementation of student workshops, where students learn different mathematical strategies and are challenged with the application of those strategies.  • Observe students to determine qualifications, limitations, abilities, interests, and other individual characteristics.  • Prepare students for further development by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks.  • Attend professional meetings, conferences, and workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Supervisor AMC Theatres - New Brunswick, NJ May 2016 to June 2017 • Make certain guest service is friendly, helpful and fast  • Maintain facilities that are clean, safe and in good repair  • Provide an experience that is comfortable, distraction-free and picture-perfect  • Serve fresh, appetizing and properly prepared food and beverages  • Assist with other functions as instructed by the General Manager  • Proven supervisory experience with effective managerial and training skills  • Persuasive written and oral communication skills along with strong analytical skills  • Ability to effectively delegate and follow up with booth crew members  • Proficient guest service, administrative and follow-up skills  • Equally comfortable communicating and working with guests, supervisors, peers, subordinates, vendors or partners  • Ability to consistently meet deadlines in a timely fashion  • Standing, walking, lifting, twisting and bending on a frequent basis Education B.S. in Computer Science and Mathematics Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ May 2018 A.S. in Mathematics Middlesex County College - Edison, NJ May 2014 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, SQL, BASH, JAVA, MATLAB, VBA Certifications/Licenses Certified SQL Developer June 2019 to Present Assessments Data Analysis — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bjy4q4x-qpmhsfew Business Math — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jbor5zeqjmk1n582 Data Entry — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to accurately input data and effectively manage databases. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i8icc-nlc6jma1cm Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/shjmvlzqrjd34oqv Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xf-fgw6-2gqnmlgj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Java, MATLAB and Python Proficient  • SQL, LibreOffice and Bash Shell Script Writing Expert  • Certified SQL Developer -2019  • Business Math, Technical Support, Data Entry and Data Analysis Expert  • Bilingual (English and Spanish)