Laboratory Analyst Laboratory Analyst Laboratory Analyst - Pace Analytical Services LLC Lenexa, KS Database Administrator/Analyst with a strong academic background in Environmental Science and Technology.  Recognized as being adaptable, dependable, Critical Thinking, Problem Solving and a great team player with  excellent attention to detail. Graduate of Data Analytics Bootcamp at Kansas University. Work Experience Laboratory Analyst Pace Analytical Services LLC - Lenexa, KS November 2018 to Present Perform complex chemical tests on soil, water, and other waste samples making monitoring and management of air, water and soil quality easier. Test revealed potential impact of chemicals to the  environmental and human health, hence recommend remediation techniques to improve the environment  ? Log and analyze data revealed by lab tests and evaluate data found through complex testing processes. This  has been instrumental in reducing missed laboratory results, creating user Interfaces for Test Process  Tracking, and Retrospective Analyses to Identify Problems.  ? Manage inventory supplies by keeping track of materials used and ordering new items as needed. This role  has been outstanding in keeping accurate record of laboratory supplies, financial accounting, customer order  fulfillment, stock replenishment and maintain the ability to locate specific an item  ? Serve as Safety Officer to maintain safety standards and protocols at all times in regard to safe handling of materials and wearing proper protective equipment within Laboratory. Successfully influenced Pace  Analytical services to implement new safety protocol in Organic extraction department, which has so far  resulted in zero occurrence of safety violation and no incident of chemical accidents or contaminants which were rampant at the department.  Lenexa, Kansas 66219, USA Tel: +19137429605  Email: arukojong@live.co.uk | LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/aruk-bawak-msc-37a76116a/  Github: https://github.com/Arukojong MySQL Database Administrator, Sciquest Jaggaer Inc - Pittsburgh, PA April 2017 to November 2018 Maintained database security by Granting/Revoking users/role authorizations and privilege, Installed, Patched, and Upgraded MySQL databases in clustered and non-clustered configuration and most importantly  Monitoring performance and managing parameters to provide fast responses to front-end users.  ? Owning and resolving problems and managing customer expectations throughout the Service Request  lifecycle in accordance with global standards. Proactively monitor and optimize system performance using  tuning methodology. Execute tasks like Query Optimization, Index Tuning, Caching and Buffer Tuning, HotSpot and Bottleneck identification to eliminate MySQL performance issues. Provide immediate  resolution to critical application downtime and make sure applications don't slow down during critical  business hours  ? Migrate from any database version to MySQL. Evaluate your current IT setup, identify likely challenges and incompatibilities. and subsequently migrate the data to MySQL and load against sample queries. Frequently  migrated databases from legacy systems to MySQL 5.xx.x and from previous to MySQL 5.7.  ? Apply MySQL best practices and tools to prevent future issues that can harass your MySQL infrastructure as well as authenticate and appraise MySQL database architecture and configuration to suffice present and  future growth requirements.  ? Develop and implement Myql backup and recovery strategy as well as cloning/recovery validation for all  production especially for both MyISAM and InnoDB storage engines Education Certificate in Data Analytics Kansas University January 2019 to June 2019 Master of Science in Environmental Science and Technology in Databases University of Kansas - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2016 to March 2017 Diploma in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Gent September 2013 to September 2016 University of Buea October 2010 to October 2012 Skills Mysql, Replication, Sql, Sqlite, Javascript, D3.js, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Vba, Data management, Data visualization, Machine learning, Tableau, Visualization, Excel, Performance tuning Links https://github.com/Arukojong https://www.linkedin.com/in/aruk-bawak-msc-37a76116a Additional Information Technical Skills  Business Acumen, MySQL security, performance tuning, replication & Backup and recovery using MySQL dumps and  Percona tools [i.e., Xtrabackup]), Python, SQL, JavaScript and R, Data Visualization and Communication with Tableau,  Pandas, Matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, Plotly, D3.js, NumPy, Data Management, Querying and Analysis with SQL,  MySQL, Sqlite, BigQuery, AWS, Big Data, Machine Learning, Relational Data, modeling and Predictive Analysis,  VBA and advanced Excel