Business Support Consultant Business Support Consultant Business Support Consultant - Wells Fargo Brooklyn Park, MN An experienced Data Analyst with over 3+ years of experience. Extensive knowledge in Oracle Database Administrator with over 2+ years extensive knowledge on technical assistance and support in identifying and evaluating automated systems. Recognized by leadership for stepping up assuming accountability for problems. As well as taking head on responsibility to help team members. A good team player with excellent interpersonal skills, with the ability to coordinate multiple activities; determine and analyze problems and implement corrective actions. Exceptional communication, organization and time management skills with remarkable attention to detail. Work Experience Business Support Consultant Wells Fargo 2018 to Present Interacting with internal business partners to provide communication support to Home Lending customers.  ? Coordinating and collaborating with various partners (Internal SC&D, Enterprise Global Services, Business, Legal, RECOR, Risk, and Center of Excellence).  ? Comprehensively reviewing each request, taking accountability for accuracy of communications end to end.  ? Setting and communicating process milestones and next steps to meet implementation date(s).  ? Keeping customers Informed and owning every Interaction (follow ups, touching base with progress).  ? Building clear accurate communications and implementing into production  ? Eliciting/documenting needs and requests via requirement and design artifacts: (CTS/CDD).  ? Documenting testing scenarios and understanding plain business language and logic  ? Developing in all appropriate technology systems for communications (WISP, MSP, Legend, etc.). UnitedHealth Group/ Optum 2017 to 2018 Analyze and track Medical Chart Quality Assurance (QA)  ? Conducted onsite physician chart audits (including research) and identifies potential suspects through clinical documentation where HCC diagnosis is clinically indicated but not documented.  ? Knowledge of HIPAA regulations  ? Interacted with providers and other medical professionals regarding privately held information (PHI).  ? Assisted management in assigned tasks and projects as necessary  ? Perform data entry and processing for Health measurements into Word, Excel, Sharepoint and Adobe.  ? QA Medical records in Ruby, Erma and SharePoint.  ? Trained in stage 1,2,3 and Cyber Security (CSCO)  ? Conduct chart reviews for purposes of identifying, confirming, and/or documenting appropriate medical information.  ? Risk adjustment document processes for quality assurance and audit of medical records.  ? Exposure to auditing by assessing the accuracy, reliability and validity of Excel spreadsheets done by others.  ? Proficiency with Microsoft Office application to include Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Outlook.  ? Extensive knowledge Sharepoint, Adobe, Internet research.  ? Perform other duties as assigned Junior Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting, LLC 2016 to 2017 Upgrade databases from 10g, 11g to 12c (12.1.0.1 and 12.1.0.2) by doing either in place or out of place upgrades for dedicated databases or migrations for shared databases.  ? Planned and scheduled Backup/Recovery Strategy (with RMAN); took Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  ? Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) to help application developers with the application design.  ? Performed database security and user administration via roles, profile, privilege, synonyms and auditing. Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Data pump.  ? Performance tuning by optimizing SQL statements and provided technical support and troubleshooting assistance to application development teams for Oracle related issues.  ? Planned and implemented the configuration and installation of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for monitoring daily database activities and overall performance, growth and tuning configurations.  ? Provided capacity planning, tuning and administration support to application development efforts in PeopleSoft.  ? Goals achieved ranged from I/O minimization, improved hit ratios, contention reduction, high database availability etc. St. Cloud State University, Welcome Center 2015 to 2017 Worked independently to advertise events for the Welcome Center and events for Continuing Studies on Social Media  ? Managed and configured data in Adobe  ? Extensive use of Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint  ? Endorsed the Welcome Center and Continuing Studies through Social Media such as, Facebook, Twitter and Linkedin  ? Managed client contacts using Constant Content Education Certification Cyber Security Bootcamp 1 University of Minnesota Skills Health Care, Business Process