DB2 Database Administrator DB2 <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Reading, PA Five years of experience in System Analysis, Design, Development as Database Administrator in DB2 (UDB 9.7), and DB2 UDB (UNIX) and Windows and also worked on db2 performance analyst.    • Install, Configure, Upgrade DB2 UDB server and application tools  • Manage Tablespaces, tables, Users and other Database Objects on UNIX servers.  • Monitor Database operations using UNIX shell scripts and writing Data sets.  • Catalog Manager, Change Manager Endeavor Tools  • Enroll users, control and maintain user access to the database to maintain security.  • Implement RACF Security using Roles, Privileges, Grants, and Views.  • Monitor and Optimize database for better performance.  • Implementing Symmetric Replication, Distributed databases across the network.  • Select appropriate INIT.ORA parameters for efficient database operations.  • Use Import, Export, SQL*Loader and other tools to load and backup data.  • Backup and Recovery of Database in case of Crash/Failure.  • Planning and Implementing Data warehouse with Multiple Data marts.  • Worked with data transformation tools. Ascential Datastage (6)( Administrator, Director, Designer, Manager)  • Create Packages, Stored Procedures and Functions to process data.  • Create Tables, Indexes, Views, Sequences and Database Links to develop applications.  • Support for Production database (24x7).  • Write PL/SQL code utilizing Cursors, Arrays, Exceptions and Advanced Constructs. Work Experience DB2 Database Administrator Social security Administration - Baltimore, MD August 2011 to June 2016 SSA Engineering Support    DB2 (UDB) Administrator (windows & Unix )    Roles and Responsibilities:    Environment: Dev/Val/ performance /Production.    • Maintain production DB2 database support for social security Administration's Distributed environment consists of 20 Sun Server's spread across seven physical sites using DB2 UDB UNIX.  • On-call Production Support (24x7), monitoring and maintaining multiple db2 servers in different Environments.  • DB2 UDB Software Development, Develop, maintains, test, document, and deploy DB2 UDB stem level software features and changes.  • Analyze high level requirements  • Install, test, and maintain DB2 UDB Software  • Meet with SSA analysts, management and end-users to develop requirements  • Manage the life cycle (dev/val/int/production)  • Coordinate Software Changes.  • Create new or modify DB2 UDB Architectures.  • Create new DB2 UDB and Content Manager Database for integration, training, acceptance and production life cycles.  • Complete appropriate change management documentation such as specific forms and SSA's Change Asset and Problem Reporting System (CAPRS).  • Update appropriate DB2 UDB configuration documentation to reflect changes to the architecture.  • Communicate and work with application developers and software testers to ensure all DB2 UDB resources are identified and defined appropriately.  • Problem Management and Production Support  • Customize commercial off-the shelf (COTS) monitoring software to monitor the DB2 UDB production environment for problems.  • Software Installation and Maintenance  • Install DB2 UDB software and third party vendor software across SSA's System Development life Cycle (SDLC)  • Maintain DB2 UDB software and third party vendor software SSA's SDLC.  • Update configuration documentation reflecting new software versions.  • Research compatibility between SUN Solaris, Security Software, Application software in relationship to DB2 UDB and third party vendor products  • Establish and document test plan  • Coordinate test activities with application development staff and external partners.  • Document changes using SSA's Change Management System (CMS)  • Communicate and coordinate software upgrades with the Task Manager.  • Perform software installation and maintenance of DB2 UDB software and third party vendor software across SSA's System Development life cycle (SDLC).  • Provide 24*7 Pager support to resolve DB2 UDB related problems when they occur.  • Software maintenance is applied every 6 months for existing products and version upgrades are determined by business need. Software implementation dates vary depending on the criticality of the upgrade. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems OS/390, HP-UX 10.01/IBM, AIX, MS - DOS, 98, NT 3.5/4, MS-DOS, AS/400, VM, Unix, Novell NetWare v4.1, Open VMS 7.1, MVS, NET 8    GUI Visual Explain for Z/OS(v1.0.11), Developer2000 (Forms 6i, Reports 6i)/Designer 2000    DBA DB2 UDB (UNIX) DBA,    Languages C/C++/Pro C, SQL, PL / SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Power Designer, COBOL II/RMDS, FTP, JCL, CICS, Trim, TSO (M/F).    Utilities BMC Amin Tools, WCS Informatica, Ascential DataStage (4, 6), SQL*Loader, TSD Tool, Export/Import Enterprise Manager, SQL*Net, TKPROF, Designer /2000, Erwin 3.5.2, Datacom, Embarcadero DBArtisan(8.1.5), Xcellerator, WCA tool