Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst Harrisburg, PA As a Data analyst with 3+ years of experience in analyzing data, creating approximate statistical and analytical reports. Excellent understanding of business operations and analytical tools for effective analysis of data. Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of enterprise wide security applications using Ping Federate, CA SiteMinder, ODSEE, LDAP Directory, CA Directory, Active Directory on Windows, and Linux. Solid team player with the ability to multitask, performs well under pressure and meet tight-time requirements. Work Experience Data Analyst Y. N. REDDY HOUSING PRIVATE LIMITED March 2016 to August 2018 • Extracted and processed large datasets, draw valid results and demonstrated the insights successfully to management by performing statistical analysis using various packages.  • Performed analysis on market price and demonstrated the profits on monthly and region based using Microsoft Excel and Tableau.  • Created dashboards, graphs, and visualizations using Tableau.  • Restricted data accessibility using row level security and User filters in Tableau.  • Performed applicable analytical processes to determine whether opportunities meet or exceed the company's investment criteria.  • Worked on installing, configuring and administering CA SiteMinder R12, R12.52 and Sun One LDAP 11 (ODSEE) on Windows, and Linux Platforms.  • Coordinated the purchase transaction and due diligence process between the buyer and the seller.  • Indirectly contributed to city development with my analysis presented to the company and to the Tirupati Urban Development Association.  • Implementation of fully API based SSO architecture using CA Site Minder, CA IDM, Ping Federate, and Radiant Logic Virtual Directory Server which accomplishes end applications integration with SSO easier.  • Experience in implementing LDAP security models. Utilized Resource Analyzer and Log Analyzer for performance and troubleshooting & managed LDAP policy store using LDAP. Database Administrator Integraaf IT Solutions - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh June 2014 to November 2015 • Maintained the overall database integrity and quality, including routine data improvement, data auditing, practice enforcement, security and code value management, systems check, and database functions.  • Maintained primary contact with consultants as assigned updated calendar of appointments.  • Managed records and donor relations for monthly donor and other pledge programs in Excel.  • Worked with Data management team to identify problems and suggest solutions.  • Identify, mine, and analyze prospects for fundraising and outreach initiatives.  • Used SAML to implement Single Sign On (SSO) to external web applications by configuring SiteMinder affiliate agents on the web servers designated for affiliate customers.  • Review daily, weekly, and monthly reports for accurate reconciliation with Finance Department.  • Expertise in UNIX shell Scripting. Experience in programming using Java, JSP, Servlets, XML and HTML. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Wilmington University - New Castle, DE December 2017 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh May 2014 Skills Excel (3 years), LDAP (2 years), Linux (2 years), Microsoft Excel (2 years), SiteMinder (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Programming Languages: SQL, HTML, CSS, R, Shell Script.  Data Science Skillset: Predictive/Regression Modelling, Data Mining, Statistical Analysis.  Relational Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, LDAP  Reporting Tools: Tableau, PowerBI, Microsoft Excel, IBM Watson, Google Analytics.  Operating Sytems: Windows, and Linux  Identity and Access Management: Ping, CA SiteMinder