Full Stack Developer Full Stack Developer Full Stack Developer Lynnwood, WA I've been boundlessly fascinated by how things work for most of my life. By 15 I built my first PC, and since then I've dedicated myself to the domain of technology.    Over the past decade, I've been tasked with the growth of four multi-million page view per month websites, splitting my time between project management, development, and editorial duties. While my background covers a large landscape, my passion is in web application development with a core competency in constructing intuitive front-end user interfaces that interact with back-end solutions. Equipped with a Computer Information Systems background, I primarily work with JavaScript, React, Redux, Apollo, SCSS/LESS, Styled Components, GraphQL, SQL, and MongoDB. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer PwC - Seattle, WA March 2019 to Present Working alongside an award-winning team to build an enterprise web application. My focus is on the front end where I forge React/JavaScript-based user interfaces that communicate with a GraphQL, Node, Express, and ArangoDB back-end via Apollo Client. Pixel-perfect styling to match Figma comps, some of which I contributed, is performed using LESS and Semantic. Data visualizations are crafted using D3 and Nivo. Using Storybook I customized and extended the functionality of Semantic elements that are showcased across multiple internal applications. Components include self-built Jest and Enzyme unit tests. Full Stack Developer MovementX - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present As full stack development lead, I work directly with a team of doctors of physical therapy to provide solutions for their revolutionary HIPAA compliant health platform. Technologies include JavaScript, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, HTML5, and SCSS in an AWS and Linux environment. Examples of implementations I've worked on include Stripe payment handling, Google Sheets API read/write, e-mail automation, onboarding process overhauls for both providers and patients, and construction of a Gatsby, React, and GraphQL based blog where articles are published for SEO and campaigning. Lead Front End Developer Stackend Solutions - Seattle, WA August 2018 to March 2019 I was in charge of front-end architecture and development for a variety of web applications. I spent the majority of my time working in an environment powered by React, Redux, Redux Thunk, JavaScript, HTML5, Styled Components (SASS on older projects), and Docker Compose, occasionally jumping over to React Native for mobile app development. Back ends were constructed as REST APIs based in Flask/Python, MongoDB, and Traefik. In this leadership role, I additionally spearheaded the definition and assignment of front-end tasks, recommended technologies, led team meetings, as well as maintained GitLab repositories and a Trello board. Front End Developer (Contract) Cobia Systems - Seattle, WA May 2018 to July 2018 Engaged in a short-term project to design and build front-end features for a new iteration of a digital marketing web app that utilizes big data to perform anthropological analysis, displaying real-time geolocational trends in an intuitive manner. I primarily used React, Redux, JavaScript, HTML5, and SCSS, in addition to interacting with a PHP-based REST API and MySQL database. Web Contractor Literally Media - Seattle, WA September 2017 to May 2018 I worked with the editorial and web development teams to establish a gaming vertical in the company's portfolio along with long-form feature content. The development team relied on me for UX, QA, and SEO-oriented objectives, and during evenings I hosted a Twitch channel that became officially partnered within two months. Executive Editor Evolve Media, LLC April 2013 to August 2017 I was responsible for the direction and growth of two gaming websites. Utilizing Google Analytics to devise strategies in the face of industry challenges, debugging technical issues alongside a web development team, using JIRA for project management, editing and spearheading SEO efforts, establishing relationships with PR, and leading staff were critical elements of my position. Over the years I attended several notable events where I interviewed dozens of developers and led coverage, including BlizzCon, E3, Dota 2's The International, San Diego Comic-Con, and the Warcraft film's red carpet debut. Later, I oversaw a major website relaunch that included a migration from a proprietary CMS to WordPress. Project Manager Northrop Grumman, CSUSM January 2015 to May 2015 Worked with a team of five students that created an Apache, CentOS, and MariaDB based reporting system used for part tracking. Followed joint application design format with scheduled customer meetings. Assistant Database Administrator Adrylan Communications, Inc - Murrieta, CA August 2012 to March 2013 This software company brought me onboard to work with its database administrator to manage student, faculty, and test records in a MySQL database for multiple K-12 districts in Southern California. In an agile environment I tested our proprietary software alongside our team of programmers and was called upon for internal IT support. Technical Editor Pearson North America June 2012 to August 2012 I was Technical Editor for a hardware book published in 2012. This book was sold at Barnes & Noble and made available through an online bookstore. Server Admin/Support Technician Conduit Networks, Inc. - Murrieta, CA December 2009 to April 2012 For more than two years I provided technical support for 15 clients in Riverside County, primarily focused on local health clinics that operated in Windows environments backed by Windows Server on HP Proliant hardware. Initially, I was tasked with answering technical support calls and managing a ticket system, occasionally visiting clients on-site for diagnosis and repair. Later, I designed and implemented a full system maintenance plan for 7 clients that brought in recurring revenue. I also performed work on several high budget contract jobs including the modeling of a school district camera system in Redlands and network-wide hardware upgrades for several of our clients. Education B.S in Computer Information Systems California State University, San Marcos - San Marcos, CA May 2016 A.S in Computer Information Systems Mt. San Jacinto College - Menifee, CA May 2013 Skills JavaScript (2 years), React (2 years), Node, Express, MongoDB, SQL, Redux, JSON, CSS, SASS, Adobe XD, Python, Django, Docker, Linux, AWS, Apollo, MongoDB, GraphQL, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, UI Links http://www.GitHub.com/JonnyBeoulve http://www.JonathanLeack.com Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) Present MSJC SQL Programming Present Team Treehouse Full Stack TechDegree Present Google Challenge Scholarship: Mobile Web January 2018 to Present CompTIA IT Operations Specialist December 2017 to Present