Job Seeker Work Experience Vulnerability Research April 2019 to Present Helped to create Reverse Engineering training program  ? Vulnerability Research on IoT devices    Parsons - September 2017 - March 2019  Reverse Engineer (September 2017 - Present)  ? Malware analysis and lab setup.  ? Generation of Reverse Engineering training materials. General Dynamics Mission Systems December 2014 to September 2017 Reverse Engineer DC3 (March 2016 - September 2017)  ? Malware analysis including deducing what a given threat is designed to do and how it interacts with the environment it is run in.  ? Tooling to automate malware analysis such as string decoders, configuration parsers, and network  traffic decoders. Lead software developer on the production of a windows filter driver General Dynamics Mission Systems December 2014 to March 2016 Applications Developer DC3 (December 2014 - March 2016)  ? Lead software developer on a mission critical program responsible for submission of malware and workflow of exams to be done on the processed submissions. The system is written in HTML,  Angular, PHP and utilizes a Postgres database.  ? Lead software developer on the production of a windows filter driver for the Intrusions section of the Defense Computer Forensics Laboratory for analysis of modifications malicious software would make  to a Windows 64bit machine. Driver is written in C utilizing the Windows Driver Development Kit.  ? Lead software and full stack developer for a web utility that facilitates the notification of critical events  to critical personnel.  ? Shadowing a Reverse Engineer in the Intrusions Section of the Defense Computer Forensics  Laboratory on the use of Dshell and pcap analysis. Bank of America November 2012 to May 2014 Software Contractor CLMS/TSS and Online Fraud Detection Groups - Timonium, MD November 2012 to May 2014 Software developer working with the CLMS/TSS and Online Fraud Detection Groups, performing  server setup and configuration, database management, Unix shell scripting, PowerBuilder  programming, and database interface software in Java. Functioned as a primary interface point with the other support teams at BAC. Working knowledge of Actimize Fraud detection products. Provided  problem investigation and troubleshooting for the development environments by the team. Textron AAI December 2007 to February 2012 Software Engineer Unmanned Air System Group - Hunt Valley, MD November 2007 to February 2012 performing design, generating code, and performing test of updates to the Shadow Unmanned Air Vehicle (UAV) onboard aircraft control  computer. This consisted of programming in a real-time distributed architecture in C and included  use of communication protocols and generation of software to control aircraft components. Additional  activities including the generation of software test tools used in UAV hardware checkout. Test tools  were developed in various languages, including C, C++ and Python. Textron AAI March 2007 to May 2007 Engineering Internship Hunt Valley, MD March 2007 to May 2007 Software Engineer on the T25 Simulator for Electronic Combat Training (T25 SECT) Program.  Implemented a prototype for the APN-242 radar simulation used in navigation radar training. This  required development of a C/C++ UDP Ethernet interface to a commercial radar simulation tied into an existing simulation platform. Center for Educational Resources, Johns Hopkins University 2005 to 2005 database administrator Technology Fellowship - Baltimore, MD 2005 to 2005 Baltimore, MD (2005)  ? Designed a back-end component for a Java/SQL-based course management system for biology  students at the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences. Additionally acted as a database administrator. Education B.S. in Computer Science Johns Hopkins University 2007 Skills database. (3 years), Html (1 year), Malware (4 years), Python. (4 years), Unix (1 year) Additional Information Over 12 years of experience in all phases of software development and maintenance, including  requirements analysis, design, software development, integration, evaluation, enhancement,  maintenance, installation, and problem diagnosis/resolution on various mission critical, collection, and  monitoring systems. These software systems were developed using C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python,  PHP, Angular, HTML, and others on Unix and Windows environments utilizing various databases in  client/server architectures.    Years Experience: 12 years    TECHNICAL SKILLS & PROFICIENCIES:  REVERSE ENGINEERING: Malware Analysis, IDA Pro, IDA python    OPERATING SYSTEMS: Linux, Unix, Windows  PROGRAMMING: C, Assembly, Regular Expressions, Python, SQL, HTML, XML, PHP, HTML, Angular  DATABASE: Postgres, Oracle, Sybase