Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Chaveran Inc Germantown, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD 2017 to Present - Current  • Install, create, and design Oracle database systems on Windows and Linux.  • Perform backups using RMAN.  • Implement Oracle Grid Infrastructure; configure ASM.  • Utilize data pump export and data pump import (expdp and impdp).  • Manage single-instance and multitenant databases in development, testing, and production environments.  • Develop and implement Oracle data security strategies.  • Support Oracle 11g and 12c databases. Assistant Director - Current Community School of Maryland - Brookeville, MD 2016 to Present Brookeville, MD 20833 2016 - Present  Assistant Director - Current  * Coordinate state testing for students as required by Individualized Education Program (IEP) guidelines.  * Track and maintains supply budgets.  * Coordinate and lead annual academic IEP meetings for students who are represented by Montgomery County, MD; Frederick County, MD, and District of Columbia representatives and specialists.  * Assist CSM Director with various administrative tasks applicable to the administration.  * Liaison for state agencies and school system, which pertain to reporting, testing, and training.  * Transition specialist. Special Education Teacher - (2 years) Montgomery County, MD 2014 to 2016 * Supervised 7 teacher assistants in an Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) classroom setting.  * Reviewed and ensured accuracy of behavioral data collection for 7 autistic students.  * Handled weekly cash expenses per classroom budget, and prepared confirmations for expense reimbursements.  * Created individualized academic goals per Montgomery County, MD; District of Columbia, and Frederick County, MD.  * Trained staff on appropriate ABA-based methods, and data collection.  * Prepared daily academic schedules for students based on Montgomery County and Frederick County curricula. Personal Family ABA Therapist - Independent Consultant Henry Azar - Washington, DC 2010 to 2014 * Managed 2 autistic adults for day-to-day behavioral therapy and living skills.  * Organized academic and behavioral data and prepared reports for each client for monthly psychiatric appointments.  * Trained 6 staff members on proper Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) techniques and data collection.  * Managed daily schedules and ABA training for 6 staff. Education Master of Science in Management University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2017 Bachelor of Science in Psychology University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2009 Skills Database Administration (2 years), SQL (2 years), Database Management (2 years), Oracle (2 years), DBA, Oracle Dba