Senior Systems & Database Administrator Senior Systems &amp; <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems & Database Administrator - Newfields • 15+ years IT experience; 5+ years management experience.  • Experienced IT professional well-versed in leadership and management roles, project management, physical, cloud, and virtual server environments/infrastructure, database administration, backup and storage administration, technical documentation, security, networking, infrastructure architecture and design, technical training, disaster recovery and business continuity planning.  • Bachelor's Degree held. Work Experience Senior Systems & Database Administrator Newfields - Indianapolis, IN January 2017 to Present • Manage and oversee the IT infrastructure, including the current Citrix Xen Server environment, Windows and Linux virtual and physical servers, SAN and NAS systems, Domain Controllers, DNS/DHCP, security certificates, domain registrant management, Office 365, Active Directory, SharePoint Online, various applications, networking, server maintenance / patching, etc.  • Mentor and oversee a junior systems administration team and reconcile any escalated user support issues.  • Create and implement IT policies, documentation, handle IT strategic planning including Disaster Recover / Business Continuity, security, infrastructure upgrades, special projects, etc.  • Currently working on planning, purchasing, and implementing a new VMWare replacement to the Citrix VM environment, a new backup system, and new server hardware and 2016/2019 Windows Server implementation (to replace aging 2008 nearing EOL).  • Chair and attend various strategic meetings, working closely with the executive team. Senior Systems Administrator City of Fishers - Indianapolis, IN December 2015 to December 2016 • Fully support Windows environment of 180+ virtual servers, using a variety of software and Dell hardware.  • 99% virtualized environment with VMware 6.0 hosts (recently upgraded from 5.5).  • Powerhell and dos cli batch scripting experience for server and PC task automations (local, scheduled, remote jobs), including Windows task scheduler use. Learning Linux bash scripting at present, light VBScript, and Javascript as it pertains to SharePoint 2013.  • Act as Veeam Backup, Certificate Authority, and Exchange 2013 / Office 365 administrator, using Exchange shell and remote Powershell scripting for specific group and mailbox tasks.  • Act as primary Active Directory, SharePoint 2013, and SQL database administrator.  • Work with SolarWinds for server monitoring, including SQL database modules.  • Help train, mentor, and work with a team of system administrators in varying support roles.  • Assist with development and implementation of repairs, patching, upgrades, and decommissions for servers, PCs, hardware, and software, ensuring optimal uptimes, performance, and end user support.  • Helped saved the department over $8,000 a month in hosted email archive vendor charges and Office 365 email E3 and K1 license conversions and cleanup.  • Fixed and optimized SQL server farm, including spinning up the environment's first 2014 SQL server with SQL 2016 coming soon.  • Successfully migrated SCCM 2012 from a Windows 2008 R2 server to Windows 2012 R2 in preparation for upcoming Windows 10 deployment. Planning SCCM 2012 R2 upgrade soon.  • Assist with the research of applications such as Barracuda Message Archiver, StealthBits, Thycrotic Secret Server, Amazon Glacier, and others. Participate in overall departmental strategic planning.  • Recently implemented Barracuda Message Archiver and enhanced StealthBits features for AD monitoring.  • Primary Back-end SharePoint 2013 administrator.  • Successfully migrated WSUS from Windows 2008 R2 server to Windows 2012 R2 server (installed role on new SCCM server), including decommission of old SQL db server.  • Learned to be a primary support person for applications such as Infor EAM and WIN-911 SCADA. Systems Administrator Krieg DeVault LLP - Indianapolis, IN September 2015 to November 2015 • Fully supported Windows environment of 200+ end users and 110+ servers, using a variety of software and Dell hardware; training to be primary Citrix Xenapp server administrator.  • 99% virtualized environment with 8 VMware 5.1 and upgrading to 5.5 hosts, with an estimated 108 virtual servers across the environment.  • Powershell and batch scripting for server and PC task automations (local, scheduled, remote jobs) and other tasks as needed, including Windows task scheduler use.  • Performed and assisted with all System Administrator and tech support tasks, and helped level 2 system administrators with their tasks, training, and issues.  • Developed and implemented plans for infrastructure repairs, patching, upgrades, and decommissions of servers, PCs, hardware, and software.  • Corrected problems with current SCCM 2012 and WSUS setups, improving performance and stability by 20% and created new processes for MSI package deployments. Network Engineer and Systems Administrator Buchanan Group, Inc - Indianapolis, IN July 2015 to September 2015 • Fully supported Windows environment of 320+ end users in 30 different locations across the state and 40+ servers, using a variety of software, Dell, HP, Cisco hardware.  • 99% virtualized environment with 6 VMware 5.5 hosts, with an estimated 38 virtual servers across the environment.  • Performed and assisted with all Network Administrator, System Administrator, and tech support tasks, acting as backup desktop administrator.  • Powershell and batch scripting for server and PC task automations (local, scheduled, remote jobs) and other tasks as needed, including Windows task scheduler use.  • Developed and implemented plans for infrastructure repairs, patching, upgrades, and decommissions of servers, PCs, hardware, and software, shaping budgets.  • Corrected problems with current SCCM 2012 and WSUS setups, improving system performance and stability by 30% and created new processes for MSI package deployments.  • Applied best practices and expertise to existing software and servers, increasing speed, stability and uptimes. Systems Engineer / Systems Administrator eImagine Technology Group (ETG) - Indianapolis, IN September 2014 to July 2015 • Fully supported multi-domain Windows environment of 35+ end users and 45+ servers, using a variety of software and Dell, HP, and Cisco hardware.  • Performed all system administrator and technical support tasks for ETG office and also external client support.  • Provisioned virtual/hosted virtual server environments utilizing Hyper-V.  • Managed two Active Directory domains, one for internal ETG employees and one for a hosted services environment for client access to their hosted servers.  • Administrator for multiple Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011, 2013, 2015 environments, each with 5-100 users internal, hosted, and client-side. Implemented upgrades, new installations, and configurations, administered MSSQL setups, connections, and SSRS setups.  • Acted as a technology resource during client meetings for new business development & RFPs.  • Worked directly with clients to perform deployments and upgrades of systems, including requirements gathering, project management, documentation & training materials.  • Secured projects with organizations including a major fast-food chain, a large mortgage company, and an Indiana State agency, based upon my interview and presentation skills. Was recognized for these contributions by management.  • Powershell and batch scripting for server and PC task automations (local, scheduled, remote jobs) and other tasks as needed, including Windows task scheduler use.  • Trained and helped develop a junior system engineer. Director of Information Technology Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites (ISMHS) - Indianapolis, IN July 2012 to September 2014 Indiana  • Supported and managed all aspects of the 20+ server infrastructure, supported 230+ end users, and also supported 11 Historic Sites across the state. On-call 24/7.  • Researched, strategically planned, implemented infrastructure enhancements that improved system reliability and performance by approximately 35%.  • Handled all of the IT preparation and successful setup for the ISMHS' biggest summer blockbuster in the last decade in 2013 - Star Wars: Where Science Meets Imagination ®, including setting up a large Star Wars ® merchandise kiosk with networking, online store, and PC setups.  • Interviewed, hired, trained, and managed IT staff to support the ISMHS.  • Implemented and updated a successful DR plan, PCI compliance audits, contracted yearly 3rd security audits, and a comprehensive infrastructure discovery and health audit.  • Saved approximately $15,000 in costs by auditing IOT line item charges, locating and disconnecting unused active phone lines and also adjusting ISP data plans based on office needs.  • Acted as agency's security and mobility administrator, worked directly with HR and IOT to handle employee on-boarding and off-boarding, and asset provisioning.  • Chaired various meetings, such as the ticketing system, project requests, and strategic planning, and routinely increasing the effectiveness of that $100,000+ software system.  • Provided application system administration for software like Gateway Galaxy Point of Sale, Salesforce, Mimsy XG (artifact database software), Blackbaud Raiser's Edge.  • Powershell and batch scripting for server and PC task automations (local, scheduled, remote jobs) and other tasks as needed, including Windows task scheduler use. Systems Administrator Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN September 2011 to August 2012 • Fully supported server infrastructure of 200+ Windows servers with BES and Domino.  • Provided global BES and Lotus Notes support to 35,000 across the US, Canada, Europe, and Japan, participating in on-call rotation.  • Trained new system administrators and created new KB documents added to SOP database that improved customer support initiatives and troubleshooting. IT Team Lead Swiss Post Solutions - Indianapolis, IN June 2010 to August 2011 • Fully supported office of 200+ end users, 20+ servers, PC and Macs, phone AV, backups, UPS, network equipment. Remotely supported another 1500+ end users across the US and Canada in multiple Active Directory and Novell domains.  • Researched new technologies, budget planning, and helped guide office for upgrade paths.  • Acted as a secondary Lotus Notes system administrator for certain offices not using Outlook. Education Bachelor of Arts in English Studies and Literature Marian University - Indianapolis, IN 1998 to 2003 Skills Visio, Os 10, R2, Android, Ios, DBA, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Database Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/scott-doyle-a0774022 Additional Information Operating Systems  • Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10, Apple Mac OS 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9  • Microsoft Server 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008, 2003, 2000  • Mobile: Android, Apple iOS    Applications  • Adobe Acrobat Pro  • Microsoft Office: Outlook/ Word/Excel/Access/ PowerPoint/Visio    Scott David Doyle  (317) 956-2683  doyle.scott00@gmail.com  Public Profile  www.linkedin.com/in/scott-doyle-a0774022    Department of Defense Top Secret Clearance (Inactive - JPASS Verified 05/12