IT RISK ANALYST & AUDITOR IT RISK ANALYST &amp; AUDITOR IT RISK ANALYST & AUDITOR - AspireDC Laurel, MD Work Experience IT RISK ANALYST & AUDITOR AspireDC - Washington, DC June 2016 to Present Enhance and maintain policies, standards, baselines, guidelines and procedures related to system and data protection efforts across the company.  ? Participate in Third Party/Vendor Security Assessment Program (VSAP) to identify any major gaps between vendor security controls and organization's policy.  ? Performed information security assessments in direct support of major compliance efforts such as NIST-RMF, SOX, and PCI-DSS.  ? Assist in planning, scheduling and completion of audit engagements in accordance with the annual audit plan, including the preparation of work papers, documentation of findings and making recommendations.  ? Evaluate client documentation to support controls, and document minutes and design/operational effectiveness of controls.  ? Execute IT testing as directed by Senior Associates and Managers, and determine proper information assurance treatment of various issues that arise during an IT audit.  ? Effective use of governance, risk and compliance (GRC) tools as well as computer assisted audit tools and techniques (CAATTs) such as Nessus, RSA Archer etc.  ? Create and review detailed Assessment & Authorization package documents such as SSP, IRP, SAP/SAR, CMP, BCP/DRP, POAM etc.  ? Conduct risk analysis and track findings to ensure management adequately addresses identified risks and controls weaknesses in a timely manner.  ? Work on a wide range of technical infrastructure including operating systems (Windows & UNIX), cloud security (AWS & Azure), networks (VLAN & WAN), security systems (IDS & IPS), databases (SAP & Oracle) etc. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Amazing Grace Supports - Washington, DC April 2012 to June 2016 Responsible the effective running of corporate database including maintaining good relationship with users, developers, operations and information security teams.  ? Administer database user accounts, create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights.  ? Performed incremental backups, backup tablespace users, backup archive log all using RMAN.  ? Apply quarterly patches to different version of databases.  ? Monitoring the user sessions and take appropriate action to kill the inactive sessions.  ? Created and tuned various materialized views.  ? Moved data from one database to the other using Transportable tablespace  ? Performed various performance goal-oriented database tuning  ? Tuned various slow running query Education Certificate in Information Technology Saint Monica University 2016 Skills It Audit, SOX