Bilingual Early Intervention Specialist Bilingual Early Intervention Specialist Bilingual Early Intervention Specialist - Easterseals Central Texas Kyle, TX Compassionate social worker specializing in trauma-informed advocacy. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Bilingual Early Intervention Specialist Easterseals Central Texas - Austin, TX March 2019 to Present • Empower families of children aged 0-3 years with developmental delays and disabilities to thrive by leading individualized weekly family training sessions in their natural environments.  • Develop culturally and linguistically appropriate Individualized Family Service Plans with families to design, adapt, and implement age-appropriate activities for cognitive, language, fine motor, social-emotional, and sensory, adaptive, and gross motor skill development.  • Successfully create and manage weekly personal schedule to accommodate visits with up to 40 families and attend reviews and meetings. Social Work Intern CASA of Travis County August 2018 to December 2018 • Led program improvement initiatives through the research of scholarly sources on trauma informed care treatment modalities and disseminated information to program staff. Designed new training materials for the Trauma Informed Care Advocacy Committee, built partnerships with local area practitioners that specialized in child trauma informed care, and created educational documents and contact lists for volunteer and employee use.  • Improved family finding operations by identifying changes needed to ensure effective family finding outcomes. Developed family outreach procedures, updated informational documents, suggested new procedure protocol to management. Developed multi-generational genograms for child welfare cases and contacted family members. Managed all Spanish cases. Maintained accurate and complete case files by updating database systems, submitting reports, and managing physical case files.  • Served as court appointed guardian ad litem, used a trauma-informed advocacy approach to advocate for appropriate social services and mental health referrals for children in CPS care. Provided information, education, outreach, advocacy, for each child and family on my caseload.  • Participated in trainings concerning child development, advocacy, community engagement, domestic abuse, trauma-informed care, and family engagement. Graduate Research Assistant Texas State University, Dep. of Respiratory Care January 2018 to May 2018 Performed data entry, maintained quantitative database, and coded research results for a three-year research study on ALS patients. Social Work Intern Restoration Ranch June 2017 to December 2017 • Co-created the program and courses for women veteran's resiliency training program and equine therapy, assisted in the creation of the course work and therapeutic practices as well as equine assisted activities. Participated in extensive mental health and equine husbandry trainings.  • Facilitated tracking client progress by creating multiple surveys. Made recommendations for continuous improvement of program. Accounts Payable Specialist/ Database Administrator Emancipet October 2015 to November 2017 Emancipet is a non-profit organization that operates a network of low-cost veterinary clinics in underserved communities. I joined as a Veterinary Technician in 2012, was promoted to Resource Specialist that same year, and was promoted to Accounts Payable Specialist and Database Administrator in 2015. During this period, Emancipet expanded from two clinics in Austin with 23 staff, to a national network of seven clinics with a team of 120 employees.     • Implemented and individually managed online pharmacy program and accounts payable. Served as consultant for pharmacy program policy and provided problem solving assistance on program services.  • Prepared weekly reports and financial analysis of pharmacy program activities and progress.  • Managed transition planning and account mergers when Emancipet merged with a local clinic. Bilingual Resource Specialist Emancipet December 2012 to October 2015 • Served as a liaison and resource for community outreach, advocacy groups, and service providers while managing appointment scheduling for seven clinics.  • Translated website and all documents, interpreted for veterinarians, developed pet health handouts.  • Consistently updated and improved organization's procedure and process documents. Post-Operative Veterinary Technician Emancipet January 2012 to December 2012 • Responsible for care and monitoring of animals until fully recovered and ready for discharge.  • Discussed aftercare and healthcare topics with clients. Education Master's in Social Work Texas State University - San Marcos, TX January 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor's in Sociology and Women's Studies University of Wisconsin - La Crosse, WI 2007 to May 2010 Skills Therapy, Case management, Data Entry, Organizational Skills, Customer Service Skills, Documentation, Outlook Additional Information Skills    • Fluent in Spanish & English  • Assisting underserved populations  • Early childhood intervention  • Trauma-informed care  • Family engagement  • Case management  • Equine therapy facilitation  • Animal-assisted activities