Advancement Database Coordinator Advancement <span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Advancement Database Coordinator The Webb Schools - Claremont, CA February 2019 to Present • Supervise input/output of Raiser’s Edge database of more than 10k constituents by establishing data integrity protocols, quality assurance processes, documentation, and training.  • Oversee entry, processing, and acknowledgement of high gift volume, totalling over $2M per quarter.  • Complex query and report creation that includes revenue progress and fundraising goals reporting on weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis.  • Ensure accounting reconciliation with Finance department between gift entry and gift sources during monthly and yearly audits.  • Collaborate with a team of eight gift officers to standardize prospect management policies, procedures, and reports. Renewable Energy Data Specialist HCG - Northampton, MA September 2018 to February 2019 • Manage energy credit portfolio of over 1,600 clients; as well as energy credit sales of more than $1.2m per quarter.  • 10% portfolio increase within first quarter of hire through redesign of CRM processes and customer support strategies.  • Expert and creative conflict resolution to complex client issues that promote program growth and client satisfaction.  • Report and review regulatory documentation for state submittal; generate ad hoc reports to suit program needs. Data Coordinator Cal State LA - Los Angeles, CA December 2016 to August 2017 • In charge of data entry, management, analysis, and admissions report creation using Excel and PeopleSoft.  • Ensure data integrity through the creation, revision, and implementation of data criteria and protocols.  • Coordinate recurring maintenance processes between applications, mass communications, and database systems. Financial Aid Processor Cal Poly Pomona - Pomona, CA March 2016 to December 2016 • First point of contact for students and their advocates regarding financial aid matters.  • Ensure the completion and accuracy of FAFSA records university-wide and maintain data integrity across multiple database systems (PeopleSoft, WebGrants, National Student Loan Data System).  • Manage student workers and the proper administration and execution of CRMs: PeopleSoft and OnBase. Database & Scholarship Administrator Bright Prospect - Pomona, CA August 2014 to March 2016 • Direct scholarship outreach, application, and distribution process to allocate over $600k from varying grant sources to over 200 first-generation college students.  • Lead financial aid literacy trainings and workshops for staff, students, families, and partner organizations.  • Manage two major databases of over 2,000 students and alumni; redesigned database systems according to program needs; generate reports and success metrics for grant and communications publishing; create ad hoc program reports. Administrative & Outreach Coordinator Whole Children - Hadley, MA January 2013 to August 2014 • Website, client, and donation database maintenance; confidential administrative activities in support of over 300 children and adults with special needs.  • Prepare routine mass marketing campaigns using data-informed communication strategies.  • Administer client accounts including collection of payments and donations; maintain QuickBooks providing regular reporting to board members and supervisors; AR/AP processing, petty cash handling. Manager GoBerry - Northampton, MA May 2011 to January 2013 • Increase sales by identifying KPIs, tracking, and communicating success metrics.  • Manage over 25 staff across multiple stores, including shift scheduling, interviewing, training and on-boarding new hires, and officiating weekly staff meetings.  • Generate sales strategies via revenue and cost-analysis reporting collaboratively with owners. Education Bachelor's in Psychology, Philosophy Smith College - Northampton, MA Skills Microsoft Office, Google Suite, Database Management, Public Speaking, Data Analysis, Spanish Fluency (10+ years)