Sql Database Developer Sql <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Sql Database Developer - Clover Technology Group Carpentersville, IL • Overall 6+ years of overall experience with majority experience in multiple tools of the MSBI suite of products (SSIS/SSRS/SSAS).  • Extensively worked with clients to understand business requirements, recommended technical solutions and documented functional requirements.  • Hands on experience in installing, managing, configuring, upgrading, migrating, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008.  • Expertise in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Requirements gathering, analysis and design of ETL processes using SSIS and SSRS.  • Experience in maintaining SSIS by creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL manager Agent, and scheduling SSIS Packages.  • Extracted and migrated data from heterogeneous data sources such as MS Excel, Oracle, MS Access, flat file to MS SQL Server by using import/export wizard as well as third party connectors and creating ETL packages in SSIS.  • Experience in developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using SSIS, Import Export Wizard.  • Experience in creating SSIS package to load data from Flat Files to SQL Server using various types of transformations like Lookup, Fuzzy Lookup, Multicast, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Term Extraction, Aggregate, for transferred data modifications and dataflow tasks, script tasks, for loop container, for each loop, sequence container and Slowly Changing Dimension.  • Logical and physical data modeling of the database using ERWIN.-  • Created data-driven subscriptions for reports linked reports, and ad-hoc reports using Report Builder in SSRS.  • Generated drill down reports, parameterized reports, linked reports, sub reports in SSRS 2012/2010/2008.  • Created dashboards, scorecards and building reports using Performance point server 2007.  • Developed, Deployed and Troubleshoot SQL Server Reporting services using SSRS 2012/2010/2008 across various environments.  • Data Warehousing, Data Modeling like Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema Modeling, Snow-Flake Modeling, Data Vault Modeling, FACT and Dimensions Tables.  • Created different types of reports such as Conditional, Drill-down, Summary and Sub reports, and formatted them and Performed unit testing at various levels.  • Developed Dashboard Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Report Model using Report Builder.  • Rendered reports in CSV, PDF, XML and delivered reports by file share and E-mail according to schedule.  • Extensive experience in Designing and Developing data warehouse and its component tools for data storage.  • Exposure to T-SQL Programming and Architecture, and translated complex legacy process with T-SQL Procedure, Functions and Package.  • Experience in designing Database Models using MS Visio and ER-Win  • Excellent communication skills, analytical skills, understand business requirements in various domains. Work Experience Sql Database Developer Clover Technology Group April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Reporting Services (SSRS) to schedule reports to be generated on predetermined time.  • Generated on-demand and scheduled reports for business analysis or management decision using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).    • Created Cross-Tab, Drill-down, Drill-through and Sub drill down reports -Report using RDL. Promoted RDLs to Reporting Service Server.  • Used SQL Server Profiler to trace the slow running queries and tried to Optimize SQL queries for improved performance and availability.  • Created management Reports in Excel that became company standard for recording financial information  • Gathered Functional requirements from Business Analyst to develop various reports.  • Used Try Catch Finally exception handling extensively to avoid circumstances leading to abnormal program termination.  • Maintained error logs for the Stored Procedures.  • Used Team Foundation Server and Visual Source Safe as a version control tool.  • Created and managed Clustered indexes and Non Clustered indexes and optimized queries using execution plan.  • Used multiple transformations in SSIS to meet the business requirements by extracting data from heterogeneous source systems.  • Developed SQL scripts to Insert/Update and Delete data in MS-SQL database.  • Scheduled jobs, backups, and restore database.  • Managed existing indexes in ROLAP to optimize the performance of reports accessing it as well as all other BI applications.  • Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, Lookup, Data Conversion, Merge Join, Multi Cast, Sort, and Union All which were used for Data Scrubbing, data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse.  • Extracting the data from the different sources (CSV files, Oracle, and MS SQL) and stored the data into the intermediate staging database using the SSIS ETL tool.  • Designed SSIS packages to Extract Data from different sources like Excel Files, SQL Server and Transform them and then load into Dimension and Fact tables in Data Warehouse using SSIS.  • Designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Created Drill down, Drill through reports, Summary, Parameterized and Multi value parameter reports.  • Created SSRS Data Model projects using Microsoft Visual Studio and using Report Builder for report server to create reports.  • Configured the report server and generated the report models for user interactions.  • Working on Blind double blind reports.  • Generate Crystal reports and making changes on reports. Report Developer TCF USA June 2017 to April 2018 • Creating Report for Non-Profit.  • Migrating data from one database to another.  • Scheduled jobs, backups, and restore database.  • Managed existing indexes in ROLAP to optimize the performance of reports accessing it as well as all other BI applications.  • Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, Lookup, Data Conversion, Merge Join, Multi Cast, Sort, and Union All which were used for Data Scrubbing, data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse.  • Created Cross-Tab, Drill-down, Drill-through and Sub drill down reports -Report using RDL. Promoted RDLs to Reporting Service Server.  • Used Try Catch Finally exception handling extensively to avoid circumstances leading to abnormal program termination.  • Maintained error logs for the Stored Procedures.  • Created Cross-Tab, Drill-down, Drill-through and Sub drill down reports -Report using RDL. Promoted RDLs to Reporting Service Server.  • Used Try Catch Finally exception handling extensively to avoid circumstances leading to abnormal program termination.  • Maintained error logs for the Stored Procedures. SQL Server Administrator Blue Cross Blue shield February 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Business requirement gathering, Technical Design Documents, Business use cases and Data mapping.  • Extensively worked with SSIS tool suite, designed and created mappings using various SSIS transformations like OLEDB Command, Conditional Split, Lookup, Aggregator, Multicast and Lookup.  • Developed SQL scripts to Insert/Update and Delete data in MS-SQL database.  • Used Exceptional Handling and log in SSIS to handle errors and track the package execution.  • Configure SSIS Package for run time Parameters and Config file.  • Worked on ACCDS tool to track the production tickets.  • Intensively involved in HELP DESK SUPPORT/Prod Support.  • Scheduled the SQL jobs and SSIS Packages using Job Controller (Enterprise Scheduler).  • Back end Experience in MS SQL Server development, writing T-SQL stored procedures, views, triggers, cursors, UDFs.    • Used Reporting Services (SSRS) to schedule reports to be generated on predetermined time.  • Generated on-demand and scheduled reports for business analysis or management decision using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).    • Created Cross-Tab, Drill-down, Drill-through and Sub drill down reports -Report using RDL. Promoted RDLs to Reporting Service Server.  • Used Try Catch Finally exception handling extensively to avoid circumstances leading to abnormal program termination.  • Maintained error logs for the Stored Procedures.  • Used Team Foundation Server and Visual Source Safe as a version control tool.  • Created and managed Clustered indexes and Non Clustered indexes and optimized queries using execution plan.  • Used SQL Server Profiler to trace the slow running queries and tried to Optimize SQL queries for improved performance and availability.  • Created management Reports in Excel that became company standard for recording financial information  • Develop spread sheet that redefine how company reconciled balance sheet on monthly and annual bases  • Access network configuration and customer system in conjunction with technical aspects.  • Implemented and maintain database for key departments  • Working on Excel File converting excel files into Macro.  • Expert Knowledge in access Database.  • Implementing performance tuning on the databases  • Database troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Worked closely with Application Team in AGILE Environment to understand Business Logic.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, Visual Studio 2010/2012, TFS, VSS, Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS), T-SQL, .Net, Excel. Jr.SQL Server Developer Incomm - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered Functional requirements from Business Analyst to develop various reports.  • Used multiple transformations in SSIS to meet the business requirements by extracting data from heterogeneous source systems.  • Developed SQL scripts to Insert/Update and Delete data in MS-SQL database.  • Scheduled jobs, backups, and restore database.  • Managed existing indexes in ROLAP to optimize the performance of reports accessing it as well as all other BI applications.  • Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, Lookup, Data Conversion, Merge Join, Multi Cast, Sort, and Union All which were used for Data Scrubbing, data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse.  • Extracting the data from the different sources (CSV files, Oracle, and MS SQL) and stored the data into the intermediate staging database using the SSIS ETL tool.  • Designed SSIS packages to Extract Data from different sources like Excel Files, SQL Server and Transform them and then load into Dimension and Fact tables in Data Warehouse using SSIS.  • Designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Created Drill down, Drill through reports, Summary, Parameterized and Multi value parameter reports.  • Extensive use of T-SQL DDL and DML commands for various applications.  • Created SSRS Data Model projects using Microsoft Visual Studio and using Report Builder for report server to create reports.  • Configured the report server and generated the report models for user interactions.  • Created complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T-SQL code and SQL joins for applications.  • Created the ETL for Database migration process from Informix DB to SQL Server DB.  • Used Performance Monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries and enhance the performance of database servers.  • Involved in ER diagrams (Physical and Logical using MS VISIO) and mapping the data into database objects.  • Worked closely with team lead, architect and developers to resolve the technical issues.  • Installed configured and upgraded production SQL server instances from 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016 in a virtual HYPER V environment and DMZ. Education Bachelor's Skills Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, T-sql, C#, C++, Html, Reporting tools, Vb.net, Xml, Etl, Sql server integration services, Crystal reports, Java, Dhtml, Ms excel, Excel Additional Information Technical Skills:    Databases MS-SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005.  Languages T-SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML,C, C++, Java Script, c#, VB.Net.  ETL Tools SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports.  SQL Server Tools  SQL Server Management Studio, Business Intelligence Development studio, Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer.    Operating System Windows 8.1/8/7/vista/XP/2003.  Software Ms Word , Ms excel , Ms Access , Powerpoint  Hardware  Category 5 Cabling; Managing PC Set-up and installation; Networked printers, scanners and PCs; Servers, Routers, and Hard Drives