MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator with more than five years of work experience in SQL DBA working on all the aspects of DBA Monitoring, Installation, Configuration, upgrade Management, High Availability, Disaster Recovery, Mirroring, Log Shipping, Clustering, Alerts, Operators and Jobs. Well experienced in Performance Tuning, Security (Create Log ins, Users and Roles), HA and DR solutions and incident handling.    • Over five years of solid SQL Server database administration experience  • Proficient in installing, configuring, managing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014, and 2016 in Production, Test, Development and Cluster Server Environments.  * Experience in RDBMS database design, MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Data Transformation Services and running Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC in SQL Server 2005, 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 to maintain post installation (upgrade) configurations.  * Experience in moving user database & system database files from one location to another location.  * Experience in planning and implementing Microsoft SQL Server Security and database permissions (creating logins, users, roles, and assigning permission to them).  * Experience in configuring and managing SQL Server Instances, databases, Schema and Object  * Experience in extracting and transforming data using DTS Import/Export Data, Bulk Insert, BCP, and DTS Packages.  * Implementing and managing automated Backups and Restore, Mirroring, Replication, Log shipping, Failover Cluster, Availability Group jobs.  * Experience in Performance Tuning and maintenance (Server level and Query level) and trouble shooting.  * Experienced in SQL server profiler for tracing events, stepping through problem queries, finding and diagnosing slow-running queries, blocking, dead lock, monitoring the performance of SQL Server to tune workloads, an error written to the SQL Server error log, the Start or end of a store procedure.  * Acquired ability to analyze SQL database objects including indexes, stored procedures, and views for optimization purposes;  * Experienced of indexes structure, index management, periodic index maintenance of rebuilding, reorganizing and updating statistics.  * experienced in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  * Creating and managing schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures and User-Defined Functions depending on the Requirements Using T-SQL.  * Skilled at assessing client needs, working in a group, suggesting ideas that enhance efficiency and maximize performance, implementing cutting-edge technology solutions, and training/supporting end users.  * Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project.  * committed team player with team driven skills.  * Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills and ability to learn new concepts Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator Bank of America - Washington, DC August 2017 to May 2019 Washington D.C August 2017-May 2019  Bank of America is one of the largest financial and Banking institutions that serves millions of customers, businesses and companies. In order to provide efficient and effective service supported by proper information flow, database development and administration takes a prime place in the operation of the bank. I worked in a database development team that was responsible for the delivery of enhancements for new and existing database solutions. Interacts with line of business partners to determine business requirements and can translate those requirements into technical specifications.  Position: MS SQL Server Database Administrator    * Installed, configured and administered production and development databases  * Performed deployment on testing, staging and production servers with different team.  * Creating users and mapping users with the appropriate databases and assigning the roles.  * Enhanced performance by running index tuning wizard for creating, rebuilding and reorganizing indexes on various tables.  * Used Merge replication to update the publisher from the subscribers as well as from the subscriber to the publisher periodically.  * Performance and Fine Tuning of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries and User Defined Functions to optimize performance and reliability  * Removing any unnecessary/ temporary jobs in the server created by the SSIS packages  * Creating alerts for the databases to take necessary action before files reaches max size.  * Identifying orphaned users and fixing them after restoring the backups.  * Overall follow-up of the system and user support to address any issues and plan for potential problems in advance.  * Shrinking the Database, Data file and T-Log files and freeing up the disk space.  * Part of the team which configured AlwaysOn with availability group for one of our critical servers on SQL 2012 that was installed via nodes on WSFC (Window Server Failover cluster). Advanced Digital Systems June 2015 to August 2017 SQL Database Admin and Developer General Dynamic IT Inc April 2014 to May 2015 GDIT is a Company that offers enterprise information technology, network system integration, software and system development, security, business process outsourcing, and spectrum management services to different types of clients ranging from small businesses to large scale companies and government agencies.  Roles & responsibilities    * Provided database administration and support on production and development SQL server  * Monitored Daily backup jobs and automation of daily restores of development databases. (Using Red gate, Idera, and Native backups).  * Monitored the Disk Space of all the Servers, perform daily system check and performance analysis  * Carried out Troubleshooting SQL Server Problems related to SQL Server service, Concurrency (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Agent job execution  * Create and manage database objects, stored procedures, triggers, views and functions  * Administered the MS SQL Server security through Login and User Management: Adding logins, roles, groups to the Window NT and MS SQL Server and maintaining proper security procedures, dropping and locking the logins,  * Monitored the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  * Create scripts and various database objects per business requirement  * Monitored and Troubleshoot Server performance and database activities of particular users using SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, Extended Event, Trace flags, Activity Monitors, Store Procedures, DBCC, and DMVs.  * Evaluate CPU, Disk I/O and Memory related bottlenecks using Performance Monitor and improved the SQL server performance.  * Enhance performance by running index tuning wizard for creating, rebuilding and reorganizing indexes on various tables.  * Implemented SQL server high availability tools like Log shipping and used Failover clustering to minimize downtime.  * Capturing the events using SQL profiler for poor performing queries, deadlocks and blocks and studying the execution plans and fine tuning the applications.  * Examined maintenance and Correction of Transact SQL (T-SQL) Statements.  * Responsible for developing, support, and maintenance of the ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) using SSIS.  Environment: MS-SQL Server 20012, MS-SQL Server 2014, MS-Project Education Master's degree America University - Washington, DC Additional Information Technical Skills:  • RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, MS-Access 2003/2007  • Front End: MS Visual Basic, Developer 2000  • Reporting Tools: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, 2014 Reporting Services  • Server OS: Windows 2000, Windows 2003  • Packages: Microsoft Office, MS Visio 2003, MS-Project