SQL server database administrator SQL server <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> SQL server database administrator - CNSI Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL server database administrator CNSI March 2016 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and administered multiple SQL Server versions like 2008R2/2012/2014 and 2016.  • Created Jobs, Alerts and Notifications for system, fatal database errors, task assignment and tracking.  • Migrated several existing production users, databases, jobs, packages, reports and logins to new versions of SQL server.  • Managed database Maintenance tasks such as index fragmentation, DBCC operations, monitoring performance and optimizing queries for maximum efficiency.  • Designed and Implemented log shipping, mirroring, replication from primary site to the secondary site  • Established database backup, restore and other maintenance plans for user and system databases.  • Developed automated daily, weekly and monthly SQL server agent jobs.  • Worked on performance tuning, optimization of stored procedures and queries, monitoring of CPU, Disk I/O  • Automated database refresh from production to test using custom scripts.  • Created databases, Logins, Roles and granted appropriate permissions.  • Handling day to day support tickets and development and production issues.  • 24 X 7 Production on Call Support.  1/3    Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014, 2016, DB2, Oracle Windows server 2008/2012R2, Quest spotlight, SQL Lite  speed, Java Script, Idera technologies Like SQL secure, AWS, .Net, VMware, Extended Events. SQL server database administrator Leidos June 2014 to March 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and administer MS SQL server 2012 and 2014.  • Monitored and troubleshoot server performance, database activities and clients' applications  • Configure and administer Availability Groups for high availability/Always On of multiple databases.  • Created complex stored procedures, Help developers to optimize queries, triggers and database design  • Successfully Installed configured, Managed and administer a traditional SQL Server failover Cluster with 2 nodes.  • Responsible for Designing and implementing the backup strategy.  • Created and administered various jobs to handle different tasks and to monitor resources on various servers.  • Apply SQL Server patches; Service Packs, Hot-fixes, and Cumulative Updates and created documentation for tracking.  • Implement Database optimization such as performance tuning and improvement using DMV and DMF.  • Design, Develop and implement SQL server reporting service that extracts data and present in the user friendly formats.  • Provide support for critical databases that are on Azure and Hyper-V.  • Worked with database developer's team for database design, data modeling and normalization.  • Assisted developers in the process of Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) in data warehouse.  • Created SSIS Packages for Data Flow, Object Migration and Database Maintenance.  • Run DBCC commands to check the database consistency and shrink the databases.  • Manage Very Large databases (VLDBs) 2.4 TB, Table Partitioning, Backup and data Compression  • Overall follow-up of the system and user support to address any issues and plan for potential problems in advance.    Environment: Windows Server 2008/2012R2, MS SQL Server 2012/2014, T-SQL, SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, ETL, Quest Spot Light, PowerShell, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, Azure, Data Warehousing, TFS, IIS, Ticketing soft wares, Visual Studio. SQL server database administrator WellPoint anthem, Inc February 2011 to June 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of Windows Server 2008, 2012 R2 including the set-up of Active Directory and DC.  • Installation, configuration and administration of SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012.  • Administering the MS SQL Server security in relation to users, logins, and groups.  • Creating and managing databases, schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, procedures and triggers.  • Wrote Complex T-SQL Script to generate Database Performance related SSRS Reports.  • Implementing a DBA maintenance plan for MS SQL Server.  • Timely taking full backup, differential backup and transaction log backup for all production and test systems.  • Upgraded SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL 2012 server for high volume processing databases on a clustered environment.  • Experience with SQL Auditing, Resource Governor and Policy Based Management (PBM),  • Managing critical databases on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Implementing SQL server high availability solutions/tools like Log shipping, Mirroring and Replication.  • Install and configure a traditional SQL Server failover Cluster with two nodes.  • Managing the use of disk space, memory and connections/network.  • Running DBCC consistency checks and analyzing stack traces, fixing data corruption on application databases.  • Installed and configured SQL Server Reporting Services in a team.  • Create and deploy different reports for different business purpose in a team.    2/3    • Proposed various high availability options to maintain the high availability of SQL server on various environments.    Environment: Windows Server 2008/2012 R2, MS SQL Server 2008/2008 R2/2012, T-SQL, SQL Profiler, , PowerShell, SSRS, SSIS, VMware, AWS, Business Intelligence (BI), Third Party Tools, Quest Spot Light, Visual Studio 2010, Windows  failover cluster, SQL Server failover Cluster and SharePoint. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Replication, Sql, Clustering, Ssrs, T-sql, Amazon web services, Security, Web services, Encryption, Server migration, Maintenance, Shipping, Performance tuning, Sql Dba, MYSQL, ETL, DBA Additional Information • Microsoft Certified Professional in Administering SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 and 2016.  • 8 years of experience as a Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator,  • Developer and manager in production and non-production environment.  • Experience in core DBA tasks like installation, migration and configuration  • Designing and implementing disaster recovery procedures,  • Excellent problem solving skill and ability to learn new emerging technologies.  • A very good team player    Technical Skills;    • Installation/Configuration  • SQL Server Migration Maintenance and troubleshooting  • Database Security, TDE Encryption  • T-SQL, SSIS packages, SSRS reports  • Database Design  • Database Encryption  • Backup and Restore  • Mirroring and Log shipping  • Amazon Web Services(AWS)  • Always On, Replication  • Clustering  • Performance tuning