Help Desk Administrator/IT Assistant to IT Manager Help Desk <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/IT Assistant to IT Manager Help Desk Administrator/IT Assistant to IT Manager - Goodwill-Horizon Industries Martinsburg, WV Work in a career field allowing me to utilize my skills and knowledge within Cyber Security and Networking. Expand my knowledge and skills. Work Experience Help Desk Administrator/IT Assistant to IT Manager Goodwill-Horizon Industries - Hagerstown, MD August 2018 to March 2019 21740  Serves as the first point of contact for support issues concerning access equipment, software, local and wide area network, document management and data communications technologies. Providing 1st and 2nd level support for operations through direct and indirect contact with employees, business partners, donors and vendors. Providing guidance, assistance, coordination and follow up on users' questions, problems or malfunctions of all systems applications, and hardware/software installed and maintained by the company. Troubleshooting of technology failures focusing on resolution and documentation. Creating material and assist with in-house training on hardware/software applications. Providing ongoing hardware and software support for multiple technologies including (but not limited to): PC's, peripherals, printers, and scanners, network hardware, communication infrastructure, DVR/NVR's, phone systems (multi-line and PBX), mobile devices, productivity software (e.g. office), Office 365, and SaaS. Configuration of Watch Guard Firewalls managed and unmanaged switches, and routers and management of device preventive maintenance list and monthly checks. Configuration of new or refurb PC's, tablets, phones and printers and completion of installs or upgrades of software to said devices when requested. Planning with IT Manager of Network Expansion and keeping current with technology trends and changes related to position. Creation of SOP/Policy and posting of such on Sharepoint for company use. Network Engineer (Contractor) Dept of Veterans Administration/Quarterline Consultants - Martinsburg, WV June 2017 to August 2018 25405  Responsible for the security, monitoring and maintenance on the nations 3rd largest network servicing all veterans of the Armed Forces. On a team of Engineers, responsible for monitoring of network devices within a TIC Gateway network, such as F5 load balancers\inbound proxy servers, Palo Alto application firewalls devices, WAF's, CISCO IronPorts, Sourcefire\CISCO Intrusion Protection Devices, various CISCO Switches, Routers, and ASA firewalls. Completion of daily, weekly and monthly maintenance of devices by logging directly into the devices using IP addresses or PUTTY, creating reports or spreadsheets and emailing    to management or saving to sharepoint accounts for review. Daily generation of network performance reports and DNS server stats and email to responsible management. Monthly completion of 120-day cleanup maintenance on WAF and F5 devices sent by Enterprise Security engineers. When required, responsible for emergency network maintenance and coordination with network support team(s) and sharing of conference calls with other engineers on shift, or engineers that have dialed in to help. Guiding support team(s) with emailed instructions or SOP's saved from files; to enter Gateway network\server rooms in different locations around the nation, to perform maintenance or restoration of network devices. Monitoring of the Network Operations Maintenance system (NOM) to keep track of network alert system and alerts generated and the severity of. Submission of changes to the upper firewalls (ACL modification) and inbound web flows to the Enterprise Security Change Control Board for approval and updates to ticketing system when opened, worked or\and closed. Generation of daily Associate Directors report, giving status of network, maintenance performed and upcoming within the week and emergencies in a 24-hour basis and email to VA Management, ESCCB group, and Federal Full-Time Employees (FTE's) in charge of the contract.    EXPERIENCE (Previous Employment) Child Support Specialist II Department of Health and Human Resources/Bureau of Child Support Enforcement - Martinsburg, WV May 2014 to May 2017 25404  Managing a Case Load in child support enforcement and establishment, using agency policy and state/federal laws. Familiar with sources of income and assets and how it applies to orders issued by the child support court system. Using internet and various websites, Google, and programs to find and locate absent parents. Calculates the child support formula, and attends hearings to assist legal staff or give testimony regarding specific cases. Researches legal sources such as statues, court opinions, rules and regulations, drafts complaints and prepares and maintains case files and other legal documents for use by the BCSE attorney. Handles routine and moderately difficult customer service inquiries. Maintains confidentiality of information. Geek Squad Repair Tech White Marsh, MD December 2004 to October 2005 21220  Worked as technician repairing customer's computers, installing software, anti-virus programs, and hardware as a temp employee. Oracle Database Management Intern Danaher Tools - Timonium, MD December 2001 to September 2002 21093  Performed internship for tool company as a Database Administration Manager, building, analyzing and managing the company database in ORACLE v6/7 and some training within MS Access. Generated daily reports, watched systems trends, and built queries on daily basis. Help Desk/Computer Tech Baltimore City Police Department Headquarters - Baltimore, MD June 1999 to August 2001 21202  Performs support of full range of IT technologies, including personal computer, peripherals, communication devices and associated operating systems and software applications by reporting, responding to, analyzing and resolving customer information technology problems and service requests. Responsible for the exchange, disposal and/or storage of older technology within the records department. Able to maintain copiers within the department and if needed call for technical help from outside support companies. Also, was tasked with the transfer of microfiche cataloged info and its transfer and update to database stored files Education Strayer University - White Marsh, MD September 2001 to May 2005 Bachelors of Science in Political Science University of Maryland (College Park) - College Park, MD May 1995 to May 1997 Associates of Science in Computer Programming University of Maryland (College Park) - College Park, MD May 1995 to May 1997 Skills Accounts Payable (1 year), CISCO (2 years), Firewalls (2 years), Networking (3 years), security (2 years) Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 Commendations: Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Army Commendation Medal(s), Army Achievement Medal(s) Additional Information Skills:  Networking  Cyber Security  Office Administration  Accounts Payable  Accounts Receivable    Hardware:  Cisco 1941 ISR Routers, Cisco Layer 2/3 Switches, Juniper MX-Series Switches, Linksys wireless Routers, NETGEAR Routers/Range extensions, F5 devices\Load Balancing, WAF's, Cisco IronPorts, Palo Alto devices    Software:  Programming Languages:  C++, Perl 5.0, HTML, XML, Vis Basic, RPG, Cisco IOS, MS OFFICE 365, WINDOWS 10, PUTTY, Linux/Unix, Kali Linux, Packet Tracer, MS Visio, Netlabs    Configuration and troubleshooting of:  Routers, Switches (layer 2/3), WAF firewalls, F5 devices, Palo Alto devices, IDS/IPS Appliances, Windows Defender, Cisco IOS    Security Standards:  NIST 800-53  NIST 800-37