Remote SQL Server Database Administrator / Dr Cz Open Classroom Remote SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Dr Cz Open Classroom Tucker, GA A self motivated and organized SQL Database Administrator with 5 years of success designing and implementing database solutions. My experience includes SQL Servers (2005/2008/2012/2014/2016), SSIS, Clustering, DB mirroring,  Clustered environments and High Availability solutions. I am proficient in Database Backup, Recovery, Performance Tuning, Replication Maintenance tasks, Security and Troubleshooting. Work Experience Remote SQL Server Database Administrator / Dr Cz Open Classroom DR CZ CLASSROOM - Johnson City, TN February 2018 to Present • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect important company data  Principal DBA responsible for 50 servers with database sizes ranging from 5GB to 1TB  • Responsible for administering and maintaining over 150 database servers of Production and Test environment  • Analyzes the current database environment to determine recommended database maintenance, security, and Microsoft SQL Server best practices  • Develop and create stored procedures, advanced queries, triggers, views, indices, and functions for databases  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2000/2005, SQL Server 2005/2008 and SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012  • Responsible for supporting the SQL Server databases and ensuring their performance, availability, and security  • Involve in performance testing and optimization of a 2TB OLTP Database  • Updating Service packs and Security patches for the Servers  • Create and re-evaluate Indexes and made needed modifications for better performance  • Establish standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, as well as monthly basis. Using the RESTORE VERIFY option when creating backups  • Partner with project management teams on development of scope and timelines  • Periodically restores backup files in test environment to check for corruption  • Assists application team in the creation of databases, construction of queries, modification of database tables, and troubleshooting data issues Database Administrator (Graduate Assistant) EAST TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY, JOHNSON CITY - Johnson City, TN January 2016 to December 2017 • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect important company data  • Resolved incident tickets for Database related issues.  • Maintenance, upgrade, and support of Microsoft SQL Server databases.  • Merged replications, Snapshot, Transactional and extensive knowledge in Merge replication, creating jobs, alerts,  • SQL server login, database user and define server roles.  • Database Mirroring, Cold Standby, Warm Standby, Log Shipping, and Replication  • Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.  • Proactively monitored the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Developed data models and database designs to plan projects  • Analyzed, conducted and implemented physical database designs.  • Documented and maintained current database patches. Database Administrator (Junior) Coscharis Motors - Nigeria January 2012 to December 2015 • Installed and configured multiple SQL Server instances in production environment  • Performed, database upgrades & applied software patches to the databases as per application/client requirements.  • Partnered with project management teams on development of scope and timelines.  • Worked to ensure all data are recovered, systems and data integrity are maintained  • Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.  • Updated Service packs and Security patches for the Servers.  • Created and re-evaluated Indexes and made needed modifications for better performance.  • Created and Reviewed Security features for all the servers.  • Documentation of Server Builds specifications and Security features. Participating in process, application and database audits.  • Proactively responding to database alerts by installing, upgrading, migrating and configuring SQL servers to resolve issues.  • Managing duties like troubleshooting, tuning input/output to enhance database performance.  • Worked with DBA team members to provide client requirements, and suggestions to the developer team related to databases.  • Worked as a team member with other DBA's to ensure 24x7 day a week support of all corporate databases.  • Supported SQL server developers working on different projects with various request.  • Assessed customer needs and goals through communication and system evaluations to modify existing databases for personalized customization.  • Worked in team responsible for managing and administering SQL server instances installed on Windows operating system  • Performed duties associated with multiple databases related to consistency checks, and took responsibility to do regular data backups on the server.  • Created database objects like tables, views, indexes, stored-procedures, triggers, cursors using T- SQL.  • Delivered an exceptional level of service to each customer by listening to concerns and answering questions  • Increased sales by 17% over a two-year period Education Master of Science in Engineering Technology East Tennessee State University - Johnson City, TN 2017 Bachelor of Science in Geology University of Port Harcourt 2010 Skills Data Conversion (Less than 1 year), Data Migration (Less than 1 year), Database (7 years), Database analysis (Less than 1 year), Disaster Recovery (Less than 1 year), GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE (Less than 1 year), maintenance (3 years), Performance Tuning (Less than 1 year), replication (1 year), Shipping (1 year), SQL (7 years), T-SQL (Less than 1 year), DBA, Sql Server, Ssis Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Database analysis Backup and Restore  Writing queries Disaster Recovery  Database Maintenance Data Migration  Microsoft SQL Database Upgrade Patches  T-SQL Replication, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always ON  GUI and tools Availability Groups, Fail-over Cluster  Performance Tuning Data Conversion  Conflict resolution