Database Administrator/Merchandise Coordinator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Merchandise Coordinator MFA San Francisco Bay Area, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Merchandise Coordinator Williams-Sonoma, Inc - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to May 2019 Spearheaded the use of Microsoft SQL and Access to create new and manage existing upholstery SKUs (800K+ records), and ensure data integrity; creating improved efficiency for cross functional partners and launch of new SKUs on time each season  (resulted in a +8% comp for Year 2018 for the bedroom MTO business). Ensure highest level of accuracy reviewing copy and romance on PIPs for web and catalog merchandising. Manage sample orders with vendors and assure samples arrive on time  and are cataloged for use in visual set-ups, product photography, and mock store final product line review for each season. Retail Management Intern Nordstrom, Inc - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to August 2017 Reviewed and analyzed daily and weekly sales reports on product and salesperson performance to help develop strategies  that drive the business for the Accessories deparment (contributed to maintaining department status at top 10 in sales for the region for duration of the internship). Attended internship courses to study the 'why' behind how products are merchandised on the sales floor and honed skills needed to be successful with team building and positive leadership. Merchandising & Marketing Intern FGS&Co - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to August 2016 Created visual and text content with Adobe software, Shopify, and Buffergram for e-commerce and social media sites for SEO and SEM, and drive sales. Program Assistant University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA October 2010 to July 2013 Southern CA Clinical and Translational Science Institute  Education, Career Development and Ethics Program  Coordinated program recruitment events and joint career development seminars with other university departments to boost  program awareness (increased applicant submissions by over 70%). Designed and distributed digital and hard copy  marketing materials relevant to specific target market for applicant recruitment. Assisted in program budget preparation and administration, researched costs, tracked and monitored budget expenditures for program. Project Specialist University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA December 2006 to October 2010 Managed the Multi-Ethnic Pediatric Eye Disease Study (MEPEDS), an NIH funded population-based study surveying 12,000  children ages six months through six years in four racial ethnic groups within Southern California. Successfully lead the increase of partipant enrollment for a difficult to recruit racial group by over 40% with community awareness campaigns.  Prepared and updated all necessary study reports for bi-yearly oversight committee meetings. Education Master of Fine Arts in Fashion Merchandising Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA Skills Retail, Data analysis, Database administration, Database, Ms access, Sql, Mdm, Microstrategy, Rms, Ms office, As400, Merchandising, Market research, Illustrator, Photoshop, Indesign, Retail merchandising, DBA, Sql Server, Postgresql, Sql Dba Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE TECHNOLOGY PROFILE MERCHANT SYSTEMS LANGUAGE  Database Administration Microsoft SQL RMS English (Native)  Data Analysis MS Access FlexPLM Cantonese (Native)  Market Research Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator MDM Toishanese (Native)  Retail Merchandising MS Office Suite AS400 Mandarin (Fluent)  MicroStrategy French (Conversational)