Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Global Dynamic Solutions Tinley Park, IL Focused and driven Database Developer with proven success in designing and implementing Database Solutions. I  am analytical and skilled in understanding business problems and develop systems that improve functionality. I am  skilled in working effectively in collaborative and self-motivating environments. Work Experience Database Administrator Global Dynamic Solutions - Orland Park, IL December 2017 to Present • Perform capacity planning, installation and configuration  • Perform database migration and performance monitoring,  • Perform security, troubleshooting, as well as backup and data recovery.  • Provide SQL Server database support  • Provide MS 365 platform support  • Systems Troubleshooting and issue resolution IT Systems Administrator Chicago, IL October 2015 to December 2017 Supervisor: Tanya Aboukier 708-328-0009.  • Check the accuracy and integrity of extracted files and reports and resolve errors.  • Organize incoming and outgoing file movements in an efficient and accurate manner.  • Manage POS and financial systems  • Serve as corporate liaison between the finance, IT and marketing departments.  • Input all documents into the document and records management system. Peer Mentor DeVry University - Tinley Park, IL February 2015 to April 2016 Supervisor: Hughes LaTonya  • Helped students with homework and questions after Professor finished lecturing. Travel Agent ITA Travel - Bridgeview, IL March 2014 to October 2015 Supervisor: Hind Siam 708-233-9500  • Developed a loyal clientele base due to excellent listening and research skills and a keen understanding of travel budgets.  • Arranged travel accommodations for groups, couples, executives and special needs clients.  • Responded to clients' questions, issues, and complaints in a timely manner and found appropriate solutions when needed. Education Bachelors in Computer Science DeVry University March 2018 Skills DATABASE (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), CLIENT RELATIONS (4 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL Additional Information Skills    • Excellent planner and coordinator • Expert in Java, PHP and Perl  • Database management • Windows and Linux  • Statistical data gathering • SQL programming and administration  • Problem Resolution • Coding and modularization  • Customer and client relations • Microsoft Visual C#.NET  • Linux operating system management • Systems administration