SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SENIOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Maynard, MA Experienced Database Administrator with a proven record of supporting and servicing multiple database platforms. Proficient in installation, upgrades, configuration, consolidation, monitoring, tuning, and maintenance. Knowledgeable in collecting and reviewing database performance metrics to proactively address performance concerns and minimize system downtime. Collaborative leader and team member with an unwavering project focus and work ethic. Strong communicator who engages with and solicits input from all stakeholders and deliver clear, on-time solution proposals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Staples, Inc - Framingham, MA May 2014 to February 2019 • Managed as primary lead for the Retail Transaction Management System (RTMS) on DB2/AIX; responsible for maintaining 24/7 uptime SLAs, assisting with Back-to-School, Black Friday, and Holiday Peak Season preparedness and activities.  • Led and executed the RTMS database migration from AIX 6.1, DB2 9.7 to AIX 7.2, DB2 10.5 in 2017, resulting in a 60% performance increase with daily queries and job routines across 3 terabytes of partitioned data.  • Worked with onshore and offshore personnel to coordinate and execute maintenance jobs such as runstats, reorgs, and partition purges. DDL deployments, PCI/SOX compliance reviews, and SQL query tuning were also performed.  • Participated in on-call rotation schedule to provide 24/7 support for production databases.  • Provided Goldengate support on AS/400 systems with regards to routine deployments, replication troubleshooting, software upgrades, maintenance, and role-swap coordination.  • Supported replication with Oracle GoldenGate across multiple heterogeneous DBMS's including Oracle, DB2 LUW, AS/400, and Teradata. Junior Database Administrator Staples, Inc. - Framingham, MA July 2013 to May 2014 • Assisted with the Six-Digit-SKU Expansion project in Q1 2014 by setting up replication between AS400 and DB2 LUW with Double Take SHARE. This project expanded the company's product selection by nearly 55%.  • Provided secondary support for the EODS (Enterprise Operational Data Store) on DB2/AIX with regards to basic maintenance such as scheduling reorgs, automating runstats, and monthly DDL deployments. Residential Computer Consultant Laptop Central at Bryant University - Smithfield, RI January 2010 to May 2013 • Assisted Bryant University students with computer problems via phone call and/or walk-in.  • Performed services such as hardware repairs, refurbishing laptops, hard drive cloning, electronic claims processing, malware removal, Windows support, network troubleshooting, data recovery, email support, and laptop distribution.  • Migrated laptop OS from Windows XP to Windows 7 during the 2010-2011 academic year. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Business Administration Bryant University - Smithfield, RI Skills DB2, Linux, Oracle Goldengate, Agile, JIRA, ServiceNow, Microsoft Office, Unix Links http://Linkedin.com/in/michaelrbrouillette