SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Houston, TX Over 6 years aggregate IT experience with strong troubleshooting skills and over 5 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in MSSQL SERVER 2005, 2008, 2012, 2014 & 2016 database design, administration and systems analysis. I have excellent communication skills and I am a great team player with a fast learning curve. I can work perfectly and effectively under stressful conditions where speed and accuracy are necessary for mission critical databases. I'm also a highly driven and successful database Administrator with a proven record of accomplishment and reputation for achieving results in Operations. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Pros INC - Houston, TX August 2017 to May 2019 Migrated and upgraded more than 500 databases to SQL server 2016 environment from the older versions (SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, and 2014) in production, UAT, and Development server as part of a companywide IT operations, to SQL Server 2016.  ? Co-ordinated with the application team and the business users in scheduling downtime for database servers to apply SQL Server hotfixes and services packs as per release by Microsoft for bug fixes.  ? Imported/exported data across multiple instances using bulk insert, BCP utility and the import and export wizard.  ? Created Logins and Roles with appropriate permissions as requested by tickets created and approved for the applications team and end users.  ? Closely worked with the production environment for the upgrade, security patching and RFC.  ? Implemented and Maintenance of all (HA) High Availability configurations like Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, Always On Availability groups, Replication and Failover Clustering as a part of HADR Plan and troubleshooting in case of any issues.  ? Experienced in setting up and deploying schedule jobs or maintenance plans for backup and recovery strategies for production, development, UAT database as stipulated in company SLA's to meet RTO and RPO.  ? Used Ola Hallengren's scripts to customized and setup database maintenances plans for index rebuilding, reorganization, update database statistics and maintain database integrity checks (DBCC) and scheduling database backups  ? Involve in optimizing and tuning the database user tickets. Use some native SQL server tools like SSMS, customer reports, DMVs, resource monitors, SQL profilers, extended event session, activity monitor and Database Tuning Advisors to help trouble related SQL server issues and performances problems.  ? In addition, experienced in using third part tools like SQL diagnostic monitor, toad, Brent Ozar's performance tools and scripts, sp_who, sp_how2, sp_WhoisActive, etc. to trouble shot related database performance issues.  ? Implemented database encryption and column level encryption by creating keys and certificates though TDE  ? Implemented high-level security on sensitive data using dynamic data masking (DDM) and Always Encrypted.  ? Experience in deploying/administering SQL SERVER (IAAS, PAAS) in AZURE cloud. SQL Server Database Administrator Marathon Oil - Dallas, TX March 2015 to June 2017 ? Checking Database Consistency/health by using DBCC and scheduling maintenance plans and alerts for updating database stats, index rebuild with a focus on (PTO) Performance Tuning & Optimizing SQL queries, Monitoring Event Viewer, SQL Error logs, Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  ? Design and implement Continuity of Business solutions, data warehouse solutions for SQL Server databases including replication strategy and Active-Active and Active-Passive clustering.  ? Schedule weekly jobs and maintenance tasks, create alerts, notifications, and emails for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, and security breaches backup jobs completion and failures etc.  ? Performing ETL processes using BCP Utility command, Import and Export wizard, Attach and Detach and Bulk insert.  ? Setup Database Security and maintain accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins and Roles and assigning object level permissions.  ? Identify the I/O and memory bottle necks, blocking and deadlocks caused by complex queries using SQL Server Activity monitor/profiler, Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and handling them by implementing better Query Execution plans.  ? Work with system administrators for creating/modifying/user/group accounts in Windows Active Directory in order to authenticate SQL server users through domain group/user accounts.  ? Setup Linked Server, which allows access to the distributed, queries against OLE DB data sources for EXCEL, MS ACCESS and Text files and running the Batch Processes.  ? Monitor disk configuration and storage allocation to support application enhancement SQL Server Database Administrator MTN Cameroon, Yaoundé - CM February 2013 to January 2015 Installs Configures, and Manages SQL server 2012, 2008R2, 2008, & 2005 in development, test, and production environments and installs and configures SQL server 2014 for testing different features and stability.  ? Monitoring the system bottlenecks - CPU, RAM, Disk IO and networking using  performance counters, alerts.  ? Deployed, scheduled and executed SSIS packages.  ? Apply service pack (SP) and hot fixes on SQL server 2008R2, 2012.  ? Implemented new features in SQL server 2008 like policy-based management, table compression & backup compression, SQL server auditing, resource governor and MERGE statement in T-SQL.  ? Experience in dealing with the issues related to the backups (full, differential, transaction log, tail log and copy only) and also restoration related issues.  ? Uses DBCC to check database conditions, fix database corruption, create and rebuild indexes and other database maintenance functions.  ? Worked with application developers to design databases and tables to support development activities and achieve optimal efficiency.  ? Knowledge of database auditing.  ? Involved in troubleshooting SQL server locking, blocking and deadlock. Education Bachelors of Geology and Petroleum Engineer in Geology and Petroleum Engineer University of Buea