DATA ANALYST DATA ANALYST DATA ANALYST - SMARTRONIX San Antonio, TX • Experienced Healthcare Analyst that supports contracts with both external and internal project management clientele. Capable of analyzing problems with high aptitude for research/investigation and enjoy designing recommendations including workflows processes and procedures. Hold accountability for all activities towards sponsors/stakeholders related to pro-gram/project initiatives including teams, committees, consultants, corporate departments, operational staff and/or senior leadership. Work Experience DATA ANALYST SMARTRONIX May 2018 to Present • Develop and provide regular statistical reports as requested based on global database military healthcare requirements/needs.  • Provide data analysis of data as requested by the business for Tier 2.5 efficiencies and productivity.  • Review data to ensure data integrity, accuracy and validity.  • Perform ad hoc reporting functions for special needs and requests.  • Prepare and compile government, management and business within requested timelines.  • Compile and prepare project progress and outcomes.  • Perform other data reporting duties and accessioned patient information into database.  • Support engagement with local provider organizations to support, augment and accelerate efforts to improve operational coordination of patient care.  • Collect/synthesize best practices from across a network of provider organizations and share feedback across the organization.  • Establish/implement/comply with change management processes to drive effective project execution HEALTH DATA ANALYST ZENITH LABS May 2017 to April 2018 • Preparing data analysis that provides infrastructure and anomalies to global competitors.  • Resolving data quality ensuring the timely preparation of reports and records for dissemination to stakeholders.  • Process improvements, system enhancements, training and reporting; support of the programs used to access and update health information records.  • Work simultaneously on 5+ projects based on current client workload.  • Create visual aspects of marketing materials, websites and other media, including infographics.  • Put together disparate elements of a design created by another professional, such as the icons, photographs and other components necessary for a website design.  • Consult with clients' marketing, copywriting and sales teams to create cohesive designs that reflect our clients' corporate cultures and goals. UM REVIEW ANALYST WELLMED June 2016 to May 2017 • Responsible for job efficiency and makes appropriate suggestions following the organizational structure.  • Provided the coaching needed for performance success in collaboration with operational partners, coordinates staff activities to ensure success and meet program needs and compliance with program requirements for EDI transactions.  • Oversight and active participation of in activities to evaluate project success and achievement of outcomes utilizing appropriate evaluation methods.  • Monitored processes to ensure projects/programs are successful, including maintaining continuous quality improvement activities to ensure outcomes achieve targeted performance goals.  • Establish an effective rapport to communicate with people of diverse backgrounds throughout the world in a diplomatic and professional manner. PHI STRATEGIST ECS/CIOX HEALTH January 2013 to March 2016 • Responsible for supervision of all staff and processes within the route area including records maintenance, compliance, education, etc.  • Prepared monthly cost savings, management reports, and assisted with the preparation of quarterly summary report that implemented quality measures resulting in achieving $1.3 million incentives for 54 contracted physicians in the claims submissions.  • Identified non-traditional resources and demonstrated creativity in managing each case to fully utilize all resource databases available to staff employees.  • Developed a process protocol in regard to the new employee hiring process for training and development in an adequate manner. CLINICAL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR DHR October 2009 to December 2012 • Accountable for quality control procedures to ensure efficient database operations agreed upon timelines and quality expectations.  • Planned and executed all data activities in accordance with client database management procedures on a per project basis within Integrated Data Services and cross functionality.  • Generated presentations on studies that leveraged scientific and clinical expertise that depicted completeness, accuracy, and compliance protocols.  • Ensured accuracy of client database by monitoring eligibility requirements cohesive towards patient eligibility laws.  • Maintained, designed, and implemented system for planning projects, resources, and allocating budgeting forecasts.  • Archived older files with authorization for the implementation of electronic data management system (Cerner).  • Designed and implemented quality control procedures ensuring with back end of all data management deliverables for the SQL (SSMS). Education MASTER'S IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY September 2019 BACHELOR'S IN ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERSHIP in ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERSHIP SOUTH TEXAS COLLEGE 2017 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL, DATA MANAGEMENT, DATA MINING, DATASETS, NIST, CERNER, CODING, HIPAA, HL7, COACHING, CLIENT MANAGEMENT, METRICS, TRAINING, BI, HEALTHCARE, ICD-9, ICD, EXCEL, Business Intelligence, access, testing, Powerpoint, MS Office, Project Management Groups Project Management Institute May 2019 to Present