Senior Business Process Specialist, Fleet Marketing Senior Business Process Specialist, Fleet Marketing Senior Business Process Specialist, Fleet Marketing • Salesforce Certified Platform App Builder with expertise in Software Development lifecycle, creating functional specifications and effective Business Requirement gathering & Analysis  • Around 7 years of experience in Salesforce Cloud and Business requirements gathering, analysis and documentation, SDLC, STLC and has excellent experience in onshore - offshore model for financial analysis and financial system applications.  • Experience in Automotive Industry and Healthcare Sector and adept at creating User Stories and transforming business requirements into functional specifications and designing business models using use case, sequence and activity diagrams in MS Visio.  • Complete understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Structured Development and Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Proficiency in working on multiple tasks and delivering timely results.  • Strong experience conducting workshops with global teams for business requirements gathering  • Collaborator and communicates effectively with audiences SMEs, Business Partners, Developers and QA engineers. Also non-technical audiences in different geographical environment.  • Experience working with multi-vendor teams to meet the project objectives as one team.  • Worked closely with the project manager in business case development, planning and tracking the project progress. Worked independently with minimal supervision.  • Strong data analysis skills with working knowledge in RDBMS.  • Cloud application development experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform as Administrator/ Developer with a strong and deep technical background in Salesforce.com.  • Specialized expertise in Salesforce CRM Cloud Application Development, Oracle Server PL/SQL and Microsoft SQL Server using T-SQL (Transact SQL).  • Salesforce Cloud application development experience  • Six Sigma Green Belt Certified Software Developer with more than 7 years track record in exceeding expectations and meeting milestones.  • Salesforce involving creation of Live Application for employee database as well as e-healthcare sector.  • Project experiences in C, C++, and JAVA development using object oriented analysis  • Excellent interpersonal and verbal and written communication skills along with analytical, decision making skills.  • A creative thinker with ability to take initiative to recommend continuous process improvements. Work Experience Senior Business Process Specialist, Fleet Marketing Fiat Chrysler Automobiles - Auburn Hills, MI May 2017 to March 2019 Auburn Hills, MI    Systems Technology Group, Troy MI  May 2017 - March 2019  Senior Business Process Specialist, Fleet Marketing    Responsibilities:  Responsible for the operations of all IT applications that support the Business User area. Direct the services of Supplier Provider to provide maintenance support for IT applications. Work with Business Users to identify and prioritize IT support requirement    Description:  • Provide expertise in the analysis, design, development and integration of IT solutions across the fleet systems landscape.  • Act as a liaison and bridging/facilitating communication and understanding between ICT, business and supplier partners' supporting application development.  • Understand the business processes and work application capabilities, eliciting and documenting requirements, and assisting in high level design and managing project.  • Execute project management techniques to control and deliver high quality IT solutions to the business while working closely with supplier partners ensuring project and enhancement request deliverables are met.  • Communication of projects and ensure that projects align with the technology that best provides maximum return on investment. SAP Business Analyst (Marketing) Volkswagen group of America - Auburn Hills, MI March 2016 to March 2017 This role involves both coding and releasing owner and prospect marketing program information to business requirements. It requires acting within a seamless organization of IT&S and Canada brand team members - working and prioritizing needs and providing technical insight into the development of their programs.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering and documenting business requirements in Business Requirements Document (BRD)  • Interacting with the Email and Direct mail vendors for Volkswagen marketing and creating high level marketing campaigns in SAP Marketing Planner and SAP Segment builder thereafter assigning it to various marketing campaigns.  • Data Analysis using Salesforce Platform App and CRM and SAP Business Warehouse - Campaign Support e.g. elicit, interpret, and document marketing campaign goals and data needs.  • Process Improvement e.g. automate ongoing tasks where possible.  • Scheduling KICK-OFF calls for all new marketing projects received from Vendors mostly during any new Volkswagen model launched.  • Planning one-on-one meetings with developer, Volkswagen client and the vendor to resolve any issues or hurdles in the marketing campaign.  • Develop marketing campaign components in Salesforce CRM and SAP Business Warehouse such as Analysis Process Designer (APDs), email forms, campaign automation, target groups and profiles.  • Develop SQL programs to extract customer data using Oracle 11g database, TOAD and SQL*Plus  • Data Handling e.g. Ensure that the company privacy and security policies are observed followed by Data cleansing.  • Create XML Script and load it to SAP BW Tool to create custom IDs for new customers.  • Validate XML Scripts using Oxygen XML Editor tool  • CRM Project SME e.g. participate as a CRM SME on CRM related projects  Environment: Salesforce CRM and SAP Business Warehouse tool, SAP Netweaver, Oracle 11G (PL/SQL), SQL*Plus, Oracle TOAD tool, Oxygen XML Editor tool, Listen, Prospect Salesforce Business Analyst/ Administrator University of Michigan - Flint - Flint, MI September 2015 to December 2015 Salesforce is a leading CRM provider in the market. The Salesforce platform makes it easy to build custom apps and databases in the cloud. Created a Cloud based working application for a healthcare provider for a project named eHealthcare-Hospital Resource Management using Salesforce Cloud.    Responsibilities:  • Creating various profiles and configuring the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Defining and documenting company's HR management design including business functions and processes for the database creation.  • Business requirement gathering and documentation in Business Requirements Document (BRD) with business partners and business users  • Responsible for creating a database for a healthcare organization to manage their records and transactions.  • Configuring and administrating Salesforce CRM environment.  • Creating Triggers and APEX Classes, Controller classes, Triggers, Process Builder, Flow, Point-and-Click capability, Visual force Pages, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading and Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services & Metadata APIs  • Development of Salesforec.com applications, worked on Lightning, Force.com, designed Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Salesforce configuration and development experience as a Salesforce Admin/Business Analyst in implementing Salesforce.com security including Profiles, Permissions and sharing rules at object, field, record level for various users at various levels of organization.  • The e-HRM application is a process automation solution that manages all the internal and external processes such as Appointment, Billing, Payment, Payroll, Financial Transactions  • This application encompassed the process automation within hospital and with the clients outside the hospital.  • Worked with Salesforce.com Data Loader tool using comma-separated variable files, spreadsheets or other relational databases, Outlook and Salesforce1 mobile app.  • The role involved creation of Database Triggers, Workflows, Apex classes, SOQL and SOSL query languages for Salesforce.  • We developed a very robust and user-friendly e-healthcare Database Application for our project.  • Risk analysis: Performed a low level risk analysis for one of the internal projects that included the technology assessment, industrial relationship, resources availability and budget analysis.  • Conducted weekly meetings facilitating discussion and evaluation of proposed changes.  Environment: Salesforce Cloud based platform Salesforce Business Analyst/ Administrator SipIT Solutions Inc - Flint, MI May 2015 to August 2015 Client: New Life Center    Salesforce is a leading CRM provider in the market. The Salesforce platform makes it easy to build custom apps and databases in the cloud. Created an Employee database for an organization using Salesforce (Force.com) Software as a Service (SaaS) which is Cloud Based technology.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Gathering from the Client for Technical and Non-Technical functionalities.  • Assisting in the definition, development, and documentation of software's business requirements, objectives, deliverables, and specifications on a project-by-project basis in collaboration with internal users and departments.  • Building a high level technical design for incorporating multiple functionalities and on-demand critical tasks.  • Communication (oral/written) with the client to summarize key aspects of developments in the project based on their requirements.  • Data Analytics: Creation and analysis of built-in Reports and Dashboards for real time updates of Salesforce data for analyzing risk and opportunity in client business using Wave Analytics.  • Application development: Creating a database for the Client organization to manage their records and transactions.  • Writing Database Triggers: Responsible for the automatic appointment, billing, payment, and payroll update on the database.  • Creating Workflows: Coordinating the events of actions one after the other. Taking immediate actions based on some change in a record to match a specific criteria.  • Writing and testing Apex classes: Created Apex classes that included various methods for performing certain functionalities for billing, payment and payroll.  • Developing a very robust web based and mobile based, user-friendly application for our Client using Salesforce1 mobile App.  • Deploying the application from Sandbox testing environment to production in Salesforce cloud.  • Cooperating with the Quality Assurance team to define test cases, metrics, and resolve questions about test results; assist Quality Assurance team in keeping the quality assurance environment in proper condition.  • Enforcing organization and record level security using Salesforce Administrator access for the employer using four types of access control:  • Organization Access: IP Ranges, Login Hours  • Object access: Profile level  • Record Access: Role Hierarchy  • Field Access: Field level security  • Creating Triggers and APEX Classes, Controller classes, Visual force Pages, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading and Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Developing Salesforec.com applications, design Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for various users at various levels of organization.  • Creating various profiles and configuring the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  Environment: Salesforce Cloud based platform General Electric - Healthcare - Waukesha, WI July 2014 to April 2015 Salesforce Developer/Systems Engineer TATA Consultancy Services Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2011 to June 2014 Project Name: GE Healthcare  Cloud Application developer using Salesforce Platform CRM PL/SQL Oracle Database development and Java Development and support. Responsible for management of information of Client customers in a database using a forecasting tool called Veritas depending on their SSO ID in an employee based application. Veritas is a forecasting tool, used globally by the Client users to forecast the opportunities and risks involved in their business. The main objective of the project is to provide support to JAVA Oracle based web application and do enhancements as per client's requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements and developing a daily batch job to automate deletion process of inactive accounts in SAP from Veritas.  • Collaborating with developers, project managers and business analysts in conceptualizing and developing new marketing solutions  • Interacting with client, stakeholders for preparing business plans and gathering requirements for technical high level design.  • Business requirement gathering and documentation in Business Requirements Document (BRD) with business partners and business users  • Impact analysis and estimating for change requests  • Assists with translation of business requirements into IT design specifications  • Creates current state ("as is") process models with business partners  • Creates future state ("to be") process models with business partners  • Facilitates chartering sessions with business and IT partners  • Works with business partners to identify project business value and associated metrics  • Collaborates with internal specialists to research business and technology trends appropriate to business and IT solution definition.  • Act as a liaison between the client and development teams and provide requirement clarification to development teams.  • Creating Triggers and APEX Classes, Controller classes, Visual force Pages, App Exchange Package and Custom Application, Sandbox data loading and Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Developing Salesforec.com applications, design Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for various users at various levels of organization.  • Creating various profiles and configuring the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Managing all database change requests CRs raised by the application owner.  • Resolving problem requests raised by the users effectively and efficiently using Clarify tool.  • Proactive identification of risks and issues in the application.  • Status reporting to client and internal management to ensure smooth running of the project.  Environment: Salesforce Platform, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL Developer, Clarify Tool, Microsoft Office System Engineer HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2010 to February 2011 HCL Technologies Limited is a global IT services company, headquartered in Noida, India. For about 8 months worked with one of the top clients of HCL technologies and managed their telecommunication database for an infrastructure account.    Responsibilities:  • Included Report Design and Coding for Standard Tabular type reports, including Drill Down and Drill through Functionality and Graphical presentations such as Charts and Dashboard type metrics for effective analysis.  • Generated reports that can handle dynamic grouping and dynamic sorting for efficient and clear viewing the reports.  • Extracted required data from the database tables and exported the data to different sources in different formats.  • Worked with several tools to access and perform several operations on database.  • Assisted in gathering requirements by performing system analysis of the requirements with the technology teams.  • Impact analysis for change requests and provide recommendation on Go/No-Go decisions  • Acted as Single point of contact for the offshore Technical team through the development lifecycle  • Definition of test strategies, scenarios and support in Functional testing  • Involved in testing the web based application and validating the behavior with that of the legacy client server application.  • Defining training strategy and plan  • Business requirement gathering, analysis, documentation of Business Overview Documents, functional specifications and Requirement Traceability matrix.  • Participated in Designing databases (schemas) to ensure that the relationship between data is guided by tightly bound Key constraints.  • Designed Physical and Logical Data model and Data flow diagrams.  • Involved in the creation of database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, DB triggers, Indexes.  • Worked on various tables to create Indexes to improve query performance. Also worked on partitioning large Tables using Range Partitioning, creating Index Organized Table, Rollback Tables pace.  Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Database, Microsoft SSMS SQL Server Management Studio, MS Office Database developer uCertify Limited April 2010 to June 2010 This role involves designing and developing strategies for the organization and work with the HR Management to gather requirements for company's database. It included C, C++ and Java Coding required in the backend and debugging the application in Windows and Linux OS.    Responsibilities:  • Defining and documenting company's HR management design including business functions and processes for the database creation.  • Business requirement gathering and documentation in Business Requirements Document (BRD) with business partners and business users  • Impact analysis and estimating for change requests  • Assists with translation of business requirements into IT design specifications  • Creates current state ("as is") process models with business partners  • Creates future state ("to be") process models with business partners  • Consulting with functional unit management and personnel to identify, define and document database needs and functionalities, current operational procedures (both functional and non-functional), problems, input and output requirements, and levels of systems access.  • Analyzes the feasibility of, and develops requirements for, new systems and enhancements to existing systems; ensures the system design fits the needs of the users.  • Risk analysis: Performed a low level risk analysis for one of the internal projects that included the technology assessment, industrial relationship, resources availability and budget analysis.  • Conducted weekly meetings facilitating discussion and evaluation of proposed changes.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse IDE, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Database, Microsoft SSMS SQL Server Management Studio, MS Office Jr. Research Fellow/Software Engineer Indian Institute of Information Technology - IN November 2007 to July 2008 This role involved an industrial project for creating a database for the student record management system in IIIT Computer Science Department as an IT Intern.    This project deals with the complete personal and official details of all employees working in the organization. HR Department can maintain the employee's attendance, permissions, vacations availed, leave encashment and carryover details, loan eligibility checking, loan sanction, interest & EMI calculation, and loan repayment using this software. Only authenticated users can access/use this software.    Responsibilities:  • Understand the business Requirements and Functional Specifications  • Translates logical design into physical program specifications  • Develop Program Specification and Testing  • Creating and reusing the Java Classes for student enrollment procedure in IIIT.  • Loading and resolving the Java Classes from the database.  • Publish the Java Classes  • Calling the Stored Procedures written as PL/SQL procedures as well as procedures written in Java Language.  • Debugging the Stored Procedures, if necessary. This also included any updates if required as the module changed.  • Write the Functional, System test cases for the HR Module and support during Acceptance Testing.  • Collaborates with System Designer/Analysts, Architects and Senior Developers to establish the physical application framework  • Works with Operations Analysts, System Designer/Analysts and other developers to prepare and stage  • Productions build, and verify production releases meet technical and business expectations  Environment: Oracle database 9i, SQL Developer. SQL*Plus, Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developer Education Master of Science in Computer Science & Information System University of Michigan - Flint, MI Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, RATIONAL, RATIONAL ROSE, .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO .NET 2005, VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO .NET, VISUAL STUDIO .NET 2005, C++, HTML, VISIO, XML, CLARIFY