RightHand Consultant, Giza, Egypt RightHand Consultant, Giza, Egypt RightHand Consultant, Giza, Egypt Fairfield, IA Skilled software developer with over 3 years of experience following the full software development life cycle (SDLC) to design, develop, analyze, integrate, and deploy multi-tier. Excellent knowledge of Java/J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, Spring, and Hibernate, as well as core object-oriented programming concepts (OOPS) such as concurrency, persistency, and multi-threading. Expertise in relational databases and query construction using SQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MySQL. Work Experience RightHand Consultant, Giza, Egypt CAREER NOTE 2015 to 2018 Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).    RightHand Consultant, Giza, Egypt • 2015-2018  A consultancy Company based in Egypt    Java Developer  Developed, designed, and implemented back-end of software programs.    Tasks Performed:  • Designed, implemented, and maintained high-volume, mission-critical Java applications.  • Followed project requirements to produce clean, robust code in Java and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of the Inventory and HR module  • Implement feathers like Categorization of products, Order management, and Automated ordering.  • Bug fixing and code maintenance  • Developed and create Jasper reports base on SQL complex quires    Achievements:  • Delivered complex insurance product including features to manage policies, quotes, and claims, suitable for multiple industries such as health, home, car, liability, and marine insurance.    Technologies Used: Java, JSP, Spring (Boot, MVC), Hibernate, Eclipse, Netbeans, Maven, Git    641-233-0254 • wael.n.rezk@gmail.com MySQL Database Developer & Administrator BLUEZONE TELECOM - Amman, JO 2014 to 2015 Amman, Jordan • 2014-2015  Internet service provider in Jordan, with WiFi and WiMAX technology.    MySQL Database Developer & Administrator  Installed, configured, patched, and upgraded database applications and tools.    Tasks Performed:  • Generated reports through database queries, stored procedures, and bash scripts.  • Created and deployed database continuity and redundancy plans, including backup and recovery.  • Enrolled users and maintained security protocols.    Achievements:  • Optimized database performance and capacity; streamlined data handling processes.    Technologies Used: MySQL, Bash Scripting SQL Server Database Developer & Administrator BAT - Cairo, EG 2013 to 2014 Developed and administrated all databases, including design, configuration, deployment, and performance optimization.    Tasks Performed:  • Designed business intelligence (BI) solutions using SQL Analysis Services and OLAP DB.  • Created and deployed database continuity and redundancy plans, including backup and recovery.  • Built data objects and structures such as tables, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and indexes.  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures, and standards for preserving integrity and security of data, reports, and access.  • Trained junior team members in network security and data circuit troubleshooting.  • Optimized database performance and streamlined data handling procedures.  • Configured, deployed, and maintained database server.    Achievements:  • Provided high volume and second line support for mobile devices for over 170 sales representatives.  • Migrated MS SQL Server 2000 and SSAS to MS SQL Server 2008 R2.    Technologies Used: MS SQL Server, SQL Analysis Services, SQL Integration Services Web Developer SCOPE COMMUNICATIONS & ADVERTISING, Giza - EG 2012 to 2013 Analyzed scope of client website requirements, then developed and delivered high-quality products.    Tasks Performed:  • Wrote and troubleshot advanced queries and stored procedures.  • Built e-commerce platform for website www.supplementseg.com.    Technologies Used: PHP, Ruby on Rails, MySQL  641-233-0254 • wael.n.rezk@gmail.com Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management 2020 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics & Computer Science in Mathematics & Computer Science Damietta University 2009