Professional Photographer Professional Photographer Oklahoma City, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Professional Photographer Abraham Guadarrama Photography & Video - Oklahoma City, OK March 2015 to Present 3 years experience taking photos using professional cameras.    4 years experience editing photos.     4 years experience recording video, lighting and editing using Adobe Creative Cloud: Photoshop, Lightroom and Premiere Pro.    Experienced working with various clients ranging from adult to children. Bilingual Loss Mitigation Plan Administrator MidFirst Bank - Oklahoma City, OK September 2018 to February 2019 Loss Mitigation Plan Administrator-Midland Mortgage, a Division of Midfirst Bank.  • Handled inbound calls from customers, and determined customer needs.  • Provided clients with appropriate information and assisting them to apply for the Loss Mitigation Application.  • Ensured individual questions and needs are met by providing resolution and documenting the customers file and deescalating and tracking customer complaints and inquires.  • Contact customers by telephone and assist them on various programs they may be eligible for such as a payment plan, short sale or modifications which assisted them in avoiding potential foreclosure. Special Education Teacher’s Assistant Royal School District, Royal City, WA - Royal City, WA March 2018 to June 2018 • Assisted teacher in supervising small group activities and individual instructions for 8 students.  • Assisted in aiding students with personal hygiene, medication while fostering a positive and safe learning environment.  • Assisted in making phone calls in Spanish to inform parents of upcoming events or any needs their child may have had. Internship Koru, Inc - Seattle, WA September 2015 to September 2015 Worked on team to conducted customer discovery (50 interviews), applied design thinking principles and competitor  analysis to increase alumni engagement with EarthCorps.  • Presented to EarthCorps leadership and recommended strategizing and executing diverse alumni engagement programs. International Researcher University of Washington Information School August 2014 to September 2014 iSchool Ghana: Communication and Development-Experiencing Research in Low-Resource Environments  • Conducted field investigation on information and communication technologies (ICT) and submit a research proposal.  • Researched the ICT landscape in Ghana, patterns of ICT used, learned about research designs, field research techniques,  data analysis and reporting, as well as cultural issues in research design and implementations. Study Abroad Student University of Washington Information School July 2014 to August 2014 iSchool South Korea: Information, Technology and Society in Modern Korea  • Provided Daum Corp., Korea's second largest search engine company, UX and HCI feedback on Buzz Launcher App.  • Participated in lectures on economic and political change related to rapid industrialization and information technology.  • Created an Infographics representing a digital story of my experiences of Korean culture and IT. Configuration Management Database Intern Avaya - Westminster, CO July 2013 to September 2013 • Updated the Configuration Management Database (CMDB) to identify the relationships between infrastructure and applications within change management, resulting in 3,000 applications updated to ensure accurate data within the CMDB.  • Collaborated with team members globally to identified and resolved gaps within the database where configuration items had  information or relationships missing.  • Provided analysis of application architectures and translated them into upstream and downstream relationships based on interfaces into the applications within the CMDB. e-Commerce & Enterprise Management in China Business China August 2012 to September 2012 Represented Foster's Group Liaison for Microsoft's Asia-Pacific Research and Development Group in Beijing.  UW College of Engineering Early Engineering Institute Group Leader/Tutor August 2012  • Provided supervision, mentorship to 23 middle school students to prepare them for high school science and math. International Researcher Queensland University of Technology - Brisbane QLD June 2012 to July 2012 Brisbane, Australia  Interdisciplinary STEM in Australia - Autonomous Systems in Support of Global Ecosystems June-July 2012  • Collaborative group research project: Designed missions to collect scientific data by utilizing an underwater autonomous  vehicle to mathematically model power consumption changes with different velocities.  • Contributed in writing an IEEE scientific conference paper: "Effects of Velocity on Starbug Power Consumption".  • Presented research to faculty, staff, and public at Queensland University of Technology.  University of Washington Foster School of Business, China Education Bachelor of Arts in Geography University of Washington - Seattle, WA March 2016 Skills Photography (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe Premiere Pro (4 years), Videographer (4 years), Communications (4 years), Spanish (10+ years), IT (7 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Sales (10+ years), Lightroom (4 years), Adobe Premiere, Adobe (4 years), Powerpoint, Photoshop, Sales, Bilingual (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (3 years), Video Production (4 years), Marketing, Photography (4 years), Programming (1 year), Marketing (2 years), Call Center (Less than 1 year), Spanish (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Teamwork (5 years), Java (1 year), Computer Repair (10+ years), Graphic Design Additional Information SKILLS    • Two years experience being a photographer.   • Two years experience editing with Adobe Creative Suite Software.   • Proficient using Adobe Premiere Pro CC, Adobe Lightroom, and working knowledge using Adobe Photoshop.   • Aerial Cinematography/Mapping: Two years experience operating drones to create 3D aerial models/maps using Pix4D  mapper Mesh and ArcGIS. Experienced capturing quality 4K aerial footage and editing with music to create stunning film.  • Communication: Fluent mastery in reading, writing, and speaking both English and Spanish languages.  • Leadership: Exceptional leadership skills developed through internships, research, and student organizations experiences.  • Public Speaking: Diverse range of experience public speaking and working with team members to meet deadlines.  • Search Engine Optimization: Experience using Google Analytics & Webmaster to improve website for content & quality.  • Information Architecture: Working knowledge in, UX, IA, Metrics and KPIs, Marketing, & and product Development.  • Programming/Software: Working knowledge in Java, HTML, LaTeX, MATLAB, MS Office & Adobe CS6 Programs.