Event Manager Event Manager Event Manager - George P. Johnson Experiential Marketing Austin, TX Work Experience Event Manager George P. Johnson Experiential Marketing - Austin, TX June 2014 to Present • Manage all event logistics including, planning, set up, and execution.  • Provide on-site support for tradeshows and proprietary events.  • Provide clients with budget guidance, menu creation, floor plan development, vendor coordination, and payment processing.  • Responsible for establishing all purchase orders with vendors, reconciling all vendor invoices, and coordinating payment with vendors.  • Liaison with the Accounting Department in Auburn Hills, MI for all Accounting related inquiries.  • Manage and negotiate with vendors for all contracts and manage all communication.  • Schedule and place all service orders and timeline management. Documentation Specialist The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX March 2013 to June 2014 • Provided customer support relating to the Human Resources Management System (HRMS), Financial Resource Management System (FRMS) and other financial systems. This includes helpline, email, direct contact, training and other methods of customer support.  • Worked with subject matter experts and IT staff to test software to ensure that it functions as planned.  • Provided administrative support for University Signature Desk.  • Collaborated with other User Services team members, subject matter experts and IT staff to develop and maintain documentation that is professional, accurate and meets departmental standard within established deadlines. Customer Service Specialist Rackspace - San Antonio, TX January 2012 to March 2013 • Conferred with customers by telephone in order to provide information about products and services, took orders, canceled accounts, and obtained details of complaints.  • Checked to ensure that appropriate changes were made to resolve customers' problems.  • Referred unresolved customer grievances to designated departments for further investigation. Database Administrator/ Receptionist EDP World, Inc - New York, NY August 2010 to May 2011 • Provided administrative support to Director and staff.  • Served as Receptionist and screened all calls and visitors.  • Managed Director's calendar and scheduled all staff meetings.  • Managed and trained staff of twenty in the use of the databases and database information.  • Developed, designed, prepared reports, managed and maintained database system.  • Arranged meetings with clients.  • Maintained a daily attendance register of the staff of the organization. Education Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations and Communications in Public Relations and Communications The City College of New York - New York, NY May 2010 Skills Trade Show