Salesforce Developer/Salesforce Admin Salesforce Developer/Salesforce Admin Salesforce Developer/Salesforce Admin - EPAM Systems • Having 8+ years of IT Professional Experience in Software Testing and Salesforce.com in which 4+ Years of Experience in SFDC Development and Administration.  • Experience with salesforce.com CRM (Sales cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing cloud).  • Experience in designing custom and junction objects, look-up and master-detail relationships, pick lists, custom fields, page layouts and custom tabs.  • Involved in Automated business process by using Workflow Rules to automate alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirement.  • Worked with Triggers, Apex classes and Visualforce Pages.  • Worked extensively on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, OpportunityLineItem, Products, Cases and Leads.  • Experience in working with Data Loader, Import Wizard and Export Wizard.  • Experience in creating reports and dashboards as per the client's requirement.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, CSS, XML, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing/manipulating salesforce.com platform data using SOQL, SOSL queries and worked with large data volume manipulations.  • Good knowledge in Organization Wide Defaults (OWD).  • Involved in deploying salesforce components across various sandbox and production instance using Change Sets and Eclipse.  • Knowledge in SOAP/REST API web services integrations.  • Knowledge in Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers.  • Worked in agile Environment.  • Always willing to learn new skills to improve efficiency and increase knowledge base. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Salesforce Admin EPAM Systems April 2018 to Present Tract Manager is the healthcare industry's leading provider of Strategic Sourcing and Contract Lifecycle Management solutions. Tract Manager acquired total 7 entities so far, who uses different CRM and legacy systems. The objective of this project is to consolidate the CRM systems and migrate to a new Salesforce CRM. Tract Manger uses Salesforce to track sales cycle and marketing efforts.    • Involved in live deployment and post go live maintenance  • Involved in Admin Configurations, Development activities and Data analysis.  • Worked with Apex classes, Controllers, SOQL, Apex Triggers, Test classes.  • Created Formula fields, Validation Rules.  • Worked with Data Loader to load data into Salesforce objects.  • Developed Workflows, Email Alerts.  • Worked with Process Builder to automate the Process.  • Worked with Change Sets and Deployed the components.  • Created Reports and Dashboards for sales Leads.  • Tested Applications before and after implementation to ensure quality.  • Prepared User Guides for Opportunity and custom objects.  • Participated in daily status calls with Clients.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Data Loader, Apex, Visualforce, Agile.    Project 4 Salesforce Developer Wesnia Info Solutions September 2016 to April 2018 The objective of this project is to develop unemployment insurance tax, employer self-service and applicant self-service systems which will replace their legacy revenue system. In the new system employers can go online to create new accounts, submit wages and make payments. Apart from employers the third party administrators can also manage their account through the new secure interface. The new system will support wide variety of self service functions including submitting of wages through file upload process directly by employers or TPA, account maintenance, collection activities, audit activities, correspondence and federal reports.  • Created Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Scheduled Apex batch jobs using Cron tab.  • Migrated the data in excel sheets into CRM using Import/Export Wizard and Data Loader.  • Created Approval Process for complex business process.  • Created Assignment rule, Auto Response Rule to meet the business requirement.  • Overridden standard new button with custom button with custom visual force page.  • Designed and developed email alerts based on the application requirements.  • Experienced in optimization of existing code in according to the governor limits.  • Created test classes and tested the code coverage.  • Worked with change sets to deploy the code from sandbox to production.  • Worked in agile Environment.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, JavaScript, Force.com Platform, Data loader, Force.com IDE.    Project #3 Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Wesnia Info Solutions July 2014 to August 2016 The objective of this project is to automate Front Office services like registration, appointment billing and also maintaining patient details. It includes HR related services like maintaining hospital staff details, automation of generating pay slips for each employee every month. Scheduling remainder alerts to patients through emails.  Responsibilities  • Worked on various Salesforce.com customizations - standard objects and creation of customized business objects, screens, views.  • Created Custom objects, Custom tabs, Validation rules and Workflow Rules.  • Created Page layouts, Components and Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created Salesforce Pages and Controllers for module using APEX and Visual force.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects. Worked on Sites.com  • Customized different page layouts and assigned them for different profile users.  • Customized tabs among different business users groups and centers.  • Imported data by mapping to business objects in CRM system using Apex data loader and Import/Export wizard.  • Custom development using Apex and Visual Force Pages  • Created Test Classes  • Worked with Change sets to deploy the code from sandbox to production.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual Force, Java Script, Force.com, Data Loader    Project # 2 Test Analyst/SOA Tester Teaq Technologies April 2013 to June 2014 The main objective of this project is to follow common standards and process for emerging as a Single organization CSS and Integration of MC Settlement with Securitization Manager for Giant issuance through CSP.  Responsibilities  • Involved in System, Functional, Performance, Regression, Integration, Web applications testing in SIT.  • Extensively worked with HP ALM Test Management Tool to create test plans, test cases test sets in test lab to execute the test cases for verifying and validating the Application  • Created and executed Test cases in Progression using HP ALM.  • Executed 100 Regression Test cases in Test Lab.  • Used UFT tool to execute automated regression test scripts.  • Created test cases to test the Cron job, set up the test data for execution.  • Worked with XML Altova spy to create and validate XML file.  • Used Q browser to consume input XML.  • Written SQL queries to validate the data in database.  • Involved in Web Service Testing using Soap UI and JMS Queue.  • Experience in working with Altova XMLspy to create and validate the xml  • Removed duplicates using Excel.  • Worked with formulas to match data using Excel.  • Validated the XML files using Excel.  • Worked with Putty using UNIX, WinScp to verify output Log files.  • Used beyond compare tool to compare the Data between Database and XML.  • Worked in a highly AGILE environment    Environment: HP Quality Center/ALM, UFT, Sybase, DB2, Q Browser, XML,  Altova XMLspy, JMS Queue, WinSCP, Putty, Versionone, MS office, Agile.    Project # 1 Database Tester/ETL Tester Teaq Technologies February 2011 to March 2013 The main project objective of the Project is to generate accounting events monthly to automate existing manual processes and registered EUC's that are used to generate sub ledger Journal Entries (JEs) for the MF Transaction Accounting work streams.    Responsibilities  • Created test plans and Test cases using HPALM.  • Created Test sets in Test Lab to execute the Test cases.  • Involved in SIT, UAT, End to End testing.  • Verified that the Data is mapped correctly from one Database to other Database  • Worked with xml files and Verified that the Data is loaded correctly from xml files to Database using DB to XML Comparison tool of test tool set.  • Compared the Data between one Source Database to target Database using  DB to DB compare Automation tool of test tool set.  • Worked in Data Ware Housing Environment and executed ETL batch jobs using Autosys  • Worked with WinScp to place the files.  • Written 100 SQL Queries using Joins, Subqueries, Set operators.  • Worked with formulas to match data using Excel.  • Validated the XML files using Excel.  • Worked with Soap UI to verify the Services and Data sets.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, Sybase, SQL Server 12, XML Altova, Rapid SQL, Informatica 9.5 SQL server Management studio, Beyond Compare, DB to DB compare, DB to XML compare, Putty, WinScp, Soap UI, MS Office. Education M.Tech in Computers and Communications JNTU Additional Information Technical Skills  SFDC Technologies  Apex, Visual force, SOQL, DML, Triggers, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, Salesforce.com CRM, Data Loader, Change set, Work Bench, Process Builder, Schema Builder    Web services SOAP UI, REST API  Databases Oracle 11g/10g, MSSQL Server 12, DB2, Sybase  DB Tools Rapid SQL 8.7.5, MSSQL Server Management Studio 12, SQL Developer, SQL plus  Languages Apex, SQL  Web Technologies Visualforce, HTML, CSS, Java script, XML, JSON  ETL Tool Informatica Power Center 9.5/9.1  Other Tools HP QC/ALM 11.5, Altova XML spy, Beyond Compare, Version one, Doors, Sang it, MS Office, Windows 11/10, UNIX, Auto sys, CRON tab    Project Details