Volunteer as substitute teacher in preschool class Volunteer as substitute teacher in preschool class Volunteer as substitute teacher in preschool class Sherman Oaks, CA I have a range of experiences in banking and domain expertise is in Know Your Customer(KYC)/ Wealth Management / across all banking and third-party products / Financial Crime Risk / Data Analyzing . I have 7 years experience in customer handling and resolving of issues.     I love to travel more of road trips with family and friends. i enjoy meeting people belongs to different culture. I also volunteer for various early child education programs / as substitute teacher in school for 2 years to 5 years old kids. Other then Retail Banking, i enjoy updating my knowledge on Beauty industry and getting hands on experience. Work Experience Volunteer as substitute teacher in preschool class University United Methodist Church School January 2018 to March 2019 of 2's and 3's (as per school need)  • Assist children in handling activities, making sure that they remain interested and entertained.  • Assist children during play time, ensuring that they remain within the confines of safety limitations  • Gained knowledge on how to properly care for young children  Volunteer as assistance in 3's lunch bunch activity.  • Provide support in eating, ensuring that each assigned child is properly fed the right kind of food.  • Actively communicate with the children by reading to them and playing with toys and games with them  • Instructed children on health and healthy habits, and provided them with assistance in eating.  Organized creative activities to keep children engaged, and ensured that all children participated.  • Assisted in cleaning and maintaining play and rest areas, to make them ready for the next day. Manager Special Project HSBC Bank February 2017 to August 2017 Project: Customer Selection and Exit Management (CESM)  • In-depth knowledge on FCC / AML/ Cross border risk triggers and risk categorization (i.e A/B/C/D).  • The responsibility involved identification of suspicious activities and further investigation on the same and presenting cases to Senior Management to make an informed decision.  • Worked with AMLI, Fraud Risk, Branch Banking teams and Operations for end to end solution and risk mitigation of Financial Crime risk cases.Managed and worked on multiple projects at once.  • It also involved liaising with cross-border and cross business teams to ensure risk mitigation is achieved across HSBC.    Project: HBUS Customer Remediation and Curtailment  • Interaction with RBWM ASP project manager and global standard team  • Coordination with country RMO, SD, FCC and other stake holders  • Analysing received data for timely remediation and curtailment of loan.  • Releasing regular MIS locally and regionally Service Delivery - Senior AM Indiaidea.com (BillDesk) January 2016 to December 2016 • Handling merchant of banking / loan / insurance vertical monitoring Electronic Bill Presentment, Collection, Payment processing, credit card payment processing.  • Handling all escalations pertains to every different merchant and resolving issue TAT to increase the feasibility of the process.  • Incorporated / designed system as per various merchant requirement.(API Based/SFTP based) manual testing.  • Expertise in online banking transaction processing, Disputes handling, credit card / debit card payment process. Analyzing day in day out data of EMI collection maintaining MIS monthly /weekly as per requirement of management.  • Publishing MIS of various merchant on weekly and monthly basis post analyzing data.  • Expertise in excel, Vlookup, manual report generation and MIS maintenance as per the requirement of the merchant. Assistant Manager - Customer Service Ratnakar Bank Ltd December 2011 to November 2015 • Handled front desk at branch with hands on expertise in Banking process.  • Expertise in banking operations transfers, RTGS, NEFT, DD, FD / RD booking, cross sale etc  ODFD / FDR loan /Bank Guarantee/Solvency Certificate processing & documentation.  • Organized various activities to create awareness among customer for new banking products, ongoing changes of banking norms and products, achieved various sales target.  • Expertise in credit card / loan payments, documentations, Locker audits.  • Handled KYC remediation, AML Alerts, Internal audit of branch (half yearly / Yearly), EOD / SOD reports.  • Prepared internal audit reports, reconciliation, Monthly MIS to Management. Officer - Retail Banking ICICI Bank Ltd January 2011 to November 2011 • Handling all HNI client of cluster growing the wealth and mortgage business for the bank. Also ensuring that customer commitments and contact ability maintained and the total relationship balance grows.  • Passing all generated leads to RM assigned to various baking product.  • Conducting Drives of Mutual fund product across all the three branch of cluster. Management - Trainee IDFC Limited January 2010 to November 2010 • Coordinated with various departments like Finance, Compliance etc, to identify their critical processes and build documented process to reduce the risk of the business.  • Actively scheduling Operational Risk meeting with various department to create awareness with regards to various risk taking place in industrial domin.  • Prepared PPT presentation on operational risk. Presented and circulated among the various departments.  • Checking and reporting non-adherence to various policies, SOP's devised in the organization and statutory requirements.  • Supported to built companies Product Programme Management, Compliance Manual. Investor Relations Officers PNB Assets Management March 2008 to August 2008 • Coordinating with karvy to know the status of the investor's warrants, Process of Application.  • Coordinating with clients and maintain the good relation with them by giving timely responses.  • Ensuring that all the forms are timestamp and all the required details are filled by the clients.  • Giving information of various mutual fund schemes and investment plan via mails.  • Used more of Talisma and Excel to manage the daily work. Database Administrator Infor-media India Pvt. Ltd August 2007 to February 2008 Collating data of the attendees of the past conference and upcoming conference.  • Passing the data as per the organized conferences to the database operators for calling to update the mail id and phone no of the same.    Other Certification Course:  VLCC - Diploma in Skin - Basic & Advance  NCFM Capital market Module - Cleared with 55.25%  Mutual Fund - Advisory Module - Cleared with 65.25%  Cleared IRDA Exam - Cleared with 50% Education MBA in Finance Tilak Maharashtra Pune University 2008 to 2010 HSC Ritambhara College 2006 to 2007 SSC Ritambhara College 2001 to 2002 M.K.High School Skills audit (3 years), payments (3 years), Retail (4 years), Retail banking (4 years), Retail marketing (4 years), retail sales, Organizational Skills, Teaching, Marketing, Time Management