MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA - Charter Communications • Over 8 + years of experience in working with MS SQL Server 2016, 2012, 2014 2008R2 in Administration, Development, and Production Servers maintenance in standalone and Clustered environments.  • Hands on experience working with SQL Server Installation, Version Upgrade and Architect Setup, SQL Server Consolidation and Virtualization.  • Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Troubleshooting.  • Performance tuning experience in using Execution plan, Profiler, PERFMON, Extended Events, Data Collector and Resource Governor.  • Extensively worked on Data and Backup compression in SQL Server.  • Proficient in working with 32 bit and 64-bit server's in handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 on Windows 2003 and 2008 R2, 2010.  • Experience in Business Continuity Planning & DR Setup, Checking Hardware sizing and bottleneck tuning.  • Configuring and monitoring SQL Clustering, Replication, Log Shipping, and Mirroring.  • Design and Implement of Database Backup Restore Strategy using native method and using third part tools.  • Auditing SQL Server Security, Setting up Base lining and Capacity Planning.  • Implemented the new SQL Server mechanisms like data compressions, online indexing, and security principals.  • Worked on SQL Server 2016 migration from SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012.  • Working knowledge in Integration Services (SSIS), Reporting Services (SSRS) and Analysis services (SSAS)  • Working experience using third party tools Veritas NetBackup, Net vault LITESPEED, IDERA Diagnostic manager, IDERA SQL Safe Backup and restore, IDERA Compliance manger and Monitoring tool SCOM.  • Experience in SQL server load balancing, Database Archiving / Partitioning (Horizontal / Vertical)  • Implemented the SQL Server concepts like Data partitioning, Snap shot isolation, database mirroring, database snapshot, DDL triggers, try-cache blocks, online indexing, DMV's, DMF's, Mail Setup, Jobs and Alerts, DTA, SQLCMD and dedicated admin connection.  • Good Experience in managing DDL and DML changes through the SDLC.  • Hands on experience setting up SQL server Agent jobs using Windows Power shell.  • Handled multiple SQL Instances on Cluster environment for Server Consolidation projects built on SAN using RAID levels  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications  • Having Experience on Data center servers and handling Very Large volume databases.  • Experience in Batch processes, Import/ Export, Backup, Database Monitoring tools and Application support.  • Expertise in SQL Loader and Import/Export Utilities.  • SQL Development Experience in writing Complex T-SQL queries, SP's, Triggers using Joins, Functions.  • Data modeling Experience like Physical data modeling and logical data modeling by using ERWIN, MS Visio.  • Closely worked with development team to assist them in various problems solving and troubleshooting Web-based applications, which calls various Database objects like stored procedures, functions, triggers.  • Good experience in migrating servers across data centers.  • Supported on call as SQL Server DBA, Database Production Support [24*7*365]. Work Experience MS SQL Server DBA Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO May 2018 to Present Description: Charter Communication Inc. is an American telecommunications and mass media company that offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum. Charter completed its acquisition of Time Warner Cable and its sister company Bright House Networks, making it the third-largest pay television service in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Upgraded/Migrated SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012 to SQL Server 2016  • Migrated SQL servers across Data Centers.  • Maintained Very Large Databases and highly transactive production servers in SQL Server 2016, 2014 and 2012 environments.  • Installed Teradata 16.20 with ODBC drivers.  • Worked in Setting up Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Troubleshooting.  • Involved in DR and documented accordingly.  • Configured and Maintained High Availability like Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, and Clustering.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Migrated SSRS Reports from 2012 Reporting server to 2016 Reporting server and SSIS packages from 2012 project deployment model to SSIS 2016 Project deployment model.  • Worked with the developers in upgrading, converting and deploying the SSIS packages from 2008R2 Package deployment model to 2016 Project deployment model.  • Experience in Linked Servers connection between SQL servers and Oracle servers/Teradata servers.  • Worked on firewall issues for the new build servers on different domain.  • Monitored SQL server using native tools like Profiler and PERFMON in troubleshooting performance issues, deadlocks, blockings and capturing long running queries for fine tuning.  • Used Third Party tool SOLARWINDS DPA ( Database Performance Analyzer) to monitor, diagnose, and resolve performance problems.  • Monitored the TEMPDB growth and resized it by adding files to increase the performance by parallel process of data storage with in TEMPDB and provided the best practices for TEMPDB configuration by providing the documentation.  • Used Veritas NetBackup tool in performing Backups and Restore.  • Worked with Service Now ticketing software on Change Tasks, Requests and Incidents.  • Troubleshooting the daily issues from the users like job failure issues, permissions issues, Disk space alerts and query optimization.  • Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users.  • Optimized the query performance with modification in T-SQL queries, removing unnecessary columns, eliminating redundant and inconsistent data, normalizing database, establishing necessary joins, creating useful clustered index and non-clustered indexes.  • Developed and created the new database objects including tables, views, index, stored procedures and functions, advance queries and updated statistics using query analyzer and enterprise manager on the existing server.  • Analyze execution plans and generate suggestions for improvement.  • Provided 24/7 support on call Production environment.    Environment: SQL Server 2008/2012/2014/2016 Profiler, Windows Event Viewer, Perfmon, Veritas NetBackup tool, Service Now ticketing tool, Solar Winds DPA. SQL Production DBA AmerisourceBergen - Frisco, TX August 2016 to January 2018 Description: AmerisourceBergen Corporation is an American drug wholesale company.  They provide drug distribution and related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. They also provide pharmaceuticals and pharmacy services to long-term care, workers' compensation and specialty drug patients.    Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012 and 2008R2 on Production and development and Test environment.  • Migrated more than 1000 databases from one server to another server.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  • Responsible for disaster recovery and high availability solutions and large-scale data migration from SQL server 2012 to SQL server 2016.  • Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export Wizard.  • Created necessary T-SQL scripts, Stored Procedures Tables, Views, Functions, Triggers and indexes.  • Microsoft connectors V5.0 for Teradata and Oracle are installed.  • Deployed and monitored SSIS Packages. Interacted with the development team regarding issues on the failed packages in resolving them.  • Transferred data (ETL) to Data ware house environment using SSIS.  • Worked with installation, Configuration and creation of SSRS.  • Monitoring the health and performance of SQL server instances and home-grown applications using Extended Events, SQL server Profiler, PerfMon and other third-party tools like IDERA Diagnostic manager.  • Created custom scripts for monitoring the health of SQL server using DMV's and DMF's.  • Used Connect Now ticketing software on Change Tasks, Requests and Incidents.  • Analyze execution plans and generate suggestions for improvement.  • On daily bases proactively monitored Error Logs, SQL Servers Logs and Windows Event Viewer for any Unusual errors.  • Used Third party tool LITESPEED in taking up the backups, for compression of the backup files.  • Responsible for  • Worked extensively in maintaining the index fragmentation by regularly scheduling for the reorg/rebuild of indexes based on the fragmentation level and updated the stats.  • Proactively Managed the databases i.e. managed databases, tables, log file allocation and space utilization, identify table growth & file growth for table or index reorganization, fatal errors, failed jobs, integrity violations, performance issues and data abnormalities.  • Support 24x7 Production Environment.    Environment: SQL Server 2008/2012/2014/2016 Profiler, Windows Event Viewer, Perfmon, Lite speed backup tool, Connect Now ticketing tool, Replication, Clustering, TFS. SQL Server DBA Assurant - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to July 2016 Description: Assurant, Inc. is a global provider of risk management products and services. Its businesses provide a diverse set of specialty, niche-market insurance products in the property, casualty, extended device protection, and preneed insurance sectors.    Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL Server 2012 on both Standalone and Clustered environment (A/A and A/P)  • Installed and configured the thresholds in IDERA Diagnostic manager tool on Prod and test Servers.  • Involved in Storage Migration to VMAX, Played the DBA role in validating the services and testing the drivers for SQL Server.  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008R2.  • Worked on setting up and troubleshooting issues with Replication and Mirroring for the secondary database to be used for reporting purposes and high availability.  • SSIS package deployment from development server to production server in both SQL server and File System Deployment.  • Worked in deploying Cubes from one sever to another server using SSAS.  • Involved in Scrum meetings to discuss the requirement and support needed for the Production updates.  • Monitoring SQL server using IDERA Diagnostic manager and the native tool's Profiler and PERFMON.  • Extensively used COSMOS ticketing software for working on RFC's sent by the Database SME's.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Extensively worked on DBCC commands and Dynamic Management Objects.  • Enabled the always on availability feature in SQL instance 2012.  • Configured and implemented the always-on availability on windows failover clustering environment in SQL 2012.  • Worked in setting up SQL Server Agent jobs using power shell scripts.  • As a part of team member managed over 1000 databases by maintaining the security of data, fixing the failed Principals (logins), user permissions and security in Active Directory.  • Thorough understanding of different RAID level implementation.  • Worked flexibly at late hours with the application team on making any changes to production servers.  • Monitored the daily maintenance, weakly maintenance and monitoring jobs.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for the optimized performance and concurrency.  • Provided 24/7 on call Production Support.    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008/2012, SQL DTA, Profiler, Windows Event Viewer, Perf Mon, IDERA Diagnostic Manager, COSMOS, TFS, SDMF, Replication, Log shipping, clustering (3node) SQL Server DBA Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN May 2012 to February 2014 Description: The Mayo Clinic is a nonprofit academic medical center. Focused on integrated clinical practice, education, and research.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively Worked in Installation of SQL Server 2008 R2.  • I was responsible for monitoring around 20 nursing production servers. The maximum size of the DB I have worked on for this client is 8TB.  • Extensively worked in performance tuning the nursing Dbs. I used tools PERFMON, PROFILER, ACTIVITY MONITOR, SQL internal dashboard reports, system stored procedures, DMVs, DMFs and task manager.  • Used third party tool IDERA Diagnostic Manager to monitor the CPU, IO, Memory usage of SQL instances.  • Worked expensively on transactional replication and periodically validated the data between publisher and subscribers and regularly monitored replication jobs to ensure they are working.  • Played a Lead role in Gathering the Information from the RN's and validate the data with respect to the reports.  • Arranged meetings with the client i.e. nursing department to know the objects information to be created and the aggregated data they need for the reports.  • Extensively worked in analyzing the data coming from different sources and design the schema.  • Extensively used the ETL tool Data Integrator and SSIS to pull the data into the Mart from different sources.  • Scheduled the daily jobs to pull the Data from multiple sources into the Mart using the Business Objects data integrator (BODI)  • Worked in creating the Nursing Reports using SSRS.  • In SSAS I worked on deploying Cubes from one environment to another.  • Worked with IDERA monitoring tool for monitoring the health checks of SQL server Databases.  • Extensively worked in comparing the data pulled from different sources using SQL compare.  • Scheduled the maintenance plans to check the space utilized and for database consistency checks.  • Involved in all tasks associated with daily operations such as database availability, monitoring activity, installations and back-up strategy.  • Performance tuned the Databases by consistently monitoring the job durations and also the type of execution plans used by the processes, Indexes used in order to maintain the data integrity.  • Extensively worked in code promotions from Development to QA and production Server and checking in the code changes into TFS.  • Copied and Migrated DTS PACAKGES to SSIS packages and maintained the archival data using Control flow task.  • Worked in documenting the entire process of recovering the Databases of Nursing Database using Disaster Recovery Planning.  • Worked in taking the backups in regular intervals.  • Worked closely with the end users and the reporting team to meet their goals.  • Provided 24/7 support    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008R2/2012, SQL DTA, Profiler, Windows Event Viewer, PERFMON, BODI, BMC Remedy Ticketing, Visual Source Safe 6.0, Log shipping. SQL Database Administrator Anthem Blue Cross - Los Angeles, CA March 2010 to November 2011 Anthem Blue Cross is an American health insurance company.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Installation up-gradation and maintenance of SQL Server databases  • Extensively worked with our team members to schedule the change request for an outage in order to do any Database upgrades.  • Implemented Side by Side Migration of MS SQL SERVER 2000, 2005 to 2008 on Windows 2008 server.  • Created some DTS packages for migration of data from SQL SERVER TO MS Access Experience in using ERWIN tool for designing the reporting databases.  • Migrated around 55 databases and installed around 25 servers and the max size of the database which I migrated is 2 Tb size using red gate lite speed backup and restore.  • Created the shared drives, used ROBOCOPY for the copy operation from one server to another.  • Installed the SQL server on windows server 2008R2 and documented the process of doing it in different environments, replication server, clustered nodes.  • Managed over 200 Servers by maintaining the security of data, fixing the failed Principals (logins), user permissions and security in Active Directory and SQL Server level.  • Used Third party tools like red gate Lite speed, Quests lite speed in taking up the backups, for compression of the backup files and in setting up Log shipping, Replication.  • Monitored the daily maintenance, weakly maintenance and monitoring jobs.  • Took a lead role in troubleshooting the performance issues on the database as well as instance level using the native tools profiler, PERFMON and activity monitor.  • Worked extensively in maintaining the index fragmentation by regularly scheduling for the reorg/rebuild of indexes based on the fragmentation level and updated the stats.  • Used the new concepts of SQL server 2008 and DMV's for monitoring the fragmentation of indexes, blocks, memory page splits, Log space of all the databases.  • Monitored the TEMPDB growth and resized it by adding files in order to increase the performance by parallel process of data storage with in TEMPDB.  • Managed a wide range of relational databases and utilized proprietary DBA tools and utilities to monitor the health of production database systems.  • Proactively Managed the databases i.e. managed databases, tables, log file allocation and space utilization, identify table growth & file growth for table or index reorganization, fatal errors, failed jobs, integrity violations, performance issues and data abnormalities.  • Provided 24/7 support for the DSS customers by actively monitoring the job history, alerts.    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008, SQL DTA, Profiler, Windows Event Viewer, PERFMON, LITESPEED backup tool, Advanced Windows 2008 R2 Server, 2003, Visual Source Safe 6.0, SDMF, Replication, Log shipping, clustering (3node) SQL DBA Praanadah Hospitals June 2008 to May 2009 Project: Design, Development and Administration of the Patient Database.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on installation, upgrade and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005/2000 databases / servers.  • Involved in migrating SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005.  • Created Database Maintenance Planner for the Performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Designed a report on the monitoring of SQL Server Performance. This report gives a detail report to the management on the Performance of the server.  • Scheduled backups and performed restore operations for system test data depends on testers' requirement.  • Created logins and maintained user permissions appropriately.  • Performed DBCC checks and fixing data corruption in Application databases  • Data transfer using BCP and DTS.  • Creating tables, views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers and constraints.  • Performance Tuning: Analyze, tuning and optimizing for SQL Server Applications by using performance monitor. Assist the SQL Developers in SQL tuning.  • Security Implementation: Administering the MS SQL server by creating user's logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of Groups, Granting the Privileges to Users and Groups.  • Run DBCC consistency checks, rebuild indexes, and update statistics for databases on regular basis.  • Involved in writing T-SQL Programming for implement Stored Procedures and Functions for different tasks.    Environment: MS SQL 2000/2005, T-SQL, Windows 2000/2003, VB Script, ADO.Net Education Bachelor's Skills MS SQL SERVER (9 years), SQL (9 years), SQL SERVER (9 years), R2 (9 years), SAP (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2016, 2012, 2008 R2, 2005, 2000/ 7.0 and 6.5, Microsoft Access 97/2000/2003/2007  Languages: T-SQL, C, C++, SQL plus, VB Scripts, HTML, UNIX, .net, SharePoint.  SQL Server Tools: Enterprise Manager, Profiler, Query Analyzer, Export & Import (DTS), SSIS, SSRS, Replication, Visio, Power Shell.  Front End: MS Visual Basic  Middle Tier: COM, DCOM, MSMQ