Automation Engineering Technician Automation Engineering Technician Automation Engineering Technician at AGI Fertilizer Systems Terre Haute, IN An ISO 31000 certified Risk Manager, offering over 9 years cumulative experience across the Database  Administration and Engineering Sectors;    Oracle Certified professional with experience with Solaris, Microsoft Server, SQL server, Data Analysis,  Application support, SQL language (SSIS & SSRS), Scripting, Data Reporting, Backup and Recovery, SQL tuning, Performance tuning and effective trouble shooting. A strong understanding of Relational Database design.  Experience in all tasks to ensure a successful database disaster recovery scenario.    A multi-talented Risk Professional with unique Engineering skills proficient with programmable logic control for automation, instrumentation and calibration of engineering tools. Experience with motors, pneumatic and hydraulic engineering tools. Experience with analyzing business processes, 'risk appetite' and developing reports, documenting operational risk; conducting audits of corporate documentation to determine compliance with Risk policies; Self-motivated, with the ability to excel in a fast-paced environment, communicate effectively at all levels, manage competing priorities, and adapt readily to new challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Automation Engineering Technician Agi Fertilizer Systems - Marshall, IL March 2019 to Present Installing, inspecting, troubleshooting and repairing customer equipment. Instructing customers and sales personnel on the operation and maintenance of equipment. Developing Logic for automated systems using Ladder logic and installation of software. Installing Programable Logic control devices, Variable frequency drives, Motor starters, hoppers, Motor for customers. Performing warranty work and start-up service on fertilizer systems. Performs testing, calibration of scales, calibration of load cells, checking, correcting, adjusting and part component replacement services on customer products. Construct and test circuits and equipment utilizing various tools and machines such as computers, workstations, circuit diagrams and test instruments/equipment. Instructing customers and sales personnel on the operation and customer maintenance of equipment. Provides technical support in product service, product training and applications. Analyzes complex problems in equipment and machinery and interprets maintenance manuals, using knowledge of systems and electronics to isolate and correct the fault. Consults with product support and engineering personnel to determine solutions to complex problems in system operation. Reports customer suggestions on product improvement and existing product designs to the appropriate technical specialist. Assists in the developing design modifications. Implements modifications and provides installation support for the modifications.Develops and maintains ongoing customer relationships with regards to all aspects of equipment repair and maintenance. Maintains service equipment, tools and documentation. Machine Operator Thyssenkrupp Presta USA LLC - Terre Haute, IN January 2019 to March 2019 Responsibilities: • Maintains a safe working environment by complying with all safety and environmental policies in the workplace. Advocates for and promotes a safe work environment by reporting Near Misses and/or other safety and environmental hazards, wearing all required PPE and encouraging others to do the same.  • Efficiently runs and operates all required equipment.  • Conducts Machine start-ups, shut downs, and changeovers to established standards.  • Troubleshoots equipment and does routine maintenance with the guidance of Production and Technical  Support.  • Loads, unloads, sorts and inspects proper component parts and assemblies according to Control Plans and ensures accurate assembly.  • Responsible for completing control plan inspections.  • Maintains all quality standards.  • May be required to relieve team members for their breaks.  • Assists Production Support as needed and maintains self-direction to get the work completed when leadership is absent or unavailable.  • Actively pursues other duties during down time.  • Attends all required meetings and trainings.  • Understands and practices all TK-PDI Safety Standards.  • Understand TK-PDI Quality and Environmental policies.  • Submits and Conducts continuous improvement activities.  • Completes all additional job duties as delegated by department Production Support, Team Leader, Supervisor, or Manager.  • Completes all required departmental documentation by the end of the shift.  • Maintains established housekeeping standards for work area.  • Assist with training new operators as needed • Cross Trains into different areas as needed to help maintain production demands • Authority to stop processes to correct quality, safety or environmental problems, identify and place suspect product on quality hold, and to promptly notify Supervisory personnel when processes become noncompliant. Database Administrator IKEJA ELECTRIC PLC - LAGOS, 23401, ES March 2014 to January 2018 Responsibilities: • Report to the Application support team lead • Establish the needs of users and monitoring user access and security • Monitor performance and managing parameters to provide fast responses to users • Capacity Planning • Maintain system stability and high availability • Interact with internal teams and external 3rd party vendors to trouble shoot and resolve complex problems • Manage problems from identification through to resolution • Applying database and operating system upgrades and updates • Deploy application releases and configuration changes • Develop implementation, backup and roll-back plans • Act as a technical resource for internal and external projects • Adhere to appropriate departmental and company procedures and policies (i.e. change control, security and auditing, release, configuration, problem and incident management) • Maintain good working relationships with internal departments as well as third-party vendors    Major Milestones so far:   • I was involved with Microsoft SQL server on premise database and application support for the ERP system;  Sage business Cloud • I was involved in reporting and with the business intelligence unit for data analysis and projections.  • I was involved in enterprise manager administration, backup and recovery operations, setting triggers whenever bills are paid for application support • I was involved in backend maintenance, end of duty activities, running procedures and batch jobs, monthly purging and archiving.  • I was involved in Querying the database for the audit team used for their monthly reports. Automation Specialist Nigerian Brewery PLC - LAGOS, 23401, ES November 2009 to March 2014 Responsibilities: • Report to the plant engineer; • Ensure maximum availability and optimum condition of all electrical, automation and instrumentation devices; • Ensure sustained operation and safety of all electrical and automation equipment.    Major Milestone: • I was involved with reading and interpreting the engineering plans for the panels of the silo, brewery and packaging department.  • I was involved in calibration of programable logic control units for automation equipments.  • I was involved with the calibration of automation equipment, repair and change of transducers • I was involved in change of capacitors in 3 phase motors and repair of valves Education Masters in Business Administration in Business Administration University of Lagos 2013 to 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electrical in Electrical/Electronic Engineering University of Ibadan 2002 to 2008 Senior Secondary Certificate Examination International School Ibadan, University Of Ibadan, Ibadan 1994 to 2000 Leaving Certificate Maryhilll Convent School 1994 Skills forklift, Manufacturing, Machine Operator, CNC, Packaging