Integrated Forces Analyst Integrated Forces Analyst Integrated Forces Analyst - MartinFederal Consulting LLC Work Experience Integrated Forces Analyst MartinFederal Consulting LLC - Huntsville, AL March 2019 to Present • Supports the Defense Intelligence Agency's (DIA) Missile and Space Intelligence Center (MSIC) to provide analysis on force-on-force scenarios for threat weapon and sensor systems; Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) systems; cyber disruption and degradation effects using the Integrated Threat Analysis and Simulation Environment (ITASE).  • Use analytical skills to assess military capabilities of other countries and threat regions and apply that intelligence to study efforts in support to both internal and external Government agencies.  • Support requirements development; development of military force-on-force study plans in support of Combatant Commands and Program Developers.  • Successfully build scenarios in ITASE and conducti authentication of operational scenarios within the ITASE modeling environment;  • Execute ITASE studies in constructive or manned simulation, conduct the analysis of recorded runs, and document and present assessments collected from runs. Workforce Integration Administrator Yorktown Systems Group - Huntsville, AL February 2019 to March 2019 • Supports the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) Operations Directorate (DO) to provide program assistance and administrative support within the Workforce Integration Center (WIC).  • Responsibilities include analysis and evaluation on the effectiveness of programs designed to welcome and orient the workforce new to MDA, gathering factual information and making recommendations to resolve discrepancies based on interpretation of applicable regulations and procedures related to In/Out Processing.  • In absence of Workforce Integrator, provides administrator level support within PRIDE's Workforce Integration Tracking System (WITS) module to facilitate In/Out Processing requests.  • Assists the Workforce Integrator in reviewing and analyzing requests for assistance in resolving problems. Establishes effective working relationships with all levels of personnel, including all levels of management and interfaces with functional experts throughout the MDA, Redstone Arsenal (RSA), and the Huntsville/Madison County community.  • Utilizes information gathered to develop reports and provide authoritative explanations of administrative support requirements and procedures, including receipt or dissemination of general information relative to office operations.  • Prepares WIC reports and maintains historical reporting activities. Develops and implements methods for the collection, compilation, editing, and verification of data gathered for reports and briefings. Utilizes data provided to design detailed reports and charts.  • Receives visitors and telephone calls and refers to proper person or furnishes information requested. Composes correspondence on own initiative based on knowledge of the Workforce Integrator and the WIC preferences. Maintains, classifies, and disposes of a variety of files. Security Shift Supervisor, ManTech International Chenega Corporation - Huntsville, AL August 2017 to March 2019 • Productively monitored, on average, 4-10 security officers to insure all Missile Defense Agency (MDA) security policies and procedures are adhered to. Trained new security personnel so standard operating procedures were acknowledged and followed.  • As a security shift supervisor, provide MDA employees with guidance to the proper operational procedures of personnel, information, physical, and operational security.  • Efficiently support the MDA security and emergency management directorate in executing multiple security operations services at MDA facilities.  • Effectively control access to buildings and property, protect equipment and material, and perform interior and exterior facility security inspections; ensure all visitors to MDA provided documentation required to access MDA facilities and provide temporary access badges; and escort personnel without the proper security access to MDA facilities.  • Successfully respond and support to all medical emergencies within MDA facilities and provide CPR, AED, and/or first aid assistance as needed by the situation. Business Support Specialist III CALIBRE Systems - Huntsville, AL August 2017 to January 2019 • Act as the alternate security manger to the GMQ team by providing guidance to the director guidance with the proper operational procedures of personnel, information, physical, and operational security.  • Provides administrative support to MDA/GMQ director and deputy to the director to include but no limited to: assists in preparing agendas for meetings, makes arrangements for conferences and meetings, assists in preparing agendas for meetings.  • Maintains the director's and deputy director's calendars, along with other team members, to insure all meetings and appointments are met in a timely manner.  • Provide support to tasks disseminated from higher management, and insure the information is sent to the proper GMQ team members within the time allotted to complete the task.  • Drafts various documents to be disseminated throughout MDA, the GMQ team, other government agencies, and non-government agencies. Battalion Intelligence Section NCOIC/Security Manager Camp Buehring March 2018 to October 2018 • As the Battalion S2 NCOIC encompassing duties such as data mining, establishing and maintaining systematic, cross-referenced intelligence records and files. Received and processed incoming reports and message traffic as well as determine the significance and reliability of incoming information while integrating with current intelligence holdings.  • Prepared all-source intelligence products to support the logistical needs of the 106th Brigade Support Battalion commander by conducting analysis and evaluate intelligence holdings to determine changes in enemy capabilities, vulnerabilities, and probable courses of action.  • Successfully collaborated with multiple intelligence disciplines: MASINT, SIGINT, IMINT, HUMINT, and sensitive reporting. Offered multiple products across multiple echelons from Company level to Division level. The ability to concentrate collection efforts/analysis from command level to cities within the AO.  • As the Battalion Security Manager, without error, provided the 106th Brigade Support Battalion commander guidance with the proper operational procedures of personnel, information, physical, and operational security.  • Effortlessly accomplished to insure106th Brigade Support Battalion personnel maintained active, or open investigations, and eligibility within the Joint Personnel Adjudication System. Brigade Intelligence Current Operations NCO 155th ABCT - Tupelo, MS December 2015 to February 2018 • As the S2 Current Operations NCO encompassing duties such monitored real-time enemy movements and locations, processed incoming reports and message traffic, and determine the significance and reliability of incoming information.  • Successfully collaborated with multiple intelligence disciplines: MASINT, SIGINT, IMINT, HUMINT, USAF TACP/JTAC/SWO, and sensitive reporting. Offered multiple products across multiple echelons from Company level to Division level. The ability to concentrate collection efforts/analysis from command level to assessed enemy locations within the AO.  • Worked in partnership with the 155th BDE Operations team to determine the enemy's most likely course of action, and advised on the best course of action for friendly forces.  • Effectively supervised junior All-Source Intelligence Analyst in the proper procedures of receiving, analyzing, and disseminating incoming intelligence down to the company level. SAFIRE Database Manager/ All Source Intelligence Analyst Camp Buehring February 2015 to December 2015 • As an All-Source Analyst encompassing duties such as data mining, establishing and maintaining systematic, cross-referenced intelligence records and files. Received and processed incoming reports and message traffic as well as determine the significance and reliability of incoming information while integrating with current intelligence holdings.  • Prepared a daily, detailed SAFIRE report to support the 185th Theater Aviation Brigade commander by conducting analysis and evaluate intelligence holdings to determine changes in enemy capabilities, vulnerabilities, and probable courses of action that could affect friendly rotary wing assets and missions.  • Effectively gathered multi-intelligence reports and cyphered an accurate intelligence assessment on enemy locations and activities within the Iraqi provinces of Ninawa and Salah ad Din.  • Successfully collaborated with multiple intelligence disciplines: MASINT, SIGINT, IMINT, HUMINT, and sensitive reporting. Offered multiple products across multiple echelons from Company level to Division level. The ability to concentrate collection efforts/analysis to knownenemy locations within the AO.  • Productively prepared and reported the personnel status of 185th Theatre Aviation Brigade members from the company level to the brigade level. All Source Intelligence Analyst 155th ABCT - Tupelo, MS October 2012 to February 2015 • Conducted analysis, developed and disseminated all-source intelligence products to support the command. Performed, coordinated, and/or supervised the Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield (IPB) process; Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Synchronization; and support to targeting.  • Prepared all-source intelligence products to support the combat commander. Established and maintained systematic, cross-referenced intelligence records and files. Received and processed incoming reports and messages. Determined significance and reliability of incoming information. Integrate incoming information with current intelligence holdings and prepares and maintains the situation map. Conducted analysis and evaluation of intelligence holdings to determine changes in enemy capabilities, vulnerabilities, and probable courses of action. Conducted IPB using information from all sources.  • Analyzed current intelligence holdings to identify gaps, and subsequent intelligence collection requirements. Considered enemy Order of Battle records in the development of collection tasks and assessment of enemy vulnerabilities and probable courses of action. Assisted in the preparation of reports on captured enemy material. Drafted periodic and special intelligence reports, plans, and briefings.  • Assembled enemy intelligence information and material. Coordinated flow of intelligence information between intelligence disciplines and supervises the all-source production process. Supervised intelligence operations within combat brigade. Conducted general intelligence training. Supervised collection management in an Analysis Control Element (ACE).  • Assisted in the preparation of indicators to satisfy priority intelligence requirements. Provided indicators and current situation briefings to the commander. Received, produced and disseminated intelligence reports containing information obtained from all-sources. Assisted in preparing and conducting command intelligence training programs. Education Associates of Applied Science in Operationa Intelligence Studies in Operationa Intelligence Studies Cochise College - Sierra Vista, AZ 2022 Diploma in United States Army Basic Training Mooreville High School 2012 Skills Microsoft Word, Google Analytics Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: Specialist