Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cigna-Health Insurance Wilmington, DE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cigna-Health Insurance - Wilmington, DE January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and also using silent method.  • Worked on a project to migrate data to warehouse using Golden gate.  • Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot/cold Backups, and Logical Backups  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import for migration  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU)) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views & Query Re-Write.  • Installation, Configuration, Upgrade, patching of Oracle RDBMS versions of Databases with OEM Grid control  • SQL and Database Performance tuning based on reports generated by AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF and sql tuning advisor  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Perform user and Security Administration activities such as enrolling users, granting roles and Privileges to users and maintaining system security and auditing.  • Automated the RMAN backups for the Production, Test, Development Databases in crontab.  • Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams.  • Built and managed 3 node RAC 11gr2 for high availability solutions and scalability.  • Good in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts)  • Translating the logical data models to physical design and validate the SQLs (Adding PK's, FK's).  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 on ASM.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures. And also managing this installation manually and using data guard broker Oracle Database administrator Weis Market Inc - Sunbury, PA April 2012 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration and schema management.  • Installed and Performed Oracle upgrades of 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Automated routine DBA tasks like backup's and stats by using Grid control job's  • Provided Assistance to the application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications.  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- Created rman catalog, provided best practices, optimizations and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes.  • Carried out yearly DR Testing of Critical Oracle Databases.  • Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration. Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  • Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  • Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & UAT.  • Applied various database PSU / CPU patches as required.  • Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion or necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  • Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions, etc.) once application developers have designed an application  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts. Education Bachelor's degree in Software Engineering in Software Engineering UNIVERSITY OF YAOUNDE 1 2009 Skills AIX (Less than 1 year), auditing. (3 years), Backups (3 years), cloning (3 years), Database (7 years), Database Administration (3 years), Databases (7 years), Linux (3 years), OEM (7 years), Oracle (7 years), PL/SQL (3 years), RDBMS (3 years), RMAN (7 years), Scripting (3 years), security (3 years), Shell Scripting (3 years), SQL (7 years), UAT. (3 years), UNIX (7 years), UNIX Shell (7 years)