Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) - TEKSYSTEMS • 7+ experience working as a data modeler with expertise in Data Warehouse/Data mart, ODS, OLAP and OLAP implementation teamed with project scope, Analysis, Requirement gathering, Data modeling, Effort Estimation, ETL Design, development, System testing, Implementation and Production support.  • Strong experience in Dimensional Modeling using Star Schema and Snow Flake Schema, Identifying Facts and Dimensions, Physical and logical data modeling using ERwin and ER-Studio.  • Excellent knowledge in Hadoop, HIVE, MapReduce.  • Experienced in using normalization and demoralization technique to design OLTP and OLAP applications in creating Database Objects like tables, Constraints (Primary key, Foreign Key, Unique, Default), Indexes.  • Expertise in creating logical and physical models for operational and analytics applications.  • Experience in Data Analysis, Data Validation, Data Cleansing, Data Verification and identifying data mismatch.  • Extensive experience in developing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers, Complex SQL queries using SQL Server, TSQL and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Expertise in working with Informatica Power Center (Designer, Repository manager, Repository Server Administrator console, Server Manager, Work flow manager, workflow monitor)  • Experienced in generating and documenting Metadata while designing OLTP and OLAP systems environment.  • Experienced in developing SSIS packages primarily for the extraction, transformation and loading of data.  • Expertise in design and implementation of Slowly Changing Dimensions (SCD) type1 and type2. Work Experience Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) TEKSYSTEMS November 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Translate business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models  • Designing and implementing scalable data models for a large enterprise application  • Interact with end users and other key stakeholders to understand all the data architecture global and non-functional requirements and design the data models and databases accordingly  • Organize and prepare data models for approval  • Develop and implement the database incrementally in an Agile development environment  • Prepare source to target mapping documents for ETL process  • Reverse and forward engineer the database structure  • Resolve database performance and capacity issues as they occur.  • Participate as an active team member to design, maintain, and optimize database driven applications.  • Reviews all physical data models with architect before implementation  Environment: ER Studio, SQL Server, SQL Developer, Oracle 12c, Informatica, AWS, DevOps Sr. Data Modeler/ Database Administrator (Consultant) GREENVILLE NURSING SERVICE LLC March 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Assisted with data stewardship, governance, and decision making for the management of enterprise data for project development teams, business users and other  stakeholders.  • Designed technical solution for the management, storage, access, navigation, movement, and transformation of data.  • Developed standards, process flows and tools that promote and facilitated the mapping of data sources, documenting interfaces and data movement across the  enterprise.  • Produced or enhanced metadata to ensure an integrated definition of data for enterprise  information, and to ensure the accuracy, validity, reusability, and consistent  definitions for common reference data.  • Elicited business and technical requirements and translated them into conceptual, logical  and physical data models  Environment: ER Studio, SQL Server 2005, SQL Loader, SQL Developer Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) TEKSYSTEMS - Miamisburg, OH December 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities  • Assisted in facilitating data modeling workshops with our Product Manager, Business Intelligence  • Collaboratively designed data models that captured company-wide business processes and made them amenable to analysis  • Partnered with our Product Manager, Business Intelligence to create a process for keeping the company-wide data model up to date with fast-changing technology and our evolving business objectives  • Wrote transformation jobs to turn normalized data into star schema and dimensional models, consistent with the Kimball style of building a data warehouse  • Worked closely with our Data Platform team to prioritize what analysis should be loaded and which tools best serve our needs  Environment: ER Studio, SQL Server 2005, Flat files, UNIX Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) GREENVILLE NURSING SERVICE LLC - Detroit, MI September 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed, reviewed and maintained data models.  • Partnered with Area Data Steward on data asset attributes and definitions.  • Performed the data analysis activities to capture data requirements clearly, completely and correctly, and represent them in a formal and visual way through the data models.  • Created semantically rich logical data models that define the Business data requirements and are independent of any technology solution (i.e. DBMS.)  • Managed the life cycle of the data model from requirements to design to implementation to maintenance.  Environment: Erwin, oracle 10 g, SQL Developer, XMPSpy, Flat files, UNIX, Windows 2000  KFORCE Sr. Data Modeler/Data Analyst (Consultant) AMC Theatres - Leawood, KS April 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Executed analytical or data intelligence projects, at times leading project from scoping and design through documentation and implementation including large-scale Hadoop deployments.  • Performed exploratory data analysis to confirm data integrity and to derive appropriate analytical attributes.  • Collaborated with internal and external clients to determine analysis and implementation requirements.  • Interpreted analysis results, identify trends and issues, and recommend alternatives to support business objectives.  • Managed data model repository  Environment: ER Studio, Data Stage, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005, DB2, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, SQL Developer, XMPSpy, Flat files, UNIX, Windows 2000, DQ Analyzer, Tableau Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) GREENVILLE NURSING SERVICE LLC - Cleveland, OH February 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Forward engineered physical models to create DDL scripts to implement new databases or database changes. Reverse engineered databases and synchronize data models with actual data implementations.  • Created data dictionaries and business glossaries to document data lineages, data definitions and metadata for all business-critical data domains.  • Identify and reconcile inconsistencies in data definitions, e.g., synonyms and homonyms.  • Capture business rules that govern how data is transformed, integrated, and used.  • Develop canonical models and data transformation rules using XML  Environment: Erwin r9.6, PostgreSQL Informatica Power Center 9.5, Power Connect/ Power exchange, Oracle 11g,    NPV STAFFING Sr. Data Modeler (Consultant) JP Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE February 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Translated business and data requirements into data models in support of Enterprise Data Models, Data Warehouse and Analytical systems.  • Worked with business owners to understand the business use cases that support and fulfill business and data strategy.  • Designed Logical Data Models, standardize data being sourced from disparate sources and stewarding the data design of the asset and ensuring alignment with the larger roadmap goals  • Performed rigorous data analysis and data discovery and data profiling.  • Collaborated with Analysts, Actuaries, Data Stewards and Business Customers to identify data usage patterns and to formulate Business names, definitions and data quality rules for data elements.  Environment: Erwin 7.3, Informatica Power Center 8.1/9.1, Power Connect/ Power exchange, Oracle 11g, Teradata, Pega, Hadoop, Main frames, DB2 MS SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, Cognos, Ab Initio, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, MapReduce, HBase, Sqoop, Windows NT 4.0, Unix Shell Scripting, Teradata SQL Assistant. Data Modeler Disney - Orlando, FL April 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Conducted and led discussions with business leads and SMEs to understand and document the scope and business requirements, and translated these into the technical design  • Interfaced with key stakeholders to define, analyze, and deliver requirements that reflect the needs of the business, and translate to detailed design specifications  • Led in the creation, development, implementation, configuration, maintenance, and support of data models for databases, data marts, and data warehouses  • Developed methods to store, organize, and report data and incorporate development operations automation where appropriate  • Collaborated on the definition, development, and maintenance of standards and processes  Environment: Teradata, ER Studio, Informatica Power Center 8.5, Oracle 10g , SQL Server 2005 , DB2, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader ,SQL Developer, Autosys, Flat files, UNIX, Windows 2000,Teradata V-14., DB2 UDB EE/8.1, AIX 4.3, Solaris Sr. Data Modeler/Analyst (Consultant) GREENVILLE NURSING SERVICE LLC - Tampa, FL February 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Conducted data requirements assessment and design sessions with customers.  • Worked with analysts to establish clearly defined business requirements.  • Worked with data suppliers to establish input and interface specifications.  • Performed data analysis for source system data.  • Created conceptual, logical and physical models for healthcare data warehouse implementations.  Environment: Erwin r8.0/9.0, Oracle 11g, Netezza, MS Office, SVN, TOAD, SharePoint, Ab Initio, SQL developer    NPV STAFFING Data Modeler/ Data Analyst (Consultant) PayPal - Sparks, MD January 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed time-variant models that support both point-in-time (historical) and current state analysis.  • Generated DDL from model for RDBMS (Oracle, DB2, Teradata).  • Provided professional documentation describing data architecture.  • Collaborated with the customer and other agencies to conduct data risk assessments, document data mappings/lifecycle, and help build a data governance model, policies and programs.  • Developed the approach for the implementation of Data Management lifecycle components (examples include master data management, conformance with reference architecture, metadata strategy, data warehousing strategy, data classification programs, data quality,)  • Collaborated across the organization to understand the value of these components and obtains alignment in the approach and benefits.  • Acted in a consulting capacity, in the implementation of the data management lifecycle components.  Environment: DB2, CA Erwin 7.0, Oracle 8i, VISIO, MS-Office, SQL Architect, TOAD Benchmark Factory, SQL Loader, PL/SQL, SharePoint, MS-Office, SQL Server 2005, VISIO. Data Modeler/ Data Analyst (Consultant) GREENVILLE NURSING SERVICE LLC - Farmington Hills, MI January 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Translated business requirements into logical and physical data models.  • Generated DDL scripts for implementation in a database.  • Profiled data to understand inconsistencies and resolve issues.  • Developed data models for data warehouse and operational data stores.  • Created a Data Mapping document after each assignment and wrote the transformation rules for each field as applicable.  Environment: Oracle 11g, Teradata 13.10, Microsoft 2008, SQL Developer, SQL Manager, SQL Developer Data Modeler, Visio, Tableau, Oracle Data Integrator(ODI), SAP Business Objects, Informatica, Crystal Reports, Erwin. Education Bachelor's Degree Kwame Nkrumah University of Science & Tech Skills Data modeling, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle