Implementation and support of middleware solutions Implementation and support of middleware solutions Computer Engeneer US Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Implementation and support of middleware solutions B-Systems January 2019 to Present Implementation and support of middleware solutions   Installation, configuration, operation and migration of middleware solutions. Administration of Linux and AIX server Support multiple projects. Solution of incidents in the banking core. Documentation and knowledge transfer of new implementations. Implemented technologies: Flexcube, SOA, UCM, OBIEE, Weblogic Apache. Application Server Administrator FINCOMUN Servicios Financieros Comunitarios S.A. DE C.V December 2015 to November 2018 Application Server Administrator   Installation, tuning, and migration of weblogic application servers, according to best practices. Implementation and release of the new banking core, for the optimization of its processes. Availability and optimization of current computer systems. Training and transfer of knowledge to the operational areas. Implemented technologies: Flexcube, SOA, UCM, OBIEE, Weblogic 12, etc. Maintenance and administration of Linux and AIX servers. Solutions Architect INFOTEC May 2013 to December 2015 Solutions Architect   Project leader, integrating the activities of all the areas that make up the proposed solution. Review customer requirements and offer solution proposals at the database and application level. Management of suppliers, integration and evaluation of proposals. Installation, set-up, migration and consulting of databases according to best practices. Implemented technologies: ORACLE, Mysql, SQL Server databases. Application servers weblogic, tomcat, glassfish, jboss and Apache Web Server. Project Leader in Database and Applications INFOTEC January 2012 to May 2013 Project Leader in Database and Applications   Supervision of database projects and web applications. Optimization of processes, using scripts to streamline daily operation. Research, creation, development and analysis of technological tools to meet the IT needs of different projects. Specialization Database and Applications INFOTEC February 2009 to February 2009 Installation, configuration and administration of database and applications. Monitoring Advisor INFOTEC December 2006 to February 2009 Handling of the HP Service Desk tool, to assist users in Service Desk. Attention and follow-up of incidents and requests. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Applications UNAM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/taniacastaneda/