SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - National Multiple Sclerosis Society Colorado Springs, CO I’m skilled at database administration and database development. I’m enthusiastic, and a fast learner. I’m process-oriented, careful, methodical, and thorough. I’m pleasant on that 3 AM outage call. I test my backups. I ask questions when I need to, and my research skills are top-notch. I say no when it’s needed. I’m an active part of the SQL Server community, and have given several talks on multiple topics at Users Group meetings and SQL Saturday events. Work Experience SQL Server DBA National Multiple Sclerosis Society March 2018 to Present • Assisted with planning migration to Salesforce's Nonprofit Success pack, including working with the primary integration vendor assisting with vendor selection for Enterprise Service Bus platform  • Developed Change Tracking-based solution to provide change set data to Salesforce integration  • Implemented Dell Boomi solution to incorporate integration of more complex constituent interactions  • Managed Data Warehouse SQL Server environment in an Azure Virtual Machine environment, including production, QA, and development instances in a high-availability configuration utilizing Always On Availability Groups  • Implemented performance monitoring improvements using Extended Events  • Participate in database release lifecycle, including managing deployments to QA and production environments as well as the scheduled refreshing of development and QA environments Senior Database Administrator PGi, Colorado Springs November 2016 to March 2018 • Began pilot program to migrate critical 24x7 systems to SQL Server 20014 from SQL Server 2008R2. Included planning SAN changes, heterogeneous cluster upgrades from Windows Server 2008R2 to Windows Server 2016, and determining optimal methods to move databases between legacy and new instances within time-constrained outage windows  • Conducted SAN consolidation operations on primary production and billing SQL Server instances, significantly reducing the number of LUNs required to conduct operations.  • Conducted comprehensive configuration review of all production database servers and provided recommendations and plans to bring noncompliant instances into line with best practices.  • Conducted review of Active Directory group membership and implemented plans to break up large groups in order to ensure appropriate user access to database resources.  • Built test Windows and SQL Server environment for Disaster Recovery environment utilizing SAN snapshot replication.  • Maintained production SQL Server environment, including managing maintenance operations, troubleshooting performance issues, and resolving production outages in a blended physical and Amazon Web Services Elastic Compute Cloud environment.  • Maintain and troubleshoot transactional replication to systems across the globe using Replication Monitor and T-SQL scripts.  • Support SQL Server failover clusters via Failover Cluster Manager, including installing cluster instances, rolling upgrades to cluster instances, and failing over SQL Server instances as needed to secondary cluster nodes.  • Implemented plan to ensure asynchronous Always On Availability Group failovers do not result in data loss. DBA National Multiple Sclerosis Society/Doyle Group March 2016 to November 2016 • Managed Data Warehouse SQL Server environment in an Azure Virtual Machine environment, including production, QA, and development instances  • Standardized multiple SQL Server instances to bring in line with accepted best practices for management, including backups  • Managed Always On Availability Group, including configuring backups and SQL Server Agent jobs to run on the appropriate replica  • Worked closely with application developer to implement best practices for application and database code deployments  • Worked closely with reporting developers to improve reporting data transfer process and strategies  • Assisted Data Warehouse team with evaluating an MDS implementation proposal from a technical and operational perspective  • Assisted team to determine state of implementation at close of Data Warehouse UI vendor engagement  • Provided guidance and assistance to colleagues regarding SQL Server best practices  • Provided guidance and assistance to colleagues with T-SQL coding questions SQL Server DBA XTIVIA July 2015 to March 2016 • Resolved data warehouse load performance issues for a large national retailer via implementing appropriate index maintenance strategies.  • Resolved and provided root-cause analysis of complex failure in a Change Data Capture configuration for a major retailer.  • Successfully recovered data from a corrupt 3 TB database for a major application hosting provider.  • Provided in-house training on Change Data Capture.  • Provide remote management and monitoring of diverse SQL Server environments for a wide range of clients ranging from large enterprises to small businesses.  • Configure and administer Analytics Platform Service Parallel Data Warehouse appliances  • Provide consulting and guidance for new SQL Server installations, upgrades, and ongoing maintenance according to best practices.  • Coordinate configuration, maintenance, and upgrades in hosted SQL Server environments with multiple hosting providers including Latisys, Hosting, and Rackspace.  • Conduct health checks on installed SQL Server instances to aid clients in optimizing their environments.  • Configure, troubleshoot and maintain a wide variety of data distribution infrastructures, including replication (transactional and snapshot), log shipping, and Always On Availability Groups.  • Install, configure, and support multiple SQL Server technologies including SQL Server Analysis Services, SQL Server Integration Services, and SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Provide support for production issues including performance issues, system outages, capacity issues, and database corruption. DBA and Database Developer PGi, Colorado Springs October 2011 to May 2015 • Resolved data warehouse load performance issues for a large national retailer via implementing appropriate index maintenance strategies.  • Resolved and provided root-cause analysis of complex failure in a Change Data Capture configuration for a major retailer.  • Successfully recovered data from a corrupt 3 TB database for a major application hosting provider.  • Provided in-house training on Change Data Capture.  • Provide remote management and monitoring of diverse SQL Server environments for a wide range of clients ranging from large enterprises to small businesses.  • Configure and administer Analytics Platform Service Parallel Data Warehouse appliances  • Provide consulting and guidance for new SQL Server installations, upgrades, and ongoing maintenance according to best practices.  • Coordinate configuration, maintenance, and upgrades in hosted SQL Server environments with multiple hosting providers including Latisys, Hosting, and Rackspace.  • Conduct health checks on installed SQL Server instances to aid clients in optimizing their environments.  • Configure, troubleshoot and maintain a wide variety of data distribution infrastructures, including replication (transactional and snapshot), log shipping, and Always On Availability Groups.  • Install, configure, and support multiple SQL Server technologies including SQL Server Analysis Services, SQL Server Integration Services, and SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Provide support for production issues including performance issues, system outages, capacity issues, and database corruption. Education Bachelor of Arts in Asian Studies in Asian Studies Colorado College 2002 to 2006 Skills database (7 years), integration (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (10+ years), Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information Skills  • SQL Server administration  • Windows Server administration, both physical and Azure Virtual Machine  • Database replication  • High-availability and disaster recovery planning and implementation including clustering  • Dell Boomi for Salesforce integration  • Business process development  • Compliance audits