NoSQL Database Analyst NoSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst NoSQL Database Analyst - Comcast Philadelphia, PA ? Almost 7 years of experience as Database Administrator including 4 years as Cassandra Administrator providing 24*7 production database support with Support to developers & end-users on call support & coordination with offshore teams  ? Extensive knowledge on database administration for Apache Cassandra, DSE Cassandra Couchbase, Scylla DB and ORACLE 11g/10g, with experience on large scale database environments.  ? In depth knowledge of Apache Cassandra, Datastax Enterprise Cassandra and ScyllaDB  ? In depth knowledge on Cassandra internals like Gossip communication, Peer-Peer architecture, Incremental Repairs, Replication & Compaction strategies.  ? Experience with installing, configuring and monitoring Apache Cassandra cluster & ScyllaDB  ? Experience in implementing multi-datacenter cluster.  ? Designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language (CQL).  ? Experience in creating column Family's, bootstrapping, decommissioning, removing, replacing, and repairing nodes.  ? Experience in creating keyspaces, tables and secondary indexes in Cassandra  ? Experience in setting up the required replication factors for keyspaces  ? Implemented Spark solution to generate reports from Cassandra data  ? Experience in generating user specific reports based on indexed columns using SPARK  ? Experience in fetching and loading data in Cassandra using Spark  ? Utilized Cassandra tools including sstableloader, sstable2json and json2sstable, COPY for application data loading and analysis  ? Experience in Performance tuning Apache Cassandra cluster to optimize writes and reads  ? Troubleshoot read/write latency and timeout issues in CASSANDRA  ? Experience in deploying Kafka environment using ansible playbooks  ? Creating topics in Kafka, producing and consuming data from topics.  ? Deployed Kafka-connect, schema-registry and kaka rest-proxy docker images using Ansible.  ? Hands on experience in Installing, Migrating, Upgrading and Maintaining different Oracle versions on UNIX, AIX, Linux, Sun Solaris and Windows Platforms.  ? Experienced in setting up/installation and configuration of 11g RAC/10g RAC  ? Hands on experience in Oracle 11g/10g databases with RAC cluster and ASM administration.  ? Implemented high availability of databases using Data Guard on RAC clusters and Golden Gate setup  ? Expertise in Active Data guard configuration, implementing and maintaining physical standby databases.  ? Experience in implementing and maintaining Golden Gate replications across multiple Oracle databases.  ? Experience in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL*PLUS and Grid Control.  ? Good experience in Oracle performance tuning, AWR and Database Security.  ? Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN catalog.  ? Expertise in development, testing and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategy Using RMAN, Data pump and Export/Import utilities. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience NoSQL Database Analyst Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Datastax Cassandra and Couchbase on Prod, Dev, Test, Stage and Integration environments.  • Implementing and maintaining a multi Datacenter DSE Cassandra and Couchbase Clusters.  • Creating required keyspaces for applications. Determining and setting up the required replication factors for keyspaces  • Upgraded the DSE Cassandra Database from 5.1.6 to 6.0.2, and patching the database from 6.0.2 to 6.0.4  • Configured SSL and JMX authentication to the DSE Cluster.  • Data Modeling DSE Cassandra schemas according to requirements  • Creating DSE Solr index on the non-primary key columns to meet the search requirements.  • Creating and Managing database users and granting/revoking required privileges to the users.  • Installed & configured OpsCenter to monitor Cassandra cluster.  • Checking the connectivity between Hadoop cluster & DSE Cassandra cluster using the dse byos jar with byos property file configuration.  • Tuning the compaction through put and streaming through put according the load/number of writes on the cluster.  • Involved in the process of bootstrapping, decommissioning, replacing, repairing and removing nodes.  • Manually compacting the tables to remove the tombstones by reducing the gc_grace_seconds.  • Writing shell Scripts for taking Snapshot backup of all the keyspaces and scheduling Cron jobs.  • Writing shell Scripts for repairing the DSE Cassandra Cluster and Scheduling a Cronjobs.  • Did a POC on dockerizing the DSE Cassandra Database.  • Created Ansible Playbooks for automating the DSE Cassandra Installation on Integration and Prod Cluster  • Deployed docker images of Couchbase with Ansible in Dev, Int and Prod environments, mounted the container volumes with the server filesystem to make the data persistent.  • Enabled the Cross Datacenter replication (XDCR) between he clusters.  • Creating the buckets and users for developers to access the buckets.  • Rebalancing the nodes and doing grace full failover or the monthly server patching.  • Managing the backup, restore and security of the database.  • Did a war game for Couchbase environment by bringing the primary datacentre down to check the application failover scenario.  • Creating SOP's for DSE Cassandra, Couchbase alerts/patching and handing them over to L2 team.  • Taking session to L2 regarding the DSE Cassandra and Couchbase platform and handover to them for operational purpose with proper SOP's for alerts  • Installed AppDynamics Machine agents on Cassandra & Couchbase environments to pull the metrics.  • Installed and configured nrpe agents on Cassandra servers to pull the jmx metrics using Nagios plugin for OP5 monitoring tool which is integrated with Evanios even management tool for L1 support.  • Created playbooks for deploying Confluent docker images of Kafka, schema-registry, Kafka-connect, zookeeper, rest-proxy.  • Installed Confluent Kafka docker images on Dev, Int, Stage & Prod environment using Ansible.  • Did a POC on Kafka-Connect, where data from Kafka topics are written to an oracle table using JDBC jars and worker configurations.  • Used rest-proxy for producing and consuming data from/to a topic.  • Created topics with replication and partitions as per the requirements  • Configured Kafka-connect and Kafka producer configs according the application/user requirements.  • Deployed Kafka-manager and burrow docker images for Kafka environment monitoring.  • Experience in producing json & Avro data to a topic using console producer & rest-proxy and consuming the data from the topic using consumer console and rest-proxy Database Analyst AT&T - Plano, TX November 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Installed and configured Apache Cassandra on Prod, Dev, Test, Stage and Performance environments.  ? Implementing and maintaining a multi Datacenter Cassandra, Scyall and Couchbase Clusters.  ? Creating required keyspaces for applications. Determining and setting up the required replication factors for keyspaces  ? Data Modeling Cassandra and Scylla schemas according to requirements  ? Configured authorization to Cassandra cluster using Password Authenticator  ? Working and helping developers in understanding the Architecture of Cassandra/Scylla, Datastax Drivers, limitations in Data Modeling and using CQLSH  ? Creating and Managing database users and granting/revoking required privileges to the users.  ? Installed and Configured DevCenter for developers.  ? Installed & configured OpsCenter and Grafana tools to monitor Cassandra cluster.  ? Involved in the process of bootstrapping, decommissioning, replacing, repairing and removing nodes.  ? Writing shell Scripts for taking Snapshot backup of all the Keyspaces and Scheduling Cron jobs.  ? Writing shell Scripts for repairing the Cassandra Cluster and Scheduling a Cronjob  ? Installed and configured ScyllaDB on Dev, Test, Stage, and Performance environments.  ? POC on Cassandra and Scylla Performance  ? Performed Cassandra Stress Dev and Test on Cassandra cluster and ScyllaDB cluster to benchmark the performances with minimal system requirements.  ? Created Ansible Playbooks for automating the Cassandra Installation on Test Cluster.  ? Installed and Configured Couchbase on Test AWS servers  ? Documenting the performance of the database and providing solutions to help in improving the same.  ? Overlooking the Cross datacenter replication (XDCR) operation of the Couchbase.  ? Working with the Web-based/REST API to access the Couchbase environment.  ? Managing the backup, restore and security of the database.  ? Fine tuning the N1QL queries to improve their performance in the play framework. Database Engineer Sprint - Overland Park, KS May 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Working with architects for designing the Cassandra Cluster Architecture and to gather requirements, capacity planning for multi data center Apache Cassandra cluster.  ? Installed and configured Apache Cassandra on Dev clusters from the scratch.  ? Implementing and maintaining a multi Datacenter Cluster.  ? Creating required keyspaces for applications. Determining and setting up the required replication factors for keyspaces  ? Migrated schemas from MySQL to Cassandra by designing new data model  ? Data Modeling Cassandra schemas according to requirements  ? Configured authorization to Cassandra cluster using Password Authenticator  ? Working and helping developers in understanding the Architecture of Cassandra, Datastax Drivers, limitations in Data Modeling and using CQLSH  ? Creating and Managing database users and granting/revoking required privileges to the users.  ? Installed and Configured DevCenter for developers  ? Installed & configured OpsCenter and Grafana tools to monitor Cassandra cluster.  ? Involved in the process of bootstrapping, decommissioning, replacing, repairing and removing nodes.  ? Set Cassandra backups using snapshot backups.  ? Implemented Spark solution to enable real time reports from Cassandra data  ? Generated user specific reports based on indexed columns using SPARK  ? Performance tuning a Cassandra cluster to optimize writes and reads  ? Written Shell Scripts for provisioning data/data flow into the Cassandra Column Family's  ? Troubleshooting the issues occurred in Cassandra Nodes  ? Worked with Infrastructure team to get the Cassandra image on OpenStack using ansible scripts and configuring the Cassandra.  ? Installed and configured ScyllaDB on Dev Clusters  ? Performed Cassandra Stress Test on Cassandra cluster and ScyllaDB cluster to benchmark the performances with minimal system requirements.  ? Performed 1M writes stress test on Cassandra Cluster using Cassandra stress tool.  ? Benchmarking the performances of Cassandra on different Disk Types (SSD's and HDD's) Oracle Database Administrator Invesco - IN July 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:    ? Installation, configuration and administration of Apache Cassandra Dev and Test clusters  ? Determining and setting up the required replication factors for keyspaces in Dev and Test clusters  ? Creating required tables with appropriate privileges to the users.  ? Developed and executed scripts for table and keyspace creations  ? Involved in the process of Cassandra data modelling and building efficient data structures  ? Involved in working on Cassandra database to analyze how the data get stored.  ? Involved in bootstrapping, removing, replacing, decommissioning the nodes  ? Involved in Cassandra Cluster environment administration that includes cluster capacity planning, performance tuning, cluster Monitoring and Troubleshooting  ? 24x7 Oracle Production Database Administration including Oracle 11g/10g RAC  ? Installation, Configuration and Upgrading of Oracle 11g/10g  ? Refresh/Cloning of Database for development and testing purpose.  ? Standby Database (Data Guard) setup and configuration.  ? Creating databases for Testing and Development servers.  ? Support for test and development environments.  ? Experienced in Tuning SQL statements using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF  ? Writing Shell Scripts for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  ? Implementing logical backup and recovery using export/ import utility.  ? Defining and Setting backup and recovery procedures.  ? Backup and Recovery using RMAN  ? Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  ? Involved in Tablespace Management, Schema management, User Creation and granting Users Access to Applications based on their roles. Oracle Database Administrator Invesco - IN May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Administration and troubleshooting 24*7 Production Database Server.  ? Responsible for administration and supporting Oracle 11g/10g databases.  ? Administration on Oracle 10g/11g Data Guard (Physical & Logical Standby DB)  ? Creating new database for Developers and users, roles related to the database.  ? Implemented Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans.  ? Backup and Recovery using RMAN.  ? Index rebuilding, granting roles and privileges, creating partitions and moving tables.  ? Troubleshooting Space Management issues.  ? Maintaining the database availability and security.  ? Maintaining TableSpaces (Adding or resizing Data files).  ? Expertise in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? Database performance/Statement tuning, Table sizing, and administration.  ? Sql Tuning and analyzing statements with Trace Analyzer and Explain plan.  ? Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  ? Creating indexes, views, sequences on daily basis in order to enhance the performance of the database. Oracle Consultant SoftPro Global Technologies - IN June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Installing & upgrading the Oracle Database server  ? Created and maintained a physical standby for Disaster Recovery (DATA GUARD)  ? Creating primary objects (users, tables, views, indexes)  ? Handled the Backup and Recovery using RMAN.  ? Recovery of Database from Media Failure  ? Taking the Cold and Hot backup of the database regularly  ? Tablespace creation and space management.  ? Recovering tables dropped accidentally using FLASHBACK  ? Recovering data files from Block Corruption.  ? Monitoring Alert logs to overcome the errors and warnings recorded  ? Performed Logical backup using and full, partial export/import and Data Pump.  ? Responsible for, database security, recovery planning and installing patches.  ? Maintained control files, log file, data files, tablespaces and rollback segments.  ? Worked closely with Senior DBA to understand the business and technical requirements.  ? Implemented and maintained database security creates and maintains users, roles and assign privileges.  ? Created Indexes and Monitored Performance  ? Database links were created to access the data from remote databases. Education Issued By in Place Andhra University Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, SQL, CASSANDRA