Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer - Orascom Telecom (Alfa) Success to me means completing a task and when looking back, thinking I couldn't  have done it better. I believe my strongest trait in my attention to detail, and I'm good at  keeping a team together and producing quality work in team environment.  I want to put my full potential into action to partake in the growth and success of the company  I work for. Work Experience Network Engineer Orascom Telecom (Alfa) March 2014 to Present I am currently responsible for implementing, maintaining, supporting, developing and designing  network projects related to the Mobile data and the corporate network. Following are the main  tasks of my current position:    • Developing test plans, implementation plans, and project timelines for various projects.  • Project Management of multiple big projects for up to 2 million data subscribers; managing  the technical scope, risk, constraints, schedule of the project.  • Designing and implementing new solutions and improve the resilience of the current  environment.  • Maximizing network performance by monitoring, troubleshooting network problems and outages, scheduling upgrades and collaborating with several internal entities and suppliers.  • Undertaking data network fault investigations in local and wide area environments, using  information from multiple sources.  • Securing network system by establishing and enforcing policies, and defining and monitoring access.  • Establishing networking environment by designing system configuration, directs system  installation, defines, documents, and enforces system standards  • Analyzing business requirements to develop technical network solutions and their  framework.  • Performing network modeling, analysis, and planning.  • Developing technology roadmaps.  • Writing functional requirements/specifications documents (RFP, RFQ )  • Responsible for the support and administration of firewall environments in line with IT  security policy.  • Responsible for the configuration of routing and switching equipment.  • Responsible for the configuration of existing and new intrusion prevention systems (IPS)  • Responsible for the capacity management and auditing of IP addressing and hosted devices  within data centers.  • Managed Cisco Switches (configure VLAN, trunk. port-security, Dhcp snooping, ARP  inspection, ..)  • Cisco wireless LAN controller (manage and configure and monitor corporate access points)  • Cisco ISE (add and configure it for network device to control AAA (authorization, authentication and accounting telemarketer and customer care (switch and router configuration) Apliman Technologies March 2012 to March 2014 System and Technical Support Engineer    • Configuration USSD, SDP, IVR systems (SS7/Sigtran/ISDN protocols)  • VAS and Telecommunications Services (CollectCall, voice sms, Credit Transfer, RBT )  • Implementation and service installation on client site  • Application development and optimization  • Managed Services  • Planning hardware and software upgrades  • Troubleshooting Services issues  • Performing Migrations ( Database migration, Servers Migrations, Protocol Migrations ) Customer Care Support Terranet Company June 2011 to August 2011 Database Administrator Internal Security Forces (Training) June 2010 to August 2010 • Oracle Projects Forms and Reports    • Oracle Database Administrator (Backup/Restore)- Database Replication• MDT 2010 to 2010 2010) with Microsoft using VB.net  scripts and C# windows form    • Development of "horst bet system" using Oracle Forms and Reports•    Internal Security Forces  • Development of "Finance System" using Oracle Forms and Reports    Apliman Technologies  • Development of Mobile Money System  • Travelling to Swaziland, working with MTN Swazi on a relocation 10 days  project to transfer Apliman servers from site 1 to site 2, E1s configuration and signaling  • Travelling to Kurdistan\Iraq and working with Asiacell Company as 40 days  a managed service, configuration Sigtran signaling and SIP connections  • Travelling to Guinea Conakry (MTN Conakry) for Sigtran upgrade project 10 days Education Master Degree in Computer and Communication Engineer in Computer and Communication Engineer Antonine University 2007 to 2012 Skills Cisco, Networking, VPN, LAN, security, F5, BGP, CCNP Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2008 to August 2012 Layer 2 Switching 2.0 December 2016 to Present Cisco Routing May 2018 to Present F5 LTM/WAF certification July 2016 to Present Aruba Clearpass April 2017 to Present Prime Infrastructure-Cisco April 2018 to Present