IT Analyst, Software Engineering Manager IT Analyst, Software Engineering Manager IT Analyst,Software Project Manager Cumberland Hill, RI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst, Software Engineering Manager Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Woonsocket, RI December 2016 to Present • Led a cross functional team of 20+ software engineers for the project Opioid Patient Safety-(an initiative to fight the opioid abuse) to deliver the high-quality code on time, leading to a profit of $1M against budget.  • Implemented agile management ideals by facilitating exercises such as sprint planning and team leading standups; managed project timelines, communicated with release managers and clients to ensure project progress satisfactorily.  • Designed the performance testing plan for GG replication and streams, reducing issues in production and improving database uptime from 99.97 to 99.99%.  • Led the module of gathering statistics for 140TB production database, reducing the elapsed time and CPU time of long-running queries and CPU utilization of OLTP systems by 2%.  • Spearheaded upgrade of DD Boost across 25+ database servers, reducing the RMAN backup and restore time from 36 hours to 24 hours. Systems Engineer, Lead Database Administrator Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Gurgaon, Haryana November 2014 to December 2016 • Led a team of 8 DBAs; analyzed the AWR, ASH, ADDM reports to reduce non-ideal wait times, suggested improvements in queries at an early stage in SDLC, saving ~500 hours of testing and defect fixes.  • Collaborated with database architects for capacity planning of database tables, indexes, and sequences.  • Analyzed bottlenecks and conducted performance testing of batches on more than 5M of data, suggesting required optimizations in the code.  • Assisted and collaborated with development and Dev Ops teams to deliver the defect fixes for 7 critical issues.  • Worked with Hadoop development teams to improve the throughput of the Maria DB Assistant System Engineer, PL SQL Developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Gurgaon, Haryana February 2013 to November 2014 • Developed packages and procedures for the Citi CMS application.  • Configured and upgraded Informatica from 9.3 to 9.6.1 on Performance Engineering environments. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science May 2008 to June 2012 Skills Computer Science, Software Development, Performance Improvement, SQL, Query Tuning, Database Management, Project Management, Teamwork, Oracle, C, Java Certifications/Licenses 1Z0-051: Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals 1 Certified Present