Web Developer & System Administrator Web Developer &amp; System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Quincy, MA Work Experience Web Developer & System Administrator Loss Mitigation Services, LLC - North Andover, MA January 2016 to April 2019 - Designing, building and maintaining a custom CRM to manage and track the company’s real estate properties.  - Independently adding and improving UX designs & features in the CRM for enhance usability and accessibility.  - Monitoring and updating SEO content & web security across multiple domains and WordPress sites.  - Creating and writing iMacros & CRON scripts for automatic database population & cleanup, auction notifications, and other misc tasks.  - Provide excellent IT support and troubleshooting for staff members.   - Setting up Windows servers, computers, remote accesses, printers, email & windows accounts.  - Researching hardware/software specifications & pricing, and, communicating with other IT companies/services.  - Coordinating and conducting system maintenance, web hosting & server migrations.  - Collecting and gathering leads from various real estate databases and websites. Filemaker Developer & Database Administrator New England School of English - Cambridge, MA January 2014 to April 2015 - Assess, develop and implement new custom features to improve the current FileMaker database system.  - Design new web page templates, maintain web security and update NESE websites and databases using PHP, JavaScript, MySQL, Flash, CSS, and Adobe Dreamweaver CS3.  - Supervise databases (FileMaker Pro, SQL), computer systems (Mac OS X and Mac OS X server), network (wireless, switches, routers), and, any other technical systems for students and staff.  - Troubleshoot problems with printers, network, mail services, web services, and perform routine data backup maintenance.  - Provide excellent customer service and technical support for staff and students.  - Create and manage user accounts and groups, and monitor system usage.  - Design and update application form, brochures, posters, banners, advertisements, and other marketing materials.  - Build relationships with translation / typesetting (for localization and internationalization) vendors.  - Design, update and distribute school e-newsletters and e-holiday cards.  - Coordinate and communicate with printing companies to ensure high quality marketing materials.  - Organize, update and file away all localized materials, and, typeset new translations into school website and any other marketing materials. Website Designer / Developer Ministries of aides international Inc. (MAII) - Chelsea, MA June 2012 to September 2012 - Design and implement templates, databases and applications interfaces with BootStrap for company website.  - Correcting existing sections to improve information processing efficiency, stronger web security and simplify for usability.  - Designs, coordinates, and implements all aspects of the site – user interface, relational database, PHP code, user-driven templates, databases and interfaces for employee ease of use.  - Develop external Web portals allowing users to input and retrieve accurate information.  - Maintain and enhance existing Web applications and ensuring all internal systems are integrated.  - Runs reports status, preliminary and final design reviews while creating and managing database sites. Vision Research Assistant Visual Attention Lab - Boston, MA September 2011 to May 2012 Description:  - Programming and debugging in Matlab & Python for vision study experiments.  - Recruiting and scheduling people to participate in the experiments.  - Calibrating the eye tracker settings and collecting data from the experiments.    Studies:  - Eye movements, reading, latent semantic analysis, transitional probability, semantic effects on scene viewing, estimating visual complexity, semantic transparency.  - Distortion of visual-perceptual space by post-saccadic error, space perception, local vs. global processing in mental rotation.  - Human-computer interaction, handheld interfaces, dyslexia, pupil size as indicator of cognitive load Education Bachelor's in Computer Sciece University of Massachusetts-Boston - Boston, MA September 2008 to May 2013 Skills PHP (6 years), MySQL (6 years), HTML (6 years), AngularJS (3 years), Javascript (5 years)