SQA Tester SQA Tester QA Manual+Automation Tester(8year) Apple Valley, MN • Experienced QA Module lead with over 8+ years in IT field, specializing in Automation using Selenium, HP ALM (QC), and Quality Assurance, Manual testing, and process management throughout key phases of SDLC.  • Results driven with notable success directing corporate IT QA initiatives while experiencing in QA/Testing, Product Release and Support, Requirements Analysis, Managing Test plan, Test strategy, Test cases, Test scenarios with Web application  • Strong experience in manual Testing likes Database testing, Functional testing, Regression testing, Integration testing, UI, Alpha & Beta testing etc  • 2+ years of experience in writing Automating Test Scripts using Selenium Web Driver (Xpath, Actions) and TestNG  • Strong in creation of Test Methods, Step Definition, Feature files and test classes for Selenium - Test NG.  • Domain knowledge includes Financial, Banking, Insurance, Advertisement  • Strong in the process of Software Development Life Cycles (SDLC)  • Proven expertise in HP ALM (Quality Center), Jira  • Good knowledge in Testing Life Cycle, Automation Process, Creation of Automation Frame Work.  • Good in web service testing using SOAP UI  • Extensive knowledge in working with Page Object Model Frame Work  • Experience in implementation of all phases of Software Testing Life Cycle: (STLC), Requirement Analysis, test planning, Test case development, test execution, Defect management, Reporting and closer  • Excellent experience writing SQL Scripts.  • Experience in QA Resource management, including requirement analysis & interviews process  • Ability to handle a team, Conducting Training sessions on Selenium, Good interpersonal skills, committed, and result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies.  • Experience in scrum and agile mythology  • Driving and lead planning experience in daily stand-ups, demos, and retrospectives for your teams.  • Local to Apple Valley, MN, 55124 and available immediately.    Technical Exposure:  • Testing Skills: Manual Testing, Database Testing, functional testing, Sanity Testing, ETL Testing, Web based testing, Selenium Web Driver Code using Java  • Operating System: WindowsXP. Mac OS  • Testing Tools: Selenium WebDrive, SOAP UI, TestNG  • Test Management tools: HP Quality Center (HP ALM), Jira, Assembla  • Languages: Java  • RDBMS: MS Sql Server.  • Business Domains: Advertisement, Finance, Banking, Insurance, Social Networking  • Testing Methodology: Agile, V&V  • Other Application Knowledge: SAP, Double click  • Automation Frame Work: Page Object Mod Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQA Tester Evermethod Inc - Minneapolis, MN 2018 to Present Currently working on client site: state of Mn Mnlars project Automation Engineer (Training) QSpider, CA August 2017 to January 2018 actiTIME  This is a web-based software that is focused on professional invoicing and collaborative working.  The main function of 1DayLater is to help users create Invoices for clients. It can also be used to build  Quotes and Estimates, to track time and other expenses, work to budgets, and to track projects.  Multiple users can simultaneously work on the same projects together. The software would let the client  time track, expenses and business miles in a single online location.    Roles:  • Involved in designing of Automation Framework using TestNG.  • Identifying Test Scenarios for writing Automation Test Scripts.  • Writing, Reviewing and Execution of Test cases and Test Scripts.  • Written Java Programming in WebDriver.  • Preparing Test summary report, Defect analysis report.  • Participated in regular project status meetings related to testing.  • Involved in preparing and executing test cases.  • Involved in review of test scripts written by peers.  • Detecting bug and tracking the defects.  • Performed smoke, functional, Ad hoc and regression testing.  Environment: Windows XP, SQL Server, Selenium webdriver2.53, Eclipse neon, Assembla QA Lead Module Happiest Minds Technology May 2013 to November 2016 Times Internet Limited -Expresso  Expresso is the new platform designed for times of India to maintain their complete lifecycle of online Ads business .It is the single platform for sales, Client Servicing and operational team to create and track their campaign on daily base. It helps commercial and finance team to maintain their client invoicing and settlements on the daily bases.  • Requirement gathering and documentation  • Release planning, Release management and project reporting  • QA team planning and reporting  • QA team and development team sync up  • Project support, Resource management.  • Involved in the preparation of POM framework design.  • Writing and executing Test scripts using Web Driver.  • Manual test case design/review and execution/ Defect management  • Experience with databases like MySQL  • Project demos, knowledge transfer and presentation  Environment: Windows XP, Java, SQL Server 2012, Selenium webdriver2.56, Eclipse neon, Assembla, Excel, SAP, Google Double Click QA Consultant AMK Technology March 2012 to January 2013 Vertica Database Administrator role AMK Technology - MY March 2012 to January 2013 Malaysia Mar 2012 - Jan 2013  HP Astro EDW  EDW gets data feed from Amdocs snapshot database in Oracle structure. The snapshot database contains 3 Amdocs sources: Billing (ABP), CRM and Order (OMS). Apart from these sources there are feeds are provided in flat file and CSVs on ad-hoc and schedule basis. Most of the EDW jobs have target as Vertica database table.  • Understanding the EDW system from HLD, LLD docs  • Vertica Database Administrator role  • Maintaining Vertica user and production server.  • Estimation and Test Plan design.  • Development and production data sync.  • Uploading and executing test cases.  • Defeat reporting and retesting  Environment: Windows XP, Java, Vertica, HP QC, Excel Sr.QA Associate Sapient June 2011 to March 2012 Associate QA L2 Sapient Corporation Pvt Ltd June 2011 to March 2012 Markit  ERD is the data source for Equity Reference Data in MIMS. MIMS holds copies of data from the ERD database. Changed or new reference data is pushed from ERD to MIMS at regular intervals. Markit BA requests for new reference data to be added through In Data. The request is an XML file referred to as "List of Interest". The ERD warehouse system picks up this file and processes the request by updating MIMS' copy of ERD, if required data is already available. If the data is unavailable, it sends an email notification to the ERD operations team, who then runs a stored procedure to manually add the required reference data to the ERD warehouse. This data is then replicated into MIMS' copy of reference data. ERD team also manages corporate actions data that it receives from external systems through a third party application called XSP.  • Understanding the ERD-MIMS system from the required docs and HLD, LLD docs.  • Manual execution of the flow of the ERD - MIMS system.  • Updating the enhancement by adding the scenario and test cases into QC.  • Uploading and executing test cases into/from QC for VM6 environment.  Environment: Windows XP, SQL Server 2008, QC, Excel, QA Associate Headstrong India Pvt. Ltd June 2010 to June 2011 Sr. Associate HeadStrong June 2010 to June 2011 eDelivery Enrollments & Notifications CientServ, 3D  eDelivery Enrollment project on Client-server and 3D will be enhanced to allow enrollment of new document types for eDelivery. The email address provided by the client to sign-up for an online username to Client-server will be used to deliver the electronic notifications for the supported document types. In addition to current eDeliverable document types, Tax Documents (all current 1099 Forms and 1099 Corrections), and General Correspondence will be supported.  • Release estimation and Planning  • Study requirement document, test plan, test case book etc.  • Conducted System Testing, Functional Testing, Sanity Testing and Regression Testing  • Test case writing and Test Case execution..  • Report bugs against the test cases and took bugs to closure after verifying.  • Report defect and Test result  • Knowledge transfer/help peers from onsite team in developing understanding of business requirements.  • Onsite calls handling.  Environment: Windows XP, Java, SQL Server 2005, QC Software Test Engineer Global Logic August 2008 to June 2010 Associate QA L2 Global Logic, India Pvt. Ltd August 2008 to June 2010 Mamasource  Mamasource is the free, local online Mother's community. Mamasource provides a safe and easy way for moms of all ages to connect with other moms in their local areas. Moms can find the advice, referrals, and insight they need in a supportive community of moms helping moms.  • Study requirement documents, test plan, test cases book.  • Conduct Functional Testing, System Testing, Sanity Testing, and Regression Testing  Report bugs against the test cases and take each bug to closure after verifying.  • Test case writing and Test Cases execution.  • Report defects and test results.  • Requirement traceability matrix designing.  • Knowledge Transfer/help peers from onsite team in developing understanding of business  • Update Test case book with actual results.  • Participated in periodic project status meetings.  • Educated/help peers from development team in verifying business requirements.  • Mamasource data warehouse ETL testing.  Environment: Windows XP, .Net, SQL Server 2005, SeleniumRC, Ruby on rails, Jira, Excel Education B Tech Electronics and Communicating Engineering 2004 to 2008 Skills Selenium, QA, Java