Data Manager (Full-Time 40hr-per week) Data Manager (Full-Time 40hr-per week) Data Manager (Full-Time 40hr-per week) - Radiance Technologies Dayton, OH Work Experience Data Manager (Full-Time 40hr-per week) Radiance Technologies February 2017 to Present Data management, as a Radiance Technologies employee has put me on a unique program team. The Data Innovations Team and I have been and still are the leaders in the fields of Research and Processes Development for a substantial $300M+ effort by NGA. The following are some of my roles and responsibilities as a member of the Data Innovations Team:    • Contract and proposal technical writing for contracts valued at $3M+.  • Documents new and developing work processes for the data innovation team.  • Develops custom tool within Python.  • Conducts tool debugging and a variety of other script augmentations.  • Produces new products based on the consumers RFIs and EEIs.  • Custom schema development for work projects, this ensures compliance with the (Oracle 12g) database.  • Concurrently provides quality assurance for more than 250,000 pieces of data daily.  • Works within an Oracle environment, providing QA/QC services of Structured Observation Management data.  • Jointly manages the organizational share drive and share point. The diligent management of these organizational drives has streamlined the production and analytic production workflows.  • Concurrently manages and maintains tens of thousands of multi-INT and data products with more than a million data points in support of multi-intelligence analysts.  • Works diligently to Information Security and data compliance for the SOM data base.  • Provides analytic data and data support to 71, GEOINT, and multi-INT analyst.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Received face to face accolades from the Director of NGA Mr. Robert, Carrillo for our outstanding work and "Being far ahead of NGAs current efforts". (2017)  • Given accolades from the commanding officer of the National Air and Space Center for our combined efforts giving us the title "The crown jewel" of the GSI Squadron. (2018)  • Praised as the team that distinguishes the Battle Space Characterization Cell by both the Deputy and the Commanding officer of the GSI Squadron. (2018) Senior Intelligence Analyst (Part-Time 16hr-per month) EUCOM JAC September 2016 to Present As a United States Army Reserves, I lead a team of 40 analysts alongside the production lead. As a detachment of the European Joint Analytic Center, we service a diverse requirement set from our parent unit located a Camp Molesworth, England. Below are some of my current responsibilities as the Senior Intelligence Analyst for DET 5, EUCOM JAC:    • Coordinates and schedules national and theater multi-INT collection assets to provide updated intelligence.  • Has an in-depth knowledge of HUMINT, SIGINT, IMINT, MASINT, OSINT, GEOIN, GMTI, and how to integrate and fuse these INTs to generate new Multi-INT products to satisfy customer needs.  • Plans collect, organizes, assesses and disseminates intelligence-related information and materiel from the EUCOM to meet the broad needs of the Unit Command.  • Exploits multi-source intelligence to draft, write, and produce a wide array of analytic reports and products such as (Link analysis, Association matrix, Geospatial maps, GMTI trackers, Biometric watch list, COAs, Risk matrix), at various classification levels.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Received the Analyst of the Quarter FY19 Q2 for support during Austere Challenge 2019.  • Receives constant accolades from Commanding General and senior staff of the Joint Analytic Center at Camp Molesworth and the Commanding General of the Military Intelligence Reserve Command for our continued analytic support. (2016-Present)  • Received Personal acknowledgment by the Senior Analyst at Camp Molesworth for two products I created for analytical support in September 2018. Senior Administrator, SOCCER Database Manager (Full-Time 40hr-per week) Sawdey Solution Services, Inc October 2016 to February 2017 Quantech Services    As a Senior Administrator within Quantech Services was a unique experience for me. I was a sub-contractor for a lager service provider Sawdey Solution Services, Inc. As a Senior Administrator, I was contracted to support the director of plans and programs for the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center. Below were some of my responsibilities as a Senior Administrator Analyst for AFLCMC/XP-OZ:    • Managed and maintained 100+ tasks daily with more than 10,000 data points in support of XP-OZ's SOCCER database.  • Preformed corrections, and overall quality control of the data within the organizational database.  • Was responsible for improving the existing AFLCMC/XP-OZ SOCCER process. Within the 50 days of employment, I developed and streamlined the organizational standard operating procedures.  • I increased the working efficacy by reducing outstanding work projects and tasks from 145% over to 14% inline. This was well below the director's expectation and created 87% in operational effectiveness.  • Worked with the data scientists and financial controllers to implement new analytic software like Tableau to expedite products and , thus creating an agile XP-OZ.  • Assisted with briefing slides and organizing meetings that related to a wide array of subjects like strategic resource management, manpower allocations, and budgeting.  • Regularly interacted with General Officers, SES Civilians, USAF Senior Leaders, and other key stakeholders within AFLCMC to accomplish programs, tasks, and other organizational requirements.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Recognized by Major General Davis, the Deputy Commander of AFLCMC and Lynn Evanston, the Director of AFLCMC XP-OZ exceptional job performance, and going above and beyond for the planning and execution of the annual XP-OZ event. (2017) Security Manager, Senior Intelligence Analyst (Full-Time 40hr-per week) 75th Fires Brigade April 2014 to September 2016 75th Fires BDE    As the Senior Intelligence Analyst for the 75th Fires Brigade, I served in many different roles. These roles were: Security Manager, Foreign Disclosure Officer, Anti Terrorism Officer, State Department Liaison, Property Book Manager valued at $70M, Physical Security Manager, Information Security Manager, Day cap Program, and several other duties.    • Planned, collected, organized, assessed, database and disseminated intelligence-related information and materiel from the PACOM and CENTCOM for subordinate commanders.  • Developed, managed, and supervised training requirements for 8,500 Soldiers and Civilians, ensuring combat readiness of all-source intelligence analysts in support of highly sensitive and classified operations.  • Created area-specific command read books with analytical assessments. I also provided updates to it weekly to reflect the current threat-temp, civil dispossessions, operational environment, and any other relevant reporting from the area like INTSUMs and GRINTSUMs.  • Perform physical security surveys and site visits. These visits were to ensure compliance with the standard set forth within the Units Standard Operation Procedure, Army Regulation's and the Department of Defense Directives  • Conducted site analyst to determine the appropriate levels of protection for installation sites, unit headquarters, and other facilities within the unit footprint.  • Previously responsible for security management aspects of $200M+ of unit property and 8,500 unit personal.  • Served as Intelligence and Training Program Manager for 8,500 Soldiers and Civilians for intelligence oversight, educational foundry training, Intelligence Alignment Readiness Programs between the Brigade, 6 Other Subordinate Units, and III Corps.  • Revised and disseminated regulatory guidance and policies from DOD, DA, IMCOM, and TRADOC to 24 subordinate Security Managers.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Recognized by Commanding General as Intelligence Support Soldier of the week for exceptional job performance  • Deployed and Redeployed a 20 Soldier Brigade intelligence section with zero degradation in supportability Senior Administrator, Operations Officer (Full-Time 40hr-per week) U.S. Army July 2013 to March 2014 3-1 Infantry Division    As the unit Operations Officer and Senior Administrator, I served as the focal point for all training, planning, budget aspects of the unit.    • Accurately gathered and complied personnel data for 150 Soldiers into Army database for administrative records keeping.  • Chaired long-range planning meetings, Soldier promotion meeting, and built long-range training schedules.  • Provided expertise in technical and administrative areas of record management and Data Quality Assurance (DQA).  • Expertly utilized digital management and data archiving software to publish current and future military operational plans.  • Adept in complex research, data management, and providing assessments on relevant multi-discipline intelligence sources.  • Served as a Senior Leadership, making recommendations throughout the entire Military Decision Making Processes for all current & future operations through allocating resources, budgets, and staffing processes.  • Established and provided instructional training for 150 military intelligence personnel.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Hand Selected by Commander, 1 of 53, to serve on Command Support Staff. Joint Collection Manager, Intelligence Analyst (Full-Time 40hr-per week) Infantry Battalion January 2010 to May 2013 As the Joint Collection Manager, I managed the task-force collection requirements for its area of responsibility. As an Intelligence Analyst, I served as the SME for analytical assessments for a specialized area of the units AOR.    • Was the primary Joint Collection Manager for Battalion; responsible for building ISR collection plans and tailoring them to meet the need of the consumer.  • Developed, planned, collected, organized, assessed, and disseminated multi-INT related information and products from the PACOM AOR and CENTCOM AOR to the unit command and provided my analytic assessment.  • Served as an Army targeting NCO in the joint USAF, USMC, USN and interagency targeting cell.  • Served as the sole intelligence liaison representative between Afghanistan military forces, Albanian Special Forces, Romanian Special Forces, United Kingdom Special Operations, CIA and other governmental organizations for intelligence sharing and joint collection efforts.  • Exploited multi-source intelligence to draft, write, and produce a wide array of analytic reports and products such as link analysis, association matrices, geospatial maps, GMTI trackers, and biometric watch lists at various classification levels.  • Ensured adherence of peers and subordinates to the Intelligence Cycle (four steps of IPB/plans, data collection, data exploitation, analysis/product development, intelligence dissemination) for all missions in theater.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Joint intelligence and targeting missions reduced 80% of all IEDs throughout Spin Boldak Province, Afghanistan.    SKILLS PROFILE SUMMARY  • Possesses a Valid TS-SCI Security Clearance (in-scope).  • Eight and half years of experience as a senior intelligence analyst, with joint operating expertise within the Combatant Commands of PACOM, CENTCOM, A EUCOM.  • Ten years of combined experience with large quantities of logistical, personal, geospatial, academic, and object-based data.  • Twelve years of combined experience as a project manager, personal manager, and in senior management for service-based, commercial based, military-based, and IT-based industries.  • Six and half years of combined planning experience within security-based, commercial-based, military based, and IT-based industries.  • Ability to manage extensive information sources and extract, investigate, analyze, and present information.  • Joint Service experience with USAF, USMC, USN, NATO, and bilateral partners.  • Exceptional communicator, presenter, critical thinker and collaborator - well known for exceeding the standard, fluency of ideas, reasoning, and persuasive, cooperative, consensus.  • Capable of leading and negotiating strict deadlines to meet expectations - high interest in building shared visions and guiding actions to achieve results. Education Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration Indiana University 2022 Masters of Strategic Management in Strategic Management Indiana University 2022 Masters of Information Systems in Information Systems Wright State University 2018 Bachelors of General Studies in Business & Management Columbia College 2016 Associates of General Studies in General Studies Columbia College 2015 Associates of Applied Sciences in Intelligence Operations Studies in Intelligence Operations Studies Cochise College 2015 Skills Data Management (8 years), Military (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Project Management (7 years), Leadership Development (8 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Personnel Management (8 years), New Product Development (5 years), SQL (6 years), Word (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Acrobat (10+ years), Technical Writing (5 years), Technical Support (3 years), General Management (10+ years), Python (3 years), XML (3 years), VBA (2 years), Public Speaking (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Staff Management (10+ years), Staff Development (10+ years), Change Management (8 years), Customer Service (4 years), Mentoring (10+ years), Consulting (5 years), Data Mining (10+ years), Data Entry (10+ years), Data Analysis (3 years), Database Management (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Dynamics Student Certificate May 2019 to Present