Data Analyst and Reporting - National Call Center Operations Data Analyst and Reporting - National Call Center Operations Data Analyst and Reporting - National Call Center Operations Tucson, AZ Data Analytics Specialist with over five years of experience in analytical reporting. Areas of expertise include: developing software programs to collect, store, retrieve and analyze business data and present reports to management for use in supporting operations and business objectives. Identifying areas and methods to improve business opportunities and growth. Detail-oriented with a strong work ethic. Able to maintain high standards for problem-solving, communication, interpersonal, and teamwork skills. Experience in: Work Experience Data Analyst and Reporting - National Call Center Operations AMERICAN RED CROSS 2013 to 2015 Designed and implemented standard reports. Presented results of the analytical data to higher levels of management to support three call center divisions operations. Managed and collected data from numerous sources in various formats and translated it into a standard format. Identified problematic areas and provided recommendation for action and improvement.    • Created effective tracking metrics, which helped provide insight for future campaign call lists strategies and identified business opportunities/problems.  • Developed and implemented data collection system and strategies that optimized statistical efficiency and data quality.  • Interpreted data and analyzed results using statistical techniques and provided on-going reports to support and improve all three call center operations efficiencies.  • Created charts to identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in complex data sets presenting information to production meeting personnel to assist with providing recommendations and actions for improvement.  • Set the quarterly production goals outlining realistic goals for all three call centers to work towards. System Database Administrator AMERICAN RED CROSS 2010 to 2013 Developed standards and guidelines for the acquisition and use of software designed to protect vulnerable information. Partnered with end users to define and develop new reports.    • Worked off hours to manage installation of upgraded / new database system and successfully converted data into upgraded system with no impact to business operations.  • Wrote SQL scripts to retrieve, update, and manipulate data in company database systems, significantly expediting retrieval times of sensitive critical data from a four-hour process to fifteen minutes.  • Managed and assigned staff schedules ensuring consistent coverage including sufficient overlaps in time to provide for an accurate turn over of information.  • Received Employee Pursuit of Excellence Award for managing the FDA regulated donor database information system, resulting in zero discrepancies for two years.  Managed, coordinated, and implemented security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  • Selected to participate in prestigious leadership development program and implemented project expanding blood drive into other territories, increasing new donor base 48%. Credit Card Fraud Prevention Specialist - National Call Center CITIGROUP - Tucson, AZ 2007 to 2010 Managed in-house and outsourced Fraud Prevention teams. Acted as a subject matter expert to other departments within the organization. Assisted with customer needs, complaints, and discrepancies. Guided the team to achieve productivity and quality goals and reduce credit card fraud losses.    • Generated reports and made recommendations to reduce credit card fraud losses.  • Maintained department Quality of Service and Service level goals.  • Researched inquiries for credit card fraud and payment disputes, took action to resolve any issue, ensuring customer satisfaction.  • Coached team members to improve proficiency and achieve quality score. Sales Representative EUROPAC SERVICE COMPANY - McGuire AFB, NJ 2005 to 2007 Maintained customer, store staff, and manager relationships and satisfaction. Developed marketing promotion materials, marketing strategies to promote the sales and managed inventory of merchandise.    • Effectively negotiated with the store manager to increase merchandise contributions, resulting in 35% increased sale.  • Conducted road shows promoting new products for the company while simultaneously increasing visibility of products to entice potential buyers. Education BS in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Tucson, AZ AA University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD Advanced Certificate in Data Entry Operator Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ Skills Analytical and Reporting (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/BettyZalenski Awards Certificate of Appreciation for volunteering as a teachers aid, U.S Department of Defense Schools Pacific Region 2003-06 Certificate of Appreciation for volunteering as a teachers aid, U.S Department of Defense Schools Pacific Region Military Spouse Certificate of Appreciation from The U.S.A.F for the commitment and numerous contributions that made positive impacts to the nation’s defense 2006-09 Military Spouse Certificate of Appreciation from The U.S.A.F for the commitment and numerous contributions that made positive impacts to the nation’s defense Staff Appreciation and Recognition Award for outstanding internal customer service, American Red Cross 2012-04 Staff Appreciation and Recognition Award for outstanding internal customer service, American Red Cross Additional Information Relational Databases Statistical Analysis and Methodology  Data Structures Project Management Skills  Data Management Developing Information Processing Solutions    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Expert with Microsoft Office, Excel, Access, Project, Word, Outlook, and Visio  Crystal Report XI, SQL, HTML, Unix, Mac OS, Windows, and Tableau.  In-depth knowledge of SAP Business Objects Web Intelligence Report Writer.