Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Fidelity Investments Over 5 years' of in-depth experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with experience on 24x7 production and mission critical database support, including Data Guard. I possess strong analytical and problem solving skills, self-motivated, results-driven, team player with excellent verbal and writing communication skills. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions involving database production support, installation and configuration, patch management, Database migration, backup and recovery, cloning, space management and security management. Database Upgrades and Performance Tuning. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC June 2014 to Present • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  • Installed 12c database  • Worked on Multitenant databases.  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to QA, UAT and Development databases.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and stand alone database  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics. Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Johnson Controls - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to June 2014 • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  • Installation of 2 node and 3 node RAC, Migrating of database to RAC database. Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  • Worked on converting bigfile to small file tablespace conversion for very large data (included 2T of data)  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Skills AIX (5 years), BACKUPS (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), DATABASES (5 years), LINUX (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues. Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Created indexes to facilitate easy user interface implementation and tuning.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production and IST environments.  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to IST, UAT and Development databases. Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Upgrade/Migration of oracle databases from 10g to 11g and 10gRAC to 11gRAC.  • Worked on Set up, configuration and maintained Oracle Data Guard/Active Data Guard to control Primary and Secondary databases and also to ensure disaster  • Good hands on experience with Microsoft SQL Server  recovery using various data protection modes.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import