Production Coordinator Production Coordinator Always willing to learn more! Otis Orchards, WA I am a passionate individual who is always looking to expand my knowledge in anything I do. I am a self-starter who is willing to take on any challenge. I continually seek to learn more about how the company I work for operates and develop and utilize my skills to support their goals. I am willing to do  whatever it takes to assist the team in accomplishing their objectives. I have a brilliant mind that allows me to put job puzzles together and almost always I can find solution(s). To be of service to others administratively or in general makes my job and myself feel full of gratitude. Lastly, I take stock of each  day and I do my best to do/be better than the day prior.    Due to the fact that some of my skills re-occur I have them listed below. I am going to have "key job duties" and "achievements" with each job position.    Skills Summary/Experiences  • 13 years office administrative experience   • 11 years working in the receptionist work  • 17 years customer service experience   • CRM Software. Data specific  • CRM Software. Sales side & Marketing  • 4 years Human Resources experience   • Click Dimensions Academy  • WPM 75   • Proactis software - (Purchase to Pay Software)  • Office supply ordering   • Plant production supply ordering  • Extensive knowledge with phone/multi-line capabilities  • SharePoint -setting up calendars  • User interface experience for phones. I can fix many hiccups that arise   • Microsoft O365 & Microsoft 10, 8,& 7 - knowledge of all programs   • AX accounting software  • Solomon accounting software experience  • Ability to make executive decisions   • Command Alkon software  • Problem solver and very quick study   • Concrete Vision software  • Great multi-tasker   • Auto Cad software  • Good filing and organizational abilities   • Collections experience  • Experience with inputting / coding invoices   • Events planner/organizer  • Design experience - flyers, business cards, etc...  • Works well independently and with others   • Viewpoint accounting software  • Ability to operate and trouble shoot any   • Bid2Win planning software  • Familiar with industrial multi-function copiers and fax machines  • Kronos - payroll software  • Concur Travel software - High level of experience & regional travel coordinator  • Sage - Accounting software  • Fantastic at making directions for job duties aka "how to do's" Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Coordinator Fiber-Tech Industries March 2017 to January 2019 Key Job Duties:  • Answer the incoming phone lines and took messages if callers didn't want to leave a voicemail  • Sort incoming mail and deliver. The same with and packages that arrived  • Greet visitors & made sure they had proper safety PPE  • Keep the office supplies stocked  • Keep the plant supplies stocked  • Using FedEx for non LTL shipments  • Receive in all purchase orders for the Spokane office using the Sage software  • Cut purchase orders using the Sage software  • Only worker who was crossed trained. I was the logistics backup, inside sales and back up to our  Saw Bay Manager (his job was the hardest but I learned some awesome stuff!)  • HR contact for the Spokane Plant  o Onboard new hires  o Added easy to understand forms in their new hire paperwork  • Updated the Spokane plant's hourly employee handbook. It was extremely outdated and had  verbiage that didn't apply to our plant  • Payroll contact for the Spokane Plant  o Organized checks per department and email the managers when they were ready  o Cut a manual check if there was an error  • Balance petty cash and balance bank account. Sage software is included in these duties  • Expense reports  • Weekly and monthly inventories of raw materials  • Enter the WIP, (work in progress) during month end  • Kept each temp worker ticket and reconcile each invoice when they arrived. 5 temp agencies total  o Work with plant managers to obtain missing tickets and verify hours worked  • Enter monthly reclaim of product and work with the manufacturing engineer if a result wasn't  accurate  • Member of the Safety Committee and also the secretary for that committee  • Maintain OSHA 301 log for incidents or injuries  • Worked with L&I for claims  • I handled all communications with the Washington State Unemployment Department  o Verifying unemployment claims  o Logged the quarterly report  o Working with the benefit charges team if we were being falsly charged  Job Achievements:  • I was able to get a discount contract from 2% to 40%. Due to the NDA I signed I cannot say who this  was with. But it sure made the CEO happy!    • Consolidated vendors. We were buying 10 high price items from different manufacturers. With some  research, asking the vendors general questions and looking at the past documents. I put out a RFP  for each item and how we ordered them & my expectation in regards to their quality. It took about almost 2 months but the outcome was beyond my expectations. I went with 1 vendor for all of these  10 products.10% immediate discount on all products and 10-25% on certain items. Fiber-Tech is  their top priority & prior to this the account representative had already shown me that. Not only was  this a procurement win but it is a huge time saver. This gave me 1 hour a week of time to use on something else.    • Being on the safety committee and also I was asked to be the secretary and to organize all past committees notes    • Started the process for digitizing our MSDS sheets for the office. 3 categories done since my  departure    • The companies Unemployment insurance rating was a 4 when I got hired and I got it down to a 3.  Considering the industry and how many plant employees come and go that was a big win. I got it  lowered by jumping into the unemployment portal for Fiber-Tech and rectifying past claims and continuing to keep my eye whenever I received communication and following through    • I was able to turn the perspective regarding what Fiber-Tech actually does for the plant employees. I  had a 401K meeting that was successful. I made it known that my office was open & I would answer  any question they had and I also gave them all a copy of the new handbook and I made a game out of it because money motivates many people. The attiude of the company doesn't offer good benefits,  etc turned to the company offers a lot and yes they are on our sides. It's very common for plant  workers to gossip about what they think they know and also they usually have a bad taste in their  mouth. I am very proud of this because the guys knew I was different because I didn't talk down to them, they were my equal Marketing Database Specialist Cerium Networks June 2016 to February 2017 This job was an internal promotion    Key Job Duties:  • Main person of managing Cerium Networks data. Analyzing what we have, what we do not and then  verifying it  • Work directly with Marketing Manager on daily and weekly goals  • Manage the data for all our calling campaigns  o Ensuring no duplication in the data  o Arranging sales executives with inside sales representatives    • Manage leads, assign them & keep up on their progress within the CRM software  • Collaborate future campaign ideas  • Solely responsible for Cerium's "Lead the Way" program. This is an internal way for employees to possible earn business.  o Keep weekly submissions  o Pick weekly winners  o Update SharePoint with winners / repeat each month  Job Achievements:  • Completed, Click Dimensions Academy. This was to enhance my knowledge with the CRM Software  • Being a member of the Social Committee  • Helping to plan Cerium's annual, "All Associates" 2 day meeting Administrative Support Specialist Cerium Networks July 2015 to June 2016 Key Job Duties:  • Main person for answering & routing all incoming phone calls & sort daily mail  • Clean kitchen keep coffee/tea supplies stocked  • Order office supplies and keep in stock  • Receive in invoices from vendors using Solomon Software  • Reconcile and voucher (ok to pay) vendors using Solomon Software  • Reconcile travel purchase card  • File Accounts Payable "inbound" invoices  • File Accounts Payable "paid" invoices  • Prepared bi monthly check run  • Reconcile Travel expenses on a monthly basis  • Create excel spreadsheet for all expenses then enter into Solomon software  • Reconcile FedEx and UPS bills on a weekly and bi-weekly basis and enter into Solomon software  • Reconcile monthly cell phone bill and enter in data into Solomon  • Created, instruction booklet for basic Solomon use on the Accounts Payable side  • Receive in daily packages  o Notify Project Management Team of contents and label and put away in our receiving room  o Monthly reminders to Project Managers of boxes still in receiving room  • Concur support: help with reports and building templates for frequent travelers.  • Concur travel: book travel for fellow co-workers. Work with travel vendors is pricing isn't correct    Job Achievements:  • Gutted the supply cabinet and cleaned and re-organized it from the ground up  • Enhanced the companies local courier service. Making them aware of our product and how it should  be shipped and put on a truck properly. When I started many items arrived broken and I couldn't  accept that. It would delay projects and now it is rare if equipment comes in damaged  • I would stay late and help the IT dept. if we had a large meeting the following day  • I was able to get a particular chain of hotel to lower their rates in every city that Cerium traveled to.  This took 4 months. I had to run reports that the Concur Software provides and I gathered my data and provided the numbers per city and also stated how many night stays were in each city and how  many of those were at a different location. The percentages varied per city but 15% was the base  negotiation and any cancellation fee was waivered. This turned into a really nice business  relationship Administrative Assistant Oldcastle Precast March 2009 to February 2015 Key Job Duties:  • Main person for answering & routing all incoming phone calls  • Phone administrator for entire site - teach end users, keep up documentation, work with vendor  directly and IT department directly  • Sort and distribute incoming mail/send out daily mail  • Back up HR representative. I could answer all questions for our guys from benefits, company  policies, 401K and relay complaints/issues to our HR Manager  • Created HR packets for new hires and maintained proper on-hand quantities  • Help Precast yard workers with computer programs: online pay-stubs and enrollment for benefits  • Kept current vacation reports for yard workers for vacation requests  • Primary person to setup new jobs using Concrete Vision Software  • Setting up jobs within AX Software  • Download and print erection and piece drawings within Auto Cad  • Distribute released jobs to production  • Update master customer database within Concrete Vision  • Setup parts and job specials using AX system  • Key production time and raw materials using AX system  • Key Concrete Vision payroll and upload into our master database for Certified Payroll Reports  • Point person for merging Prestress website into Oldcastle Precast's website system  • Work with vendors to get our correct company information to them (accounts payable)  • Setting up new vendors for managers and following up accordingly  • Marketing and design work for sales department  • Point person for all promotional events and employee discount programs  • Travel Coordinator - book travel within company guidelines and make sure hotel rates were  negotiated correctly.  • Staff Calendar Administrator. I created our office plants', "staff calendar" within SharePoint and MS  Outlook and taught the entire plant how to use it and it's the current calendar that is very efficient.    Job Achievements:  • Created simple instructions for the foreman whom had no experience with computers. This started  the change of production workers and office staff  • Negotiated phenomenal rates for 3 iconic local hotels in Spokane, WA. The request came from the VP of all of Oldcastle Precast. Apparently someone on his team couldn't get it done. I already knew  rd  2 properties well and the 3 was in construction, plus I know the developer. This was very tricky as Oldcastle Precast Spokane Plant gets 1 outside visitor a month. What I did was called Oldcastle  Materials - which is right in front of Precast. I asked the head of their procurement if he would allow  Precast to piggy back on their numbers and he said, "I've trained you well and you have my  permission". Both sister companies gained from it. (This is one incident where my problem solving  skills were utilized), Office Administrator Central Pre-Mix March 2009 to January 2015 Key Job Duties:  • Sort and distribute incoming mail  • Primary receptionist back up  • Maintain all 5 conference rooms including housekeeping of each  • Run daily reports for East Region sales teams using Command (CSO8) system  • Prepare year-end production reports for the Inland Asphalt OPS Team  • Prepare and distribute warranty letters as needed  • Prepare monthly expense reports  • Create warranty letters  • Run driver reports for management  • Design flyers for company and community related events  • Responsible for designing all division wide company envelopes and letterheads in accordance to company standards  • Design new headers within Bid2Win software for division wide companies  • Create and update safety documentation within the division and distribute to all Safety Teams  • Contributing writer for the NW Chatter - local company newsletter  • Spokane Safety Committee member  • Designing apparel for company and for community events  • Run credit references using Viewpoint System  • Updated customer account information (Viewpoint)    Job Achievements: The next two job duties for me are achievements. I was able to add up  to 80 hours of work that the company didn't have to sub out & pay for. I was the sole person  whom did these two job commitments.    Oldcastle Auctions Website Administrator  • Manage all equipment inventory/information  • Place equipment on auction website with correct information and photos  • Double checked all equipment inventory within Viewpoint - made corrections if needed  • Create division wide inventory list of all equipment going to auction via Excel  • Work extensively with all equipment managers and Yellow Iron Auctioneers  • Develop marketing materials and flyers for upcoming auctions and distribute them to our  customer base  • Managed the auction email and routed the emails to one of the Equipment Managers or to our  designated auctioneer represented.    Oldcastle Materials Travel Coordinator  • Make travel arrangements using the Concur software  • Setting up and training new travel assistants  • Fix travel itineraries for travelers - first point of contact if issues arise  • Review quarterly reports and distribute accordingly  • Participate on quarterly WebEx calls  • Review of monthly unused ticket reports and dispense accordingly  • Negotiating of hotel rates for the Northwest Division Education High school or equivalent in General Education East Valley High School - Spokane Valley, WA September 1999 to June 2003 Skills Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Microsoft Publisher (10+ years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Microsoft OneNote (4 years), Microsoft Outlook (10+ years), Microsoft O365 (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Inventory Management (6 years)