QA Tester /UAT Analyst QA Tester /UAT Analyst QA Tester /UAT Analyst - Verizon Wireless, California Irvine, CA • Around 7 years of experience in Information Technology with emphasis on Quality Assurance Testingon both web-based, Client/Server, Mobile and Windows applications  • Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and the role of QA in different testing methodologies like Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall model  • Analyzed business requirements, software requirement specifications to create test plan and derived functional test cases for manual and automated testing  • Proficient experience includes working with business partners and interacting with the IT team both at the client's location (onsite) and at the offshore location and leading QA team of four members  • Excellent work experience in different kinds of tests such as Functional, Integration, GUI, Regression, System, Compatibility, UAT, Security, Stress, Black Box Testing etc.  • Experience in Testing Mobile Devices (Responsive web and App) for IOS (iPhone, iPad) and Android (Samsung) devices in different view ports  • Hands-on experience in developing Test Strategy, Test Plan, Test Reports, Test Cases and Test Scripts to verify application functionality against business requirements for manual and automated testing by using Mercury TestingTools (HPALM Quality Center, QTP, Load Runner)  • Possess in-depth knowledge in System Integration Testing, Production Test, Database Testing, Test case creation, Test case execution, Test data Preparation, Defect management and preparation of all related test deliverables  • Good knowledge in Java, SQL Queries, Joins, HTML  • Possess sound knowledge on version control, defect management and Test management tools like Git, Subversion, HP Quality Center, JIRA etc.  • Good experience in creating test scripts using WebDriver, Selenium RC, Selenium-IDE, Selenium Grid in Java.  • Possess working Knowledge on Web Services Testingusing SOAPUI Tool and RESTful services  • Sound knowledge of test management tool like HP Application Lifecycle Management Quality Center, Rational Clear Quest tools and Jira  • Exposure to Point of Sale(POS) applications  • Responsible for checking Cross-Browser Compatibility of different elements and tags, hence worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QA Tester /UAT Analyst Verizon Wireless, California October 2015 to Present Verizon wireless is an American telecommunication company a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services. Verizon is one of the largest telecommunications company with over 146 million subscribers in the United States. Verizon provides 4G LTE network for 98 percent of the US population.    Project:The scope of project is to provide Services using manual and automation testing for Verizon applications (eCommerce.com, My Verizon Online, My Verizon Mobile, Mobile First App on mobile & tablet (iOS/Android), OPAL. My Verizon is in process of transforming the entire My Verizon application from existing platform to OMNI platform including some part of the applications in ATG, Endeca and Adobe CQ. My Verizon is the application that allows customers to manage their profiles, calling plans, billing and payments.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a UAT Tester and responsible for analyzing and understanding the requirements.  • Responsible for testing of enterprise applications for all scheduled enterprise releases as UAT and in production.  • UAT Lead for the team of 3 Offshore  • Understanding the system requirement of the various departments and provide end-to-end system solution.  • Identifying the Test Conditions and Creating the Test Design and Test Data  • To create Test cases for the functional requirements and perform execution and capturing results in HP Quality Center.  • Monitoring the Testing and Test Environment (often using tools)  • Identifying and logging defects, reporting and tracking the defects until resolution using HP Quality Center/ALM and Jira tools.  • Analyzing the new business requirements, providing the solution and configuring or implementing.  • Implementing new changes by working with realization team  • Providing directions to the real system users by providing application training  • Performing analysis of business requirements and functionalrequirements and providing findings to minimize the requirement gaps  • Performingrequirement reviews with business and helping them to identify the gaps earlier in the cycle  • Performing root cause analysis on issues found post testing  • Attending daily defect triage meetings to prioritize and track the defects that needs to be addressed, ensuring timely and accurate resolution  • Playing responsible UAT lead role for various Enterprise, Maintenance and EmergencyReleases and supported numerous releases  • Analyzed the Regression test cases and automated them using selenium tool for frequent/daily execution.  • Worked with Development and Environment team for triaging the defects.    Environment: HP ALM, Jira, User Acceptance Testing, Quality Center, Windows 2000,Windows, MAC, Linux, Tablets (Android and IOS),Selenium, Mobiles (Android and IOS), Browsers(All browsers tested). QA Analyst Threat Track Security, Florida February 2015 to September 2015 Threat Track Security specializes in helping organizations identify and eliminate Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs), targeted attacks and other sophisticated malware that are designed to evade the traditional cyber defenses deployed by enterprises and government agencies worldwide.Big Data infrastructureis the back-end project, a full lifecycle of Anti-Virus Lab from collecting, processing, storing, analyzing data andmake definitions to support the company products.    Project:The goal of this project was to replace existing individual components of legacy systems that are restricted and distributed across multiple technology and locations. The Hadoop ecosystem and HBase technology were put in place to build an Infrastructure that serve as a single system to collect data from various sources, process the data and store all the data at one place instead of multiple databases.    Responsibilities:  • Written the Test plan, Test Cases, Test Scripts and Test Steps for all the modules.  • Prepared Test Data and performed Positive and Negativetesting.  • Tested the content retrieved on various windows against the database tables to make sure that the process retrieved all the data it is supposed to.  • Automate wherever possible and practical, from regression test scripts to deployment processes.  • Used java with TestNg frame work for automating scripts.  • Requirements Traceability Matrix developed to align the Test Cases to Requirements  • Used SVN Repository for version controlling.  • Interacted with developers to resolve application defects.  • Used Rational Test Manager for managing and updating the various test documents.  • Checked Front-end validations and Front-end creation (images, Forms & pages).  • Written SQL statements manually to validate data from Database using SQL*PLUS  • Performed the backend testing by using SQL Queries and verified the data integrity.  • Involved in setting up and configuring the test environment with Eclipse, Selenium WebDriver and Selenium Java Client Driver.  • Review and update Regression Test cases for impacted features.  • Prioritize test cases execution based on requirements priority and complexity.  • Prioritized defects based on overall application functionality.  • Estimate test timelines for each test case and provided to Test Lead and Project Manager.  • Engaged with the Dev and Project team and informed QA dependencies and QA deliverables.  • Performed GUI, Ad-hoc, Functional, Integration, compatibility, User Acceptance testing.  • Worked in Production release night testing and 2 weeks Production warranty in both lower environment and Production.  • Performed Integration and Regression testing to check compatibility of new functionality with the existing functionalities of the application using Selenium.  • Worked on Mobile devicesbrowsers testing  • Regression Testing performed at various phases of development life cycle for impacted existing functionality.  • SQL queries developed for data validations for data insert, update and delete.  • Developed queries for data retrieval using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Analyzed Test results with the expected results, and behavior of the system.  • Quality Center used for Test Case Management, Test execution status, and Defects Management.  • Attend Daily Status meetings and reported the test status and plan for the day.  • Attend Defects Scrub meeting, go over open defects and disposition as per the business decision.  • Developed and executed SQL queries for testing database integrity and for data analysis.  • Generate weekly Status Reports for Defects and Test Case status, and send to project team.  • Engage with Deployment, and provide QA Test activities dependencies and test timelines.  • Release validation testing performed in production environment.  Environment: Windows 2000, SQL, Oracle, Black box testing & User Acceptance testing, JAVA, Selenium, Linux. Web Assistant and Database Administrator Central Michigan University-MI August 2013 to December 2014 As a public institution, CMU's Purchasing Department conducts business in an open and competitive fashion in accordance with regulations established by CMU's Board of Trustees.    • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding, and Testing and maintenance phase of modules of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Administered the Database and involved in creating and maintaining SQL server databases.  • Written Stored Procedures Triggers in SQL Server Databases.  • Worked with Dataset and Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to access and update database.  • Designed and developed Web pages using C# programming, VB.Net, ASP.Net 3.0 framework, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and SQL as backend database.  • Designed Web Pages using existing CSS for design and created new custom built CSS for the application to meet the design standards.  • Developed XML Web Services to communication with SQL Server 2008  • Used validation control to perform client side and server side validations.  • Used AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Used WPF in creating different animated scenes using the combination of transforms, animation controls (storyboard, double animation) and color effects.  • Used XML technologies for producing news information  • Coded new System that involves Test-Driven Development (TDD).  Environment:C# ,VB.Net, .Net 3.5,4 Framework, ASP.Net , Visual Studio2008/2010, XML, Ajax, ADO.Net, HTML, JavaScript, WPF, Web Services, SQL Reporting services, MS SQL Server 2008. QA Test Engineer Techsperts Software Solutions - IN June 2012 to July 2013 Techsperts Software Solutions is a global Information Technology (IT) Services and Solutions company. We provide cutting-edge IT Solutions for Enterprises to effectively utilize the available resources and efficiently manage the operations.    Responsibilities:  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  • Responsible for Acceptance testing, Functional testing, Integration testing, System testing and Regression testing for each cycle of release.  • Experience of managing multiple stakeholders across the organization, and in QA integration of systems.  • Worked with SQL queries for data manipulations.  • Experience in Manual, Automated and Back-End Testing. Using Test Director/Quality Center.  • Tested applications which consume Web Services and analyzed Input and Output messages.  • Involved in testing Web services (SOAP and REST) and XML with tool called 'SOAP UI' for the local WSDL / with URL and created Test cases, run them, do load testing, security testing.    Environment:Quality Center, QTP, MS Visio, RUP, MS Project, MS SQL, MSAccess, MS Excel and MS Word. Skills MS ACCESS, MYSQL, SQL, SQL QUERIES, QTP Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Testing Tools HP ALM Quality Center, Selenium Web Driver, Eclipse, Mercury (HP) Load Runner, Test Director, Quick Test Pro (QTP), Jira.  Testing Techniques  Smoke (Sanity), User Interface (GUI), System, Functional, Integration, Regression, End to End (E2E), User Acceptance (UAT), Performance, Exploratory (Ad-hoc),Initial Verification Of Production (IVP)    Configuration Management Tools IBM Rational Clear Case, Subversion, Git  Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX  Databases MySQL, MS Access  Project Methodologies Microsoft Project, SDLC, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile  Languages Java, SQL Queries, Joins, HTML,VB Script  UML tools Rational Rose, MS VISIO