Salesforce Developer/ Admin Salesforce Developer/ Admin Certified Salesforce Professional Cincinnati, OH • Over 8 plus years of experience in IT industry including more than 3 years of experience in Salesforce CRM platform.  • Experience in Development, Administration, Configuration, Implementation and Support of Salesforce CRM based on Apex language and leveraging Force.com Platform.  • Experience in Integrating App Exchange Applications with Salesforce, Mass E-Mail Management, Application management using Force.com Plug-in and Eclipse IDE in Sandbox and Production Environments.  • Experienced in Salesforce Lightning Components, Configuration of third party apps and deployment.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard Data structures and familiarity with designing Custom Objects and Force.com platform and Force.com Sites.  • Experience in understanding business requirement to design the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships and junction objects.  • Developed Apex classes using other platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Experience in use of Standard and Custom controllers of Visualforce in development of custom salesforce pages as required by business requirements.  • Proficient knowledge of Governor limits. Experience in optimization of existing code in accordance to the governor limits.  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDFC), System Analysis, Design, Development and Testing Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Analysis (OOA), based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture.  • Experience in creating various Reports (tabular reports, summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphs) and Report Folders.  • Experience in using Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects.  • Experience in using declarative features like validation rules, workflows, approval process, dynamic approval process, sharing rules automation for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization, also created various profiles and configured the permission based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Develops, maintains and implements a comprehensive Cardiology Catherization Lab database compliant with the requirements of the American College of Cardiology – National Cardiovascular Data Registry (ACC-NCDR).  • Experience in conducting analysis of data and preparing analytic reports pertaining to clinical data registries.  • Formats, complies and reports on Analytic manager software and NEXTGEN and other data sources related to cardiovascular disease and Chest Pain Center.  • A team player with strong work ethic, a positive attitude and ability to make the best use of individual resources. Committed to excellence, and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving, analytical skills and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/ Admin Mt. Sinai Health System - Chicago, IL March 2016 to June 2019 Located on Chicago’s West and Southwest Side, Sinai Health System is a community Health System whose focus is to improve the health of the 1.5 million people who live in our diverse service area. With the passion of dedicated caregivers, Sinai Health System is committed to building stronger, healthier communities.    The Health System was using third party vendor Company LUMEDX, Excel spreadsheets, and other proprietary systems to manage extensive patient data for the benchmarking of their clinical registries. With several systems such as MEDITECH, NEXTGEN, PACS, WITT, EPOC coordinating patient’s data it was being difficult to have an efficient management. The Cardiology department and Chest Pain Center decided to utilize Salesforce CRM platform to maintain the comprehensive database for management of extensive clinical data. The team was involved in configuration, development and deploying new apps for several departments.     Responsibilities:  ·        Developed SFDC application setup and customization to match the data management needs of clinical registries of the hospital (CATH PCI, ACTION and ICD Registry).  ·        Worked as Salesforce admin support governing user account creation, personal information setup, password reset, Roles & Profile creation, user group creation, updating company profile, Network access setup.  ·        Involved in setting up field level access for each custom object created based on the user’s role within the organization.   ·        Developed various Custom objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components   ·        Involved in configuration and testing of new apps in Salesforce Lightning environment.  ·        Involved in deployment of the application in Salesforce Lightning including Einstein Wave Analytics  ·        Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleaning activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand.  ·        Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  ·        Involved in field & page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, Contact, and Leads.  ·        Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  ·        Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.   ·        Involved in security levels and privileges by customizing Salesforce.com Profiles and Roles.  ·        Involved in customizing custom objects, tabs, fields, page layout as per the business need.  ·        Integrated Email with Salesforce.com for mass E-mail management and designed various custom E-mail templates.   ·        Maintained user roles, security, profiles, and workflow rules wherever necessary.    Environment: Force.com, Apex, Data Loader, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Triggers, Custom objects, Layout, SOQL (Salesforce Object Query Language). Salesforce Admin/ Clinical Integration Intern Mt. Sinai Health System - Chicago, IL January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities  ·        Preparation of design documents of various certain applications based on gathered clinical data requirement.  ·        Involved in coding for modules of all the Sub-Application of the CRM application which involves extending existing SFDC standard components using Apex, Visual Force and other utilities.   ·        Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  ·        Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the website.  ·        Created different Workflow rules and Approvals for various campaign processes.  ·        Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  ·        Data migration from Lumedx database to salesforce using Data loader CLI.  ·        Used Data loader for data migrations to sales force.  ·        Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  ·        Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  ·        Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the Health System.   ·        Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.   ·        Extensively involved in Unit Testing using Test Methods using Force.Com utilities.  ·        Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users  ·        Developed custom applications for Clinical Data Management involving Registries.  ·        Data migration from external systems such as LUMEDX to salesforce using Data Loader.  ·        Created different Workflow rules and Approvals for various patient processes.  ·        Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  ·        Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  ·        Extensively worked on customizing Geo Point App to the organization needs.  ·        Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  ·        Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.   ·        Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.   ·        Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users  ·        Knowledge on creating Visualforce Dashboards, sharing rules.  ·        Used change sets for deployment.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Approval process. Database Administrator (DBA) Mt. Sinai Health System - Chicago, IL January 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:   ·        Develops and maintains a comprehensive database for CATH Lab and Chest Pain Centre in compliance with American College of Cardiology – National Cardiology Data Registry (ACC-NCDR) and submit clinical data using the vendor company LUMEDX software.  ·        Reviews, analyze and collates ACC-NCDR database reports on a quarterly basis for presentation to Hospital Quality Assurance/ Continuous Quality improvement department and committees.  ·        Designs and develops databases related to acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disease and cardiovascular epidemiology using WITT biomedical databases relating both clinical services and research trials in cardiology medicine.  ·        Develops reports and charts from existing database to clearly represent the findings.  ·        Plans, coordinates and implements security measures to safeguard information against accidental or unauthorized access and ensures HIPAA compliance.  ·        Implements Electronic Medical Record and Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE) relating to catherization laboratories and cardio-diagnostic services.  ·        Trains new users and provides orientation pertaining to databases and their interaction with interface (HL7, GE, Pacs, WITT, etc) and wed-based decision support systems including updates to these interfaces.  ·        Formats, organizes, tracks and disseminates NextGen and other data including coordination of data sharing and data management needs relating to cardiovascular Services.  ·        Analytics Manager Applications to generate reports used by hospital and health system and other stakeholders to tailor NCDR reports in order to conduct comparisons, monitor the quality of data submissions and perform comparative analyses.    Environment: Apollo LUMEDX, WITT, NCDR (National Cardiovascular Data Registry), CATH PCI Registry, ACTION Registry, ICD Registry, GWTG-CAD (Chest Pain Center), Applications of Analytics Manager Software, Data Registry Validation and Export Tool, Dashboard for Comparative Analysis of E-Reports. Education Master's in Healthcare Administration School of Public Health, University of Illinois - Chicago, IL March 2014 to May 2014 Bachelor of Technology in BioInformatics Punjab Technical University August 2004 to May 2008 Skills Salesforce, Visualforce, SFDC, Soql, Apex, Python, R language (beginner), SQL, Force.com, HTML, Database Management, Microsoft Office Links http://linkedin.com/in/navsheen-grewal-75190651 Certifications/Licenses Certified Salesforce Administrator January 2019 to Present Certificate number: 19803498 Certified Salesforce Advance Administrator June 2019 to Present Certificate Number: 20208926 Certified Salesforce Platform App Builder March 2019 to Present Certificate number: 19853793 Certified Salesforce Platform Developer I May 2019 to Present Certificate number: 19818923 Certified Data Scientist (DATA CAMP) August 2018 to Present Certificate Number: 83,043 Certified Lean Six Sigma Green Belt (Juran Global) June 2016 to Present Additional Information June 2015- August 2016 (1year)  Certified Lean Six Sigma Green Belt (Juran Global)  Sinai Health System, Chicago    March 2014 – May 2014  Certified Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt   School of Public Health, University of Illinois, Chicago    August 2018- March 2019  Certified Data Scientist, Data Camp  Sinai Health System, Chicago Illinois     Certified Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC)  NUCATS, Clinical and Transitional Sciences Institute  Northwestern University, Chicago    August 2015- July 2016 (1 year)  Vice President Part Time Student Affairs  AFHA (Association of Future Healthcare Administrators)  School of Public Health, UIC     August 2016- December 2016  Consultant,  Pediatrics, University of Illinois Health System  Chicago, IL