SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA Phoenix, AZ Information Technology professional with over 10 years of experience in Enterprise level, complex environments leveraging Microsoft SQL Server demanding strong organizational, technical, and interpersonal skills. Energetic self-motivated and results oriented team player with IT certifications and a keen attention to detail. Strong bias towards a positive, ethical, fun and collaborative company culture with work life balance.  • SQL Server 2012 Microsoft DBA Certified  • Microsoft Windows Server - Current  • Microsoft SQL Server Support 2000-2017  • SQL Server High Availability (HA) Groups  • SQL on VMware Monitor / Maintenance  • Team Building / Leadership / Presentations  • Microsoft Windows and Office All versions  • Execution Plan Tuning and Optimization  • System Maint. Tools (Native & DPA) • Backup & Recovery planning / testing (DR)  • Install / Upgrade / Patch / Migrations • AD Security Group / Roles administration Work Experience SQL Server DBA PLAIN GREEN LLC - Scottsdale, AZ November 2017 to October 2018 • Primary point of contact for SQL Server 2016/17 in all instances from Development to Production. Monitored, maintained, and resolved issues with jobs, databases, and queries. Created, managed and scheduled maintenance solutions monitored through Red Gate SQL Monitor. Service pack and CU scheduling and implementation. Setup and configured Red Gate Toolbelt for use with SQL Monitor, Change Control, and code promotion.  • Leveraged First Responder tools to maintain the highest level of security and performance standards across all instances. Deployed proven solutions to manage backups and overall database health. Peer reviewed SQL code and promoted using SDLC best practices. Trained Jr. DBA in administrative tasks and automation. Managed Teradata administration and user accounts. Cross trained co-workers on many Red Gate tools. System Engineer DBA PETSMART, INC - Phoenix, AZ August 2016 to June 2017 • Provided support to over 1500 stores across North America and Canada. Peer reviewed and deployed SQL and Oracle implementations in an Enterprise environment. Assisted with implementing PowerShell automations across multi functional platforms and applications. Vast familiarity with navigating Windows platforms in stand-alone, Virtual, and Clustered environments. Cross trained co-workers on monitoring and maintenance tasks.  • Primary focus on SQL Server included the maintenance, backup/refreshing of databases, disaster recovery planning (DR) and code promotions through Production. Managed incidents and tasks through ServiceNow application. Created maintenance and upgrade plans, security reviews, and peer reviews for all things SQL. Database Engineer UNIVERSAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Scottsdale, AZ June 2014 to June 2016 Scottsdale, AZ June 2014 to June 2016  UTI provides automotive, diesel, motorcycle and marine mechanic training.  Database Engineer  • Provided enterprise-wide support for multifunctional databases spanning several departments, created documentation and sprint planning managed through Application Lifecycle Management (ALM). Familiar with HA solutions, TDE, disaster recovery, and Multi-node configuration. Created and maintained projects and code in TFS leveraging Visual Studio. Administered users and data migrations in AWS. EXCEL reporting.  • Deployed and maintained Enterprise applications and databases for all environments. Responsible for peer review and code promotion, database backup and restoration duties, and a variety of Enterprise application support including SQL Server 2008-2014, Scribe, Automate, CheckPartner, AsureID, PeopleFluent, and SharePoint to name a few. Assisted with the automation of several integrations using PowerShell. SQL DBA ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE - Phoenix, AZ November 2012 to May 2014 • Managed SDLC from Development through Production systems spanning over 90 instances and 1000 databases in SQL server 2000, 2005 and 2008r2. Maintained clustered and high availability systems leveraging Data Warehouse technologies and SAN storage. Responsibilities include MS patching validations, maintenance plan creation/monitoring, SSIS package and T-SQL script deployments, backup/disaster recovery solutions, multi-tiered security auditing, and a variety of other DBA tasks. SSIS package troubleshooting for DW.  • Generated technical and end-user friendly documentation and maintained distribution to system, network, and security structure. SSRS report integration with MS SharePoint, ETL operations with developers (BI xPress), TFS package management and deployment, AD managed server and database administration. Provided 24/7 rotating on-call support for all production SQL Server systems. SSRS introduction to report mapping. CRM ADMINISTRATOR / Jr. DBA ECOTALITY - Phoenix, AZ June 2011 to June 2012 Phoenix, AZ June 2011 to June 2012  ECOtality provides green energy solutions to the automotive industry with electric vehicle charging stations.  CRM ADMINISTRATOR / Jr. DBA  • Managed an existing Sage SalesLogix (7.2) system through migration to a new CRM environment (MS Dynamics 2011). Tasks included virtualized server and SQL 2008r2 database setup, configuration, user maintenance / security management. Communications liaison with Business Partners, developers, executives, and end-users while concurrently facilitating multi-departmental training sessions.  • Enforced Microsoft recommended best practices and SOX industry standards across all environments and migrated enterprise-wide SQL Server 2008r2 databases from remote to in-house environment. Automated maintenance plans/jobs, enhanced system and query performance, acting DBA support.