Lead Database Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Database Administrator - ADF (Azure Data Factory) Naperville, IL ? Over 12+ years of expertise in installation, programming, configuration & administration of SQL Server / Oracle / MySql / Hadoop databases.  ? Worked with the e-commerce, supply-chain, retail and health insurance industries.  ? Worked closely and effectively with all levels of management to satisfy project and productivity requirements.  ? Offers logical, forthright thinking and is able to provide effective solutions to solve difficult problems.  ? Capable of objective analysis and skilled at making quick decisions based on wisdom, experience, and judgment.  ? Possesses the ability to clearly communicate intricate technical solutions to business users  ? Demonstrates commitment to superior customer service through positive attitude, leadership, and hands-on teamwork. Work Experience Lead Database Administrator ADF (Azure Data Factory) - Chicago, IL January 2016 to Present • Responsible for Administration, Performance Tuning and automation.  • Migrated Major on prem SQL Server instances to Azure cloud space.  • Migrated Most of the on prem SSIS (2012) packages to Azure using ADF (Azure Data Factory), Integration Runtime.  • Decommission of SAP Data warehouse and migrated to Azure Data warehouse (Major accomplishment)  • Worked on Critical Data Center Migration.  • Worked closely with Development team in identifying critical development process issues and was able to fix the issues in mission critical applications. Lead Database Administrator HCSC - Chicago, IL September 2012 to December 2016 • Responsible for administration, performance tuning, and migration of major Dearborn applications from SQL 2008 environment to SQL 2012 environment.  • Worked on automating many key processes at HCSC and reduced tremendous amount of time and manual work from DBA Team.  • Worked to automate retail databases to refresh from prod /non-prod environments as SSIS package and scheduled as job and so one click would take care of major functionalities like, Backup users, drop replication, restore database, create replication, restore users and execute the custom scripts from development team.  • Worked on consolidating the alerts from all SQL/Oracle instance in a collective excel sheet which notifies the DBAs about different aspects like, backups not run in 24 hours, disk space, node failover details, failed maintenance jobs and validation of tempdb data size.  • Worked on MySQL installations, configuration and maintenance. Working towards creating an automation template for MySQL.  • Worked on SQL Health check which is a major task for dbas across 1500 instances while windows/linux updates are scheduled. This automated process gives complete details about each and every instance in a readable excel format.  • New security login creation process based on ITPS Roles.  • Demos on Windows Azure (Streching, Split/Merge technology), Windows Powershell, SOAP architecture. Database Administrator Hallmark - Waranville, IL March 2011 to August 2012 • Responsible for administration, performance tuning, and migration of SQL 2005 environment to SQL 2008 environment  • Retail Automation  • Data center migration from Hallmark to HCSC. Database Administrator IN THE SWIM - Chicago, IL May 2009 to May 2009 • Responsible for administration, performance tuning, and migration of SQL 2005 environment to SQL 2008 environment  • Migrated SQL 2005 to SQL 2008  • Purged SSIS Packages  • Managed restricted logon hours  • Installed DBMS patches as needed, as well as ensuring all server builds and patches are current.  • Provided 24x7x365 on-call support for production DBMS problem resolution.  • Consulted with application developers on designing security methodologies to establish end-user access to the database.  • Responsible for physical integrity of the production databases, monitoring physical capacity and database user access. Database Administrator GRIFFIN PIPES AND PRODUCTS - Downers Grove, IL June 2008 to April 2009 • Responsible for administration, performance tuning, and configuration of servers  • Completed migration of SQL 2000 environment to SQL 2005 environment  • Wrote maintenance plan for the servers and implemented  • Wrote plans for disaster recovery.  • Wrote scripts that kills the jobs which are running more than expected hours  • Wrote scripts for defragmentation of indexes.  • Migrated data from SQL 2000 to SQL 2005 using Integration Services.  • Troubleshooting with page locks Database Administrator SMART SIGNAL - Warrenville, IL May 2007 to November 2007 • Responsible for T-SQL programming, performance tuning, administration and support on SQL 2000 running on Windows 2000.  • Migration of SQL 2000 environment to SQL 2005 environment.  • Wrote DDL scripts and integrate with Install Shield to install and upgrade DB modules with different clients  • Finished writing dynamic stored procedures, indexes, triggers, views for version 3.1  • Worked on a performance tuning issues to optimize indexes and statistics.  • Identified and resolved the long time consuming queries with the help of Partition Views.  • Identified and resolved a long lasting SQL Server locking problem.  • Documented an upgrade path from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 environment.  • Upgraded clients from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005.  • Re-written all procedures, functions, triggers, views, indexes to suit for SQL Server 2005.  • Tuned SQL Server 2005 memory optimization.  • Worked with SQL Data Compare utility to promote code from development to test and production environment.  • SQL Data Compare utility also used to recover one of the clients database. Database Administrator MERIDIAN IQ - Oak Brook, IL March 2005 to May 2007 • Responsible for the administration, support, and performance tuning of multiple development, test, standby and production databases on SQL Server 7 and 2000 running on Windows Environments.  • Designed all database-related projects providing assistance with all aspects of design and implementation and developed in T-SQL.  • Planned, installed, configured and maintained development, QA and production database environments.  • Established & scheduled regular database maintenance/plans for re-indexing, db integrity checks, database shrinking, backups, & log file monitoring.  • Audited database security, software patches and upgrades.  • Served as primary DBA support for mission-critical or problematic databases, and own problem resolution from end-to-end.  • Provided daily monitoring of database health; completed performance tuning, capacity projection, monitoring and remediation.  • Setup and maintained accounts, access levels, and security, with monthly/quarterly security auditing of terminated/non-current users per SOX policy.  • Evaluated and recommend "best of breed" and "best for business" database purchases and utilization of software products.  • Coordinated with, and provided support for applications programmers, system programmers, users, administrators, and IT personnel where databases are concerned.  • Installed DBMS patches as needed, as well as ensuring all server builds and patches are current.  • Provided 24x7x365 on-call support for production DBMS problem resolution.  • Consulted with application developers on designing security methodologies to establish end-user access to the database.  • Responsible for physical integrity of the production databases, monitoring physical capacity and database user access. Education BS Kakatiya University March 1990 Skills DATABASE MODELING, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, OLTP, ORACLE, PL/SQL, POSTGRES, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, DYNAMODB, CLUSTERING, DATASETS, ETL, LOG FILE, MONGODB, POWER BI, BACKUPS, SOX, RED HAT, Ssis, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database