Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Infosys An Oracle DBA designing, developing and supporting database systems. Professional strengths include extensive database technology expertise, team leadership and management, strong oral and written communication skills. Ability to design and implement IT support infrastructures and ability to achieve corporate objectives in challenging work environments. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Infosys February 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  Metro AG is retail business which is Europe based and I am part of team which gives Oracle DBA support and installations, backups recovery with ITIL incident management process. Follow-up/ update ticket for Incident to ensure timely closure, Ticket ownership, drive to resolution and communication with customer, developer, tester in HPSM ticketing tool. Managing oracle database health with the help of baseline created, applying RMAN backups and recoveries, managing user table spaces by adding data files, Managing users and roles. Load data from external tables.    Oracle DBA:-  ? Have working knowledge of oracle installations(11G/12C) and understanding oracle database architecture(11G/12C).  ? Managing Table spaces, Data files, Redo Logs, archive log files, Tables and its Segments.  ? Have experience in expdp/impdp of database tables.  ? Managing Users, Privileges and Roles e.g Grant/Revoke.  ? Have good knowledge of oracle backup and recovery using both user based and RMAN and physical as well as logical.    ? Patching and up-gradation of oracle database using patch sets(from 10G to 11G).  ? Configuring and managing physical standby database server.  ? Have a basic knowledge of Performance tuning such wait event, AWR report and analysis of SQL Plan.  ? Have knowledge of Partitioning of tables and SQL Loader, Flashback recovery.  ? Good knowledge of ticketing tool (HPSM).  ? Daily Client report of SLA ticket.  ? Good knowledge of ticketing and SLA.    SQL:-    ? Strong knowledge of Oracle 11G SQL commands and Oracle SQL joins.  ? Used Oracle SQL functions like substr, instr, length, trim, replace, etc.  ? Transaction control using commit and rollback.  ? Good understanding of Oracle locking during DML operations - insert, update, deletes.  ? Knowledge of Oracle SQL DDL statements like create, alter, drop.  ? Knowledge of other oracle objects like views, Indexes Education MCA in Management and Research Pune University - Pimpri, Pune, IN 2014 BCA Ahmednagar College - Pune, Maharashtra 2011 HSC Shri Vridheshwar Junior College 2008 SSC Maharashtra Board - Pune, Maharashtra 2006 Additional Information ? Always owed with "can-do spirit".  ? Decision-making leadership, acceptance of responsibility and evidence of team-work.  ? Quick learner, resourceful, productive, and with good sense of humour.  ? Comprehensive problem solving abilities.  ? Hard worker while creative.  ? Able to work independently, as a part of team, able to grasp new things quickly.