Lead Database Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator | Developer Bronx, NY 1. Project engineer lead in many successful implementations of Peoplesoft, managing projects from business requirements analysis to solutions delivery and support on several environments.  2. Developed security policies to understand impacts on potential areas of increased analytics focus  3. Selected yearly as a VIP for business continuity/disaster planning due to extensive knowledge and exemplary documentation of recovery procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator COPE Health Solutions - New York, NY June 2018 to Present • Performed a security overhaul of the database environments to make it safer for the team operations moving forward.  • Responsible for staging data by developing SSIS processes to handle multiple client's claims, members, providers and pharmacy files with different formats.  • Generated validation reports highlighting issues such as missing fields that would have an impact on downstream analyses.  • Initiating the logic process by applying stored procedures that transformed the data making it ready for aggregation.  • Manage the security of the Tableau servers that host dashboard visualizations of client's data.  • Troubleshooted and updated SQL Servers 2016, Tableau software and SAS instance.  • Wrote policies for the team centered around code management and change movement between environments. Database Administrator IBM - New York, NY March 2016 to December 2017 • Hands-on installation and configuration of SQL Server database instances, remote monitoring and maintaining system health and security on premises and on the cloud.  • Project lead in establishing a disaster recovery protocol from design, test to implementation for all database systems.  • Developed database management procedures, T-SQL scripts, SSIS packages and full documentation to automate common tasks for database maintenance keeping the system performing optimally.  • Analyzed data from various financial system to aid the development of in-house reports solution greatly reducing the amount of money spent on vendor's support feeds.  • Challenge and encourage support team in continuous process improvement efforts, also provided the tools and knowledge to team members so that they could achieve their goals in supporting the client's needs. Database Administrator YOUNG & RUBICAM - New York, NY 2002 to 2016 • Managed the Fixed Assets and Expense Reports database systems from the ground up, setting up the structure and workflow of tasks and configuring the right components for a very successful implementation.  • Virtualized all SQL Server instances to VMware during the company move to cloud based computing and fine-tuned it for performance.  • Selected to lead the testing, implementation, and rollout of current backup agents for SQL Server databases after comprehensive data protection and management strategy study.  • Created and maintained documentation for financial users and helpdesk personal on standard operating procedures and client installation of all database applications supported by IT.  • Leveraged SQL Server to meet the needs of industry compliance, audit, and security by performing both system verification, and regular quality control checks.  • Participated in the architecture review to consolidate databases onto less servers to cut business costs.  • Elevated User Experience by upgrading the General Ledger system to a newer interface with improved reporting capabilities and new functionality by taking advantage of advanced features in SQL Server. Database Administrator GE - New York, NY October 2000 to April 2002 • Setup a backup/restore strategy using Arcserve backup agent from CA which was essential to protect the data on the databases for the financial systems.  • Worked with functional business personnel to create a database that facilitated the assessment and continuous improvement of reporting and analysis of data across the organization to deliver actionable insights.  • Researched the company's call center and identified issues that allowed me to create a documentation process greatly reducing the volume of calls for support.  • Member of a team working in the design, coding, testing of a high level ETL system on a data-integration project for financial reporting that consolidated information from different accounting applications.  • Worked with an IT manager to determine the database hardware and configuration needed for third-party software packages. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE City University of New York, City College - New York, NY 1999 Associate in INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS Institute Polytechnic Loyola - San Cristobal, NM 1979 to 1983 Skills Data modeling, Database, Database design, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba, Ssis Links http://linkedin.com/in/demostenesgonzalez Additional Information Certified Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases