Database Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst Database Analyst - Sprint Work Experience Database Analyst Sprint - Kansas City, MO January 2019 to Present • Administered Oracle RAC/Oracle EBusiness Suite/Goldengate environments  • Lead major migration project that involves migrating databases and application servers from Solaris to AIX  • Worked on JBOSS administration including deployments and troubleshooting.  • Involved in database performance tuning using AWR/ASH reports  • Worked with a team of offshore DBAs on everyday administrative activities  • Worked on 24x7 Oncall rotation Senior Oracle Database Administrator PaymentSpring - Nelnet Inc - Omaha, NE March 2016 to December 2018 Oracle Database Appliance  • Worked on setting up RAC database(Oracle 12c) on Oracle Database Appliance  • Extensively worked on OAKCLI utility for database administration  • Amazon Web Services  • Worked with the development team supporting application running in AWS.  • Installed and worked on AWS RDS database/EC2 instances and several other AWS applications.  • Data Guard    402-415-7757 lponnuraj@gmail.com  • Setup physical standby database for the primary RAC database in production for seamless failover and also tested failover process.  • Converted standalone database to RAC database using RCONFIG utility  • Oracle TDE  • Setup tablespace encryption using Oracle TDE to encrypt sensitive payment data in the database using  Oracle wallet  • Worked on rekeying master key/tablespace key in Oracle 12c database and documented the procedure  for audit purpose  • PCI Audit: Worked on administering and making changes to the database for PCI compliance  • Goldengate  • Set up Goldengate replication for active-active environment.  • Installed the software and set up all the parameter files for Goldengate processes  • Upgraded to integrated capture/replicate method from classic  • Configured Goldengate to oracle cluster for high availability  • Worked on Oracle Database File System (DBFS) for storing Goldengate files to enable seamless  failover to standby.  • Worked with application vendor during deployment  • Backup and Recovery: Setup backup for the databases using RMAN, monitored and troubleshoot issues  • Built several shell scripts and scheduled jobs for monitoring database that improved availability of the database/application  • Provided 24*7 Oncall rotation Senior Oracle Database Administrator ConAgra Foods - Omaha, NE November 2014 to March 2016 Data Center Migration  • Led the Data Center Migration project for oracle databases. This involved migration of about 50  databases from older versions to new in a short deadline.  • Upgraded and consolidated oracle databases as part of the migration.  • Collaborated with application team, storage team and customers facing team for completing the migrations on time.  • GoldenGate: Worked on maintaining replication setup using Goldengate and involved in upgrading GoldenGate  software. Took care of any issues regarding GoldenGate setup.  • Supported application cutovers and releases from the oracle database side.  • Database Installation and Upgrade: Installed Oracle databases and ASM instances for SAP and Non-SAP  applications using customized scripts and upgraded to enterprise Oracle version. Administered and monitored the databases on daily basis.  • Backup and Recovery: Setup backup for the new databases using RMAN, monitored and troubleshoot issues  • Supported application cutovers and releases from the oracle database side.  • DataGuard: Created Physical Standby Databases and configured Active DataGuard to make failover seamless from production to Disaster Recovery (DR) site and tested failover processes.  • Control-M Jobs: Scheduled jobs using Control-M for the database servers.  • SAP: Worked on installing and upgrading SAP databases. Used BR*Tools for administration and also addressed  performance issues.  • SAP HANA: Worked on HANA Studio to perform basic administration tasks. Supported oncall.  • Provided 24*7 Oncall support  • Involved in performance tuning using OEM 12c/11g and other tools to meet customer requirement Oracle Database Administrator Union Pacific - Omaha, NE July 2005 to October 2014 402-415-7757 lponnuraj@gmail.com  • Goldengate: Installed Goldengate software and setup processed for replication. Successfully upgraded Oracle  database using GoldenGate with minimal outage time.  • Database Installation and Upgrade: Installed Oracle databases on various platforms using DBCA and manual  process and also upgraded the databases to latest versions. Installed and setup ASM and RAC instances for different projects and administered and monitored the same.  • Oracle Knowledge Sharing Session: Moderated knowledge sharing session for entire DBA group. Coordinated  with application team, business team and various other teams and set up meetings  • Change Management Committee: Represented Union Pacific DBA group in Change Management Committee  meetings  • Provided 24*7 oncall support  • Concurrently handled more than 15 applications. Prioritized and fulfilled various database requests from application  team in timely manner.  • Backup and Recovery: Setup RMAN and user-managed backups for new databases and monitored/troubleshoot  issues  • Oracle Text: Installed Oracle Text and worked on text conversion to fulfill application requirement. Upon  successful completion presented demo to the DBA group  • Logical and Physical Database Design: Involved in logical and physical database design using ERWIN 6.x, 7.x.  • Performance Tuning: Involved in performance tuning using OEM 12c/11g and other tools to meet the customer  requirements. Participated in load testing and helped to tune the application. Used AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan, Quest Central, TOAD, Oracle Tuning pack.  • Capacity Planning: Involved with management team and application development team in capacity planning at the server and database level  • Shell Scripting: Involved in writing scripts in PERL and shell scripting for automating database administration  • Created and managed replication among Oracle databases using snapshots and materialized views. Oracle Database Administrator Eagle Investment Systems - Newton, MA July 2003 to July 2005 • Software Installation and Upgrade: Installed Oracle Software 10g, 9.2.0.1 and other versions of Oracle9i, Oracle8i, oracle8 on Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Linux and Windows boxes  • Database Creation: Created databases using DBCA especially in Oracle9i versions and using manually written  scripts in Oracle8i versions  • Kernel Parameter Tuning: Necessary kernel parameters on UNIX boxes are tuned to install Oracle software  • Backup and Recovery: Very extensively involved in backup and recovery strategies and plans. Prepared well  defined scripts and steps for most of the backup and recovery scenarios and tested their validity  • Disaster Recovery Plan: Written documentation for disaster recovery plans and tested against test instances  • Tuning: Extensively worked on Application Tuning, using SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, Lock Monitor, Top SQL, Database Memory Tuning using STATSPACK, UTLBSTAT, UTLESTAT, SQL* Net, Net8,  Oracle Net Performance Tuning and OS Tuning VMSTAT, IOSTAT, SAR, TOP  • Database Migration and Upgrade: Migrated databases from Oracle8i versions to Oracle9i. Upgraded from Oracle9.2.0.1 to Oracle 9.2.0.3 and Oracle 9.2.0.4  • Shell and PERL Scripts: Written shell scripts to automate daily exports and send emails to DBAs whenever  error occurs in export logs and alert log files. Written PERL scripts to automate installation of our products into database and also written a PERL script to recompile all invalid objects in the database  • PL/SQL Development: Written procedures using Dynamic SQL and checked into CVS also written packages, functions, triggers, cursors, SQL statements  • Export, Import and Load data: Very extensively used export, import utilities in our daily backup schedule and migration of schema data from one database to another, and used SQL* Loader to load data from flat file to the  Oracle database  • Involved in space, user and security management at the database level  • Benchmark Testing: Tested performance of application, database and operating system on environments like Sun Solaris 10, RedHat Linux AS 3 based on Intel Opteron and Intel Xeon EM64T platforms.    402-415-7757 lponnuraj@gmail.com  • Documentation: Extensively involved in preparing documents for Software upgrades, database upgrades and migration, disaster recovery plans.    402-415-7757 lponnuraj@gmail.com Education Masters in Computer Science Brandeis University Bachelor's in Electronics in Electronics University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Database, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgres, Sql, Rman, Hana, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, C/c++, C++, Perl, Change management, Erwin Additional Information Key Skills    Operating Systems: RedHat Linux RHEL 6.x, 5.x, 4.x, UNIX (Sun Solaris, IBM AIX), Windows 7/10    Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i/8, RAC, SAP, SAP HANA, Microsoft SQL Server, Postgres SQL, mysql,  AWS RDS, MS Access, Oracle Database Appliance    Languages: SQL, PLSQL, Java, C/C++, MS Transact-SQL, PERL and Shell script    Tools: GoldenGate 12.x, OEM 12c/11g/10g(Diagnostic pack, Tuning pack, Change Management pack), BR*Tools,  HANA Studio, ERWIN Data Modeler 7.3, RMAN, AWR, STATSPACK, SQL*Plus, expdp/impdp, logminer,  TOAD, PLSQL Developer, Oracle Text, PACE, STAR, Toad Data Modeler