Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> To succeed in a dynamic competitive environment by proving my excellence through learning and effective  coordination with cooperation at all levels in order to benefit my organization to be the BEST in the world. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Citigroup March 2014 to Present Environment Oracle 10g/11g running in Redhat Linux, AIX    Duration From March 2014 To Till Date  Role / Responsibility Providing L1& L2 support for all database running in production,  quality & Development, Managing Shift Schedule for the team    Responsibilities  • Perform scheduled COB(Standby) testing for production databases in conjunction with application  team.  • Day to day monitoring like availability of system, listener, database, alert log file, tracefile.  • Performance & Tuning Of the Database  • Attend daily/weekly conference call to discuss the build status with application team and Citi  management  • Database refresh of Testing Database from Production using expdp/impdp utility  • Created users and involved in database security by granting roles, privileges, and profile to users.  • Maintaining the physical standby database by applying the archive logs from production database.  • Creation of Databases, Table space, and schema Users  • Monitoring and Managing the Production Database Reorg, Sizing DB tablespaces and datafiles for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Managing ASM like adding diskgroup, recreating a diskgroup and rebalancing.  • Backup and Recovery through RMAN / User managed backup concepts.  • Managing the production and development database server file system space issues.  • Refreshing the development database with production backup dump RMAN  • Monitoring the user sessions and take appropriate action to kill the inactive sessions  • Monitoring RAC databases through SRVCTL.  • Backup and Recovery through RMAN / User managed backup concepts.  • Worked on Golden Gate(GG) technologies.  • Ensuring daily backups and validating the backups through periodic restoration  • Creating SR with Oracle Metalink for production database related issues    Tools/software handled:  • Putty, Tectia, Tectia file transfer Education Bachelor in Mechatronics Engineering Kongu Engineering College - Perundurai, Tamil Nadu 2013 HSC at Saratha Higher Secondary School - Gopichettipalaiyam, Tamil Nadu SSLC at Shree Vidyalaya Matric Higher Secondary School - Gopichettipalaiyam, Tamil Nadu Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate December 2026