Database Administrator-Contractor <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>-Contractor Database Administrator-Contractor - Accenture Leander, TX To utilize my skills that I have obtained over the years to continue growth as a database administrator. Work Experience Database Administrator-Contractor Accenture - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present • Troubleshoot Oracle 12c/11g database issues  • Worked on the setup and configuration of Oracle Golden Gate database environments.  • Installed Oracle 12c/11g databases on Linux environments.  • Update and maintain cronjobs  • Troubleshoot RAC Database issues  • Upgraded and patch Oracle databases  • Installed patches for Oracle and DB2 databases  • Setup RMAN L0 and L1 backups for databases  • Use Oracle datapump for exporting and importing database schemas and objects  • Manually monitored database via alerts and programs  • Restored and Refreshed database data when requested  • Assist with database deployments utilizing Jenkins deployment software.  • Assisted with 24/7 Database on-call support  • Used Ticket system for managing database request and issues.  • Assist with database migrations with development and deployment teams  • Trained DBAs just starting out.  • Managed and trained Interns.  • Developed New employee/team member onboarding documentation.  • Worked with Postgres SQL databases  • Worked on Oracle to My SQL database migration in the beginning stages.  • Worked with versioning software such as TortoiseGit, Jira and Gerrit. Database Administrator Tangoe - Austin, TX October 2012 to November 2017 • Troubleshoot Oracle 12c/11g database issues  • Installed Oracle 12c/11g databases on Linux servers  • Update and maintain cronjobs  • Troubleshoot RAC Database issues  • Upgraded and patch Oracle databases  • Installed patches for Oracle and DB2 databases  • Setup RMAN L0 and L1 backups for databases  • Use datapump for exporting and importing database schemas and objects  • Manually monitored database via alerts and programs  • Restored and Refreshed database data when requested  • Assist with application upgrades and deployments on oracle databases  • Assisted with 24/7 Database on-call support  • Used Ticket system for managing database request and issues.  • Assist with database migrations with development and deployment teams  • Utilize skype, email and Microsoft office communicator to communicate with various teams to help troubleshoot issues.  • Create database documents for team. System Analyst Oracle - Austin, TX December 2006 to September 2012 • Installed IBM and Oracle database software on AIX, Linux and Windows  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11g databases on AIX, Linux, and Windows  • Create and maintain RAC Database  • Installed IBM db2 databases on AIX and Linux  • Upgraded Oracle databases  • Installed patches for Oracle and DB2 databases  • Setup RMAN and Export backups for databases  • Installed Oracle Grid agent on database servers  • Monitored databases through Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control  • Created database schemas for Oracle and DB2 databases  • Migrated Table changes and programs requested by developers  • Compile batch and forms per developer request for oracle applications  • Archive database programs in PVCS Repository  • Provided desktop level support to 300 employees within Oracle's Retail Global organization across several U.S. cities.  • Resolved Windows OS issues, application installation issues, login issues, OS reimaging etc  • Managed hardware (desktop, laptop) upgrades for employees via creating a budget for upgrades, order hardware through Oracle's procurement system.  • Traveled to different cities (Minneapolis, Boston, and Atlanta) to facilitate hardware upgrades and provide onsite desktop support.  • Documents desktop policies, procedures and installations related to desktop support.  • Managed third party licenses software renewals.  • Managed desktop issues though Oracle's ticket system. Education Bachelor of Science Strayer University September 2007