SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Austin, TX Highly motivated, detail oriented and analytical minded DBA with 7 years' experience and outstanding knowledge of SQL server Database Administration, experience in maintenance, security, backup & recovery and High Availability. Able to work independently with little to no supervision as well as work efficiently with team members Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Charter Communications July 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and Administered Databases in Test, Development and Production environments using MS SQL 2005/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016.  • Assisted in maintaining full functional database using MSSQL Server 2008R2/2012.  • Creating and managing T-SQL transactions and solving concurrency problems.  • Managing Backups on a daily basis and Recovery as when needed.  • Knowledge of SQL indexes creating, maintenance and fragmentation (rebuilding and reorganization) for performance optimization.  • Tuning database performance using Profiler, DMVs, index analysis and Tuning Advisors.  • Scheduling, Performing and maintaining routine Jobs, Alerts and Maintenance Plans and apply patches/updates as required.  • Applying Service Packs and Security patches for the Servers as released.  • Helping in creating and managing Users, Roles and Groups and handling database security policies.  • Assisted in Migration of Data from Excel, Flat file, Bulk copy Program (BCP), Data Transformation Services (DTS) and SQL Server integration Services (SSIS).  • Assisted and provided 24/7 production support in finding ways to improve performance without missing deadlines. Junior Database Administrator Texas Department of Criminal Justice February 2014 to May 2018 • Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL Server 2008 R2 on Production and Preproduction servers.  • Designed and implemented backup and recovery strategy for Production databases.  • Involved in performing database audits and managed permissions through Logins/Roles.  • Configured Transactional Replication on Production databases  • Installed and applied patches on SQL 2008/2008R2 instances  • Involved in Capacity planning and performance optimization on critical production databases.  • Configured and Implemented SQL Agent jobs.  • Worked on database setup documentation for Production instances and documented SQL server procedures and standards.  • Implemented Database mirroring on Production & Preproduction environments.  • Recovered databases from Full, Differential and transaction log backups on Production and Preproduction environments  • Involved in troubleshooting of Production issues with SQL profiler, Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning MSSQL Server performance  • Investigated and Created missing indexes in the databases as part of Performance tuning. Junior Database Administrator Project Renewal - New York, NY January 2009 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Proactively monitored databases to ensure its health and integrity are met across system.  • Maintained databases through installation, configuration, upgrade, patches and bug fixes.  • Diagnose & troubleshoot performance and slow query running issues using performance monitoring and optimization tools  • Performance tuning, including database/query tuning and re-writing SQLs to enhance performance.  • Assisted in Database development including writing and reviewing stored procedures  • Helped in Planning and execution of Backups and recoveries including disaster recovery  • Develop and maintain database standards  • Handled problem escalation with vendors as appropriate and on time  • Oversaw the security of the database through giving appropriate permissions to users.  • Served as part of a team in providing 24/7 support with on-call rotation Education Master of Business Administration in Management Monroe College - New Rochelle, NY 2008 to 2010 Lincoln Computer Training Institute 2006 to 2007 Bachelor of Science in Insurance & Actuarial Science Imo State University 2002 to 2006 Skills DBA, Sql Server, MYSQL, Sql Dba, ETL, Ssis, Sybase, Rman