Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Wunderman Data Management Pittsburgh, PA • Over 10+ years of technical experience to manage SQL Server databases through multiple product life cycle environments, from development to mission-critical production systems.  • Independently analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end in data analysis, Database Installation, creation, configuration, maintenance, development and upgrading using MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014.  • Experienced in performance analysis, tuning, query optimization and system monitoring techniques.  • Experienced in providing weekly and monthly status reports on Compliance Analytics activities and Assist with the development and implementation of best practices relating to Compliance Analytics.  • Experienced in configuring and maintaining database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  • Experienced in applying data modeling techniques to ensure development and implementation support efforts meet integration and performance expectations.  • Experience in preparing database hardening and harden database based on industry standard compliance policy.  • Good experience in database partitioning such as creating file groups, table and index partitioning.  • Experienced with Clustering, Standby Servers, Mirroring and Log Shipping for ensuring High Availability.  • Experienced in implementing Replication models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional Replication.  • Expert in creating linked servers to run distributed queries between Oracle10g and SQL Server 2012, 2008R2.  • Good Experienced in monitoring views, stored procedures and functions for better performance.  • Experienced in resolving performance issues by running DBCC commands and DMVs.  • Experienced in data modeling, design of OLTP, OLAP using normalization methods.  • Experienced in fine tuning SQL queries, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Experienced in implementing SQL Server security like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users and login, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Excellent knowledge with SQL Server Storage Structures, Index and Security Architecture.  • Experienced in creating clustered and non-clustered indexes and full text indexing for better performance.  • Experienced in database Migration, Backup, Restore and Recovery procedures.  • Experienced in taking full, differential, log and file group backups for SQL 2012, 2008R2, 2008 and 2005.  • Experienced in using System Monitor, Profiler and Database tuning advisor to resolve long running queries.  • Good Experience in Monitoring SQL Server logs and performance counters for better productivity.  • Experience in performance tuning and query optimization using database tuning adviser.  • Experienced in SQL Script development and scheduling Agent jobs in SQL 2012, 2008R2, 2008.  • Experienced in writing T-SQL code for joints, sub queries and co-related sub queries in Stored Procedures.  • Experience using Oracle database system, customer relation management (CRM), service management system (SMS) and Trouble ticketing system.  • Expert level ability to sort, mine and analyze data using Microsoft Excel, including pivot table and power BI.  • Expert level ability in Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft publication, Microsoft project and Internet Applications.  • Demonstrated ability to make use of large databases by means of analytical tools.  • Self-motivated, directed and with keen attention to detail. Excellent interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills as well as strong logical, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Experienced working with group and independent in 24/7 production environment.  • Experience in working in a team-oriented, collaborative environment and with teams spread across multiple locations across multiple time-zones. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Wunderman Data Management - Richardson, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  • Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.  • Worked with application developers to address and clarify data requirements to resolve technical and functional issues.  • Enforced corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management.  • Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing and confirming possible solutions to the problem.  • Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Experienced in installing and setting up Oracle 12c, 11g R1/R2, 10g, databases.  • Worked on POC on OEM 12c Cloud, installed in all our non -prod databases, have good knowledge on 12c.  • Experienced in setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R1 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS  • Experience in Data Migrations using oracle export/import, datapump, sqlldr.  • Performed backups and tested crash recoveries using conventional hot & cold backups and RMAN.  • Proficient in using OEM and RMAN.  • Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Partitioning, Data modeling, OLAP,Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures.  • Designing the logical and physical database structure.  • Schema design experience using ERwin, expert scripting experience in Perl and all Unix shell scripting variations.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including: Backups, exports and imports, archiving old records and verification of such processes.  • Expertise in Oracle Architecture, I/O tuning, Capacity planning, space management, Memory Tuning, Performance tuning, Backups, Recoveries, RMAN backups, Optimization, Networking, Troubleshooting.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Assisting developers with builds to ensure the promotion of data integrity and normalization according to the standard operating procedure implemented by the company.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, grantingprivileges and roles, and creating database links.  • Troubleshoot and resolved log gap in Data Guard Configuration  • Managing and administering MySQL databases using SQL Server Management Studio    Environment:Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGuard ,RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH Sr. Database Administrator Sprint Nextel - Reston, VA December 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved database consolidation project where 40+ standalone databases was migrated to MS SQL Server AlwaysON infrastructure.  • Enterprise security policies and procedures on databases  • Collaborated with ops, engineering and development teams to determine impact of database changes on other systems  • Responding to production issues, making recommendations, taking actions, and performing root cause analysis.  • Planning, installation, configuration, optimization, maintenance and monitoring of different NoSQL database instances including MongoDB, Couchbase Cassandra etc  • Integrating MongoDB with Elastic Search.  • Involved in Database installation, creation, configuration, maintenance and development using MS SQL Server 2012.  • Created and assigned appropriate database roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Created SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Performed database maintenance, database monitoring and space management to utilize resources efficiently and to improve database performance.  • Responsible for performing object migration between all production database Servers.  • Performed SQL Server configuration for the business functions including Index & data management to determine defragmentation level whether to update statistics or rebuild and reorganize indexes.  • Worked in a SQL server operating in a very large database environment and also resolving issues related to database and tables.  • Performed database backup (full backup, differential and transactional backup) to recover database at the time of disaster.  • Created log shipping, replication and database mirror for high availability of the database in case of database failure.  • Established connectivity to databases and monitored system performance.  • Involved in configuring, patching, testing, monitoring, and supporting multiple heterogeneous database instances, maintaining the databases at current release and maintenance levels.  • Configured and setup snapshot replication from production to Development and stage environments.  • Resolved server and SQL job alert & server ping alerts for production servers.  • Created and scheduled SSIS package as per Clint requirement.  • Checked Disk space alerts on Production server and to inform Infrastructure to add more space if the disk was full.  • Worked as part of a team and provide 7×24 supports when required.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, Windows Server 2008/2012, SQL LiteSpeed, MSE, VSS and Password Updater. Sr. Database Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Lexington, MA September 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the process of upgrading SQL Server systems to SQL Server 2008 R2 to 2012.  • Extensively worked on tuning stored procedures and queries for optimum performance.  • Developed T-SQL Scripts with joins, subqueries and co related sub queries where required.  • Designed and Created databases, tables, views, stored procedures, Cursors and DDL & DML triggers.  • Migrated databases and maintained changes in Development, QA and Production servers.  • Performed Database Migration from flat files, Excel, MS Access and Oracle11g to SQL 2012, 2008R2.  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases and rebuilt indexes.  • Prepared and participated in implementing the SQL Server Virtualization Roadmap at Deloitte to VMware.  • Supported, administered, optimized and maintained production and development SQL Server 2012 database environments running on Windows platforms.  • Provided all levels support, including on-call support through rotational basis.  • Provided full support of SQL Server SSIS and SSRS services.  • Designed, implemented, maintained and provided full support of SQL Server clustering and mirroring.  • Provided database sizing and capacity planning.  • Controlled, monitored, and generated an access report process for user access to the database.  • Planned, prepared, and rehearsed SQL Server database recovery plans.  • Setup procedures to refresh databases environments.  • Ensured high quality of backend services though solid processes of planning, analysis, design, implementation, load testing, performance monitoring and tuning of SQL Server systems.  • Demonstrated new SQL Server-related technologies and policies to managers and senior managers.  • Researched the market constantly to find ways of reducing costs virtualization, monitoring tools etc  • Participated in all Data Management and Integration applications performance and stress tests.  • Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.  • Created logins and users as and when required with specific roles on production server.  • Created SQL alerts, Mail and linked servers for accessing data from remote servers using jobs.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, IIS, Windows Server, Performance Monitor, Backup Utility, MOM, MSE and Site Scope. Remote DBA Experts Warrendale, PA April 2013 to August 2015 Database Administrator    Responsibilities:  • Installed and upgraded all software from SQL 2008 to 2008 r2.  • Identified and resolved the query performance using SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard.  • Created and monitored jobs on backup, recovery and other maintenance services on specific databases.  • Involved in managing backup strategy, monitoring logs, advising on hardware configurations.  • Implemented and tuned queries developed by other members, and worked with QA teams to test and verified solutions.  • Acted as the subject matter expert SME for database-related matters.  • Participated in creating and implementing Disaster Recovery and High Availability Plans Backup/restore, Clustering, Database Mirroring, Replication etc.  • Analyzed, designed, and architected the infrastructure of the migration of standalone environments to clustered and mirrored environments.  • Involved in implementing Quest Lite Speed for SQL Backup and Restore.  • Worked closely with project managers and technical project leads to develop and formalize tasks relative to database development within each project.  • Worked on Merge, Merge Join and Multicast Transformations while migrating data using SSIS.  • Worked on monitoring SSIS data flow transformations using data viewers and event handlers.  • Worked on moving data into flat files, OLEDB destinations and SQL server using SSIS packages.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008 r2, MS Office, Oracle, Windows, XML, MS Project. Database Administrator SiriusXM - Washington, DC December 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the functional/business requirement documents and existing downstream/upstream systems in Enterprise Application Integration stack that is based on Tibco ESB/AXWAY service virtualization  • Interact with the BSM and agile teams to understand the functional requirements and System Architecture.  • Validating the integration scenarios with external/internal dependent systems using SOAP/REST APIs  • Setting up test data, test environment and deployment of the ESB web service applications  • Perform SOAP, Restful API testing in various environments including Dev, QA, SIT and PERF environments  • Verifying the functional correctness of the published web service endpoints and prepare DTK kit for consumers  • Automating the web services API testing using internal framework [B-Unit] & open source SOAPUI/Groovy  • Performed IDM Security testing in various environments QA, Partner Dev and SIT.  • Developed functional and integration tests for SOAP and RESTful Web Services using SoapUI  • Expertise on Testing REST API using Insomnia, postman, soap ui.  • Querying the backend systems to check if the database tables has right data using SQL  • Triaging the issues, regression testing & performance testing of the SOAP and RESTservices  • Fixing test case failures in continuous integration environment that is configured with Jenkins  • Mentoring juniors engineers and helping them resolving the issues  • Worked with high performing agile teams [2 weeks sprint] and delivered QA artefactswith high quality    Environment:Tibco, Axway, Jenkins, UNIX, JAVA, SQL, SOAP UI, Insomnia, XML, JSON,Groovy,Eclipse, Python,Bit Bucket, Jira, MobaXterm, Putty. Database Administrator The Denzel Group - Harrisburg, PA May 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for UI, Functional, Web Services, cross browser, Automation, Reports Testing of Web, distributed, Reporting, legacy.  • Involved in Defect Review meetings, assisted team members in knowledge transfer.  • Used agile methodology to ensure the new features meet the customer requirements and acceptable quality assurance standards.  • Participated in daily stand up meeting to report the progress of the work.  • Use Rally to house all test documentation, reports, track all issues/defects.  • Involved in daily meeting with Team members to keep track of defects and provided update on testing progress to the Manager.  • Participate in review meetings to resolve bug related issues with developers.  • Developed Test Cases using JSON which defines Web Service Request, Response, methods/operations, End Point of web service to be tested.  • Importing requirements, create test cases, validate requirements with test cases and generate reports using Rally.  • Developing virtual service model using iTKO Lisa virtualize and testing locally with SOAPUI.  • Built effective test data covering all possible scenarios and added in datasheets for LISA Testing.  • As a Scrum team member, participated in Sprint Planning, Product Backlog Grooming, Estimation & Demos, Sprint Retrospectives and Daily Stand-Up meetings.  • Created regression automation test scripts in Java using Web driver, TestNG.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium Web Driverusing Java programming language.  • As a QA Lead, participated in walkthroughs for the evaluation of the test plan with the design and development.  • Prepare the testing report for every production release.  • End of the sprint will give a quick demo to Product owners.  • Involved in preparing QA sizing document and QA Sign Off document based on the Test Plan approved by the Project Manager and Product Owner.  • Collected test data from the data team and tested for different kinds of scenarios (Positive & Negative) for the different fields of UI module.    Environment: Selenium Webdriver2.0, TestNG, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint,Java1.6, Oracle 11g, XML,HTML5, Web Sphere Application Server, Jboss6.2,Unix, Restful Web services, Lisa 4.6.7, SVN, SOAP UI, WAS 7.0, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's