Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Tucson, AZ Expert database developer with 20 years of experience architecting complex databases. Significant experience in bridging the communication gap between non-technical users and solution architects to produce simple and robust technology solutions. Work Experience Database Administrator MicroAge - Tempe, AZ February 2010 to August 2019 Database Developer Software Engineer  • Worked directly with business executives to identify manual processes that would benefit from automation. In the course of 9 plus years, created a host of applications that automated business processes resulting in the near elimination of data entry errors and significant savings in man hours.  • Worked directly with the CFO of the company to define business requirements for data analysis for the 3 key departments of the company, the executive team, the sales team, and the operations team. The company used the data analysis to improve the running efficiency of the company, reduce the time between invoicing clients and payment payments from those clients, and to increase sales.  • Worked directly with suppliers to automate the import of order information into the company's ERP system greatly reducing the time of order processing and invoicing to the clients.  • Created a host of software programs that reduced the manual efforts of employees. This has resulted in freeing up operations personnel to address critical business issues over manual, redundant processes. The sales people have increased time to sell over doing paper work. Database Developer School-Link Technologies - Phoenix, AZ July 2009 to November 2009 Software Engineer  • Worked within a software development team for the successful completion of a major software upgrade and release. Database Developer Wells Fargo Bank - Phoenix, AZ October 2008 to June 2009 Software Engineer  • Worked directly with a key business executive to identify business processes that needed to be implemented for the merger between Wells Fargo and Wachovia Bank.  • Created new automated processes to gather a variety of information resulting in the ability to provision resources  and analysis the data via reporting.  • Created a single point of access for Wachovia employees to request technology resources from Wells Fargo during their merger. This provided an efficient way to track and process requests eliminating manual processing. Database Developer Linx Software, Inc - Tucson, AZ November 2006 to June 2008 Software Engineer  • Worked directly with a variety of clients taking cumbersome manual processes streamlining and automating those processes. This resulted in significant reduction of time freeing up employees to be more productive in their assigned roles. Adjunct Instructor Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ January 2008 to May 2008 - Computer Information Systems (CIS) and Computer Software Applications (CSA) departments  • Provided a high-quality learning experience for students attending classes. Education Bachelors of Science in Software Engineering Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO August 2007