Sr. MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin/NoSQL Database Admin Sr. MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin/NoSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin Sr. MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin/NoSQL Database Admin - T-Mobile Atlanta, GA • 11+years of experience in design, administration, analysis and implementation stages of various databases like MongoDB, ORACLE, SQL Server, My SQL and Postgresql. configuration and upgrades ofMongodb 4.0/3.6/3.4/3.2/3.0 & oracle 11gr2, 10g, 9i, 8i databases including applying patches under Linux, HP-Unix, sun  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Focused on architecting No SQL databases like Mongo and Cassandra databases.  • Designed and developed load balancing Mongo applications.  • Good experience on advanced queries, query conditionals and aggregation framework.  • Good experience on MongoDB scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MongoDB access manager) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analysis the performance of MongoDB.  • Worked on initial sync of replica set issue across different versions of Mongo. Extensive experience in scripting in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  • Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  • Extensive knowledge in MongoDB concepts and good knowledge in Administration.  • Experience building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, Express, MongoDB.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  • Participated in DR activity of database for every quarter.  • Well experienced in Planning Application implementation from end to end includes architecting, designing the metadata, building, loading data. Worked with Business unit, Process unit, Review process, Rules.  • Responsible for most of the view/controller changes, model/ database integration with other members of the team.  • Good knowledge on database security and implementation of auditing.  • Supported production database servers and applications that provided secure mission and critical services.  • Worked on Change Management Requests (CMR), Incident Management Requests (IMR) and Line Items.  • Ability to grasp new technologies quickly and adapt to the same. Experience in preparing the Technical Documents on relevant topic.  • Performed on-call technical support to minimize the impact of system disruptions.  • Managing projects ranging from simple implementation to heterogeneous setup for organizations of varying size and complexity in a 24/7 production environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin/NoSQL Database Admin T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB instance shards and replica sets. Backup and restores (Backups should be automated with shell scripts/Ops Manager)  • Database Health check (Complete review of Database slow queries, fragmentation, index usage etc)  • Enabled internal authentication of the members with Keyfiles. Configured Role-Based Access Control with custom roles and privileges.  • Upgraded to latest Mongo version and Maintenance (Data center outagesLog rotation/ maintenance, Segregation of duties (User Management - designing User roles and responsibilities)  • Disk usage, CPU, Memory check Alerting.  • Designing DR (Disaster Recovery) /COB (Continuity of Business) plans as applicable.  • Database Profiling, Locks, Memory Usage, and Number of connections, page fault etc., Export and Import of Data to and From MongoDB, Run time configuration of MongoDB.  • Data Managements in MongoDB Capped Collections Expired data from TTL.  • Monitoring at Server, Database, Collection Level, and Various Monitoring Tools related toMongoDB.  • Database software Installation and Configuration in accordance with Client defined standards.  • Maintaining Sharded cluster availability and security across all the nodes. Database Migrations and Updates, Application of database patches, Capacity management.  • Hands on experience in Server Performance tuning and Recommendations.  • High availability solutions and recommendations, Hands on experience in Root cause analysis for business impacting issues.  Environment: MongoDB, OPS manager, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard,PyMongo, Java script. Sr. MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin/NoSQL Database Admin Bergdorf Goodman - Houston, TX March 2018 to December 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involving with installation and maintenance of MongoDB for high availability. Involving in change control process and Upgraded the MongoDB 3.2, 3.6 to 4.0 version and applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Maintaining MongoDB environment and troubleshooting issues. Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup. Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas.  • Performing Migration of databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 on Hp - UNIX to MongoDB on Linux. Created and monitored database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links.  • Implementing High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  • Writing scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also, wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  • Monitoring queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  • Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  • Creating Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  • Performing CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Working on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Working on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Working on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Upgraded Mongo systems and involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Working with capped collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements.  • Administered multiple environments (up to 25TB), automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB.  • Working on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures. Analyzing chunk migrations, splitting and balancing across the cluster.  • Working on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.    Environment: MongoDB 4.0/3.6, Oracle 11g, SQL * Plus, RAC, RMAN, MongoDB, Sharding, TOAD, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP Mongo DBA/ Database Administrator Macy's - Richardson, TX June 2017 to February 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Configuring, implementing and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharding) cluster of MongoDB having TB's of data.  • Migrate MongoDB Sharded/Replica cluster for one datacenter to another without downtime. Add / remove replica and shard nodes in MongoDB Cluster as needed  • Involved in planning and migrating databases to cloud AWS as well as to Azure cloud. Experience in working and troubleshooting Very Large databases (VLDB) in OLTP Environment  • Designing & implementing Sharding and indexing strategies for huge data sets  • Worked on Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment  • Involved in Index Analysis and Performance Tuning. Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set. Configured hidden members in replica set  • Installation of NoSQL MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS  • Good knowledge in implementing SQL database in SQL Azure/AWS cloud computing platform  • Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance  • Backup and restore MySQL databases. Optimizing MongoDB CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) Operations  • Created disaster recovery plans. Monitoring jobs and making sure all jobs run successfully as scheduled. Trouble Shooting the Production Issues According to the Ticket Priorities  • Prepare action plans for future software and hardware upgrades in the System in line with customer account teams  • Disaster Recovery setup and best practices, including planning, testing, failover testing  • Documenting MongoDB installation, operations, security, and environments  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, and schema design  Environment: MongoDB 3.6/3.4, SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2005, Windows 2012, 2003 Server, Visio. Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, SQLProfiler, SQL Azure Database Administrator/MongoDB Wells Fargo, Minnapolies, MN October 2016 to May 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installation and creation of MongoDB 3.2 databases for Testing, Development and Production. Creating and Maintaining of databases.  • Creating table spaces, tables, indexes, data files etc. Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Mongo database and applications issues. Perform capacity planning required to create and maintain database environments.  • Helping to the developing team and data warehousing team.  • Prepare the documents of the process and knowledge transferring about the project to the new team members.  • Writing complex queries and procedures using SQL *plus and toad.  • Developed shell scripts and automated nightly jobs using crone to schedule the backups, exports, refresh test DB from production site and build development, testing staging DB's. Developing Hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures.  • Monitoring the background processes activity, setting the appropriate number of DBWR processes, changing the init.ora parameters etc.  • Creating users, allocation to appropriate table space quotas with necessary privileges and roles for all databases.  • Managing archive logs, DB-links, partitions. Monitoring Scheduled jobs of the daily activities for the performance of all the databases  • Maintain Oracle schemas and SGA region.  • Guiding and leading warehousing team for better performance. Created PL/SQL procedures (jobs) to automate maintenance tasks.  • Implemented MongoDB high availability solution using Mongo PHYSICAL STANDBY. Managed the PHYSICAL STANDBY including Switchover and Failover scenarios.    Environment: MongoDB 2.8/3.2, ORACLE 10g, 9i, RHEL 4.x, SUN SOLARIS 9, HP-UX 11 Database Administrator AIG - New York, NY July 2014 to September 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Primary responsibilities include gathering business requirements, designing the functional and technical specifications  • Upgraded database from Oracle 10g to MongoDB 2.8. Scheduled the databases backup using Corn tab  • Involved in Logical and Physical database design and Star Schema design. Experience with Mongodb grid control  • Monitored Day-to-Day backups, logs and recovered them as per the requirement  • Involved in creation of users and grating them the required roles and privileges accordingly  • Participated in database development like creating PL/SQL Triggers, Packages, Procedures and Functions  • Involved in space management, rectification of lock problems, and managed quotas  • Involved in Performance Tuning of the application using EXPLAIN PLAN, Hints and TKPROF  • Generated PL/SQL scripts to notify process failure/success. Creating and populating table fields by migrating data from different databases  • Monitored Oracle instances, users, tables, table spaces, memory structures, and rollback segments, redo logs, archived redo logs and alerts  • Created external tables to handle huge volumes of data which is not used frequently  • Produced scripts to cleanse source data, ETL process data with business rules, and built re-usable mappings  • Check the functionalities of data in the front-end whether it is displaying properly or not  • Knowledge in Normalization, data transfer, documentation, preventive maintenance, code review, automation, stored procedures, and triggers etc.    Environment: MongoDB 2.8, Oracle 9i,10g,11g PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Windows 2000 server, UNIX, SQL LOADER, TOAD, and Windows XP Database Administrator Fidelity - Durham, NC November 2010 to June 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Key person in on-boarding the new applications and re-architecting the application by working closely with the architect team.  • Worked closely with the application team to gather the application requirement with respect to the infrastructure build.  • Provided the application team solutions based on the requirement and issues as per the company policies.  • Prepared the Detail Design Document for the Database migrations and the new application on-boarding.  • Prepared the document supporting the application architecture and resource management. Co-ordinated with the offshore to schedule the application releases.  • Performed various database migrations from 10G to oracle 11.2.0.4 and to 12c. The migration involves change of OS platforms/servers/storage using RMAN, datapump and Golden Gate.  • Performed the database migration using Golden Gate to minimize the downtime of the large database.  • Supported the application performance testing. Analyzed the database and application performance. Worked on the performance tuning.  • Worked on the database, cluster build for Oracle 11g and builds of MongoDB.  • Supported the MongoDB database migrations/upgrade from 2.2.3 to 2.4 and higher versions. Installed and configure the MongoDB replica set.  • Worked on Design Engineering of the Mobile Merge application to introduce the MongoDB.    Environment: MongoDB 2.x, MMS, Replicaset, Oracle 10g/Oracle 11g/RAC, Linux, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Unix, TOAD and SQL Developer, RDBMS, SQLDBA, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, stored procedures, ASM, Data guard, Oracle Cloud Services Database Administrator US Bank, WI June 2007 to October 2010 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Managed the Logical standby database and resolved ongoing issues. Maintained the standby database in synch with PROD server. Worked on troubleshooting of the slowness in shipping of archive logs.  • Worked and scheduled on RMAN backup and recovery strategy for new servers and database. Supported the recovery of databases in natural calamities.  • Monitored database performance. Worked on AWR, ADDM, ASH reports for performance tuning.  • Enabled the flashback and even successfully recovered lost data from flashback logs in case of data lost.  • Proposed the architectural implementation plan of migration and installation.  • Managed the user profile and role for secure data access.  • Migrated 10.2.0.4 databases to 11.2.0.3 on ASM and configured new applications. Installed and configured GRID Control and configured the targets to add in the Grid Control.  • Resolved the Grid Control OMS and OMA issues  • Worked on the pre-upgrade and post-upgrade tasks to check the database performance. Used Real Application Testing from Grid Control for the performance and validating the databases. Worked with developers on data validations.  • Applied critical patch and security patches (PSU) on RAC ASM, single node and standby database.  • Implemented data migrations and code migrations as per schedule.  • Installed and configured Golden Gate on 11.2.0.2 replication. Monitored the extract, replicat, manager process. Worked on pre-installation and post-installation testing to set up GG. Configured Golden Gate for DDL support and conflict resolution.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g /9i, ASM, Sun Solaris 9, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, OEM, Explain Plan, Tkprof, SQL*LOADER Education Bachelor's