Database Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst SQL Server Database Administrator San Bruno, CA • Years of broad experience with medium to large-size databases and applications management.  • Most expert on SQL Server database administration. - database maintenance, troubleshooting and solving database technical issues efficiently, ensuring database availability, database security, optimization, implementation of new changes and new databases, and providing 24/7 customer support.  • Strong Technical skills in SQL Server installation, failover clustering, upgrades, backup/recovery, replication, mirroring, and AlwaysOn.  • DBA Lead: Has experience in leading the DBA role. Evaluated database environments (current and new), proposed strategies and recommendations on specific configurations such as memory, disk configurations, backup plans, and file management.  • Developer: Designed and implemented databases (including ERDs, indexes, Triggers, and data integrity), and planned and lead the implementation of new database projects.  • Trainer: Provided technical mentorship and crossed-trained other peers and team members on SQL Server through design and implementation.  • Client lead: Worked on-site and remotely with clients on big accounts, and that boosted my client-handling skills and teamwork experience.  • Data Migration: Wrote setup plans and migrated multiple large-size databases from old servers to new SQL Server servers.  • Data warehousing: Knowledgeable in SSIS, Sagent, and DataStage for ETL  • Reporting: Used SSRS and SSAS for reporting and data analysis.  • Security and Active Directory: Use Windows group policies and SQL Server roles, and other necessary measures to make sure the right people have access to the right data.  • Oracle Database: Knowledgeable in Oracle. Performed server installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, database creation, space management, and daily database monitoring.  • Disaster Recovery: Developed step-by-step plans for disaster recovery on complex database infrastructure.  • Communication skills: Confident, good listener, professional, and experienced in written and verbal communication.  • Documentation: Excellent in documentation of procedures and setup plans, tracking issues and documenting changes.  • Research and development - Always researching new features, tool, and releases and applying it as it fit.  • Organized, dedicated, and committed to quality work, self-motivated, energetic, and always ready to take an extra task. Skilled in supporting 24x7x365, mission-critical infrastructure.  • Capable of working efficiently from home. Work Experience Database Analyst Wells Fargo Bank, San Leandro December 2018 to Present • Working on a data conversion Project for the 'SQL Server 2014' data warehouse, hundreds-millions of records.  • Analyzed the databases. Identified tables and columns, anomalies, indexes, and all objects involved.  • Wrote proposals and conversion plan  • Developed stored procedures, and prepared other SQL scripts for the data conversion.  • Developed test-scripts and wrote step-by-step procedures for deployment and back-out plan.  • In the process of testing and comparing different functions for performance comparison. Senior System/Application Administrator Pacific Gas and Electric Company January 2018 to September 2018 • As the system administrator for Appian (Business Process Management Software), I installed, upgraded, and configured the Appian application on Linux.  • Configured Appian application with middleware WebLogic platform.  • Used WebLogic Administration console for deploying and re-deploying codes and trouble shooting  • Upgraded Appian from 17.2 to 18.1 and applied latest service packs and security patches.  • Created shell scripts (bash) for data backup and clean-up. Also setup CRON jobs to run the scripts as scheduled.  • As a key member of the Appian project team, using Agile methodology, I participated on all the agile stages, including grooming, exporting and importing codes from one environment to another, testing, documenting, and training users on the new functionalities.  • For designing, I solved bugs and added enhancements to current Appian functionalities.  • Just attended an onsite-training course for Appian designing. I learned more about CDTs, record types, data stores and more. Now I feel eager to do more design next to my Appian system administration.  • Wrote Test cases and document user guides for Appian users.  • Managed users and permissions for the NERC BCSI repository system (Appian) and complied with SOX and regulatory compliance.  • Created reports as needed using the back-end SQL Server 2014 database and scheduled processes to generate the reports and email it to users using Appian system. Senior Database Administrator DXC Technologies September 2010 to August 2017 • As part of the cloud support team, I worked as a lead for key cloud customers. I interacted with clients, identified database requirements and recommended database solutions by analyzing their existing systems and designing proposed systems. Maintained professional and quality services with clients.  • Installed and configured SQL Server instances on multiple servers - Cluster and standalone. I experienced installing different versions of SQL Server (2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014).  • Gathered and documented database migration, including infrastructure and security requirements.  • Migrated massive amount of data into a new data center (that include databases, SQL Agent jobs, customized stored procedures, and logins)  • Setup high-availability environments - Used SQL Mirroring, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, and Log shipping.  • Developed and implemented strategies for data recovery - data backup and restore, data import and export.  • Maintained database satiability and security - setup backup jobs, have configured security audit, and have setup database and system monitoring alerts (CPU, disk usage, database growth, indexing, integrity checks .)  • Data integration: Setup and automated ETLs and reports using SSIS and SSRS  • Maintained understanding of all the database changes needs and the interactions between all components.  • Wrote stored procedures and different scripts using Transact-SQL programming language  • Coordinate with storage, network and Server engineering while building and maintaining different database environments to ensure availability and scalability.  • Recommend and implement solutions to database infrastructures to improve performance and reliability.  • Upgraded instances (side-by-side and in-place) to different editions of SQL Server. Prepared the upgrade, gathered inventory details, identified and reviewed deprecated and discontinued features, and tested the new SQL features.  • Setup disaster recovery sites using different recovery options (Log Shipping, Failover Clustering instances, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Mirroring).  • Part of 24X7 on call rotation schedule for monitoring databases, responding to alerts, and working with clients on troubleshooting and solving efficiently production issues.  • Occasionally prepared and carried out presentations and training for team members. Database Administrator\Contractor University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA April 2010 to August 2010 • Setup and configured multiple SQL Server servers - stand-alone and cluster servers (including patches, sql memory, and database mirroring)  • Migrated large-size databases to new servers by applying the Mirroring failover technology that made it seamless to the end user.  • Trouble shoot Performance issues and implement solutions accordingly (using DMVs, SQL Side Trace, and PerfMon counters)  • Monitor and trouble shoot various nightly SQL Agent jobs.  • Provide production support for all SQL Server databases ( Database backup and restore, import and export data using BCP, users and permissions)  • Support Dev., QA and Production environment  • Work with customers through helpdesk tickets using FootPrints software. DBA Consultant\Developer Destination Rewards - Troy, NY May 2009 to April 2010 • Worked as the DBA lead. Managed Production databases including monitoring, optimizing, reporting, and security.  • Setup and configured SQL Server and applied company's procedures and processes  • Setup replication site. I used snapshot replication that would occur nightly for reporting purpose.  • Setup mirroring site for automatic failover.  • Setup log shipping site for the purpose of failover at one point of time.  • Setup SQL Server Security: Setup new user-defined roles for specific users and specific access permissions (server level, database level, object level, and down to fields level)  • Installed and configured MS Report Services.  • Developed stored-procedures to archive old transaction data  • Applied various optimization techniques on existing queries and stored-procedure for enhancing performance.  • Supported 24x7, mission-critical infrastructure  • Operating Systems Used: Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 Database Administrator First Republic Bank/Merrillynch - San Francisco, CA March 2008 to May 2009 • Supported a mixed SQL environment (2K and 2K5) with single and multi-instances on Windows 2000 and Windows 2003 operating systems.  • Performed SQL installation, configuration, upgrade, and applied patches.  • Setup and automated database-maintenance jobs (indexing, nightly backup and restore, database optimization, and more).  • Synchronized data between Development, Test, and Production for large-size databases (near a terabyte)  • Setup and maintained log shipping, SQL mirroring, linked servers, and replication.  • Worked on a data warehouse. Identified business requirements, built logical data flows from single or multi data sources, and designed ETL jobs.  • Monitored scheduled ETL processes for the data warehouse daily-data load and troubleshoot all related issues.  • Setup and automated a new failover site in New York using T-SQL, Litespeed, log shipping and mirroring.  • Documented the disaster recovery procedures for all the databases  • Supported multiple projects/tasks simultaneously.  • Worked with other IT teams to implement reliable hardware and software for Production environment.  • One of my last projects was working with the network team on an SQL database cluster environment.  • Provided continuous production support 24 X 7.  • Tools used: MS Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer, LiteSpeed, Capacity Manager for SQL Server, Spotlight for database monitoring and performance tuning, Lumignet for database auditing and security, Visio for conceptual models, Sagent and Integration Services for ETL, Reporting Services for reports. Database and Application Administrator Greater Bay Bancorp/Wells Fargo Bank - Palo Alto, CA May 2001 to March 2008 • Designed and developed databases such as for procurements, Loan-servicing, contracts, and many other tracking systems.  • Designed reports.  • Setup DTS, SQL Mail, and Replication.  • Setup database backup, restore, and "disaster recovery" plans. Used DoubleTake for high availability.  • Provided technology training to non-technical end users.  • Performed SQL Server and Oracle Administration activities such as performance tuning, query optimization, maintaining transaction logs, security, and user management.  • Collaborated with the data warehouse project team to build a data warehouse (Oracle administration, ETL, and data modeling). For ETL, I used DTS and SQLLoader. For data modeling, I used Erwin Modeler and Visio. For PI, I used Seibel Analytics.  • Wrote installation instructions, users manuals and database documentations, includes ERDs and Data-Flow diagrams.  • Maintained various applications (Installation, periodical upgrades, troubleshooting, technical and user support).  • Trained technicians on application installation for clients and troubleshooting bank's various applications.  • Supported clients in using various banking applications such as Navigator, Prime, PayplusUSA, ReconPlus, Cartesis. Image Director, Deluxe, Deposit Pro, Sales Pro, Tax Analysis, Service Desk, TPG, and OnePoint).  • Worked with the vendor to migrate the old Help Desk system (Magic) to a new system called CA Service Desk.  ? Helped in mapping the existing management system (Magic) to the new system (Service Desk)  ? Setup dashboards that showed incident and problem management processes  ? Setup users and security and provided individual training for users  ? Helped in pre-defining Test Cases to be tested by implementer and user  • Periodically, served as an administrator for Windows users and their Network access permissions.  • Partnered with auditors on the security of databases and applications.  • Worked with Network and Server groups in building servers and applying SQL and Windows security, Group Policy.  • Worked with Seibel Analytics (creating and scheduling canned reports).  • Tools used: Windows 2000 and Windows 2003, SQLLoader, Enterprise Manager, and TOAD, SQL Server, MS Access, Visio, Hyena, Crystal Reports, PI Seibel Analytics, Data Stage, Erwin, IT Instructor Skyline College 1999 to 2003 Taught Microsoft products such as Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, File Management, and Windows. Database Developer Heller Ehrman - San Francisco, CA February 2000 to January 2001 • Designed, developed and implemented firm-wide databases using Microsoft Access and VBA.  • Maintained current databases. Modified the architecture of some current databases (including tables, indexes, triggers, and queries). Monitored SQL database backup and performance.  • Recommended solutions to correct malfunctions  • Developed implementation plans for various software, as needed  • Migrated data from legacy systems to SQL databases, dBase, and flat files.  • Migrated data from legacy systems such dBase and flat files to SQL databases using DTS and writing special queries.  • Tools Used: SQL Enterprise Manager, MS Access, dBase, MS Office Network/ Database Administrator WestEd - San Francisco, CA September 1998 to February 2000 • Administered custom-made databases on Microsoft SQL Server platform  • Managed SQL Server procedures and Visual Basic codes for different applications  • Provided technical assistance to users from different departments  • Installed and maintained Windows NT servers and workstations and setup relationships between different domains  • Installed and configured computer software  • Performed troubleshooting for Windows NT domains  • Created user groups and individual accounts  • Performed daily, weekly, and monthly data backup for all servers and workstations using Seagate Backup Exec software    Instructional Aide, Skyline College - (San Bruno/CA)  • 1991-1998  • Assisted individual students in learning different computer applications (word processing, spreadsheets and databases programs)  • Assisted students in selecting and using hardware and software appropriate for their needs  • Managed PC environment: Installed and maintained microcomputers on PC Window platforms in the computer rooms where classes were held and students did their computer work. Education BS in Business Information Computer Systems San Francisco State University May 1998 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Linux, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS  Databases: MS SQL Server (2008, 2012, 2014), ORACLE  Languages: SQL, UNIX Shell scripting, C++, Visual Basic, VBA.  Operating systems: Windows 2K 2K2012 (Active Directory + security), Linux  Software:  MS SQL Management Studio, MS BIDS/SSDT( SSAS, SSIS, Reporting Services), Sagent, LiteSpeed, Capacity Manager, SpotLight, Nimsoft, Remedy, Magma, MS Office