Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> San Antonio, TX A position utilizing my skills as an Oracle Database Administrator, Systems Design and Systems  Administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator BIF Technologies - San Antonio, TX February 2019 to Present Database Administrator for large DOD Medical Nursing Scheduling System (WMSNi). Planned database upgrades, and general day-to-day administration. Also a Development DBA for BIF Technology’s BrainJack product, a powerful Business Intelligence solution. Remote Database Administrator Insight Global - DXC - San Antonio, TX November 2018 to February 2020 Contracted to DXC, which has a contract for database support for Boeing Aircraft. Was  involved with large review of RMAN backups on all Boeing databases and verifying reliability of backups, and providing corresponding DBAs advice on suggested backup procedures, parameters and scheduling. Database Consultant Pythian - Virtual September 2017 to May 2018 Remote Database Consultant working with a team of DBAs to manage many client's Oracle databases. Remote Database Administrator Accenture Enkitec Group - San Antonio, TX October 2013 to May 2017 Administer, develop, test, or demonstrate databases. Perform many related database functions across one or more teams or clients, including designing, implementing and maintaining new databases, backup/recovery and configuration management. Install database management systems (DBMS) and provide input for modification of procedures and documentation used for problem resolution and day-to-day maintenance.     Clients included:    Client: CNA Insurance Company    Assisted team of DBAs administering several Exadata installations, including backups, performance tuning and system maintenance.    Client: AERA Energy    Assisted team of DBAs with administering several Exadata installations, migrating Oracle Enterprise Manager to a new version and new architecture, integrating OEM with Active Directory, and provided overall database performance checks and monitoring.    Client: Surdell and Partners    Primary Remote DBA activities, database monitoring and problem resolution. Developed SQL Loader jobs for their incoming client data and merge into production data. Assisted with transition from local database servers to Oracle Cloud Services.    Client: Securus Technologies    Primary remote DBA and later Backup Remote DBA. General Remote DBA systems monitoring. Assisted with Planned Exadata service outages, re-routing production call traffic to alternate platform while Exadata system received maintenance. Assisted with debugging database performance issues, and day-to-day production and development laboratory database issues.    Client: Saracen Energy Advisors    Primary Remote DBA on several production databases running on two X3 Oracle Data Appliances. Performed routine and requested database tuning initiatives, system debugging and root cause analysis. Later performed migration of the two X3 Oracle Database Appliances to one X5 Oracle Database Appliance, and setting up and configuring standby databases. Installed and configured new NFS server used for internal file sharing.    Client: Cabot Oil and Gas    Primary Remote DBA on several production databases running exclusively on Microsoft Windows servers. Assisted on-site client DBA with problem resolution, questions, and system capacity projections. Assisted with migration of all production databases to higher-grade database servers for future expansion. Upgraded Oracle Enterprise manager to new versions and monitored databases.    Client: San Francisco Fire Department    Tuning of database servers and application software. Provided input on software changes to help improve system performance and performed upgrades on database. Database Administrator Soutwest Research Institute - San Antonio, TX May 2009 to October 2013 Database Administrator in Southwest Research Institute’s Data Systems area. Team member in maintaining their primary Oracle database that houses the Institute’s financial, project accounting, time keeping and workflow systems. Daily duties include monitoring database for performance bottlenecks, database tuning and other general Database Administrator tasks. Implemented a centralized Oracle Enterprise Manager repository and RMAN backup solution for the production system and many development and test systems.     Also used by the Data Systems area as an Oracle expert to be deployed to any Institute division requiring assistance, including general Oracle installation and programming advice, backup strategies, performance tuning, remote monitoring and systems installation. Lead Database Administrator Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) - San Antonio, TX January 2005 to May 2009 Lead Database Administrator on the Veteran’s Health Administration (VHA) Replacement Scheduling Application (RSA) project. The RSA project involved the business process reengineering and replacement of the current VHA scheduling package. Additionally, the scheduling project required full integration of the new scheduling product into the current VHA system (VistA). Duties included installing and configuring of 25+ databases for development, testing and deployment of the RSA product, software configuration manager for the database team, developing PL/SQL routines for database loading, and performing system administration. Duties also included being a member of the software deployment team, determining the methods and issues involved with installation and configuration of the RSA software in the field, and a member of the product performance team, assisting with monitoring the software under load in a controlled environment and pinpointing performance bottlenecks.    Off-project work included several technology advancement initiatives exploring current Data Warehousing, Data Mining and data visualization using GeoServer and Google Earth, assisting with performance and tuning issues for the SwRI time reporting system, and providing emergency Oracle assistance to other SwRI divisions when the need arose.. Database Consultant Thinkspark / Database Consultants, Inc. - San Antonio, TX April 1994 to January 2005 As Senior Consultant my responsibilities included administration and tuning of Oracle databases, and consulting with application developers to ensure adequate performance of applications.    The clientele that I directly consulted to included:    Client: EWS/EWF 453rd AFIWC, Lackland AFB, TX    Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager for client, configuring all systems to be under control via one central repository. Also provided client with DBA mentoring, and basic database performance advice.    Client: Southwest Research Institute (SWRI), San Antonio, TX    Installed and configured a Oracle 9.2 Clustered Database between two RedHat Advanced Servers, setting up raw and Oracle Clustered File System (OCFS) devices on a SAN between both servers. Also installed and configured Oracle 9iAS Application Server for development and testing systems, and set other necessary DBA tools such as RMAN backups and Enterprise Manager repository and server.    Client: ILD Communications, San Antonio, TX    Consulted with client for upgrade of disk array to add 5 new 18Gig drives. Performed installation, testing and deployment of file systems mounted on drives.    Client: Lockheed Martin, San Antonio, TX    Migrated Oracle Applications production system (DCPDS) from 10.7 to 11i. This was a 24x7 operation until it was complete. It entailed migrating approximately 27 regions for DOD    Provided temporary Database Administrator support for DPMS project, assisting with testing and deployment of new software version releases.    Provided testing and evaluation of Oracle HR 10.7 to 11.5.7 upgrade plans by converting three instances to new versions. Provided input on printed instructions, upgrade timings, and instruction accuracy. Also installed features such as running the Applications software through a SSL tunnel, Advanced Security Option, and site certificates.    Client: Citicorp US Call Center, San Antonio, TX    Member of Database Administration Team. Primarily responsible for providing technical support for their Call Center Call Tracking/Planning software TCS, and assisting with conversion project to a new version of the software. Also provided general DBA assistance to team when necessary. Installed and assisted Eshare database, tracking outgoing sales calls via the automated dialer database and receiving nightly updates.    Client: United Services Automobile Association (USAA), San Antonio, TX    Member of Database Administration team for Bank Systems. Responsibilities included database administration tasks for the Consumer Loan OLTP system and Bank Performance DSS systems. Special projects included tuning issues, sizing and planning of database usage, converting from "raw" file systems and Oracle Parallel server to "JFS" based file systems, conversion from Oracle 7 to Oracle 8 server, and implementing table and index partitioning.  Client: SBC Corporation, San Antonio, TX    Database and Unix Administration duties for the Financial Reporting Division of SBC. Responsible for all aspects of Oracle database administration, Oracle Financial Applications administration and Unix administration of three HP-UX servers including system backups, tuning, capacity planning, system integration and upgrades. Provided administrative support for clustered Citrix Winframe multi-user NT servers running a custom Oracle Forms application designed as a user interface to Oracle Accounts Payables. Assisted with NT and LAN administration duties when called upon, and provided input when debugging network connections across the corporate WAN through routers and firewalls.    Client: Lancer, Inc., San Antonio, TX    Assisted with installation and configuration of HP/UX Model 20 RAID array and moving Oracle database files to it.    Client: Perdenales Electrical Co-Op, Johnson City, TX    One week consulting project to provide input on general health of several Oracle databases. Provided client with list of issues on immediate and potential problems with their databases.    Client: Smartprice.com., Austin, TX  Installed new hard drives on production web servers, increasing disk space to meet the demands of their growing database. Also provided remote and on-site technical support for Oracle systems and Sun servers.    Client: Norwood Products., Austin/San Antonio, TX    Installed Oracle 9.2 RDBMS on Sun servers for conversion of older system to new architecture. Installed and configured other needed DBA tools such as Enterprise Manager repository and server, RMAN backups, and startup/shutdown scripts.    Assisted with production cutover date, exporting and importing old database to new databases, and testing.    Converted ADP reports written in Reportsmith for MS-SQLserver to use Oracle calls instead.    Client: VIA Metropolitan Transport, San Antonio, TX    Assisted their DBA with database configuration issues, index/table reorganization and provided basic mentoring on DBA issues.    Client: Raymond James Consulting, San Antonio, TX    Provided database recovery assistance with a down production database, and assisted with re-creating new database on a Solaris/Intel platform. (ILD Communications)    Client: Vista Insurance Partners, San Antonio, TX    Provided general troubleshooting assistance with SQL*Net connection problems, and gave advice on database tuning and backup/restore procedures.    Client: IQ Software, San Antonio, TX    Database administration duties. Administered all databases that IQ Software supports, including Sybase, Ingres, Informix, Oracle, Rdb, Supra. Placed in charge of all database software procurement. Headed Database Working Group to get feedback from organization on DBA duties and needs. Developed a database inventory tracking system written in Forms 4.0 to help with maintaining their large inventory. Developed database administration tools that work in their multi-platform, multi- database environment. Responsible for VMS and other Unix systems management.    Client: LDDS, San Antonio, TX    Oracle database administration, including database backups, redo log archiving, database performance analysis, database design analysis, database installation and mentoring DBA duties to their administrator. Assisted software development and systems group with developing planning procedures for future database growth.    Client: CommScope, Inc., City, NC    Four-day task involving database installation, capacity planning, and database administration mentorship    Client: SMI, Austin, TX    Database administration including performance analysis, online redo log archiving, and general maintenance.    Client: Legacy Solutions, San Antonio, TX    Database administration, including installing Oracle 6 & 7, capacity planning. Also was responsible for some development of “DBIO” module, a Pro*Cobol application that emulated an IDMS database under Oracle. Responsible for all VAX/VMS system administration and some Solaris administration.    Client: El Paso Water, El Paso, Texas    Involved with Database installation and SQL*Net installation for approximately 40 PC’s.    Client: E.J. Ward, San Antonio, TX    Assisted with Informix to Oracle conversion of real-time pump monitoring software. Designed database schema, created several forms using SQL*Forms 4.0 and instructed their personnel on Database Administration basics. Assisted with conversion of Informix SQL/C modules to Oracle PRO*C.  Client: Cancer Therapy Research Center, San Antonio    Assisted with emergency restoration of an Oracle database from minimal backups, including Oracle Financials tables and other third-party applications. Also designed and implemented a backup scheme that will allow CTRC to recover from the point of failure.    Internal DCI Work, San Antonio    Developed Database Consultants World Wide Web home page, http://dci-ltd.com. Responsible for San Antonio DCI office servers including Solaris Sparc 10 mail server and Windows NT file server. Provided e-mail postmaster support for San Antonio and entire DCI-LTD.COM domain when called upon. Assisted with installing Microsoft Exchange based service in San Antonio office and managing servers. Assisted with configuration and maintenance of San Antonio Consultant Lab PC’s, including installing Windows, Linux, and Oracle software, and configuring hardware as needed. Assisted with overall plan for network architecture and deployment of San Antonio office and ThinkSpark in general. Database Administrator Computer Science Corporation / TRW - San Antonio, TX November 1990 to April 1994 Computer Sciences Corporation/TRW, Brooks AFB, Texas    November, 1990 - April, 1994 Database Administrator    Provided Database Administration support for Oracle software development and production databases, keeping track of multiple Oracle instances across multiple database servers in a SQL*Net TCP/IP environment. Duties also included performance analysis, capacity planning, system tuning, implementation of database security policies; software/hardware-licensing tracking, software/hardware evaluation, and performing VAX/VMS and SunOS/Solaris administration tasks when called upon. Was involved in a large Client/Server migration plan, converting existing software to a distributed environment, and exploring products such as PC SQL*Net, Microsoft Windows, PC-Oracle tools, and other third-party database products such as Powerbuilder, Visual Basic and SQR to provide desktop database access.    Computer Sciences Corporation/TRW, Brooks AFB, Texas    November, 1990 - April, 1994 Programmer/Analyst    Developed software for USAF MIS Personnel Management System (PERSMOD) using ORACLE SQL relational database products. Duties included requirements analysis, design, coding, testing and documentation of new and existing MIS software applications, assisted with training of Air Force and civilian personnel in the use of the system, and provided technical support. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Oracle Database Design and Application Development University of Texas At San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 1989 Skills RedHat Linux / Advanced Server • HP-UX 9.04/10.x (10+ years), IBM AIX (10+ years), Oracle Enterprise Linux (10+ years), VAX/VMS - Open VMS (4 years), HP-UX (10+ years), SunOS / Solaris (10+ years), Oracle Exadata Server (6 years), Oracle Database Appliance (ODA) (5 years), Oracle RDBMS Administration (versions 5-12c) (10+ years), Oracle MySQL Server Administration (10+ years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, RAC, ETL