Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator San Antonio, TX An enthusiastic Database Administrator with 12+ years of experience all levels of performance, functional, integration, system, databases design, installation and configuration to infrastructure standards and ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously. Possess good analytical and problem solving skills and excellent team player with high level of personal initiative. Work Experience Database Administrator Apex System Inc - San Antonio, TX April 2019 to July 2019 • Working experience in NoSQL Cassandra, Couchbase and Hazelcast  • Building the Cassandra nodes and setting up the Cassandra cluster  • Working on Cassandra with Installation, configuring and monitoring  • Worked on Cassandra database modeling and administration.  • Working experience in performance tuning and maintenance of Cassandra Database.  • Installing and configuring LDAP and Kerberos authentication and Authorization  • Handled day to day monitoring and maintenance of database  • Worked on Jira and Service now tools  • Used automation tool rundeck, gitlab, Ansible  • Used monitoring tool Splunk  Environment: Cassandra, Couchbase and Hazelcast Database Administrator Wal-Mart stores Inc. (ISD) - Bentonville, AR July 2006 to December 2018 • Administration of the database including performance monitoring and tuning.  • Monitored transaction activity and utilization  • Building the Cassandra nodes and setting up the Cassandra cluster  • Working on Cassandra with Installation, configuring and monitoring    • Handled day to day monitoring and maintenance of database  • Provided 24x7 production database support through on call  • Worked on Jira and Service now tools  • Optimized the Indexes, adding/deleting them necessary for better performance.  • Supported clustered and non-clustered environments as well as log shipping for disaster recovery  • Automated DBA tasks utilization SQL and LINUX/UNIX shell scripting  • SQL Server database installation, database creation and backup/recovery  • Knowledge of Azure Cloud  • Performed server installed and configuration using SQL Server  • Documented HA and DR strategies  • DBA knowledge of SQL Server database installation, database creation and backup/recovery  • Wrote T-SQL statements using DML and DDL for retrieval of the data.  • Performed SQL Server installations, upgrade and patches in multi-nodes Windows cluster environments  • Setting up High availability environments like active-active and active passive clustering, Database mirroring, Replication, Log shipping, setting up servers from scratch on clustered environment, linked servers.  • Managed user access and security issues such as roles and privileges  • Back up data and restore it properly to prevent any type of data loss  • Performed Database installations, applied patches, upgrades, table reorg and configurations  • working on high availability (HA) and replication technologies (HADR)  • Created and maintained documentation for DBA standard operating procedures  • Planned and executed database migration HP to Linux and AIX to Linux  • Working experience in RDBMS databases platform DB2/LUW11.1, Oracle 11g and Informix12.10.  Environment: DB2/LUW, Oracle, MS SQL, Informix, Cassandra, shell scripting, Perl Data Control Processor EDS - Lombard, IL September 2002 to July 2006 • Monitors and maintains distribution logs, controls records to process data  • Verifies accuracy of the data control work performed.  • Receives and reviews input and output data.  • Transaction-Oriented CD- ROM research tool for customer inquiries.  • Services include: capture images, balance transactions, deposit checks, transmit all  • Processed payments to client's account receivables system.  Environment: TMS 2000 base system, MS Access  ELIGIBILITY STATUS: US Citizen Education Master's Skills DB2, INFORMIX, MS ACCESS, ORACLE, SQL, UDB, CASSANDRA, COUCHBASE, LINUX, UNIX, C/C++, HTML, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, RDBMS, VERSION CONTROL, JAVA, C++ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:  • Operating System: UNIX, Linux, Windows  • Languages: Visual Basic5.0, C/C++, Java, HTML, Python, PHP, Perl  • RDBMS: DB2 UDB, Oracle, MS SQL, Informix, MS Access  • Version Control Tools: Concord, GitHub, Ansible, telegraph, and Madusa  • No SQL DB: Cassandra, Couchbase, Hazelcast