MSSQL/MYSQL/PostgreSQL Database Administrator MSSQL/MYSQL/PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MSSQL/MYSQL/PostgreSQL Database Administrator - Enom Inc Bellevue, WA • Over 13+ years of experience as SQL Server DBA/Developer with SQL Server versions 2008/2012/2014/2016/2017, also worked on PostgreSQL, RDS Amazon Web Services, Window Azure and Databases & MY SQL Databases.  • Migrated SQL server 2008/2012/2014 to SQL 2016/2017.  • Excellent Experience in MS SQL Server installation, building Cluster & Geo Cluster Servers. Along with configuration, performance Tuning, Upgrades, Backup/Recovery and Managing Security. Excellent knowledge of SQL Server Replication, Log Shipping, Mirroring (HADR) and SQL Server 2012/2014/2016/2017.  • Normalization/ De normalization Techniques on database Tables, and aggregating data into meaningful information  • Designed, maintained and documented highly transactional OLTP system scaling up to 10 million transactions.  • Writing Stored Procedure, Functions, Views, Triggers.  • Strong understanding of major components of SQL SERVER Architecture  • Defined and Administered Database Standards, Controls, Procedures and Documented the same and monitoring the development of SQL Server Automated  • Experienced in handling End to End Project Management Activities which include Planning, Design, Scope Management, Estimation, Resource Administration and completion of project within specified Timeframes and Parameters  • Providing technical support to Application Development Teams and Setting/Maintaining Standards  • Developed and implemented T-SQL coding standards according to best practices lead to 99.9999% uptime.  • Excellent skills in Leading & Managing Project Teams throughout the Project Lifecycle and providing them Support & Guidance on Technical and Project-Related Issues.  • Working Knowledge of Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS) and Analysis Services (SSAS) Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience MSSQL/MYSQL/PostgreSQL Database Administrator Enom Inc (Fomerly RightSide) - Bellevue, WA July 2017 to Present • Managing highly complex cross datacenter Microsoft SQL cluster/PostgreSQL (eNom.com)/MySQL (Name.com).  • Migrated SQL2008/SQL2012/SQL2014 to SQL 2016/SQL2017 and build Geo-cluster (providing HA and disaster  recovery solution) and configure always on, replication in sql environment.  • Generated reports using SQL server reporting services (SSRS) that includes matrix and tabular, drill down, drill  through, and parameterized reports based on the requirements.  • Developed and rendered monthly, weekly and daily reports as per the requirement and gave roles, user access with respect to security in Report Manager.  • Implemented Symmetric Key (Security implemented) on HBI databases with the use of Encryption Keys/certificates  for secured credit card processing.  • Development, implementation and maintenance of OLAP cubes and ETL packages.  • Configure Change Data Capture (CDC) on production databases.  • Implementing Service Pack upgrades on SQL Servers for QA/Dev and Production Database.  • Optimize MSSQL queries and fix issues with slow running queries.  • Build RDS PostgreSQL environment in AWS and on premises Linux environment for both staging and production  Environment and configure binary replication and backup jobs.  • Configuration of MySQL server, MySQL replication and backup strategies and maintaining them.  • Developed several database structures, complex SQL queries, writing stored procedures, Views, Triggers and User-defined functions.  • Identifying Slow Running queries T-SQL & analyze and optimized them.  • Performed Code Reviews and developed Coding Standards considering SQL Server Best practices  • Implement/Maintain SOX/PCI compliant databases in production environment by framing security policies/group  policies.  • Performed automating and standardizing of production environment using PowerShell, TSQL, SSRS etc.  • Performance monitoring & Optimizing SQL queries and giving recommendations to Dev and Ops Teams.  • Monitoring health of the database server and checking error log or event log for database errors. MSSQL & MYSQL Database Administrator RightSide December 2015 to June 2017 • Managing highly complex cross datacenter SQL clusters for eNom.com, Name.com (MySQL), Rightside.co.  • Migrated and build Geo-cluster (giving HA and disaster recovery solution) in SQL 2012.  • Managing heavy traffic replication pipelines and production critical high available SQL clusters.  • Build RDS PostgreSQL environment in AWS and on premises Linux environment for both staging and production  environment and configure binary replication and backup jobs.  • Security implemented on databases with the use of Encryption Keys/certificates for credit card processing system.  • Implement/Maintain SOX/PCI compliant databases in production environment by framing security policies/group  Policies.  • Performed automating and standardizing of production environment using PowerShell, TSQL, SSRS etc.  • Performance monitoring & Optimizing SQL queries and giving recommendations to Dev and Ops Teams.  • Configure Change Data Capture (CDC) on some of the production databases.  • Monitoring health of the database server and checking error log or event log for database errors. Sr. MSSQL Database Administrator Green Infosystems LLC August 2013 to December 2015 Project Name: Learning-MSCom (Microsoft Corp.)  Responsibilities:  • Technical support services consisting of Tier 3 level System Administration across multiple areas of subject matter expertise for Microsoft Corp.  • Managed 100+ Production/QA+Dev servers with multiple databases, with couples of them over 10-12 terabytes both in Cluster environment with Mirroring and Replication and Implemented Always On  • Responsible for building new infrastructure for EOL and Migration database of 2008 to SQL 2012 & SQL 2014 Servers and Cloud databases (windows azure).  • Working knowledge of Azure VMs, Azure Virtual Network, Service Bus, Azure Storage, X.509 certificate in Microsoft Azure.  • Recommendation/Configuring of availability strategies database mirroring, clustering and Setting up database for replication, log shipping and Database mirroring and monitoring the setup & Creating SSRS reports  • Scheduled Backups of databases and recovered them periodically to verify integrity of Backups. Experience working with Lite Speed  • Developed several database structures, complex SQL queries, writing stored procedures, views, triggers and user-defined functions.  • Identifying Slow Running queries by profiler, T-SQL & analyze and optimized them.  • Managed Query Optimization and Performance Tuning of Stored Procedures, Functions etc.  • Performed Code Reviews and developed Coding Standards considering SQL Server Best practices  • Optimized T-SQL Queries for efficient retrieval of data by analyzing execution plan and optimizer cost. Re-designed indexes as required  • Responsible for Deployments on Database Servers.  • Attend weekly production support status meetings with Clients and address the gaps, if any.  • Provided Production Support on a 24*7 basis.  • Implementing Service Pack upgrades on SQL Servers for QA/Dev and Production Database.  • Monitoring database growth activities & and take proactive steps to avoid Transaction Log & Space Issues  • Worked on incident management issues as per IMR/Tickets raised.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Responsible for code review prior to project implementation of databases objects like Views, Stored Procedure, Triggers etc. to provide structure to stored data and maintain database efficiently.  • Performing the root cause analysis of production issues.  • Ensuring automation of monitoring MS-SQL Server using PowerShell and T-SQL Sr. MSSQL Database Administrator HCL America Inc June 2012 to August 2013 Project Name: Bing-AdCenter (Microsoft Corp.)    Responsibilities:  • Managed a geographically distributed Application Support Team providing services for Deployment, Incident and Infrastructure Mgt. for portfolio of Microsoft business applications and services.  • Onsite-offshore coordination, designed processes for effective client communication with offshore teams.  • Responsible for handling Production environment of the client Microsoft Corp having Databases in 8-10 TB's.  • Migrated SQL Server 2008 Clusters to Always On Failover Cluster Instances in SQL Server 2012.  • Implemented and Maintained Disaster Recovery for Production Database Environment Recommendation/Configuring availability strategies Database Mirroring (Always on), Clustering and Setting Up database for Replication, Log Shipping and monitoring the setup.  • Responsible for query optimization using SQL tools such as SSMS, SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard. Worked on incident management issues as per IMR/Tickets raised by UTS monitoring system  • Performance tuning of the database regions like T-SQL that has high response time(s), monitor and resolved performance related factors of existing/new applications. Provided Production Support on a 24*7 basis.  • Working closely with various teams at client location to gather and understand the database requirement setting up of new MSSQL Server 2008 and 2012 databases in both development and production environments and coordinating with the clients for enhancements.  • Attend weekly production support status meetings with Clients and address the gaps, if any.  • Performed Service Pack updates and deployments on SQL DB Servers on test and production environments  • Integrated Database Maintenance jobs with SQL Lite speed to perform Full, differential & transaction log Backups and scheduled them with the SQL Server agent job scheduler  • Monitoring database growth activities & and take proactive steps to avoid Transaction Log & Space Issues  • Responsible for query optimization using SQL tools such as SSMS, SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard. Worked on incident management issues as per IMR/Tickets raised by UTS monitoring system  • Performing the root cause analysis of production issues and ensuring monitoring automation of MS-SQL Server  • Documented all the processes involved in maintaining the database for future references, Involved in discussions with clients to adapt the new technologies like Partitioning, mount points, resource governor, email alerting for regular tasks and encryption was involved in building new Infrastructure for SQL Server 2012  Environment: MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2008 (R1 & R2), SSRS, Windows Server 2008 R1, UTS Sr. MSSQL Database Administrator HCL Technologies Ltd February 2010 to June 2012 Project Name: Bing-AdCenter (Microsoft Corp.)    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for handling Production environment of the client Microsoft Corp having Databases in 8-10 TB's.  • Configuring/Maintaining Clustering, replication, Log Shipping & Mirroring, Maintenance Plan  • Responsible for Migration SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  • Working closely with various teams at client location to gather and understand the database requirement setting up of new MSSQL Server 2008 and 2012 databases in both development and production environments and coordinating with the clients for enhancements.  • Optimized T-SQL Queries for efficient retrieval of data by analyzing execution plan and optimizer cost. Re-designed indexes as required.  • Provided Production Support on a 24*7 basis.  • Recommendation/Configuring of availability strategies database mirroring, clustering and Setting up database for replication, log shipping and Database mirroring and monitoring the setup.  • Coordinating service pack updates on SQL DB Servers on test and production environments  • Involved in discussions with clients to adapt the new technologies like Partitioning, mount points, resource governor, email alerting for regular tasks and encryption  • Was involved in building new Infrastructure for SQL Server 2012  • Integrated Database Maintenance jobs with SQL Lite speed to perform Full, differential &  • transaction log Backups and scheduled them with the SQL Server agent job scheduler  • Monitoring database growth activities & and take proactive steps to avoid Transaction Log & Space Issues  • Responsible for query optimization using SQL tools such as SSMS, SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard.  • Worked on incident management issues as per IMR/Tickets raised by UTS monitoring system  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Responsible for code review prior to project implementation of databases objects like Views, Stored Procedure, Triggers etc. to provide structure to stored data and maintain database efficiently.  • Performing the root cause analysis of production issues.  • Ensuring the automation of monitoring MS-SQL Server  Environment: MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2008 (R1 & R2), Windows Server 2008 R1, UTS Database Administrator FirstRain - Gurgaon, Haryana May 2008 to January 2010 MS SQL Server 2008/2005 & MY SQL)    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for handling the Production & Staging Environment.  • Taking care of the Backups and Restoration Tasks of MS-SQL & MY SQL having databases in 8-9 TB's.  • Maintaining/Configuring Clustering, Replication-MS SQL & MY SQL, Logs Shipping & Mirroring, Maintenance Plan.  • Preparing documents for Disaster Recovery and perform disaster recovery exercise once in a Year.  • Performance tune Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions & long running queries by looking at query plans, IO Statistics.  • Joining Techniques, and Outdated Statistics & Indexes.  • Monitoring Database Growth and plan for the data storage and servers and bring about effective  • Perform Capacity Planning & utilization  • Preparing the schedule for the maintenance job of various events.  • Ensuring the automation of monitoring MS-SQL Server.  • Preparing / writing stored procedure, triggers, views, and functions for different projects.  • Assisting the Programmers for optimizing SQL queries.  • Database refresh in test environment with the production database backup  • Coordinating service pack updates on SQL DB Servers on test and production environments  • Monitoring health of the database server and checking error log or event log for database errors.  • Managing new database objects including tables, indexes, SQL queries, & stored procedures for data manipulation.  • Drafting documents for Jobs, Replication, Server Capacity, Database Size, etc.  • Performing the root cause analysis of production issues.  • Performing Weekly Maintenance of SQL Servers  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2005, MY SQL 5.6, Windows Server 2003 Education Master in Computer Applications in Computer Applications IGNOU 2005 Bachelors in Arts Delhi University 1997 Post-Graduation Diploma in Computer Application in Computer Application IGNOU Skills Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, T-sql, Scom, Unix, Amazon web services, C++, Html, Vbscript, Visio, Vb 6, Vb 6.0, Asp, Asp.net, Sql Dba, DBA, MYSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Databases: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014/2016, Windows Azure, PostgreSQL,  RDS on Amazon Web Services, MY SQL 5.6, Oracle 9i,  Programming Languages: C, C++, VB 6.0, T-SQL, PL/SQL, VBScript, HTML, ASP.Net, PowerShell  Tools & Utilities: SCOM, Spotlight, SiteScope, ILO, SQLLitespeed, ER Studio (ERWIN,), Visio  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2012, 2008 (R1, R2), 2003, Windows NT Server 4.0, UNIX, DOS,  Others: MS SSIS, MS-Office