Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Database Administrator General Motors - Chandler, AZ August 2016 to February 2019 Innovation DBA responsible for idea to operations Oracle database data modeling, high availability and performance tuning.  Daily RMAN backup and verification of 175 Oracle development, test & production databases.  Daily communication with development and operations teams in Ireland, Venezuela, Germany, South Korea and U.S.  Responsible for SOX databases and security of internal sensitive data from 90GB - 6TB data structures.  Provisioned new Oracle development, test & production databases according to GM documented standards.  Responsible for ITIL compliance of Oracle database changes by presenting business & technical use cases to various CABs.  Worked with system and automation engineers to identify and prioritize technical challenges and determine cause and effect.  Trained and mentored new members of the Innovation DBA teams across the world.  Responsible for Sqlnet data encryption and migration of data from U.S. data centers to Russelsheim & Paris data centers.  Performed character set conversions and Oracle version upgrades for older EAI, ERP and CRM databases.  Worked with data warehouse teams to ensure flawless ETL from ODS databases to data warehouse and to data marts.  Worked with Golden Gate teams to reduce duplicate data and verify accurate data replication from system to system.  Responsible for database cluster storage capacity using ASM by monitoring data growth rate monthly.  Managed physical standby databases and planed and unplanned switchover activities.  Periodic testing of application robustness by coordinating and implementing database instance failover activities.  Implemented frequent presentations on the GM standard database soft and hard decommission process.  Actively create new documentation for use in the GM knowledge management system (EDM).  Responsible for GM database meta data repository (CMDB) - tracking the health & ownership of all GM Oracle & SQL databases.  Actively created and distributed weekly RMAN reports to database owning teammates for immediate action.  Participated in fleet CPU patching of Oracle databases for all North American data centers.  Managed Oracle RAC database clusters from 2-8 nodes primary and standby using active data guard.  Created and maintained shell and perl scripts for automated database provisioning and end user database access requests. Database Administrator State of Arizona - Phoenix, AZ May 2015 to August 2016 Actively performed daily administration of 11g databases including hot & cold RMAN and performance tuning.  Worked with system administrators to ensure business continuity for Oracle databases, applications and reporting activities.  Successfully applied quarterly Oracle CPU patches to development and production databases.  Successfully upgraded Oracle 10g databases to 11g during identified maintenance windows.  Worked with BI team to ensure proper queries to support reporting activities.  Advised development teams on data model modifications and best practices.  Fully documented all Oracle database platforms, application platforms and reporting platforms.  Responsible for 24/7 on call and after hours support of Land Department Oracle IT resources.  Maintained Land Department websites internal and external. Database Administrator Shamrock Foods - Phoenix, AZ February 2012 to May 2015 Actively performed daily management of 23 production Oracle databases and 23 development Oracle databases.  Daily management of production 3 node and 5 node Oracle RAC cluster and a 2 node development RAC.  Performed maintenance of OS patching and security management of 17 RHEL 4 hosts and 9 Tru64 Unix hosts.  Participated in weekly development code reviews to insure optimal performance of oracle databases.  Wrote and maintained perl and shell scripts to automate tasks that support company business rules and database health alerts.  Monitored database performance and availability using Grid 10g, Grid 12c, Toad, Foglight, Big Brother and shell scripts.  Participated in Agile managed projects to upgrade Oracle database versions and weekly maintenance plans.  Managed 75 SqlServer (version 2005-2012) databases and monitored performance using Idera Sql Diagnostic Manager.  Wrote production run-book documentation and actively trained other System Engineers on maintenance and best practices.  Created PowerPoint presentations and actively trained developers on query efficiency and database best practices.  Actively monitored, tuned queries and modified database configuration to optimize performance to meet business expectations.  Performed the role of the only on call DBA for the first 2 years at Shamrock Foods.  Lead the Oracle Upgrade project to test, document and migrate 20 databases from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11gR2.  Studied and tested successfully to obtain ITIL certification and participated in implementation for corporate infrastructure team.  Reverse engineered all company-wide application systems, databases, shell scripts, Perl scripts, PHP and hosts in Phoenix, Denver, Albuquerque, Fontana & Sacramento in order to fully understand and document the entire corporate infrastructure.  Created svn code repository and actively checked in all database and OS related scripts.  Technologies Used: Data Warehouse, Discoverer, Oracle Warehouse Builder, Workflow Monitor, MS Dynamics, RAC, Linux, Unix, Grid Control, Commvault, Netapp, Agile, ITIL  Industry: Food Production and Distribution Database Administrator Pearson - Chandler, AZ September 2010 to February 2012 Created Liquibase Changesets to track ddl changes to the corporate master database.  Wrote sql statements and functions to maintain the production databases and add new product features.  Daily support of 5 java development teams and mentoring on query tuning and coding standards.  Wrote and maintained data warehouse using C, Perl, shell scripts and PgPlsql languages on CentOS and SUSE linux hosts.  Configured new database hosts for use in data warehouse development.  Performance tested application- database interactions and documented technical specifications.  Implemented erWin data modeling and design tool for what-if scenarios and corporate wide documentation.  Created and deployed Postgres databases, updates and patches to cloud hosted databases on CentOS and Ubuntu linux.  Managed Oracle external tables on CentOS and PL functions to support ETL processes.  Effective management of product requirements using Agile methodology and Rally tracking tool.  Industry: Educational Software Database Administrator Icrossing - Scottsdale, AZ October 2006 to September 2010 Maintained high availability Oracle database status by monitoring production environment using Nagios, OEM & Grid Control.  Daily administration of 177 production postgres databases on 14 postgres clusters for real-time web analytics products.  Daily administration of a 2 node production Oracle RAC and a 2 node development Oracle RAC on Linux hosts.  Used RMAN and Enterprise Manager for nightly Oracle backups.  Automated ETL and database administration tasks by writing Perl, Shell & SQL scripts and Oracle external tables.  Promoted product maturity by data model creation, documentation and maintenance using Sybase PowerDesigner.  Initiated product data modeling sessions and managed DML & DDL patching.  Enhanced client satisfaction and communication by automating the management of product ftp site.  Standardized common ETL jobs by implementing Pentaho Data Integrator  Converted 45 MySQL databases to Postgres databases.  Effective management of client service level agreements using Agile methodology, Jira tickets and confluence documentation.  Daily mentoring development teams on coding standards and query tuning.  Industry: Web Analytics Database Administrator Cisco Learning Institute - Phoenix, AZ October 2004 to October 2006 Actively administered 18 Oracle physical standby databases and six Oracle datastores for the BI reporting team.  Daily monitoring and maintenance of Perl, shell & sql scripts used by the Netacad BI datastore, internal reports and Academy Connection Reports.  Implemented Big Brother & Nagios monitoring to increase daily processing integrity and reduce manual monitoring.  Automated monthly production database snapshots for historical reporting functions.  Made production environment efficient by sql tuning activities and log efficiency statistics.  Modified sql scripts when reporting requirements change.  Published documentation consisting of processes interdependencies, data flow diagrams, and database server scripts.  Monitored and maintained tablespaces to keep developers productive when a size limit occurs or a threshold is reached.  Implemented troubleshooting methods, testing and modification of Perl, shell and sql script for daily report processing.  Daily administration of 10 MySQL databases for the reporting team.  Industry: Online Education Technical Specialist Iconixx - Houston, TX September 2003 to July 2004 Created custom Oracle database schemas and PLSQL packages- development, test & production environments.  Created customized data mappings interfaces for ETL of data using Informatica and stored procedures.  Gathered client requirements to interface legacy data into the new Oracle schemas.  Created implementation environment and customized requirements technical documentation.  Wrote custom shell scripts and FTP scripts to automate the ETL processing.  Wrote implementation documentation to train technical personnel and aid in the maintenance of new systems.  Traveled 100% of the time to customer sites for implementation, training and support of team installed products.  Created weekly project status reports.  Technologies Used: IBM AIX, Windows XP, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Korn Shell Scripts, Informatica PowerMart, TrueComp, Datwarehousing, MS Access  Industry: Telecommunications Small Business Owner Fire Fly Company - Phoenix, AZ March 2001 to September 2003 Independent, self-employed consultant in the information technology field.  Configured web servers, database set-up and conversions, data interfaces, network and web security, custom programming and software training for my customers.  Technologies Used: Windows XP, IIS, Windows 2000 Adv Server, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, MS Access Systems Analyst Buck Consultants - Phoenix, AZ May 2001 to October 2001 Created HIPAA standard file layouts for import & export of EDI data from/to clients.  Created SQL-Server DTS packages and T-SQL stored procedures for data interfaces using MS SQL-Server 7.0  Created web viewable reports and custom reports using Actuate 5.0 E-Reporting tools.  Installed and configured Windows 2000 Enterprise Server, Actuate Report Server and MS-SQL Server 7.0 software.  Technologies Used: MS SQL-Server 7.0, Actuate 5.0, Windows 2000 Enterprise Server, Terminal Server, PC Anywhere, DTS, T-SQL, MS Access  Industry: Health Care Benefits Enrollment Technical Team Lead Metro IS Consulting - Phoenix, AZ January 2001 to April 2001 Development team lead for five C developers at Bank of America.  Responsible for new C programs, stored procedure development and daily maintenance of production databases.  Performed conversion of Oracle 8i database to a DB2 data warehouse.  Responsible for daily data interfaces to load and extract and from flat files to DB2 database tables.  Conducted scheduled code walkthrus, team code testing and production efficiency analysis.  Created and maintained detailed technical documentation for department coding, procedural standards and business requirements.  Technologies Used: Sun Solaris 2.7, WinNT 4.0, IBM AIX, Oracle 8.0.5, DB2 5.2, PL/SQL, Korn Shell Scripts, C, dbAritisan, erWin, IBM Mainframe, SCSS, MS Access, Informatica  Industry: Banking/Finance Technical Lead The Alexander Group Inc - Scottsdale, AZ April 2000 to January 2001 Daily administration of Oracle databases, SUN E420 servers, NT 4.0 servers and IIS.  Designed custom databases schemas using Oracle 8.05 and 8i.  Mapped incoming and outgoing data interfaces into multiple Oracle databases.  Created standardized data layouts and data interfaces for use with EDI.  Applied the current operating system and database patches to Sun Solaris 2.6, 2.7 and Oracle 8x.  Customized the implementation plans of TrueComp Manager, Modeler, Viewer and TrueIntegration per customer.  Created data interfaces using Informatica for extraction, transformation and load data functions into Oracle.  Installed and supported Actuate Report Server and Actuate Web Agent used in online custom reports.  Created technical requirements documentation specific to each client.  Wrote Unix shell scripts to automate the extraction, transformation, loading and payroll data processing for each client.  Actively trained each customer on implementation details of TrueComp, Informatica, Actuate, database scripts, JRE settings and Unix shell scripting.  Documented detailed technical standards, business support policies and procedures for each custom implementation.  Created weekly project status reports.  Technologies Used: Sun Solaris 2.7, WinNT 4.0, Oracle 8.0.5, 8i, Sybase 11.5, PL/SQL, Korn Shell Scripts, Perl 5, dbAritisan, erWin, Actuate, Informatica PowerMart, SQL-Server 6.5, 7.0, TrueComp, TrueModeler, Apache Web Server, Netscape Enterprise Web Server, Hyperion S-Base Cubes, MS Project, MS Access  Industry: Marketing and Sales Consulting, Enterprise Incentive Management Technical Consultant Alliance Consulting - Phoenix, AZ August 1999 to April 2000 Designed custom implementation specifications for Oracle, Sybase and SQL-Server database schemas.  Created standardized data layouts for data interfaces of data for use with EDI.  Gathered and documented requirements to map legacy data and port it into new database schemas.  Applied current patches to Sun Solaris, Oracle, Sybase & SQL-Server software environments.  Lead custom implementations of TrueComp, TrueModeler, Informatica PowerMart, and Netscape Enterprise.  Created data interfaces using Informatica for extraction, transformation and load data functions.  Installed and supported Actuate Report Server and Actuate Web Agent used in online custom reports.  Wrote Unix shell scripts to automate the extraction, transformation, loading of data.  Traveled 100% of the time to customer sites for implementation, training and support of team installed products.  Created weekly project status reports.  Technologies Used: Sun Solaris 2.6, WinNT 4.0, Oracle 8.0.5, 8i, Sybase 11.5, PL/SQL, Korn Shell Scripts, Perl 5, dbAritisan, erWin, Actuate, Informatica PowerMart, SQL-Server 6.5, 7.0, TrueComp, TrueModeler, Apache Web Server, Netscape Enterprise Web Server, Hyperion S-Base Cubes, MS Project, MS Access  Industry: Marketing and Sales Consulting, Enterprise Incentive Management Software Developer Advanced Food Systems - Phoenix, AZ August 1998 to July 1999 Wrote code from business specifications using the Uniface Seven development language.  Created applications using Uniface language that was deployed on mainframe, Unix and PC.  Interfaced data with SQL-Server databases, Windows NT and SCO UNIX daily.  Actively trained new developers on common corporate coding standards, procedural standards and business rules.  Created data interfaces and insured referential integrity of SQL Server databases.  Utilized detailed knowledge of accounting and distribution/logistics by analyzing and creating technical specifications.  Documented the implementation of ISO 9000 standards process and SEI-CMM management.  Performed proof of concept sessions for QA tools and script automation.  Technologies Used: SCO-Unix, WinNT 4.0, erWin, SQL-Server 6.5, 7.0, Uniface 7.0, PVCS, MS Access  Industry: Accounting, Food Distribution Logistics Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Phoenix, AZ 1996 B.S. in Marketing Management Northern Michigan University - Marquette, MI 1989 M.S. - Information Technology in Management Grand Canyon University Skills Oracle Dba, DBA (10+ years), MYSQL (2 years), DB2 (1 year), Sql Server (4 years), Sql Dba (4 years), Oracle Database (10+ years), Rman (10+ years), RAC (10+ years), Sql Database (4 years), Postgresql, ETL Certifications/Licenses ITIL February 2014 to Present ITIL Version: 2011