Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Andwin Corporation San Gabriel, CA Highly motivated, proactive and hand-on approach to problem identification and resolution, strategic planning, process-re-engineering, self directed. Ability to work with different managements to obtain stated goals and objectives. Work Experience Systems Administrator Andwin Corporation - Canoga Park, CA 2000 to Present LAN/WAN administration and support infrastructure including server configuration, switches, and work stations.  ? Manage network's security setting by using industry standard protocols IP/TCP, DHCP, SSL and VPN.  ? Helpdesk and clients support on technical issues for MAS 200&500 systems and, MS Office 2007.  ? Expert understanding many modules: BOM, AR, AP, IM RMA, MRP, Crystal Report and EDI functions.  ? Knowledge and experience in identifying, diagnosing in hardware and software problems.  ? Design special projects for Production and Shipping Department.  ? Mapping data fields on third party software and cloud service knowledge such as: SaaS, IaaS and PaaS.  ? Experience with MS Active Directory 's planning and configuration.  ? Hand on experience managing laptop, tablet, phone and iOS and Android operating systems. Database Programmer Mitratech - Los Angeles, CA 1996 to 2000 Decode and modified program in R-Tree language for Litigation system.  ? Knowledge of database structure language such as SQL, programming techniques and client applications.  ? Ability to work as team in different environments and technical support for end users.  ? Create and writing script under various files format, and familiar with Linux/Unix system.  ? Experience with HTML writing skill and graphic web base design. Database Operator Los Angeles School Unified District - Los Angeles, CA 1990 to 1996 Students Information System)  ? Daily operation in monitoring (SIS) and input student's information throughout School District.  ? Generate various type of reports for Information Technology Dept.  ? Work closely with IT director to achieve daily goals. Education Technology Certificated University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2012 Bachelor of Art in Mathematics California University of Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA 1994 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7 Certifications/Licenses Class A CDL