Database Administrator, Staff <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Staff South Ogden, UT Solutions- and results-focused database administrator equipped with over 23 years of combined experience, including 14 years of Oracle and 11 years of Informix database management as well as over 20 years of UNIX shell and 5 years of Perl scripting success. Decisive problem solver known for identifying and resolving complex technical issues with efficiency and confidence. Effectively collaborate and communicate with cross-functional teams to design, develop, implement, and maintain advanced technical solutions, from databases to applications, to improve business productivity and efficiency with reliable, high-availability technical infrastructures. Demonstrate innovative, analytical, and hands-on leadership qualities and exhibit adaptability to new technologies, tools, and methodologies. Thrive in dynamic, fast-paced environments, including providing 24/7 on-call availability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator, Staff Lockheed Martin Corporation - Layton, UT 2016 to Present Manage multiple Oracle 11g databases, perform structured data transfers between operating units, and apply data, database, and application patches. Compose PL/SQL queries to perform analysis and generate reports to fulfill ad-hoc requests. Mentor team members as database SME. Integrate and collaborate with other team members to cross-train and provide customer support across responsibility roles. Principal Database Engineer ManTech International Corporation 2012 to 2016 Administered multiple Oracle 10g and 11g databases and Grid Control 10 and 12c, including regular patch maintenance, and composed multiple PL/SQL reports to fulfill ad-hoc customer requests. Mentored junior staff in both technical and customer site-specific disciplines. Developed and documented procedure to address and resolve repeated instances of database block corruption using Oracle utilities. Participated on project teams to achieve customer architectural initiatives. Developed effective relationships with diverse customer groups to provide excellent customer service and to promote and embody ManTech values and ethics. Database Administrator, Staff Lockheed Martin Corporation 2010 to 2012 Managed multiple Oracle 10g and 11g databases and Grid Control 10, including planning, documenting, and performing multiple successful database upgrades to 11gR2. Composed PL/SQL reports to fulfill ad-hoc customer requests. Senior Application Engineer Nike, Inc 2008 to 2009 Played central role in successful delivery of multiple projects through providing technical leadership during design, development, coordination, and execution phases. Teamed and cultivated mutually beneficial relationships with business, project, and various IT support personnel. Resolved critical technical issues efficiently, ensuring quality production support.    ¨ Enabled analyst to validate and report accurate sales numbers by region and account through supporting key database for corporate financial reporting for Nike.net, which is interface used by retailers to order products.  ¨ Functioned as data analyst on multiple internal projects, creating or updating existing objects within division's logical data model (ERwin), authoring SQL scripts to develop or update physical database objects, storing scripts in source control (Subversion), and implementing scripts for development, QA, and production.  ¨ Performed as Database Refresh Coordinator within Go-to-Market (GTM) Technical Operations, orchestrating database refresh requests between 3+ project development teams on IOS DBA team. Utilized extensive negotiation and administrative talents to organize needs and expectations among Agile development teams throughout SDLC.  ¨ Documented and standardized procedure for GTM Data and Integration group to use Subversion for source control of SQL scripts to implement data and database changes as part of overarching SDLC. Senior Database Administrator Nike, Inc 1999 to 2008 Maintained multiple databases, promoting maximized availability and system performance for Oracle versions 8 through 10.2 and Informix versions 9.2 and 9.3. Delivered database and technical support for several project teams.    ¨ Decreased environment preparation time and improved project team productivity by championing design, execution, and standardization of use of new Oracle functionality (DataPump) to automate data refresh operations.  ¨ Reduced disk space expenses approximately 50% for impacted systems through migration of multiple Oracle and Informix databases to lower-cost RAID disk from mirrored disk.  ¨ Eliminated manual data entry errors and increased employee productivity via collaboration with business by developing and implementing automated metadata association process utilizing database stored procedures.  ¨ Enhanced data load rates 200% through development and deployment of Perl data load processes to drive efficiency and replace legacy UNIX shell scripts.  ¨ Maintained business continuity when existing method encountered bugs and ceased functioning by creating and instituting new Informix backup process.  ¨ Improved Perl data load process via incorporation of 3rd-party software for image processing, allowing customers to view product images within application interfaces. Database Administrator Leland James Service Corporation - Portland, OR 1998 to 1999 Portland, Oregon 1998-1999  IT group supporting shipping, logistics, and transportation company.    Database Administrator  Conducted all facets of data warehouse administration for corporate data marts, such as physical design, maintenance, and performance tuning. Teamed with business analysts to create data transformation processes, including query and logical database design. Authored and sustained UNIX shell (ksh) scripts to load data and monitor Informix version 8 database instances. Provided staff with fundamental database, UNIX, and PC concepts and production procedures mentoring. Supported 3 different reporting groups simultaneously, delivering world-class technical guidance and extensive IT knowledge. Senior Database Analyst Paging Network, Inc 1997 to 1998 Provided National Accounts Division development group with database support for Informix versions 5 through 7. Resolved complex technical issues related to utilities and applications. Designed logical and physical databases. Established new development and production environments. Supervised and mentored production support staff, including 6 database administrators, supporting Informix and PageNet applications. Contributed to creation and improvement of UNIX monitoring scripts (UNIX ksh). Served as primary architect and developer of automated script used to backup key databases. Database Support Analyst Paging Network, Inc 1994 to 1997 Supported multiple internal customers during acquisition of expert knowledge of Informix database software. Formulated and organized all-inclusive standard operating procedures and associated documentation. Developed programming skills, including UNIX ksh, through creation and modification of monitoring scripts. Learned and provided in-depth technical and functional support for PageNet applications. Functioned as primary database administrator charged with upgrading Informix database and FourGen (accounting) software for each corporate financial region. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Skills Database Administration (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), Data Analysis (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Process Development, Communications, Systems Integration, Data Modeling Certifications/Licenses CompTia Security+ ce September 2022 Earners of the CompTIA Security+ certification have the knowledge and skills necessary to perform core security functions required of any cybersecurity role. CompTIA Security+ professionals know how to identify and address potential threats, attacks and vulnerabilities and they have established techniques in risk management, risk mitigation, threat management and intrusion detection. Additional Information DoD Secret Security Clearance based upon Single Scope Background (Adjudicated 1/20/2016)