Senior Database Administrator / Developer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Developer Senior Database Administrator / Developer San Diego, CA ? Over 11 years of professional experience in the technology field, 10 years specializing in database systems  ? Wide range of experience across many database platforms with a deep focus on Microsoft SQL Server  ? Experience in software and database system design, rigorous QA, team leadership and architecture  ? Strong Agile experience including as Scrum Master, leadership in transitioning teams to an Agile workflow  ? Very comfortable mentoring technical and non-technical users and serving as a leader on larger projects  ? High-energy professional seeking a challenging and fast paced working environment Work Experience Senior Database Administrator / Developer Illumina September 2016 to January 2018 Served as database team lead for implementation of the SAP HANA platform for corporate DW  ? Key member of large scale DB migrations and upgrades of complex, mission critical manufacturing systems  ? Supported and learned MongoDB from the ground up and assisted end users in setup and use  ? Created highly regulated reports reviewed by the FDA during important audits  ? Worked very closely with engineers in Research and Development groups to setup data flows for high  profile projects Database Administrator / Developer June 2013 to September 2016 Collaborated with other DBAs to develop improved monitoring and incident response  procedures for corporate servers and databases  ? Served as part of 24/7 on call rotation managing over 800+ production databases supporting  worldwide manufacturing operations  ? Developed quality monitoring database for new NextSeq sequencing platform to consume  thousands of XML files (via SSIS and C#)and mentored engineers in developing robust reporting  ? Responsible for all SSIS development and troubleshooting at the corporate level supporting  mission critical integrations  ? Implemented new data consumption processes for instruments throughout the company, significantly reducing the time it took to add new capabilities research processes Database Engineer The Active Network 2011 to February 2013 Responsible for database development and support for an application used by major ski resorts in North  America, Australia and Europe to run their operations, accounting, point of sale and access control, processing over $6 billion worth of transactions per year  ? Maintained over 700 SQL Server Reporting Service reports used by application's customer base  ? Redesigned pricing systems and product data model in order to reduce bottlenecks in key areas of the application  ? Designed, implemented, tested and supported SSIS packages used by implementation team to import external customer data into application's database  ? Designed new search functionality for the application utilizing SQL Server's Full-Text indexing  ? Analyzed and re-factored core stored procedure code in application's Rental System  ? Designed and executed schema merge / reconciliation between implementation and development databases using Red Gate tools  ? Provided guidance to management during the development team's transition from waterfall to Agile  ? Mentored other developers and members of other teams in TSQL / SSRS development and best practices Database Specialist Blue Mountain Quality Resources March 2010 to April 2011 Led design and development of new migration process used by Professional Services team  ? Designed and developed custom reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Mentored junior team members in TSQL / SSRS  ? Closely collaborated with customers during data migration efforts Database Specialist Pennsylvania State University October 2009 to March 2010 Functioned as subject matter expert on all SQL Server related issues  ? Consolidated multi-day, manual reporting efforts into automated jobs Deployment Software Engineer Minitab November 2007 to February 2009 Served as primary developer and subject matter expert for all WiX installer projects  ? Developed C++ "custom actions" for Minitab installers Database Administrator Beyond.com January 2007 to November 2007 Designed and developed stored procedures for Beyond.com back-end  ? Created, developed and maintained ETL processes using DTS / SSIS for daily imports  ? Managed multiple production servers and provided 24/7 support for them Education B.S. in Information Technology Juniata College - Huntingdon, PA Data Science and Astronomy University of Sydney Skills Database, Ms sql server, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql