Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Stamps.com San Gabriel, CA Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Stamps.com April 2018 to Present • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Architect and build SQL Server instances in AWS • Standardize SQL Server instance builds • Ensure High availability for SQL Server with Clustering, Log Shipping and Replication • Provide Performance Tuning analysis on company databases • Investigate SQL Server monitoring and alerts and provide analysis on improvements • Research and Implement Database Administration Standard Operating Procedures • Perform Code reviews for database releases • Perform database releases as part of SDLC cycle Senior Database Architect Fandango July 2017 to April 2018 • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Ensure High availability for SQL Server with Clustering, Log Shipping and Replication • Provide Performance Tuning analysis on company databases • Research and Implement Database Administration Standard Operating Procedures • Perform Database Backup and Restore tasks • Automate Nightly and Weekly Maintenance tasks Enterprise MSSQL Database Administrator Living Spaces March 2016 to July 2017 • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Ensure High availability for SQL Server with Clustering, Log Shipping and Replication • Provide Performance Tuning analysis on company databases • Research and Implement Database Administration Standard Operating Procedures • Perform Database Backup and Restore tasks • Automate Nightly and Weekly Maintenance tasks Senior Database Administrator NBCUniversal September 2010 to March 2016 • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Troubleshoot SSIS packages • Create SSIS deployment packages • Research, Analyze and update Database Administration Standard Operating Procedure documents • Provide leadership and mentoring to offshore database team • Ensure High availability for SQL Server with Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication • Provide Performance Tuning analysis on company databases • Research and recommend improvements for SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008 Senior Database Administrator Livenation November 2009 to September 2010 • Provide Senior Level Database Administration Support for Enterprise SQL Servers • Provide Administrative Support for Business Objects • Troubleshoot Business Objects Reports • Provide mapping details for MYSQL databases between Livenation and Ticketmaster • Implement ETL process to load data from MYSQL databases from Ticketmaster into Livenation • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Ensure High availability for SQL Server with Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication • Provide Performance Tuning analysis on company databases • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Research and recommend improvements for SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008 • Research and evaluate SQL Server 2008 for Enterprise wide upgrades Database Specialist Mattel, Inc April 2008 to November 2009 • Provide Senior Level Database Administration Support for Enterprise SQL Servers • Provide leadership and mentoring to Offshore Database team • Manage Database Support for Releases to Enterprise SQL Server 2000 and 2005 Databases.  • Perform In-Place upgrades from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 • Perform parallel upgrades from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 • Implement and Configure SQL Server 2005 as part of enterprise upgrade from SQL Server 2000 • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Troubleshoot and Monitor Company databases on a daily basis.  • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Configure, troubleshoot and monitor replication • Troubleshoot and Implement SSIS packages as needed.  • Perform Code review for developers and recommend changes as needed.  • Implement Policies and Procedures to ensure database and code integrity on Enterprise SQL Servers.  • Research and recommend improvements to SQL Server 2005 to ensure high availability.  • Research and evaluate SQL Server 2008 for Enterprise wide upgrades Senior Database Administrator Fox Interactive Media March 2007 to April 2008 • Provide Senior Level Database Administration Support for Enterprise SQL Servers • Manage Database Support for Releases to Enterprise SQL Server 2005 Databases.  • Implement and Configure SQL Server 2005.  • Implement and Configure SQL Server 2005 Clusters.  • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Troubleshoot and Monitor Company databases on a daily basis.  • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Troubleshoot and Implement SSIS packages as needed.  • Perform Code review for developers and recommend changes as needed.  • Implement Policies and Procedures to ensure database and code integrity on Enterprise SQL Servers.  • Research and recommend improvements to SQL Server 2005 to ensure high availability. Technical Architect - Enterprise Database Support IndyMac Bank July 2006 to March 2007 • Provide Senior Level Database Administration Support for Enterprise SQL Servers • Manage Database Support for Releases to Enterprise SQL Server Databases.  • Implement and Configure SQL Servers.  • Implement and Configure SQL Server Clusters.  • Provide daily administration and operation support for enterprise Production SQL Servers.  • Troubleshoot and Monitor Company databases on a daily basis.  • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Import and Export data from company databases using DTS packages.  • Perform daily checks on company databases to determine space used and space available.  • Perform Database Errors research and provide resolutions. Lead Database Administrator New Century Mortgage Corporation August 2003 to July 2006 • Create and Assign tasks to Database Administration team • Provide Senior Level Database Administration Support for Enterprise SQL Servers • Primary Database Administrator for Disaster Recovery Site.  • Implement and Configure SQL Servers in Disaster Recovery Site.  • Implement and Configure SQL Server Clusters in Disaster Recovery Site.  • Administer day-to-day operations on all Production and Development SQL Servers.  • Troubleshoot and Monitor Company databases on a daily basis.  • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Update all Production and Development SQL Servers with current Microsoft service packs.  • Import and Export data from company databases using DTS packages.  • Perform daily checks on company databases to determine space used and space available.  • Create DTS packages to perform processes in company databases. Database Administrator Long Beach Mortgage Company October 2000 to August 2003 • Administer day-to-day operations on all Production and Development SQL Servers.  • Optimize Month End processing for Long Beach Mortgage Company by creating DTS packages to move and process data into historical databases.  • Optimize daily process for Audit Reporting as used by Fitech users.  • Create process flow documentation for nightly loan processing at Long Beach Mortgage Company • Update all Production and Development SQL Servers with current Microsoft service packs.  • Developing SQL Server Cluster development lab for use in training and development.  • Create Marketing Database for Insurance Services that creates unique Marketing IDs for a mass mailing marketing campaign.  • Create Master Lookup solution that helps in retrieving vital information on customers of the marketing campaign.  • Create the Privacy Mailing Database for Insurance Services that creates customer information for a mass mailing to conform to the Privacy Act.  • Assist with the upgrade of SQL Server 6.5 to SQL Server 2000 in a production environment.  • Perform backups and restores on company databases.  • Import and Export data from company databases using DTS packages.  • Perform daily checks on company databases to determine space used and space available.  • Create, update and run stored procedures and batch files for various tasks on databases.  • Create DTS packages to perform processes in company databases.  • Perform extensive SQL queries in Microsoft SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 7.0 and SQL Server 6.5 to analyze and compare data in SQL Server databases.  • Populate spreadsheets with data from selected databases.  • Perform data comparisons on various fields in database.  • Create Data Layout files to import and export data.  • Create SQL Server development environment for user training. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology, of Southern California Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server