Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Dallas, TX ? 5 years of progressive experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing and implementing Databases.  ? Upgrades, Patches, my oracle support.  ? Cloning, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, capacity planning, script development and Documentation  ? Migrating and Upgrading the Databases between different environments and versions.  ? Good knowledge in creating RMAN Duplicate Databases and FLASHBACK recovery features.  ? Design, document, implement, and maintain all backup, recovery including disaster recovery, Using RMAN and experience in Hot and Cold Backup of databases.  ? DBA activities which include Creating Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security of databases, tablespaces, indexing, data maintenance, Undo segments, Rollback segments, database auditing, space management, locking, creating database links, managing user groups, creating database objects like tables, views, indexes, constraints.  ? Prepared backup strategy and disaster recovery management of the databases by using in-house tools written using UNIX Shell Scripts.  ? Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby), Database Cloning, Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c Standby Databases (Data Guard) for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR).  ? Setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R1 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS.  ? Experience with Oracle Cloud Control, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), ASM, AWR, ADDM, Flashback Technology, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, and SQL server undo advisor.  ? Automated many common tasks using Crontab including: Backups, exports and imports, archiving old records and verification of such processes.  ? Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  ? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch". Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator U.S. Army Corps of Engineers - Huntsville, AL August 2018 to Present Monitor databases, long-running jobs HelpDesk Tickets, web applications manually and by way of OEM Grid Control.  ? Change administrative passwords every 60 days, as well as other administrative tasks.  ? Conduct Oracle Backups & monitor scheduled crontab backup jobs (Netbackup / RMAN)  ? Install Oracle Applications Server software, making sure to implement all Security Standards recommended by Oracle -- document standard requirements  ? Configure Required Components (e.g., Forms, Reports, Discoverer Viewer, Discoverer Plus, Portal, Weblogic) of Oracle Applications Server software  ? Remove old/unused software installations, and databases  ? Document Web Applications on SharePoint as added and review/update quarterly  ? Troubleshoots problems regarding the databases, applications as well as conduct Permformance Tunning when needed via OEM Grid Control  ? Install Oracle Server software ( versions 11g-19c) making sure to implement all Security Standards recommended by Oracle -- document standard requirements,as well as OEM Grid Control and Create new databases, listeners  ? Upgrade databases / listeners to new release  ? Restore and recover databass as required  ? Configuration Management -- Document Oracle software configuration (what boxes have what software), etc.  ? Investigate, review, schedule, and install Oracle security patches (Security Alerts / CPU / PSU )  ? Download most recent DISA STIGs and scripts and check against production environment. Make changes as necessary. Document all "policy" type changes  ? Track new releases of Oracle Server and Oracle Application Server Release and Patchsets; make sure databases are upgraded within 6 months of its release.  ? Assist with Audits (DISA, etc)  ? Generate PKI SSL Requests and get Certificates -- renew and revoke as necessary  ? Troubleshoot/Resolve issues that arise during On-call which include: datafile size limits being approached, available space limits being reached on mountpoints ,dataguard configurations in Error ad Unavailable applications/DB. Oracle Database Administrator Defense Health Agency - San Antonio, TX May 2017 to May 2018 Analyze and optimize the operational environment; sustain capacity and performance requirements, consolidate and tune databases for optimal efficiency, maintain systems and platforms at 99% availability (outside of scheduled downtime), and ensure data integrity through performance of daily, weekly, and monthly checklists for monitoring of logs, space checks, audit reports, and backups for preventative maintenance.  ? Monitor and maintain security configuration settings and system modifications to ensure compliance with Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA) mitigation actions and other vulnerability concerns.  ? Analyze, evaluate, validate, and debug Oracle programs and network applications; provide technical recommendations on new technologies emerging from the commercial market; propose solutions and reports through issue tickets and reports; participate in technical working groups as required  ? Creates and maintains databases required for both testing, and Production usage.  ? Performs ongoing tuning of the database instances  ? Install new versions of the Oracle RDBMS other tools that access the Oracle database.  ? Plans and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database.  ? Controls migrations of programs, database changes, through the development life cycle.  ? Implements and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  ? Performs database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database.  ? Planning along with the application developers and System administrators, to ensure that any new product usage or release upgrade takes place with minimal impact.  ? Provides technical support to application as the point of contact for  ? Oracle Corporation.  ? Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  ? Administers all database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  ? Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  ? Troubleshoots problems regarding the databases, applications.  ? Create new database users as required, and manage sharing of resources amongst applications. Oracle Database Administrator Bereans Technology - Washington, DC December 2015 to January 2017 Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer , SQLTXPLAIN, OSWatcher and other OS related utilities like pstack , pmap , top, vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace, truss and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 11g and 12c to monitor single instance and RAC databases.  ? Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  ? Performed oracle Software Installations, Creation of new standalone and clustered databases.  ? Administering and setting up of 3 node 11G RAC and 10G RAC clusterware and instances with team.  ? Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements and design indexes to improve response of queries.  ? Assisted with the Configured and Managing Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard (Active Physical Standby on  ? Installed and currently Managing Oracle 12c Grid Control (OEM) for monitoring Production, Active Data guard (DG Broker), Stage and Dev systems.  ? Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD  ? Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  ? Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  ? Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  ? Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/RAC tuning using Dictionary views, AWR, Statspack, ADDM, ASH reports, OEM Grid Control, Fine tuning of SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and table spaces at performance standpoint.  ? Performance tuning - Tune SQL statements, I/O, Memory, latches etc. Worked extensively on SQL Profiler, Explain Plan and Stats Pack for tuning top wait events, high cost SQL's.  ? Database structure changes, table/index sizing, SGA sizing, SQL, I/O and Application tuning, transaction monitoring, detecting lock contentions, tuning sort operations.  ? Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP  ? Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Vectren - Evansville, IN November 2013 to November 2014 Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  ? Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case of database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  ? Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  ? Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements and design indexes to improve response of queries.  ? Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  ? Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  ? Used SQL TRACE, , EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  ? Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  ? Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.  ? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  ? Experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  ? Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  ? Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  ? Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  ? Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  ? Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  ? Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  ? Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  ? Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  ? Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLA Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman