Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - TCS, South California Edison Glendale, CA Highly competent and result driven IT management professional with 20+ years of vast experience within diversified industries. Holds strong technical acumen with competencies in Oracle applications, developing programs, databases, components, technical support and administration. Certified from Oracle with high proficiency in Data Guard, Oracle Databases: 8, 8i, 9i & 10g, 11g, 12c, RAC, RAC One, Exadata and SQL PL/SQL. Expertise in administering Oracle Database on various platforms such as Windows, Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX and AIX. Possess practical experience in designing, creating, monitoring, managing, tuning, backup & recovery and networking to provide highest standards of availability, resilience, integrity, security and performance required by business systems. Various migration projects between different oracle versions and non-oracle databases to oracle including Exadata and oracle instances on AWS. Demonstrated capability to work in a challenging environment, multitask, deal with unexpected change and work independently in a demanding and high-pressure IT environment. Strategic thinker with strong communication, coordination, planning, analytical, problem solving, time management and interpersonal skills. Persistent to complete job with thorough investigation until the case is resolved, innovative in conducting research to find solutions to IT issues and always available 24/7. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator TCS, South California Edison - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present * Responsible in build and configure 2 Exadata Quarter RAC servers.  * Managing Team to migrate more than 50 applications from old databases to new Exadata servers  * Support and Manager 13 Exadata Servers from X3 to X7 models  * Provide support and knowledge to Application DBA team for performance tuning incidents  * Managing Oracle Database requests and Incidents with meeting 100% SLA target  * Installation of various databases on Exadata, configure and hand over to projects on Exadata servers  * Install and Configure RMAN catalog repository for more than 150 databases including managing backup scripts using new catalog database and daily backup status email from catalog database Advisor Oracle Database Administrator CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI October 2013 to July 2018 * Responsible in build and configure databases under CVS Health Database Build team.  * Migrated 34 TB database from Oracle 9i (Single node RAW device) to Oracle 11gR2 (Single node ASM) including DTS upgrade  * Building RAC, RAC One and Single node databases for different projects such as Warehouse Management System, Pharmacy Warehouse and Retail Warehouse  * Responsible for Database installation, configuration and tickets raised by Application teams under different projects  * Managing teams on different projects, providing plan and timing based on business requirement with 100% meeting deadline on all projects  * Moved to Oracle Database production support team on May, 2016:  * On call support 24x7 weekly rotation for more than 100 databases and resolving issues such as backup, performance, availability and any other require support  * Oracle Exadata database installation and upgrade from oracle 11gR2 to 12cR1 including monitoring, management and resolving performance issues for 100T+ Pharmacy Warehouse application data  * Oracle Exadata patching including one off patches and quarter PSU (with oracle platinum support) patch apply  * Migrating data from non-oracle databases (SQL Server and DB2) to Oracle Database using tools such as Oracle SQL Developer, Oracle Golden Gate and manual scripting.  * Recovery databases on disaster issues including block corruption recovery  * Part of team for upgrading OEM 12c to 13cR2 and configuring database notification, alerts and paging with OEM  * Daily monitoring more than 100 databases and space management to ensure database availability and stability  * Supporting Oracle GoldenGate and Streams Consultant RSG General Merchandise INC - Los Angeles, CA October 2012 to October 2013 Responsible in managing online sell solutions, Like Amazon, eBay and online advertising for company. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Rhea IT Services - Dubai, AE June 2009 to October 2012 * Responsible in affording IT Solutions services particularly in Oracle Products and Linux Operating Systems.  * Handled Oracle Data Guard (DR) and Real Application Server (RAC) implementation for Insurance companies such as Fujairah national Insurance and Dubai Insurance.  * Rendered complete assistance on server migration from Windows to Oracle Enterprise Linux and annual support also to Johnson & Johnson Dubai. Senior Oracle Database Administrator 3i Infotech Ltd - Dubai, AE November 2004 to June 2009 * Administered installation and configuration of Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Windows plus Red Hat Linux Server also of Oracle on various platforms like windows, Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX and AIX.  * Performed database tuning on various setting such as general database tuning and application tuning. Oracle and SQL Server  * Provide Backup and Recover solutions based on business requirements or Recover database on different failure scenarios.  * Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor database; supervised database for tuning, reconfiguration and management.  * Handled implementation of Oracle Data Guard on test environment.  * In charged on design back strategies like Oracle Data Guard, RMAN and logical backups based on clients business function.  * Facilitated database recovery for any database crash or error; addressed connectivity networking issues.    * Managed database logical and physical design structure on several cases.  * Acted as Oracle Metalink Account Administrator and dealt with clients' requirements from Metalink.  * Functioned as Oracle Service Sales Coordinator and consulted sales team on Oracle licenses and services accounts as required by clients. Senior Oracle Database Administrator GBM - Dubai, AE October 2007 to November 2007 * Administered and configured Oracle Real Application Cluster including Oracle Data Guard 10g R2 on Linux Red Hat advanced server for IBM Dubai Municipality project. Addressed concerns during configuration.  * Oversaw database activity during migration procedure. Senior Database Administrator Fourstars.Net - Dubai, AE January 2004 to November 2004 * Functioned as System Administrator of Oracle e-Business suite; facilitated Oracle e-Business 11i installation and configuration on Windows as well as planned strategy back up, recovery and tuning of Oracle databases plus Oracle e-Business suite.  * Managed installation and configuration of all modules of Oracle Collaboration Suite on Red Hat Linux including Windows advanced server.  * Provided consultation; designed and built all versions of Oracle databases. Senior Database Administrator Tehran, IR February 2001 to January 2004 * Oracle E-Business 11i Systems Administrator and handled Oracle E-Business installation, configuration and tuning.  * Administered installation and configuration of Oracle Collaboration Suite on Windows Advanced Server and Red Hat Linux Advanced Server; Oracle database 9i on Red hat Linux 8.0, Red Hat Linux Advanced Server; Oracle database 9i on Windows 2000 Advanced server for Custom Organization; Oracle database 8i for industry automation systems of Ministry of Defense Iran aircraft industrial and Oracle database server 8i, 9i on Windows 2000 advanced server for ministry of oil Arak petrochemical.  * Handled standby database installation and configuration; planned backup and recovery of Iran Khodro - R& D Center.  * Supervised Oracle database server and Oracle application sever 9i installation for management information system ministry of culture; Oracle database 8i on UNIX cluster server and directed Oracle.  * Managed database server consulting and tuning including planning backup & recovery, tuning, networking and security strategy for industry automation system of Ministry of Defense Iran Aircraft Industrial as well of life, medical insurance project for Iran Insurance Company.  * Directed Oracle 7.3 migration to Oracle 8i on UNIX.  * Consulted and designed database; developed municipality fruit market administration department; also for industry automation systems of Ministry of Defense Iran Aircraft Industrial and for Tehran University DBA Section.  * Participated on database 8i Administrator course: Architecture and Administration for Export Development Bank of Iran. Senior Oracle Database Administrator / Software Manager RDC - Tehran, IR April 1999 to February 2001 * Supervised migration process from Oracle 7.3 to Oracle 8i and Novell to Windows 200 Advance Server including the entire associated products in Petrochemical Co. of Tehran and Imam Port.  * Directed strategy planning of Oracle 8i database backup, recovery and tuning in Petrochemical Co. of Tehran and Imam Port. Oracle Developer Tehran, IR September 1997 to March 1999 Handled total trading solution development utilizing Oracle Power Object for Bandar-e_Imam Pertochemical Co. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Hardware in Computer Engineering Hardware Azad University - Tehran, IR 1998 Skills Database administration, Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 7, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Rman, Hp-ux, Application software, Rollout, It infrastructure Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Oracle Database Administration  * Monitor existing Oracle instances to ensure high availability and performance of database services.  * Work with IT Infrastructure team to strive to ensure associated hardware resources allocated to databases will provide high availability and optimum performance.  * Accept responsibility for problem escalation to line manager, in event of database availability / performance issues and provide realistic, achievable solutions to problems.  * Responsible for improvement and maintenance of databases to include rollout and upgrades. Also for implementation and release of database changes, as submitted by Development team in both staging and production environments.  * Communicate well with Development Manager when involvement is required in new items of work, in order to ensure a full understanding of what is required.  * Review existing query statements produced by Development team as part of an initial review of all existing applications accessing the Oracle instances.  * Integral involvement in new developments / changes to existing developments with an access point to Oracle instances, in order that best database design / query practices are used to achieve best scalability and performance of Causeway application software. Interface well with on-site consultants during software installation / training, to maintain a consistently good service to customers.  * Provide help to Support team when required, both in aiding problem solving and sharing of knowledge to continuously improve our service levels. Also share positive input to regular product meetings, to enhance both quality of product and improve knowledge within team.  * Render professional and effective services to internal/external customers, to meet client expectations, in terms of Quality and Timeliness in line with departmental standards, procedures and guidelines.  * Work as part of a team to achieve departmental standards. Work together with other departments and divisions within the organization to identify any process improvements and improve standards, efficiency and profitability.    IT PROFICIENCY    Software: Oracle 7.3, 8, 8i, 9i & 10g, 11g, 12c Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC), Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Data Guard, RMAN, Backup and Recovery Solutions. SQL Server and SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle instance on AWS and cloud  Operating System Windows, Linux, Linux Red Hat, Oracle Enterprise Linux, SUN Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, UNIX