Oracle Database Administrator (FEMA) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (FEMA) Oracle Database Administrator (FEMA) - NTT Data Ashburn, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator (FEMA) NTT Data November 2017 to Present Working for FEMA OCIO Automation modernization and IT Governance/ Compliance. Primary database administration supports: implementing STIGs across all oracle database platforms; provide documentation and remediation for all oracle database scan requests; Assist and collaborate with auditors to be compliant with all Oracle STIGs. Contribute to the oracle baseline for gov't approval to be implement across all oracle database.  Key accomplishments:  ? Developed and formatted multiple SOP for documentation of backup and recovery processes and plan.  ? Assisted with Oracle database backups with Oracle Secure Backup rotation of tapes to ensure consistency of backups.  ? Implemented with Oracle GoldenGate installation and on multiple production databases including oracle 13c agents.  ? Aided with the configuration of the Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control with GoldenGate assets and monitoring of the database assets.  ? Facilitated and provided database information and remediation during auditing sessions for compliance of Oracle STIGs Oracle Database Administrator Deloitte/Navstar January 2013 to November 2017 Currently working for FinCEN IT Modernization project. Database Administrator supports: perform backup for all FinCEN databases; maintain and administer Dev, Test, Production, Dataguard and GAT/User Test databases; Support developers in troubleshooting problematic areas with regards to database functionality and performance tuning. Maintaining databases uptime and performance. Absorbed additional tasks of administrating SQL server and Sybase databases for most of FinCEN systems. Tasks include user administration, shutdown, and startup databases for server patching and data loading.  Key accomplishments:  ? Accomplish database migration from 11g to 12c database versions. Successfully implemented within requested time period while replicating to multiple locations for disaster recovery.  ? Successfully implemented real time apply for all dataguard databases to support FinCEN users to query real time data from the production database  ? Supported developers with data zap of all databases in regards to FinCEN IT Modernization. This included rebuilding both the dataguard and production databases. Also reestablish connections with the dataguard databases and production.  ? Improved replication from offsite location to standby location 80% during major dataloads. This significantly reduced transportation lag of archive log critical to updating the dataguard databases  ? Incorporated Oracle Cloud control (Oracle Enterprise Manager) in order to monitor and alert DBAs of errors or problems from one central location.  ? Setup backup scripts to run nightly for all databases and scheduled them to run without impact of the users.    MSI Oracle Database Administrator US Marshals Service October 2009 to January 2013 Oracle DBA for the US Marshals Service: DBA support includes: perform database capacity planning; create, administer and maintain databases; install and patch server software; upgrade all databases to current 11gR2version; implement disaster recovery strategies; perform database backup/recovery and replication (Dataguard); perform application and performance monitoring and tuning; identify and resolve any database problems proactively;  Key accomplishments:  ? Successfully implemented and configured Oracle 11g Grid Control on Linux Red Hat 5 within required timefame. Included installation of Oracle 11g Agent on several servers to communicate with Grid Control  ? Upgrade and patch to current Oracle database 11g Release 2 version for multiple servers on multiple OS platforms  ? Assist and developed disaster recovery and a continuity of operations plan.  ? Support in developing oracle database security baseline for all of ITD/DCO database servers  ? Create RMAN scripts to run in CRON jobs for all production database server to backup all database servers  ? Established process and procedures to utilize active dataguard within a test environment  ? Executed active dataguard on production to coop site implementation plan  ? Convert outdated, unsupported Oracle application server and database server to current Oracle Fusion Middleware application server and latest Oracle 11g Release 2 database within 1 1/2 month turnaround  ? Perform data management tasks like loading, update, delete and restore data requested by the client.  ? Created multiple databases for various USMS projects include delta documenting any security vulnerabilities, hardening oracle database servers, and managing oracle database servers  ? Initial database administration on SQL server databases Oracle Database Administrator Lockheed Martin IT February 2006 to October 2009 Lead Oracle DBA in charge of Oracle database team to manage and maintain full lifecycle of grants and procurement oracle based system. Current tasks include database administration, configured and installed new software releases, patches, system architecture, maintenance, data cleansing, database/application performance tuning, upgrades, backup and recovery report  Key accomplishments:  ? Install, configure, upgrade and applied patches to Oracle servers compliant with AFMC/AFRL NOTAMS.  ? Assist and developed disaster recovery and a continuity of operations plan.  ? Maintain and support the production database and achieve 100% up-time.  ? Managed the security access to database by creating/ dropping user account, privileges and granting/revoking role  ? Perform data management tasks like loading, update, delete and restore data requested by the client. Oracle Database Administrator/Engineer (Temporay Assignment) Pragmatics, Inc November 2005 to February 2006 Database administrator and Configuration Management Manager of Interconnection Approval Process (GIAP) Database Development Support System (SGS) team helped maintain and support SGS. Responsible for the design and development of database Logical models and Entity Relationships Diagrams (ERD), develop SQL, PL/SQL functions, procedures, and triggers to implement business rules for the database application.  Key accomplishments:  ? Controlled and configured the development, test, production site and Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) site Oracle 9i database.  ? Reengineer the source data and design a transformation from a normal database to a Star schema database for loading into a multi-dimensional Oracle database Designs a multidimensional, on-line analytical processing (OLAP) system database using database design tools such as ERWin.  ? Capture data from several legacy systems (Oracle relational database, Excel, Access database, flat file), cleans and verifies (ETL) it, then stores in SGS physical repository Oracle 9i database. Lead Oracle Database Administrator Air Force - Arlington, VA March 2002 to November 2005 Current tasks include managing the full life cycle change control and configuration audits for Oracle servers. This includes providing configuration management and support for all documentation and coding. Plan the schedule of activities and configuring file structure for Oracle servers. Responsible for the configuration and implementation of the development/testing/training/production environments and procedures. Provides support to AFOSR users for data updates. Responsible for the backups and recovery of all databases through Recovery Manager(RMAN) and hot backups.  Key accomplishments:  ? Manage 14 different databases on four separate servers which house the development, testing, training, and production environments.  ? Successfully recovered production database after tablespace corruption within 1 hour with no data loss.  ? Synchronized the structure and data for all databases which allowed the creation of baselines for Oracle applications. This lead to a 3 day reduction in the time to delivery modules.  ? Coordinated the implementation and migration of current target databases to Oracle 10g.  ? Eliminated all unused indexes for all target database which increase funding module query retrieval by 25%.  ? Deployed databases and application server for development of a new web application. Oracle Database Administrator DynCorp Systems & Solutions - Reston, VA November 2000 to March 2002 Worked on system development life cycle of the US Air Force Next Generation Installation (NGI) project. Setup/configured oracle instance on Windows NT servers and installed Oracle components for several workstations and NT servers. Created all database objects on the captured model. Assisted Senior DBA with all aspects of database administration including managing data files, database storage, users and their privileges. Implemented and consolidated geospatial information for all US Air Force installations for migration into Oracle 8i.  Key accomplishments:  ? Developed and conceptualized logical and physical data warehousing model for the development stage.  ? Established entity relationship diagram (data model) using Oracle Designer 6.0.  ? Performed migration and conversion of Access database to Oracle 8i utilizing the reverse engineering process.  ? Examined and tested geospatial information systems GIS functionality with spatial system process and instance design.  ? Converted multiple geospatial formats into Oracle tables based on the tri-services data standards. Oracle Database Administrator (Temporary Assignment) Internal Revenue Service June 2001 to September 2001 Member of a team formed to supplement the staff of a web-based application being developed to accelerate the delivery schedule in support of the Internal Revenue Service procurement system (WebIPS) project. Assisted and worked on database development and design of the project application. Responsibilities included daily Oracle database schema updates and changes that included add/dropping constraints, columns, tables, sequences, views, triggers, functions, procedures, and data migration on several (4) environments.  Key accomplishments:  ? Performed Oracle performance analysis and tests for development of business objects.  ? Converted and transformed legacy data to conform to system/application requirements 4 days before deliverable date.  ? Coordinated and communicated with other contractors on schema changes and updates.  ? Performed multiple data analysis for developers to ensure referential data integrity. Financial Analyst Defense Advance Research Project Agency October 1999 to October 2000 Performed services for the planning, analysis, development and implementation of improvements to the Defense Sciences Office (DSO) utilization and administration of the Defense Advance Research Project Agency (DARPA) procurement guidance system (Momentum), a financial reporting system and DAPRA travel system. Administered funding documents of current contracts, programs and office funds.  Key accomplishments:  ? Evaluated and redesigned funding profile sheet for Small Business Innovation Research program for DSO office.  ? Examined and revised funding documents for programs to assure budgetary accuracy.  ? Advised and co-wrote instruction manual for Momentum to increase accuracy for program analysts and improve processing time for funding documents and orders.  ? Effectively, absorbed additional tasks to enhance business processes and workflow improvements that increased client operations efficiency by 50%. Contract Analyst The Leads Corporation - Arlington, VA May 1998 to October 1999 Processed and prepared subcontract agreements, task orders, cost estimates, contract modifications, and new contracts. Developed and customized daily, monthly and yearly performance reports and financial model to evaluate project of all subcontractors and programs. Assessed historical and current data to produce forecasted budgets for each division and department. Designed and developed contractual database for over 150 contracts and 75 subcontracts tracking all financial information for each task including financial reporting and end-user forms to efficiently input data into the database.  Key accomplishments:  ? Created database which increased the productivity of Contracts/Finance department. Received 1999 Innovation Award.  ? Coordinated and resystemized the task projection sheet in Excel of all contracts within all divisions, which details the contract value and projections for upcoming invoices and costing for subcontractors.  ? Conceptualized and produced graphs of monthly sales from 97-99 for year-end company meeting. Education BS in Business/Finance Virginia Polytechnic Institute - Blacksburg, VA May 1998 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux Red Hat  Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, VBScript, Cobol  Software:: Oracle database server 8i,9i,10g,11g Oracle 10iAS, Rman, Oracle RAC, import/export utility, Oracle DBA Studio, Oracle SQL*Plus, Oracle SQL loader, Oracle Spatial Index Advisor, Oracle Developer 6i, Oracle OEM, Oracle Designer 6i, Oracle Discoverer, Oracle forms and Reports 6i, Quest Toad, Hummingbird Connectivity Exceed, Quest Knowledge Expert, Quest Instance Monitor, Merant PVCS Tracker, MicroStrategy Web, Erwin, RPTwin, GeoMedia Professional 4.0, ESRI, Serena Changeman, Microsoft Office, Corel WordPerfect, Corel Quattro Pro, and Lotus 123, SQL server 2008