Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Medica Jacksonville, FL Database Architect and Administrator, Business Process Engineer, and Team Lead, with twenty years of DBA experience, including Design, Implementation, and Support of IT systems for Fortune 1000 companies. Experience also includes working with MS SQL Server databases through 2014 and Oracle databases through 12c. Skilled in Oracle RAC, DataGuard, Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence, Business Continuity, and OLTP. Solid scripting skills using Korn shell, Bash, T-SQL, PL/SQL, and SQL. Has worked in a variety of industries, including Legal, Military and Civilian Government, Consumer Credit, Healthcare, Telecommunication, Manufacturing, Retail, Banking, and Internet. Work Experience Database Administrator Medica - Minnetonka, MN August 2015 to Present Lead performance and tuning DBA for Mayo Clinic claims platform, and the Individual and Family Business systems. Escalation assistance to other DBAs in meeting customer needs for root cause analysis, system tuning, data migration, and large-scale ETL design. Assisted in migration of all Oracle databases from AIX to Exadata. (Full-time) Database Administrator Talent Software Services, Inc - Roseville, MN September 2014 to August 2015 Database Administrator August 2013 to September 2014 As a Senior Database Administrator, was responsible for the successful establishment of architecture, best practices, migration methodologies, and rapid issue resolution in the deployment and implementation of Medica's Affordable Care Act portal, integrating with MNSure and healthcare.gov for new member enrollments, claims adjudication, broker management, and provider network relations. Worked with health care specialists, broker relations, call center managers, analytics program managers, and senior management (Director+) to resolve issues in architecture, integration, change management, and timely reporting. Devised systems and processes for test data management, data deidentification, claims data scaling and aggregation, and knowledge sharing across teams for rapid response to issues in the online customer-facing portal. (Full-time) Medica - Minnetonka, MN 2014 to 2014 Database Administrator Talent Software Services, Inc - Minnetonka, MN April 2011 to August 2013 As a Database Administrator Consultant, designed and implemented optimized scripting to expand Provider data for Medica's Data Warehouse, and to move all databases to new data centers with minimal down time. Also provided 24x7 on-call support and other assistance to augment team capabilities with a surge of urgent projects. (Contract, later converted to Full-Time) Database Administrator Talent Software Services, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN December 2007 to April 2011 Database Administrator Photography Laboratories, Studios, Data Warehousing, Fulfillment, Financials, and E 2005 to 2008 As a Database Administrator, was responsible for the creation and management of core operational and Web-facing databases for Photography Laboratories, Studios, Data Warehousing, Fulfillment, Financials, and E-commerce. Work involved shell scripting, Real Application Clusters (RAC), data design, RMAN maintenance, DataGuard, and off-hours support. All clusters were Oracle 11.1.0.7 some with DataGuard Physical Standby instances, on Solaris 9/10. Also supported MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008. (Contract) Database Administrator Talent Software Services, Inc - Eagan, MN July 2006 to December 2007 As a Database Administrator, was responsible for the creation and management of high-profile Content Collection databases for international legal, media, and medical research partners. Work involved Bash (Linux Shell) scripting, DataGuard, and Change Management. Most clusters were Oracle 10.1 with DataGuard on Linux, some were DB2 on AIX, and others were Oracle 10.1 on AIX. (Contract) Database Administrator Talent Software Services, Inc - Shoreview, MN July 2005 to July 2006 SQL Server DBA responsible for Medtronic Cardiac Rhythm Management's Information Technology branch. Architected a new MS SQL Server 2005 system for support of the Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator Data Management System, a Data Warehouse and Analytical support system for a key new Medtronic product line. Managed advanced replication processes; Veritas and Microsoft clustering services; and assisted the team with routine production support for Oracle. (Contract) Database Administrator/Architect Wells Fargo Bank - Minneapolis, MN July 2003 to April 2005 Part of a seven-person Database team for Wells Fargo Institutional Banking and Trust Operations. Architected three projects in the subject areas of Automated Trading, Payroll Processing, and Check Reversals, for a national bank with $200 billion of market capitalization. Administered Database Change Management, Security Management, and Performance Tuning. Was tasked with Database Migration from version 9.204 to 9.206. Functioned as Lead DBA on a Disaster Recovery / Business Continuity project. Supported Oracle databases version 9.x to 10g, as well as MS SQL Server. Environment includes Oracle, MS SQL Server, HP-UX, Korn Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SQL, RMAN, Maestro, and Embarcadero. (Contract-to-Hire, converted) Database Architect Minnesota Department of Transportation - Saint Paul, MN September 2002 to July 2003 Architected database for a Government Accounting System conversion. Designed Security Architecture, Batch Processes, Database Objects, and Interfaces. Converted a State Aid Accounting system from a Mainframe to an Oracle based environment. Was responsible for both physical and logical aspects of the database work. Handled all Performance issues. Environment included Oracle Database, Oracle Forms, DataStage, and PL/SQL. (Contract) Application Architect Minnesota Department of Education - Saint Paul, MN January 2002 to September 2002 Architect supporting an Education Reporting project. The project helped to identify where budget dollars were being allocated and the correlation of dollars spent against performance. Was responsible for both the logical and physical database design. Handled all backend development work in addition to the Database Administration work. Environment included MS SQL Server 2000, MS Windows 2000, and DTS. (Contract) Database Consultant Divine Corp - Denver, CO February 2000 to December 2001 Recovered $16 MM+ at Level(3) Telecommunications through data and trigger fixes in an Order Entry system.  Architected, built, and supported the database for Best Buy Entertainment (bbe.bestbuy.com, later integrated into bestbuy.com).  Database tech lead for a migration project at Proctor and Gamble. (Staff Consulting) SAP Basis Administrator Rayovac Corp - Madison, WI August 1998 to February 2000 As a full-time Database Administrator, provided SAP 3.1.h Basis administration. Implemented core systems and SAP/BIW, on-time and on-budget. Led all migration efforts from Oracle 8i to Oracle 9i and handled all aspects of the migration from planning to implementation. Was responsible for several installs and upgrades of databases and applications supporting EDI, Payroll, Automated Help Desk, Asset Management, Sales Force Automation, Consensus Forecasting, Statistical Process Control, and Export Management. (Full Time) Business Analyst Acxiom Corp - Conway, AR December 1997 to August 1998 As a Business Analyst, designed Data Warehouses for Credit Card marketing and Customer Management. Wrote custom procedures to segment marketing channels by Credit Underwriter criteria. Data mined credit data for Fortune 1000 banking clients. Mentored and trained a team of junior database analysts. (Full Time) Business Process Engineer Manpower and Quality Analyst - Lackland AFB, TX December 1995 to December 1997 Employed Computer Simulation modeling, statistical tools, and analytical methodologies for task-process reengineering and war planning. Also fulfilled a Management Consulting role in recommending and facilitating process change at the base and unit level, evaluating suggestions submitted by the public, and preparing the in-house bid during outsourcing evaluations. (Full Time) Education AAS in Aeronautical Engineering Community College of the Air Force (University of Maryland 1994 Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Scripting, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, ETL, RAC Additional Information CORE SKILLS  Databases:  Oracle (thru 12c) 20 years  SQL Server (thru 2014) 16 years  Operating Systems:  Unix flavors 20 years  Windows Server 16 years  Scripting languages:  SQL 20 years  Shell/Bash 18 years  PL/SQL 18 years  T-SQL 16 years  Powershell 1 year  Oracle Features/Products:  RAC 10 years  DataGuard 2 years  Transparent Data Encryption 2 years  Exadata 1 year  Multitenant 1 year  MSSQL Features/Products:  Clustering 2 years  SSIS 2 years  SSRS 1 year