Database Consultant <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant Database Consultant West Chester, PA A challenging and rewarding position as a Database Administrator\Architect. Work Experience Database Consultant Anexinet 2017 to 2019 KTMC - Worked on a system to track the processing of claims and settlements for a securities fraud claims and settlements application. Re-factored an existing transaction\warehouse hybrid database to conform to database best practices and to add flexibility for new application features that will be created in the near future. Create new and re factored existing, ETL processes to load complex financial transaction data into the above mentioned database. Worked with other team members to create a generic file load process where the end users provide some basic data which allows the system to match inbound files with a particular client and then maps the data to the correct tables. Data comes in from numerous sources and must be scrubbed and validated due to the unstructured nature of the loads. Added extensive error handling to handle the low quality of inbound data Created processes to create summary data out of the snowflake schema of the data warehouse side of the database.    Allied Universal Security - Worked with business analysts and application developers to analyze existing manual processes for employee benefit management. Analyzed existing data systems to determine the best way to implement new processes and data structures. Created new database objects to host the new application to simplify employee benefit management, including, tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers and table types. Created an ETL process to bring employee data into the new system as an initial load. Created related documentation for the new objects and how the connect to existing systems, including, entity relationship diagrams, data dictionaries, process flow diagrams, and details notes on the flow of data through the new systems. Created a rules engine so that users would be able to dynamically change the inputs and outputs for employee benefits in the application.    IDG - Investigate what the client needed to do to change the time period of the financial year as related to accounting and reporting systems. Analyzed the database systems to determine what tables, procedures, views and data changes needed to be edited to facilitate the change. Analyzed OLAP cubes for changes to structure and calculations. Investigated Excel file templates for needed data input changes and modifications needed to reporting files that pull directly from the OLAP cubes. Create a findings document that detailed what was found along with recommendations of what part of the systems need to be edited and how to accomplice said changes.    NMS Labs - Analyze the data systems (over 20 distinct systems), processes and procedures, needs and desires of the client to implement a BI solution for the whole enterprise. Conducted interviews with key IT personnel to determine the current state of the systems and how those various systems work together. Create a report detailing areas that need to be addressed before a BI solution could be successfully implemented such as Data Governance, Data Dictionaries, Meta Data systems and procedures. Also create several templates to gather and store the meta data along with documents outlining process and procedures for the client to adopt to prepare to implement a BI solution. Database Architect McKesson\Change HealthCare 2016 to 2017 Design, implement and update the database schema for new modules to the company's key software product. Design, edit and implement SSIS packages for loading and unloading customer data into the databases (size up to 2 TB). Edit and implement SSRS reports for changes as per the client requests. Troubleshoot performance and bug issues in existing packages and code. Design and implement Database security settings for SQL Server and Azure databases for SOC-2 compliance.  Design and implement SQL Server and Azure builds for standardization across platforms. Create administrative procedures, jobs, and code for managing the various SQL environments (Stand alone and Azure). Assist developers with SQL code for their applications. Sr. Database Administrator Children's Hospital of Philadelphia 2016 to 2016 Upgrade existing client servers from SQL 2008 to SQL 2012 on High Availability Clusters. Create and edit documentation for installing SQL Server and SQL Server standards. Created PowerShell scripts to streamline the installation process. Database Architect InfoMC - Conshohocken, PA 2015 to 2016 Upgrade clients through multiple version of our application. Set database use and coding standards for the application developers. Create and edit SSIS packages for movement of data to reporting servers and ETL of client files from other systems. Assist developers with debugging and performance tuning application code. Database Architect Hay Group - Philadelphia, PA 2013 to 2015 Responsible for the design, construction, maintenance and implementation of new databases for the company's new mobile application. Troubleshooting and performance tuning of existing global databases. Assist developers with coding as it pertains to the SQL databases. Advise management on Disaster Recovery initiatives and advise on new server configurations. Installation and configuration of new clustered and stand alone SQL servers. Assist and mentor junior DBA's on staff. Database Administrator BlueVault LLC - Wilmington, DE 2012 to 2013 Responsible for direct database support for online customer application. Provide troubleshooting and performance tuning for client systems. And advice on building new database systems. Assist application developer with troubleshooting and code optimization. Database Administrator Genesis HealthCare - Kennett Square, PA 2010 to 2012 Responsible for direct database support for customer billing systems including performance monitoring and system integrity. Monitor and maintain SQL Replication to provide failover support and reporting systems for the end users. We use SSIS to create subsets of the production systems for purposes of testing training and debugging of the production systems. I provide debugging and optimization support for the in house developers of our applications. Senior Database Administrator - Technical lead Wilmington Trust Company - Wilmington, DE 2001 to 2010 for a team of seven database administrators that are responsible for administrating over 100 SQL Servers holding approximately 1100 unique user databases. These servers are mainly SQL 2005 servers with a few SQL 2000 holdovers. Created and implemented a set of programming and security standards related to SQL for the companies' in-house software. Developed standards, policies, best practices, and scripts for the installation of new SQL servers. Developed and tested disaster recovery scenario documents based on the other documents mentioned above. Assist developers in creating and upgrading in-house applications for use by the company. Worked with developers in creating logical and physical database models for various applications. Worked with other members of the IT team to create policies and procedures related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as it relates to change control and access security. Created procedures, scripts, and policies for the daily maintenance and house-keeping chores related to SQL server along with automated scripts to assist in disaster recovery. Research and evaluate applications and tools related to or using SQL Server. Upgrade databases to new versions of SQL Server and migrate data across servers. Senior Database Administrator OmniChoice.com - King of Prussia, PA 2000 to 2001 Responsible for administrating 8 SQL servers holding 50 plus databases. Create and test disaster recovery systems for databases. Monitor security, performance, and system logs. Manage database security on all SQL servers. Create rules, triggers, defaults, functions, and constraints to maintain data integrity. Tune the database servers and their respective databases. Design next generation database for the companies' on-line databases. Work with the web site developers to design better procedures and queries for use by the web site and data entry clerks. Created and implemented a document describing standards and practices to be used for the databases and their code. Design and run systems for entering bulk data into the databases and move that data through the development and testing databases and eventually to the production web sites. Assist the networking team in designing overall network architecture. Created specifications for all production database servers that are to be implemented at Internet hosting providers. Participated in the screening and selection of Internet hosting companies. Document existing systems and all new processes, and physical structures of the database systems as they are created. Database Administrator Thomcomp Information Systems - Conshohocken, PA 2000 to 2000 Responsible for administrating 9 SQL servers holding 20 plus databases. Create disaster recovery system for databases, monitor security and performance logs. Tune the respective databases and servers. Work with the web site developers to design better procedures, rules, database design and queries for use by the web pages on the various web sites. Systems and Database Administrator Raymond Karsan Associates - Wayne, PA 1995 to 2000 Responsible for administrating Unix and Windows NT 450 node WAN. Administration of Searcher 4 and Searcher 97 databases on a proprietary Unix system and on Microsoft SQL 6.5. Duties include but were not limited to; modification and creation of procedures, triggers, constrains, rules and tables, and report writing. Participated on the design team for the new Internet based database system for the companies' core business. Training and support of end users for Windows, Microsoft Office and Searcher software. Responsible for acceptance, conversion and bug testing of new front end software for the companies' database. Create user manuals and technical documents related to the companies systems. Senior Consultant Cynwyd, PA, US 1994 to 1995 Provide technical support and consulting for fortune 1000 companies on all major business applications for DOS and Windows 3.x Education Diploma in Computerized Business Systems Computer Learning Center - Philadelphia, PA 1993 Physics, Engineering, and History Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA 1982 to 1987 Skills SQL Server (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Database Design (10+ years), Database Performance Tuning, Azure (3 years), AWS (2 years), Visual Studio (6 years), SSIS (9 years), Technical Writing (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Documentation (10+ years), Training (3 years)