Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Brentwood, MD I am a database administrator with 7+ years of experience, with extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle database administration. I have experience supporting Oracle production databases on a variety of platforms (LINUX, UNIX, Solaris and Windows). I am an upbeat team player with a Secret clearance. I am able to learn new technology quickly and adapt to challenging work environments.    SKILLS AND TOOLS    • Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Transparent Data Encryption  • Database User Management  • Generating SOPs  • Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • SQL Plus  • Import/export of Data using Data Pump  • Database Installation and Creation  • Database Patching and Upgrades  • AWR Reports  • Installation and use of Virtual Machines  • Performance Tuning Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Walter Reed National Military Medical Center - Bethesda, MD December 2016 to Present Duties include: support of Oracle 11g databases by installing and configuring database server, creating databases and database objects. Cloned production databases as needed for testing and development, in support of SDLC process. Carried out backup and recovery measures using RMAN and Data Pump utility for Oracle databases and performed disaster testing. My role also included adhering to best practices and guidance for security of data in information systems. Creation of Standard Operating Procedures for support of database operations.    Client Location: Oracle Database Administrator White House Communications Agency - Washington, DC October 2009 to November 2016 Duties include: Oracle database 11g creation, maintenance, and monitoring. My role included implementation of database security measures bases on vulnerability reports generated by the security team. This included password policy best practices, patching database software, and system privilege restriction for users and/or schemas. Also optimized the performance of the database through generating AWR reports and performance tuning based on reported statistics. Installation of virtual machines and fresh installs of Oracle database. Backup and recovery strategy according to best practices.    Client Location: Junior Database Administrator Target - Largo, MD January 2009 to September 2009 Duties include: creation of Oracle database objects such as tables, views, synonyms, sequences and triggers. Daily duties consisted of monitoring disk space and allocating resources as needed. Also controlled and monitored user access to the database. Defined and implemented backup and recovery strategies and tested backups periodically for consistency and reliability. Assisted developers and system administrators with application related problems. Education High school or equivalent