Executive Business Coach Executive Business Coach Executive Business Coach - Victor Novis, LLC Round Rock, TX ? 10 years of Database Administration responsibilities  ? 8 years as a SQL, and C# .NET, VB, and C developer Work Experience Executive Business Coach Victor Novis, LLC - Round Rock, TX January 2018 to Present • Provided guidance, mentoring and support for new and inexperience business owners  • Edited business articles on issues such as marketing, advertising, communication, and planning  • Maintained financial books and ledgers for Victor Novis  • Advised and reviewed Victor Novis business system procedures  • Reviewed and monitored Victor Novis advertising and marketing campaigns. Gained familiarity with Facebook and Google advertising platform Database Administrator Principal DOJ - Executive Office of Immigration Review - Falls Church, VA July 2011 to January 2018 Contractor - NTT DATA, Inc.  • Extensive managerial experience  ? Team Lead, main duties (mentoring, on-boarded new staff, assigned resource allocation and provide team status updates to management)  ? Interviewed and qualified new hires  • Principal leader in database maintenance and upgrade issues  ? Lead the upgrade of SQL2000/05/08/08R2 legacy systems  ? Provided SQL upgrade recommendations to client  ? Team leader for SQL related inquiries  • SQL Subject Matter Expert  ? Maintained/installed 10 production 2008R2/2012/2014 SQL failover clusters  ? Ensured integrity and performance or troubleshooting of 500+ stored procedures, views, triggers, indexes, and jobs  ? Implemented and supported transactional replication  ? Monitored SQL impacts on CPU, memory, IO, disk space, and network traffic using SQL Sentry  • Backup and restore databases using NetApp SnapManager  • Supported CASE, an in-house application used by immigration judges nationwide to keep track of immigration cases  • Supported VIQ, an COTS software managing court proceeding recordings  • Supported Filetrail, a COTS software tracking all files with barcodes Database Administrator Intersections, Inc - Chantilly, VA November 2009 to July 2011 • Primary duties included  ? Using SQL functions to migrate large data files from one location to another.  ? Monitored 30+ multiple database engines in various multiple-node clustered environments for development, test and production  ? Ensured integrity and performance of 1,000+ stored procedures, views, triggers, and indexes  ? Generated database audit reports to configuration management on code integrity  ? Grant proper security access of 700+ employees to different engines, databases, roles, and objects  • Created and maintained 150+ service jobs and 100+ publications with various business needs  • Supported Internal-Activated Service Broker applications Software Engineer Intersections, Inc - Chantilly, VA February 2005 to November 2009 • Maintained legacy infrastructure applications from customer care applications (Visual Basic) to other newly developed .NET v1.1 and v2.0 applications and DLL objects.  • Maintained and augmented in-house call center application that is used by six call centers with over 200 agents.  ? Performed analysis, development, and unit testing of iteration releases.  ? Used agile style project management to oversee software creation and development. Education B.S. In Computer Science in Computer Science Columbia University - New York, NY May 2000 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, UNIX Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xpxturfhugmuih8s Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qidl5kc-ov1v3yqb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.