Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Enthusiast San Diego, CA MS SQL Server database administrator (DBA), developer, and architect with over 18 years of experience. A proven technical and community leader with a passion for database technologies. Specialties include: designing and implementing OLTP and OLAP solutions, high availability and disaster recovery, and performance tuning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator MBO Partners - San Diego, CA January 2019 to Present Contract for MFUB, Union Bank  • Migration of 3 TB data warehouse from SQL Server 2012 Enterprise to 2016 Enterprise in a highly available environment using Availability Groups.  • Lead the optimization and transformation of the data warehouse to utilize new technologies such as Columnstore indexes and in-memory tables.  • Lead the data security transformation by utilizing Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and data masking Senior Database Administrator/Architect Cox Communications 2006 to 2018 • Technical lead of an 8 person remote database team.  • Extensive administration, architecture, and development experience with MS SQL Server versions 2000, 2005, 2008(R2), 2012, 2014, and 2016.  • Establish database development and deployment processes and standards that utilized best practices for DBAs and software engineers to adhere to. Monitored compliance through code reviews and audits.  • Develop and test disaster recovery plans that adhere to Service Level Agreements (SLA) that meet our Recovery Point Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) for production databases.  • Architect, develop, and support of multiple high concurrency Online Transaction Processing (OLTP) application databases.  • Advanced Transact-SQL (T-SQL) experience with stored procedures, functions, views, and ad-hoc queries.  • Data modeling using Sybase PowerDesigner.  • Create and maintain operational data stores, data warehouse and data marts to support multiple lines of business.  • Mentor and assist Business Intelligence and application developers to help design, implement, tune, and support database solutions that increased revenues, drive efficiencies, and reduced operating costs across multiple lines of the business.   • Partner with other DBA teams to develop ETL solutions that involve pushing and pulling data to and from Oracle databases (versions 10g - 12c), using both SSIS and linked servers.  • Develop and support multiple ETL projects using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).   • Provide 24/7, on-call support for production database servers, to ensure issues are dealt with within SLAs.  • Architect, install, and maintain numerous MS SQL Server instances. This includes stand-alone VMWare virtual machines, failover clusters, and instances within Windows clusters to support Availability Groups (high availability solution).  • Architect, install, and maintain multiple SSRS environments, including scale-out deployments with multiple front-end servers for high-availability and load balancing.   • Develop SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports using both Visual Studio (SQL Server Data Tools) and Report Builder.  • Performance tune and troubleshoot problematic servers, databases, and queries utilizing a variety of troubleshooting methodologies. This includes using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs), Extended Events, Profiler, query plans, wait types, Statistics IO and Time, as well as other monitoring tools.  • Configure, maintain, and troubleshoot transaction replication.  • Support for very large databases (VLDBs) of over 1 TB, including the use of partitioning, row and page-level compression, database files and filegroups setup, and back-up and maintenance tuning.   • Create automated scripts for monitoring, database maintenance, backup and test restores, SSRS administration, and server installations using PowerShell and T-SQL.   • Collaborate with business’ leaders and subject matter experts from various lines of business who are located across Cox’s nationwide footprint.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL queries in versions 9i – 12c. Database Administrator Archer Logistics 2005 to 2006 • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained an end-to-end, high volume, procurement system used by a federal agency for purchasing goods for overseas employees.  • Provided analytical reporting on purchases, billing, and payment data from procurement system.  • Responsible for the installation, monitoring, and maintenance of a MS SQL Server 2000 instance containing a very large database (VLDB) of over 800GB (large for the time). Database Administrator ADCS Inc 2000 to 2005 • Performed database administration duties for several MS SQL Server 2000 instances and MS Visual FoxPro 6 databases.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained several application databases used by the company to fulfill both federal contractual obligations, as well as internal support applications.  • Mentored developers to help design, implement, and tune databases for their applications. Education Advanced T-SQL Querying, Programming and Tuning for SQL Server 2008, 2012, and 2014 with Itzik Ben-Gan SolidQ 2015 Bachelor's UC San Diego 1995 Skills Sql Server (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Database Architecture (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), T-Sql (10+ years), Database performance tuning (10+ years), Database design (10+ years), OLTP (10+ years), Data Warehouse (10+ years), OLAP (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Backup and Recovery (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) (10+ years), Stored Procedures (10+ years), High Availability (10+ years), Failover Clustering (10+ years), Very Large Databases (VLDB) (10+ years), Database Modeling (10+ years), Business Intelligence (10+ years), BI Architecture (10+ years), Transactional Replication (8 years), Oracle (10+ years), Availability Groups (3 years), Powershell (6 years), Vmware (10+ years), MongoDB (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified IT Pro: SQL Server 2008 Database Administrator 2013 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist: SQL Server 2005 2008 Groups San Diego SQL Server User Group – President 2011 to Present San Diego SQL Business Intelligence Group – Board Member 2011 to Present San Diego SQL Saturday – Conference Organizer 2012 to Present