Senior MongoDB /Oracle/SQL Admin / Python Senior MongoDB /Oracle/SQL Admin / Python Senior MongoDB /Oracle/SQL Admin / Python - CISCO • Over 18 years of professional IT experience as Senior System analyst/ Database Administrator using all the major versions of Oracle such as Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c.  • Over 8 years of professional IT experience as Senior System analyst/ Database Administrator using all the major versions of MS SQL such as MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014.  • Solid experience on Oracle Real Application Clusters(RAC), Data Guard, RMAN.  • Extensive expertise in all the administrative activities such as Oracle Installation, Configuration, Troubleshooting, Performance tuning, Patching, Backup and Recovery, Cloning.  • Senior MS SQL DBA (SQL/2000/2005/2008/2012/2014/2016) with (18) years of experience with SQL Server database administration, BI,and HA solutions  • Extensive experience in, performance tuning/troubleshooting/diagnosis and backup & recovery strategy formulation.  • Extensive experience in implementing High availability and Disaster Recovery solutions like Replication (Snapshot and Transactional), Log shipping, clustering and mirroring on physical and virtual machines.  • MongoDB Data modelling and optimization  • Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering.  • Implemented new features in MS SQL Server 2012 AlwaysOn HADR in prod and non prod environments  • Configured AlwaysOn with synchronous and asynchronous secondary replicas.  • Experience in building SSIS packages (.dtsx) involving ETL process, extracting data from various flat files, Excel files, legacy systems and loading into SQL server.  • Eperienct installing and configuring and creating Tableau.  • Experience creating deployment utility to deploy SSIS packages over Production, QA and Local System  • Experience in creating SQL Server Reports using SSRS 2008 and 2012.  • Experience working as DBA for databases such as MS Sql Server, My SQL and Sybase.  • Working experience with large-scale mission critical OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Working experience in large Data centres in excess of 5000 Servers.  • Ability to work independently, manage multiple projects and handle a large volume of work.  • Expertise in upgrading, migrating, applying PSU/CPU patch sets and one-offs to Oracle databases.  • Proficient in database performance tuning using ADDM, AWR, ASH and Explain Plan.  • Working knowledge of RMAN and logical backups using Data Pump and conventional export utilities.  • Expertise in Oracle schema and User Management.  • Knowledge of HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Sqoop and NoSQL databases such as Cassandra and HBase administration.  • Experience in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Excellent interpersonal communication skills and documentation skills. Work Experience Senior MongoDB /Oracle/SQL Admin / Python CISCO - San Jose, CA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install and Configure MongoDB Databases  • Designing MongoDB collections for business requirement and load the legacy systems data  • into MongoDB  • Convert Entity relational diagrams into MongoDB data dictionary  • Create MongoDB Physical Database diagrams  • Indextiong and Query Optimization  • Coding the Python API's and refresh the data from RDBMS to MongoDB  • Scheduling all Python scripts at Linux and refreshing data on daily basis. Developing MongoDB  • models to sync with RDBMS models, during data migration.  • Maintaining the database backup and recovery models such as full backup and incremental  • Security & Networking with trusted connections,  • To prepare MongoDB and Python documentation for production cut over • Create and Configure MongoDB Databases on Production environment  • Migrate MongoDB databases from Test systems to Production systems, during production cut  • over  • Optimize and verify the data integrity  • Create and configure of Python jobs on Unix systems to refresh the MongoDB databases  • Optimizes the production Jobs  • To attend the daily sprint , weekly product owners meetings  • Working with Documentiation , Scrum and ITIL Management.    Environment: MongoDB Oracle , MS SQL Server , MySQL, Linux , Angular, Java, Python, Node J, JBPM, Linux, Rally, Windows, App Dynamics, Oracle, MySQL Senior Database Developer / Mongo DB First American April 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Production Support for Clustered , Always on and non clustered instances (replication , mirrioring and log shipping).  • Production support for 500 SQL instances.  • Data Modeling.  • Performed Weekly , Monthly Production maintenance.  • Monthly Failover / Failback instances to DR Site.  • Resolve the P1 , P2 and P3 Tickets for production issues.  • Worked with onsite and offsore teams and create bridges for production issues.  • Created maintenance plans to perform index de-fragmentation, re-indexing and updating the index statistics.  • Tempdev , user databases moved to different disk for better I/O.  • Created users, roles and granted privileges to users.  • Database support for Oracle instances.  • Automated and centralized Administrative tasks using power shell and T-SQL.  • Worked with Trace flags , during production issues.  • Monitoring of database loads using resmon, perfmon, counters , profile , scom.  • Working with Documentiation , Scrum and ITIL Management    Environment: SQL2008/2012/2016, Oracle 11G, Oracle 12C, SSRS, SSIS, Service Now, SCOM, TFS, Microsoft Active Directory Services , Windows, Linux , Solaris Senior Database Architect /Admini Anthem , GA August 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Mongo DB data modeling , indexing , collections , querying data and tuning of instances.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop  • Implemented 400 nodes CDH5 Hadoop cluster on CentOS.  • Worked on installing cluster, commissioning&decommissioning of data node, name node recovery, capacity planning, and slots configuration.  • Involved design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations.  • Performed Install, configure, upgrade, tune, and maintain MongoDB production, development and test environments.  • Handled design issues/constraints, performance tuning, and impact analysis of changes.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB Document schemas.  • Resource management of Hadoop Cluster including adding/removing cluster nodes for maintenance and capacity needs.  • Performed backup of Name node metadata to NFS Mount on regular basis.  • Performed health monitoring of Hadoop cluster at periodical intervals.  • Configured alerts for job failures and other host related issues and performed necessary corrective actions.  • Setup and Configuration Cassandra Cluster.  • Created Data modelling  • Performed Backup, recovery and tuning of Cassandra.  • Closely monitored Cassandra memory utilizations statistics, task statistics of thread pools, storage statistics, CPU usage, operation performance, latency and pending tasks.  • Applied OS patches to the nodes in the cluster as required.  • Wrote MapReduce Jobs in data clean-up, data validation and ETL.  • Wrote Hive queries for ad-hoc reporting and ETL.  • Worked with different file formats such as Text, Sequence files, Avro, ORC and Parquette.  • Responsible for monitoring the Hadoop cluster using Zabbix/Nagios.  • Responsible for maintaining the clusters in different environments.  • Involved in upgradation process of the Hadoop cluster from CDH4 to CDH5.  • Involved in upgrading all the Hadoop components to the latest versions.  • Implemented test scripts to support test driven development and continuous integration.  • Responsible to manage data coming from different sources.  • Experienced on loading and transforming of large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data.  • Experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.  • Supported in setting up QA environment and updating configurations for implementing scripts.    Technology: Hadoop, MangoDB, node.js, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Kafka, Datameer, AWS, Oracle, Teradata, Cassandra, SAS, Tableau, Java 7.0, Nagios, Cloudera Manager4.x,5.x Log4J, Junit, MRUnit, SVN, JIRA, RMAN, ASM Senior Database Administrator HCL Insys Pte Ltd - Singapore December 2012 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configurated Oracle Database 12c on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.  • Provided 24/7 Production Support for 100+ Oracle instances and 200+ Microsoft SQL Server databases on a rotating schedule.  • Actively collaborated with the developers and other teams to suggest the database design, development of objects and deployments to DEV, TEST and PRODUCTION environments.  • Created Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) documents for Oracle Real Application Clusters and Data Guard to perform switchover/switchback.  • Worked on installing, configuring, troubleshooting and performance tuning of Hadoop and its ecosystem such as HDFS, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Oozie and NoSQL database Cassandra & HBase.  • Primary DBA for a large financial data warehouse running Oracle 10g Real Application Cluster (RAC) with Data Guard  • Responsible for inserting, updating, creating and removing of all database maintenance jobs, troubleshooting job failures, file system and data file space management, availability and accessibility database issues on a daily basis.  • Performed the role of SharePoint Administrator for the Global Database Team.  • Responsible for the planning and coordination of upgrades and applying patches for 100+ databases annually.  • Responsible for database security with schemas and user account management.  • Created technical documentation for the Global Database Teams on Node Procedure for Oracle RAC, FAQs on the Clone Process, Building a Clone File, Clone Test Scenarios, Performance and Tuning Template for Applications, Database Upgrade/Patch Planning Template and PSU Patch documentation etc.    Environment: SQL 2005/2008/2012, Linux, Solaris, AIX, Windows 2000-2012, Oracle 9i/10gR2/11gR2/12C, Oracle Exadata, Oracle Streams, Oracle Golden Gate, Data Guard with Physical Standby, (OEM) Grid Control, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, Oracle Utilities and Toad. Senior Database Administrator Manpower staffing Services - Singapore July 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on Administration, Database Design, and Performance Analysis on very large and highly transactional production databases.  • Performed Oracle installations, patching and upgrades on Oracle 10g ,11g and 12c databases.  • Provided 24/7 on-call Production support for Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase databases.  • Provide project support for Oracle and SQL Server databases.  • Production support for Oracle RAC and DataGuard Databases.  • Performed database refresh from production to testing as required.  • Performance tuning of SQL queries using AWR and ADDM utilities.  • Setup/Configure/Install Oracle Enterprise Manager for all Oracle instances.  • Provide mentorship on Oracle Administration to other DBAs.  • Performed Diaster recovery for Oracle Databases.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks on SQL Server databases using SSIS packages.  • Troubleshoot performance issues on SQL Server databases.  • Provide project DBA support on Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase databases.  • Provide enhancements to the existing shell scripts for Oracle.  • Created technical documentation on Oracle topics such as Oracle patching, installation and upgrading.    Environment: HP-UX, AIX, Windows 2000-2012, Oracle 9i/10gR2, 11g, 12c,(OEM) Grid Control, SQL Server, Sybase, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader and Toad.. Senior Database Administrator Hewlett Packard - Singapore July 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Install and configuration of RAC databases on Linux , HP-Ux and Solaris environments.  • Converted Oracle standalone databases into RAC environment.  • Setup and configuration of DataGuard Databases.  • Performed diaster recovery for DataGuard and standalone databases.  • Single handedly managed Oracle11G migration from Solaris to Linux.  • Performed daily/weekly/monthly Backup and Recovery of Oracle, MS SQL, Sybase and MYSQL databases.  • Worked on maintenance of SAP databases on HP DataGurad environment.  • Performed Installation and configuration of MS SQL Software 2005/2008.  • Worked extensively on Sybase Raw devices, backup , recovery and performance tuning.  • Migrated SQL server 2000 databases into SQL server 2005 and SQL server 2005 databases into SQL server 2008 R2 databases by In-place upgrade process and also used upgrade advisor tool in upgradation process.  • Architected setting up and Monitoring, Clustering, Transactional replication, Database mirroring on Production environments.  • Performed regular Monitor of the oracle databases using OEM.  • Monitored SQL server performance using profiler to find performance and deadlocks.  • Worked with team members and deliver the tasks in time.  • Document and update necessary standards and procedures for use and operations of the software and hardware.  • Provide day-to-day support for the customers and application teams.  • Provide additional installation and customization services for client so as to improve the efficiency and effective use of resources  • Worked on Database security and Hardening.  • Provided 24*7 support for database infrastructure.    Environment: Oracle9i/10g, Sybase, MYSQL, SAP, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 R2, Linux, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Data protector and Windows, BMC. Sr Database Administrator NatSteel Asia Pacific - Singapore September 2008 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed SQL instances installation and configuration on VM Servers.  • Defined and managed Oracle Applications concurrent managers and batch processing  • Used diagnostic and performance tools to tune applications  • Backup and Recover methods for SQL Server and Oracle Databases.  • Setup and configuration of SQL Replication  • SQL Instances Migration from SQL2000 to SQL2005/2008  • Handled SSIS & batchJobs at SQL Server  • Refreshednon-productiondatabases from production  • Support for end users on Production databases (Oracle & SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005).  • Performed SQL Performance Tuning.  • Daily and monthly Database Health Check reports for SQL  • Automation of Scripts (Windows/Unix)  • Provide 24X7 on-call technical supports and help desk    Technology:  Oracle10g, BMC Patrol , MS SQL2000, SQL2005 & 2008, HP-UX, Linux, Windows 2003, Windows2008, TOAD, Net Backup. Senior Database Administrator Ncs Pte Ltd - Singapore September 2007 to August 2008 Responsibilities:  • To provide the relocation/ database migration services followed by maintenance services for Oracle HA databases on Linux, HP-UX platform as well as Oracle on Windows.  • Database support for Oracle 9i/10G on HP-UX, Linux with MC Service Guard, Oracle Dataguard, Oracle10g on UNIX and Windows.  • Responsible for the monitoring, tuning and maintenance of Oracle databases to ensure SLA is met.  • Creating users and setting up roles and privileges.  • Conducting Recovery Exercises with the backups taken on the test Server to check the validity of backups.  • Setup and configuration of RMAN Backup & Recovery by using Veritas Tool.  • Tested the full restore and recovery of a database backup on another Server.  • Document and update necessary standards and procedures for use and operations of the software and hardware.  • Provide day-to-day support for the customers and application teams.  • Provide additional installation and customization services for client so as to improve the efficiency and effective use of resources.  • Quest Spotlight and Quest Performance Analysis.  • Daily and monthly Database Health Check reports for Oracle instances.  • Automation of various database activities such as start/stop and alerts using Unix Shell Scripts (Windows/Unix).  • Provide 24X7 on-call technical supports and help desk.    Environment: Oracle10g, Oracle9i, JD Edwards, J2EE, HP-UX, Linux, Windows, TOAD, Quest Spotlight, Net Backup, RMAN, Veritas, SQL Server 2000/2005. System Analyst HTC Software Singapore Pte Ltd - Singapore August 2005 to April 2007 Responsibilities:  • Install and configuration of Oracle10G and MS SQL Server 2000 and 2005.  • Setup and configuration of DataGuard.  • Production support RAC and DataGurad databases.  • RMAN backup and Recovery.  • Setup and configuration of Log Shipping and Mirroring on MS SQL databases.  • Creation of User accounts and granting privileges, roles as required in Database level.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g Databases  • Extensively used Joins and sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables, added Columns, triggers and configured IIS and Worked on Index tuning, stored Procedure tuning.  • Involved in Optimization and normalization of database and tables.  • Involved in conceptual and physical modeling of data using ERWin tool.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions and added/changed tables for data extraction and transformation, and data loading (ETL).  • Part of team for analyzing and implementing the physical design for database.  • Writing complex Stored Procedures to meet the business requirements.  • Designing logical and physical database structure to facilitate analysis of data from both operational and customer perspectives.  • Created new database objects like Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2000.  • Designing and building data load procedures, using MS SQL Server.    Environment: Oracle8i/9i/10G, MS SQL Server 2000/2005, RMAN, Net Backup, Soalaris, Unix, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Windows System Analyst HTC Global Services MSC SDN BHD January 2005 to June 2005 Responsibilities:  • Install and configuration of SQL Server DB instances on VMware.  • Involved in migrating databases of SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012  • Involved with change control board to ensure proper approvals and meet the timeline for database migration.  • Installed and Configured 2- node High availability SQL Active/Passive clusters  • Use custom scripts so as to help automate routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules  • Cleaning and maintain the databases by removing and deleting old data. Writing code for Database access, modifications, partitions, indexes and constructions including store Procedures along with optimization of physical tables.  • Managing Logins, Users, Roles and User permissions.  • Solved various issues encountered in migrating from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008.  • Production support for MYSQL and DB2 databases on Linux.  • Handled various issues related to the setup and configuration of Log Shipping, Mirroring.  • Configured transactional Replication from multiple subscribers for reporting purpose  • Implemented transactional replication between Primary Server and Sub Systems.  • Worked with developers to tune the SQL queries using SQL Profiler.  • Worked extensively on Database space management, performance monitoring, Tuning.  • Administered the MS SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the Privileges to users and groups to automate daily DBA activities  • Involved in scheduling jobs using SQL Server Agent as required.  • Designed SSIS packages generated Reports (SSRS) using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Developed documentation that sufficiently describes technical deliverable as required for internal controls so that the maintenance responsibility can be passed on to production support team.  • Hands on experience with Change management tickets on Production Environment.    Technology:MS SQL Server 2012, 2008/2005, Linux, MYSQL, DB2, C#,.Net, IIS 8, Windows Server 2008 /2012 , VMWare Programmer Analyst Napera Software solutions(M) SDN BHD November 2002 to September 2004 • Install and configuration of oracle , DB2, MS SQL instances.  • Designing and building data load procedures, using MS SQL Server.  • Worked on Oracle9i, DB2 , MS SQL 2000 databases  • Database migration from lotus notes to SQL 2000  • Created and modified Database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Sequences, Functions, Procedures, Triggers, Stored Procedures and Packages.  • Handled database design for new projects  • Created users and setting up roles and privileges  • Identifying the bottlenecks in production using Performance monitoring counters , Oracle utilities  • Worked with end users and internal team  • Database Backup and Recovery  • Provided 24*7 production support (L1/L2/L3)    Environment: Oracle8i/9i, MS SQL Server 2000, DB2, RMAN, Net Backup, Soalaris, Unix, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Windows Database Administrator Cosmic Software Technologies(M) SDN BHD August 2001 to October 2002 • Worked on Oracle8i, MS SQL 2000 databases  • Install and configuration of oracle and MS SQL instances.  • Created and modified Database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Sequences, Functions, Procedures, Triggers, Stored Procedures and Packages.  • Responsible for the monitoring, tuning and maintenance of Oracle databases to ensure SLA is met  • Handled Oracle forms and reports for end users  • Created users and setting up roles and privileges  • Identifying the bottlenecks in production using Performance monitoring counters , AWR  • Provide 24X7 on-call technical supports  • Worked with end users and internal team  • Database Backup and Recovery    Environment: Oracle8i, MS SQL Server 2000, DB2, PL/SQL, Unix, Windows Software Engineer Softcom Systems - IN August 1997 to April 2001 • Install and configuration of oracle , MS SQL instances.  • Created and modified Database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Sequences, Functions, Procedures, Triggers, Stored Procedures and Packages.  • Handled database design for migration projects.  • Designed Oracle forms and reports.  • Change management, environment compare, SQL server performance tuning.  • SQL query validation and performance tuning. Code review for the SQL queries running against database  • Worked with end users and internal team.  • Database Backup and Recovery.    Environment: Oracle8i, MS SQL Server 2000, Oracle forms 2000 , Reports2000, PL/SQL, Unix, Windows Education Batchelors Institution of Engineers Master of Science in Information Technology Campbellsville University Skills DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Oracle Solaris, Linux AIX,HP UX and Microsoft Windows.  RDBMS: Oracle 12/C/11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, Sybase 15.x, 12.x and MYSQL5.6.  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting and some Perl.  Applications/Tools: Oracle Grid/ Database Control, SQL*Plus, Data Pump Export/Import, Expdp/Impdp, SQL*Loader, ADDM, AWR, ASH, Statspack, Explain Plan, TKPROF, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Golden Gate, Oracle Streams, Toad, DB Artisan, Spotlight, SQL Tuning, Toad ,Data Modeler, PuTTY, WinSCP, Tivoli Storage Manager, Autosys, Symantec Veritas, Symantec Veritas Cluster Services, , Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint.  BigData: Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Sqoop, Cassandra, HBase.