DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / ANALYST <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> / ANALYST DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / ANALYST - Fidelity Investments Atlanta, GA Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / ANALYST Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX August 2016 to Present Served as primary resource in corporate technology group (CTG), supporting multiple database applications across the firm and assisting cyber/Fraud investigation, internal investigation, and data analytics and insights teams with day-to-day analysis. Supported data analysis and structuring and framed analytic approaches to support operational and audit risk mitigation.  Identified requirements, prioritized project tasks, supported development and troubleshooting, diagnosed and resolved issues, generate various reports, monitored scripts, created documentation, Managed offshore/onsite model. Produce performance productivity report and provided updates to management.  • Designed ETL architecture to process the data from different environment and Scheduled jobs to run on regular basis and update the reporting database.  • Supported the Data lake project to store data from different producer which reduced the duplicate copy on multiple application and overall cost saving up to 30%.  • Partnered with analytical team to make recommendations for and improve report generation techniques where the senior managers can directly see the required statistics.  • Created data and process flow diagrams for load components including FTP Load, SQL Loader, ETL process, and various other processes requiring transformation.  ? Performed extensive data visualizations; designed, developed, and deployed Tableau dashboards.  ? Wrote hundreds of DDL scripts to create tables and views in the company data warehouse.  • Developed and presented visual data models in Tableau to predict program outcomes and create a more robust automation system to help the investigators job easy.  • Implemented CyberArk login process for all the production database. Supported Data lake model and created the links to access the remote tables from DB2-linux  • Understood and created ad hoc reports on specific issues and communicate the financial impact of findings using analytics to support senior management to make decisions  • Develop working knowledge of query and macro tools. Be able to modify existing queries or tools to meet new requests/requirements.  • Initiated and/or participated on hardware/software/BI proofs of concept (POCs) including Tableau, Hadoop, Spotfire and AWS cloud.  IBM UDB DB2 V11.1 and V10.5, Linux, Oracle 12C, Toad, Data Studio, Tableau, Alteryx, PVCS, DSM, JIRA, Service Center, Service Now, SQL Developer, SSMS, Informatica, Hive, Teradata, Netezza DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Travelport / Cognizant - Denver, CO October 2015 to August 2016 Served on team with responsibilities including database design/creation and production implementation. Coordinated with application, release management, and operating system team to build the environment. Approved DB changes and took appropriate control over table, schema, and index design. Used ETL methodology extensively to support data extraction, transformation, and loading processing in complex EDW using Informatica.  • Resolved various issues, including those related to tables, tablespaces, index, buffer pool space, locking and file systems space, performance, and stored procedures in DPF environment.  • Partnered with infra team to make capacity recommendations for and successfully migrated the physical server database to virtual server.  • Appropriately prioritize and complete a variety of requests, issues, tasks, and projects ranging in duration from intraday to a year or more  • Provided after-hours, on-call DBA for urgent deployments and critical database issues.  • Strong knowledge of and experience with reporting packages (Business Objects etc), databases (SQL etc), programming ( Javascript, or ETL frameworks)  IBM UDB DB2 V10.1, Linux, MS SQL, Toad, Liquibase, Data Studio, ClearCase, Service Center, Service Now    Experience - continued DB2 - SQLSERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR John Hancock Insurance - Boston, MA July 2013 to September 2014 Performed tasks including preparing DB creation plan, estimating Capacity requirements, developing/documenting procedures and standards, database restoration, conducting root cause analysis for all database outages, participating in new hardware and software POCs, overseeing user access setup and security matrix for new releases, and handling SQL performance tuning. Wrote and implemented script for database restoration and database maintenance activities. Rolled scripts out and configured HADR setup in various environments.  • Apart from the regular duties Stepped rapidly into Team Lead role to coordinate 5 members in offshore team and 3 onsite team including delegating work and tracking tickets to ensure the team met its SLA targets.  • Migrated the challenging mainframe database -to- DB2-windows, which was visible to the top management and considered as accomplishment for that application.  • Tasks include maintaining the data dictionary, monitoring performance, and enforcing organizational standards and security  • Initiated the backup/recovery strategy using with EMC DD BOOST and Commvault POC. Submitted the Pros and Cons and DBA recommendation report to the management.  • Automated month-end database restoration which reduced the 20 hours of manual effort on every month.  • Implemented database policy for backing up data on daily basis to reduce the data loss on real time DR scenario..  • Monitored disk usage and system resources, scheduling DB2 utilities to ensure 24/7 availability of production systems.  • Installed WebSphere MQ objects and created Q replication unidirectional and bidirectional environments, and monitored and supported Q replication applications to increase the high availability  • Provided after-hours, on-call DBA for urgent deployments and critical database issues.  • Received best performer award for the accomplishment.  IBM UDB DB2 V10.1, Windows 2000/UNIX, Oracle 10g, Z/OS, MS SQL, Toad, ClearCase, Service Center, Service Now DB2 UDB DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Cognizant Technology Solutions Pvt. Ltd - IN April 2010 to June 2013 Client: ACE Insurance. Served on DB team that created and maintained client database and provided support for various applications and environments, including during live implementation. Managed three critical business applications as a single DBA. Supported application developers with troubleshooting and SQL queries and testing.  Provided comprehensive DBA support: cataloging, setting parameters, restoration, backup/recovery, altering constraints and procedures, tuning performance, writing scripts, monitoring scheduled jobs, overseeing batch/conversion jobs, user setup and security matrix for new releases, and developing documentation.  • Resolved issues related to tablespace, file systems space, deadlock, library files, stored procedure, and index which improves the application performance.  IBM UDB DB2 V9.5, DB2 CLI, VSS, Embarcadero DBArtisan V8.5.5, Toad, informatica, Putty Served previously as TECHNICAL LEAD June 2007 to April 2010 Education MASTER OF COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE Bharathiar University Skills Db2, Oracle, Sql, Hadoop, Informatica, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server