Associate Director Data Integrity Associate Director Data Integrity Bethesda, MD Energetic and results-driven team leader with over 10 years in non-profit organizations and a proven track record for leveraging Association Management systems (AMS) to improve efficiency. Strong problem solver, people skills, detail and team oriented with an ability to analyze situations and bring projects to completion within deadlines. Additional areas of focus include team management and supervision, budget planning, Fundraising management, vendor relations and coordination, report writing and dissemination. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Director Data Integrity American College Of Cardiology - Washington, DC August 2018 to Present Managed the Member Data integrity team while overseeing the membership database integrity and maintenance, dues billing operations, products, fundraising and service transactions. Managed the donation acknowledgment program. Collaboratively established and maintained data entry quality standards and reporting as needed. Actively contributed to the membership budget.  • Oversaw the implementation of the fundraising module   • Improved and introduced online acknowledgement donation letters   • Implemented a centralized monthly metric trends with auto updated summaries, charts and graphs   • Improved workload sharing and traceable workflow through a weekly collaborative tool Senior Database Manager American Podiatric Medical Association - Bethesda, MD October 2011 to July 2018 Administer and manage infrastructure of iMIS RISE membership database on SQL Server environment. Troubleshoot and resolve issues. Handle database security policies and permissions. Monitor website for proper integration with database. Perform data management. Develop annual systems plan and budget. Maintain close relations and coordination with external vendors and IT consultants for routine maintenance, configurations, integrations and issues. Manage membership renewal process, set up events and registration, donations, products and subscriptions. Write new and modify existing reports. Provide user training (group and individual) for iMIS database, crystal reports and Microsoft Office. On-call for Network Manager performing IT help desk, handling Active Directory, MS Exchange, remote desktop support and provide network login/access privileges.    • Delegated the installations, integrations, migrations and upgrades of iMIS Rise database and SQL Server upgrade projects in conjunction with developers  • Created Web-enabled Certificate of Education (CEs) and minimized 95% manual printing and mailing, a solution allowing members to view and print CEs online anytime, anywhere  • Streamlined Certificate of Education (CEs) process replacing it with an automated tool integrated with the website to deliver CEs in members’ accounts  • Reduced system down time by 70% for year-end closing process of upgrading membership categories and dues pricing  • Optimized reporting process by automating recurring report needs saving time and increasing productivity CRM Database Manager Union Privilege - Washington, DC November 2008 to October 2011 Manage and maintain Netsuite CRM database providing access to staff and union members. Set up order management, fulfillment and inventory processes. Manage vendor relations and integration projects with developers including inventory management, e-mail marketing solutions and content management system. Manage union data acquisition, imports, exports, validation and cleansing. Write reports, create and maintain dashboards. Train end-users, create and maintain training documents.    • Designed an electronic time sheets that replaced the manual version for Finance Team  • Introduced and wrote knowledgebase for FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) for staff reference  • Introduced a checklist for order management and inventory at Union Privilege  • Part of the Digitalization Team in charge of ‘going paperless’ at Union Privilege  • Coordinated a needs assessment program to gauge user satisfaction and design trainings tailored to their needs Database Administrator American Society of Health Systems Pharmacists - Bethesda, MD April 2008 to October 2008 Handle functional and technical requirements, system configuration, data integrity and all Personify/TIMSS database related policies and procedures on Oracle environment  Manage database performance, security, access and permissions including backup/restore and recovery   Coordinated development, functional testing and rollout of customizations, enhancements or new releases  Coordinated development and set up test plans for Personify/TIMSS CRM database, track defects and communicate them to developers    • On-call DBA for to handle and resolve any issues or emergencies Database Manager AIIM - Silver Spring, MD August 2005 to September 2007 Manage and maintain CGI/Aptify membership database on SQL Server environment. Create back-ups and restores, SQL performance tuning, database security, troubleshooting and resolve issues. Collaborate with web developer, membership and communications departments to create product codes, chapters, publications, subscriptions, events and registrations and enable them online. Collaborate with database vendor to create and implement solutions for process improvement. Perform data imports, audits, duplication prevention and cleansing. Create and provide reporting needs. Assist in mass mailings and provide phone coverage on a rotating basis. Education M.S. in Computer Systems Management University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD 2002 to 2008 B.S. in Applied Computer Science University of the District of Columbia - Washington, DC 1998 to 2002 Skills Database Management (10+ years), Active Directory (6 years), Budget Management (8 years), MS Office 365 (Excel, Word, Outlook, PowerPoint) (10+ years), iMIS Rise (8 years), Personify (1 year), R programming (Less than 1 year), ETL (7 years), Netsuite CRM (4 years), MS Access (10+ years), SQL Server Management Studio (10+ years), Crystal Reports (8 years), MS office 365 (1 year), SQL (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Document Management (10+ years), Vmware (4 years), Asset Management (6 years), Report Writing (10+ years), Data Management (10+ years), SSIS (7 years), SSRS (2 years), Business Objects (10+ years), Vendor Relations (8 years), Data Analysis (6 years), Cisco tools (1 year), Managerial