Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>\Lead DBA Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA - Infosys Raleigh, NC Microsoft certified SQL Server DBA with 18 years of experience in database administration, monitoring, designing, troubleshooting and performance tuning, seeking for a challenging position with a prospective and growing company to utilize and expand my technical knowledge, skills and expertise using SQL Server Database 2016/2012/2008R2/2005/2000. My expertise entails in database optimization, installation, backup/recovery, DR/HA, database design, security management including data encryption/decryption, ETL, SSIS and SSRS. Ability to identify root causes, bottlenecks and other database issues to troubleshoot and resolve promptly. Skilled in high availability SQL Server solutions including Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replications, Always On Availability Groups and SQL Server Clustering. I am an effective communicator with strong work ethic, exceptional relationship, management skills and ability to relate to people at any professional level. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA Infosys - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present Working as Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA with Advance Auto Parts.    Responsibilities:  • Managing all SQL Servers in all environments i.e. SQL 2016/2012/2008.  • Rebuilding Indexes and Tables as part of Performance Tuning.  • Implemented Active \Active and Active\passive Windows clustering.  • Reviewed existing business procedures and recommended and implemented changes.  • Responsible for setting preferences for various ad-hoc requests and distribution of tasks.  • Performance tuning of large databases at Application, Operating systems and Database Levels.  • Backup and restore of SQL Server databases using Veritas in SQL2016\2012 environments.  • SQL Server 2012 and 2016 Migrations (Side by Side Migration).  • Implementing High Availability features like Always on in SQL2016\2012 environments.  • Extensive use of Data mirroring to replicate the data from PROD to DR  • Experience in Deploying SSIS Packages, SSRS Reports and SSAS cubes in in various environments  • Monitored, Automated and scheduled jobs through SQL Server Agent.  • Coordinating with the I.T. Manager and Business Stakeholders, system downtimes and deployment of latest database releases across all environments. (Dev, UAT, Prod)  • Provided back-up DBA support for all DBA team members. Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA NTT DATA - Princeton, NJ August 2012 to September 2018 Worked as Sr. Database Administrator\Lead DBA with various clients such as National Life Group, Yum Brands, Tellabs and Community Health Network of Connecticut.    Responsibilities:  • Managing all SQL Servers in all environments i.e. SQL 2016/2012/2008.  • Migrated and Created SQL Server Databases using PaaS and IaaS.  • Automated Patching for SQL Server in Azure Virtual Machines (Resource Manager).  • Implemented, Configured, and Supported of H/A technologies with Azure SQL Server  • Installation and Configurations of Large SQL Database instances.  • Developed SQL Server Stored Procedures, Tuned SQL Queries (using Indexes and Execution Plan)  • Developed User Defined Functions and created Views.  • Rebuilding Indexes and Tables as part of Performance Tuning.  • Reviewed existing business procedures and recommended and implemented changes.  • Responsible for setting preferences for various ad-hoc requests and distribution of tasks.  • Performance tuning of large databases at Application, Operating systems and Database Levels.  • Backup and restore of SQL Server databases using Lite Speed and Veritas and DDbost in SQL2016\2012 environments.  • SQL Server 2012 and 2016 Migrations (Side By Side Migration).  • Implementing High Availability features like Always On in SQL2016\2012 environments.  • Extensive use of Data mirroring to replicate the data from PROD to DR  • Experience in Deploying SSIS Packages, SSRS Reports and SSAS cubes in in various environments  • Monitored, Automated and scheduled jobs through SQL Server Agent.  • Coordinating with the I.T. Manager and Business Stakeholders, system downtimes and deployment of latest database releases across all environments. (Dev, UAT, Prod)  • Provided back-up DBA support for all DBA team members.  • Involved in setting up a Datacenter for Community Health Network of Connecticut.  • Implemented Active \Active and Active\passive Windows clustering. Sr. Database Administrator eSystems - Princeton, NJ October 2010 to July 2012 Worked as Sr. Database Administrator with various clients such as VCA Antech and Vertis.  Responsibilities:  • Creating Database Backups and Restores upon client requests.  • Creating and managing user roles and assigning necessary permissions.  • Creating automation of maintenance jobs, Day-to-day maintenance activities such as running DBCC, Transaction Logs, File growths etc.  • Implement all high availability techniques like log shipping, Database Mirroring  • Solve critical production issues, such as table deadlocks and blocking  • SQL Servers 2008 Migrations.  • Coordinating with the I.T. Manager and Business Stakeholders, system downtimes and deployment of latest database releases across all environments. (Dev, UAT, Prod) Sr. Database Administrator/Tech. Lead ADP - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2002 to September 2010 ADP CRM is a web application developed in .Net technology. This Customer Relationship Management (CRM) solution gives you the tools you need to stay in touch with your customers and prospects. ADP CRM consists of Business Development tools, Lead, Campaign, and Customer Management resources, and Direct Marketing services are designed to increase your dealership's sales, Service opportunities, and customer satisfaction. I was involved in creating databases, database sizing, Performance Monitoring, Scheduling job and documentation, creating DTS packages and supporting administration applications for analyzing and loading data.  Responsibilities:  • Installed CRM Application and Web Vehicle Applications on Remote Servers  • Managed a team of 8 members.  • Installation and configuration of SQL server 2008/2005 with respective service packs.  • Maintained SQL Server Databases approx. 200 databases.  • Using TSQL Scripts automated maintenance activities.  • Migrated data from MS SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008  • Monitored, Automated and scheduled jobs through SQL Server Agent.  • Maintained Database authentication and authorization of database objects, created users, configured permissions and assigned roles to users.  • Used Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and Database Tuning Advisor to solve Dead Locks / long running queries / Indexing.  • Continuously Monitored routine data maintenance like re-indexing, database shrinking, and log file monitoring using Dynamic Management Views and Functions.  • Responsible for Database Backups & Restoration, Backup Strategies and Scheduling Backups.  • Involved in Running DBCC consistency checks, and fixing data corruption in user databases.  • Monitored database growth activities & Troubleshoot Transaction Log & Space Issues  • Investigated and applied necessary SQL Server database patches and installed service packs.  • Involved in performance tuning and building indexes for query optimization.  • Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export through DTS, SSIS.  • Created SSIS Tasks and assigned to MS SQL Server Agent.  • Deployed SSIS package for bulk insert and maintained archival data.  • Monitored the event logs and Server error logs for troubleshooting purposes.  • Created web sites in IIS to access CRM Application (Web Servers).  • Created FTP sites for installing Web Vehicle Applications.  • Installed Crystal reports application viewer and hotfixes.  • Provided back-up DBA support for all DBA team members.  • Installed .NetFramework2.0 and MSxml4.0 and Crystal Reports Viewer.  • Scheduled reports for daily, weekly, monthly reports for executives, Business analyst and customer representatives for various categories and regions based on business needs using SQL Server Reporting services (SSRS). Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Db2, Ms access, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 7, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Veritas, Vmware, Internet information server, Web server, Crystal reports, Reporting tools, Windows 98, Windows server 2012, Analyzer Additional Information ·        Microsoft Certified IT Professional - Database Administrator (SQL Server 2008).  ·        Microsoft Certified IT Professional, MS Windows 2012 Administration.   ·        Microsoft certified on Implementing Microsoft Azure Infrastructure Solutions.  ·        Brain Bench Certification, MS SQL Server 2008 Administration.  ·        Brain Bench Certification, MS SQL Server 7 Administration.  ·        Brain Bench Certification, MS Windows NT 4.0 Workstation Administration.  ·        Brain Bench Certification, TCP/IP Administration.   ·        Brain Bench Certification, MS Windows NT 4.0 Administration. 