Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Database Engineer McKinney, TX • Dynamic and self-motivated Database professional with over 10 years of strong experience in  delivering database software services - MySQL, Oracle.  • In managing MySQL, promoted best practices and trained non-MySQL Database Administrators,  both onshore and offshore.  • Manage large database software platforms involving multiple and shared responsibilities. Lead  learning and development strategies to ensure the building of employee skills to achieve business  objectives. Work cross-functionally within organizations to identify database skill gaps, training  opportunities and develop/deliver database training solutions.  • Define database activities, sequence the activities, estimate database resources and develop  database usage and performance schedule. Direct and manage database services and Database  As a Service (DbaaS) execution.  • Member of Project Management Institute, Dallas Chapter, and Oracle Certified Professional. Work Experience Database Engineer McKinney Consulting - McKinney, TX July 2017 to Present • Install and upgrade the Oracle server 10g, 11g, 12c and application tools.  • Won 1st place out of 20 for high achiving technical employees  • Manage Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Led development and design of database objects  • Consulted and advised senior management and multiple clients on high impact database issues  • Manage MySQL databases in Production, Test and QA environments.  • Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements for database system.  • Create database storage structures - tablespaces.  • Develop MySQL database stored procedures, funtions and triggers.  • Enroll database users and maintain system security.  • Oracle Data Guard, RMAN  • Perform database backups and restore databases.  • Create database tables, views, and indexes as appropriate.  • Create, maintain, manage, and monitor Oracle standby databases that enabled Oracle production  databases to survive disasters and data corruptions.  • Manage MySQL High Availability replication. MySQL Database Administrator - Cloud Environment Nanthealth LLC - Dallas, TX August 2016 to April 2017 • Managed MySQL databases across data centers in Cloud environment.  • Provided strategic direction for Cloud enterprise database platform.  • Upgraded MySQL 5.6 to MySQL 5.7. Managed MySQL 5.6 and 5.7 versions.  • Monitored and improved database performance.  • Supported management of enterprise database plaforms.  • Assisted in capacity planning, space management and database maintenance.  • Managed database backup and recovery, Database cloning.  • Managed High Availability database solution with MySQL replication master/master and master  slave.  • Managed MySQL databases in production, QA and development environments.  • Zabbix, Volmetric, AppDynamics MySQL Database Administrator Dent Zone Companies - Irving, TX July 2014 to July 2016 • Upgraded MySQL servers from 5.1 to 5.6, Service Oriented Architectural design   • Configured, monitored and maintained MYSQL Database instances.  • Ensured all MySQL server instance databases operated at optimum levels.  • Performed MySQL instance tuning at the schema level as well as database PHP and SQL  application code.  • Optimized InnoDB tables for better performance.  • Wrote Linux shell scripts to do various database maintenance tasks.  • Troubleshoot Linux server issues related to MySQL server performance.  • Analyzed MySQL server performance using slow query logs.  • Reviewed and identified MySQL logs to identify areas for tuning and optimization.  • Performed MySQL server routine maintenance, and recovery.  • Migrated MySQL servers to VM host machines.  • Managed Percona MySQL server 5.6.  • Performed MySQL monitoring.  • Setup and managed MySQL master slave replication.  • Utilized Trello for team collaboration. MySQL and Oracle Database Administrator Gannett Media Tech Int - Norfolk, VA December 2013 to June 2014 • Provided expert advice and direction in MySQL which includes database administration.  • Managed high availability, database design and development for system solutions.  • Provided 24/7 monitoring solution for various application services and database.  • Managed Oracle 10g database.  • Managed MySQL instances for LAMP Applications, Sphinx.  • Member of the project team, participating in and validating technology decisions.  • Provided MySQL multi-master replication administration and configuration.  • Managed MySQL and PostgreSQL and instances.  • Managed databases using MONyog, and EM7 server monitoring applications. Oracle Database Administrator Vertex Business Serv - Richardson, TX April 2011 to November 2013 • Managed Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Veritas Cluster.  • Created, modified, monitored, managed and deleted databases in order to provide support of various systems. Reviews and provides database growth and performance as necessary to project  team.  • Proactively monitored databases to establish secure services with minimum downtime per client  SLAs.  • Analyzed information and make recommendations on database monitoring, performance and planning to project team.  • Utilized advanced database programming techniques to complete complex assignments or to solve difficult problems.  • Created, executed, and troubleshot database scripts in Toad and PL/SQL.  • Worked with senior level staff to define and implement standards for hardware, software and creation of database administration policies.  • Reviewed database designs and made recommendations for changes, to ensure efficiency and integrity of information.  • Mentored, coached, supported, and provided leadership to database administrators and other IT  staff to improve technical abilities; assist in completion of challenging assignments. Senior Oracle & MySQL Database Analyst A.H. Belo Corp - Dallas, TX May 2005 to November 2010 • Installed, configured, and managed Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g and Oracle 11g.  • Installed, built, configured, and managed MySQL 5.0, and 5.1.  • Performed MySQL backups and recovery, export/imports.  • Managed MySQL replication, security issues.  • Managed MySQL database objects - indexes, views, constraints and stored procedures.  • Managed database users and security.  • Performed MySQL database backups, setup backup directories, backup scripts, export and imports.  • Performed MySQL backup recovery.  • Performed MySQL replication - master/slave, MySQL performance tuning and optimizations.  • Installed MySQL patches.  • Monitored databases using MySQL Workbench.  • Implemented and maintained development and production database security.  • Developed proactive methodologies (policy and procedures) used in the management of Oracle.  databases and applications, for better performance, on Linux and Storage Area Networks (SAN )  platforms.  • Corresponded with third party software vendors on product problems and enhancements.  • Developed and maintained database and software administration documentation, standards, and capacity plan.  • Developed programs in UNIX shell scripts, MySQL scripts for various functions. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Oklahoma City University Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems/Business Management Langston University Skills MYSQL (9 years), REPLICATION (9 years), ORACLE (8 years), LINUX (7 years), UNIX (5 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database, Rman, Oracle Database, ETL, Postgresql, Netbackup, Shell, Perl, Javascript, SQL, jQuery, HTML, Mongo Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    o MySQL 5.1 - 5.7, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c o MySQL migration Query optimization  o Replication master/slave, master/master, o MySQL Enterprise Backup  DevOps, Cloud, AWS o MySQL Enterprise Monitor, Unix/Linux  o Percona Tools, Oracle tools, PostgreSQL o Oracle Data Guard, RMAN, ASM  o MySQL configuration, backup and recovery, o Unix/Linux, Windows  Management of schemas, Optimization and o Oracle Enterprise Manager/ Oracle Grid  tuning SQL queries  o AppDynamics, Zabbix tools  PostgreSQL