Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - FES, Group LLC Lanham, MD A Microsoft Certified MCSA SQL DBA ( Database Administrator), over 6 years of experience in SQL server Database with thorough knowledge of SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 databases, seeking a position as SQL Server Database Administrator. Experience entails different aspects of SQL Server Databases in Installation, Configuration, Migration, Maintenance, Performance Tuning, Security, SSIS, SSRS, ETL, as well as development of database objects including stored procedures, triggers, views, functions, constraints etc. Detail oriented professional with an effective combination of logical, analytical, communication and documentation skills. I am proficient in training delivery and in technical writing. I served in different roles on agile development projects, including serving as a DBA, and as a representative of the Product Owner. Having strong work ethic and desire to positively contribute my skills and talents to the company that would be given a chance Work Experience Database Administrator FES, Group LLC January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Database Installation and configuration (Development, QA and Live environment):    • SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017 (SSRS, SSIS) installation and configuration  • Familiar with different types of error occurred during installation.  • Instant file initializing, Proper allocation unit for system drive and other drives.    Database Upgraded (Development, QA and Live environment):  • SQL Server 2008 to 2012 and 2016  • SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008, 2008R2    Server Migrated (Production ENVIRONMENT)  • Physical server to VM ware.  • Standalone to Active/passive Cluster (By consuming Old DNS name and IP Address) Operational DBA ACTD March 2013 to December 2016 • Performs database administration activities including DB Performance Tuning, T-SQL tuning, Backup and recovery and DB disaster recovery solutions.  • Work with other groups gathering requirements for new instance build OUTS, OR supporting existing applications.  • Analyze existing systems and make recommendations on which technology best suits the business requirement for high availability, Disaster Recovery or high performance.  • Work independently or with other teams to design or participate in functional/performance tests.  • Create/update database documentation about standard procedures, DB technology features, or production issue troubleshooting.  • Design and implement highly available production systems using the following technologies: Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Windows/SQL clustering and availability groups.  • Review scripts submitted by the Development team for PERFORMANCE.  • Work with development teams to deploy code in production when needed.  • Participate in on-call rotations.  • Exported data from SQL Server to multiple destinations for sales forecast and other purposes.  • Plan, prepare, implement, and test backup and recovery procedures.  • Ensure systems availability and manage critical incidents; troubleshoot issues to full resolution and provide detailed updates to management.  • Implement and maintain multiple types of replication. Investigate and resolve issues associated with replication timeouts, errors, and latency.  • Monitored and scheduled automation jobs using SQL Server Agent and Maintenance Plan  • Monitor databases for optimal performance and find out performance problem in different way using SQL Profiler, Wait stats, DMV (Dynamic Management View), DMF (Dynamic Management Function), Activity monitor, Extended Events, Error log, Windows Performance Monitor.  • Identify and takes step to resolve poorly- performing queries that require tuning and/or optimization.  • Used SQL execution plan to find the cost and running process for TSQL code and Optimize the code  • Developed script to find out missing Index, unused Index, Duplicate Index, and Partial Duplicate Index and create appropriate Index to optimized slow running query.  • Troubleshoot day-to-day problems encountered on production as well as development, test database environments.  • Run various DBCC commands to Check Database Consistency  • Ability to work independently and in a team environment.  • Ability to organize and prioritize multiple tasks and meet aggressive deadlines. Patch Management 2008 to 2012 2016) and Windows Server (2008, 2012).  • Cluster aware update for windows servers 2012 R2.  • Applied HOT Fixes, Cumulative update on SQL Server (2008, 2012, 2014)    Database Developing and deployment (Change management)  • Written T-SQL, Trigger, and Stored-Procedures  • Assisted application, web and database developers to optimize SQL queries, Stored Procedures, etc.  • Maintain a change control process. Guide developers through new SQL code deployment to Dev, QA and Production environment.  • Tool use - TFS, SQL compare, Service Desk.    Database Security:  • Create SQL Server logins, database users, assign permissions, move security between servers and implement data encryption.  • Implement periodic security controls. Manage application users and their appropriate level of permissions.    Database High Availability:  • Create and managed MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive), Multi node cluster on Cisco UCS blade chassis 5100 series, shared storage on EMC VNX 5200 Series.  • Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL 2012 Database Mirroring (High Safety) using automatic fail-over option (Multi database, Agent JOB) FOR JENNIFER (Voice Picking Software for warehouse solution)  • Configured and troubleshooting Replications (Transactional).  • Implemented and maintain Always ON technology.  • Preserve Log Shipping for disaster recovery and reporting purposes.    Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning:  • Strong knowledge on database Monitoring and Performance tuning.  • Monitor different logs, Space usage, Events, Agent Job history by PowerShell scripts.  • Provide support to application developers in designing and implementing physical database structures.  • Tune slow running, resource consuming queries by evaluating query execution plan.  • Proactively monitored the production database(s) and optimize stored procedures for better performance. Resolve deadlock, block, and locking conflicts and resource utilization.    Backup/Recovery:  • Idera Backup solution - SQL SAFE.  • Strong working experience in SQL native database Backup and restore.  • Disaster Recovery planning and implementation.  • Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery.    Dealing with Database Corruption:  • Take necessary prevention for data corruption.  • Strictly maintain data integrity using DBCC CHECKDB.  • Restoring single page from backup using dbcc write page, dbcc ind.  • Documentation: Prepare different documentation (SQL Server Build Guide, Database Decommissioning steps, restore steps, ) and update them in timely manner.  • Encryption: PCI complacence by using SQL Compliance from Idera, SQL auditing.    Data Modeling:  • Involved in data modeling for the application and created ER diagram.  • Backward & Forward Engineering with data modeling tools mentioned above  • Tools Used: VISIO, SQL Server Data Diagram Education Bachelor of Science Bakhter University 2009 to 2013 Diploma in Information Tech in ATVI Tech Institute 2006 to 2008 Skills Ms access, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Active directory, Subversion, Windows sharepoint services, Rally, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Publisher Additional Information Technical SKILLS    • MSSQL Server (2008, 2012, 2014, 2016)  • MySQL (5.6,5.7)  • Red gate/Spotlight  • MS Access  • Microsoft Office Suite (PowerPoint, Access, Excel, Publisher, Outlook)  • Active Directory  • Windows Server  • SSIS  • SSRS  • SSAS  • Windows SharePoint Services  • Subversion  • VersionOne  • Rally  • PL/SQL, SQL Plus/CMD, SQLCMD, Windows PowerShell, SQL PowerShell  • TFS    Methodologies    • Agile methodologies including Scrum  • Traditional methodologies including waterfall, spiral