Webmaster, Database Administrator Webmaster, <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster, Database Administrator Community Association of the Blind - Bellflower, CA June 2007 to March 2019 10041 & 1/4 Alondra Blvd  Bellflower, CA 90706  Supervisor: Mark Hanohano, President  Telephone Number: 323-533-4395    Installed Drupal Content Management System And MySQL Database.    Backed up the software and database on a weekly schedule.    Insured there was a clean backup before any Drupal updates to minimize potential data loss.    Explained to new users what permissions they had when it came to database access.    Made sure that those users who needed to add data to the database did so without errors.    Instructed the users if errors came up during insertion of data and how to make sure they did not happen again.    Removed users from all databases when they left the organization.    Successfully recovered the database from 4 separate times where data could've been lost.    Successfully moved CPanel and Drupal with its associated database to a new webhost with no data loss. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Security Westwood College - Los Angeles, CA March 2006 to June 2009 Skills DBA (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information Database Skills    Installs, monitors, diagnoses and debugs the database system software.    Performs database backup and database recovery.    Manages disk space for database systems.    Responds to database outages or performance problems and restores normal  operations.    Performance monitoring and tuning    Windows Skills    Can setup a Domain Using Server 2003 and Windows XP Pro    Can setup working DHCP and DNS servers on Server 2003    Can setup a working printer for domain clients to use on Server 2003    Can Setup a transitive Trust Between 2 Different Domains on Windows Server 2003    Can setup an FTP Server with either IIS or a Third Party Server Program On Windows Server 2003    Linux Skills    Can Install And Update RHEL, Debian Or Ubuntu    Can Setup The Oracle Database Software On RHEL    Can Setup The Oracle Database Software On Ubuntu