Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - TIAA, Wash, DC Lanham, MD I am an accomplished professional Oracle Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 8 years of experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in Database design, Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I am enthusiastic, proactive and possess exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational skills. Proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator TIAA, Wash, DC June 2016 to Present • Resolve database and application related issues, keep the environment up to date, provide daily administrative support while monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on a single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012.  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user capacity, auditing, and performing security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes. Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH while explaining plan for periodic Performance tuning.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events & took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Coordinate installation, upgrading, and patching of relational database management (RDBMS) and participate in code reviews, define standards, recommend and establish policies.  • Established and implemented backup/recovery and patch scheduling as well as exported and imported databases frequently into the development and test environments for archiving purposes.  • Controlled all databases with high alertness to ensure peak performance, stability, reliability and availability. Resolved locking issues, inconsistencies and assisted in batch processes.  • Assist developers with SQL code troubleshooting as well as tweaked applications, procedures and SQL when necessary and performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Monitor and tune Oracle database environments for improved system performance, ensure integrity and recoverability of oracle database structures.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test & into production environments. Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster relief solution (DATA GUARD). Wash, DC. Database Administrator Key Corp July 2012 to June 2016 • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development & implementation.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Maintaining Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network. Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Test recovery and support continuity of operation procedures. Performed database patching for bug fixes, and mitigate security vulnerabilities.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments. Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using O patch utility to install, test, and deploy patches instances.  • Rewrote and did implement a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Monitoring and Troubleshooting database performance using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events & took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports. Database Administrator/Analyst Manager BNP Paribas Group June 2008 to July 2012 • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication. Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA utilities respectively. Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases. Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Database monitoring, maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform. Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases. Education MSc in Communication Management Towson University Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, DISASTER RECOVERY, ENCRYPTION, RMAN, SCRIPTING, ETL, BASH, SECURITY, CAPACITY PLANNING, MYSQL Additional Information MySQL Fundamentals  Oracle Certified Associate, OCA