Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Target Corporation Minneapolis, MN ? Experienced SQL Server Database Administrator with hands-on experience in installing, configuring, managing, monitoring, migrating and applying SQL Service Pack and troubleshooting SQL Server2008 / 2008 R2 /2012 /2014 / 2016 instances in Prod, UAT, Test and Dev environments  ? Practice with implementing, configuring and troubleshooting in Standalone, Windows Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering, Backup/Recovery, SQL Server Security, Replication, Log shipping, Mirroring and SQL server 2012/2014AlwaysOn failover High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions  ? Investigated and resolved the critical issues of significance including Query Performance Tuning and CPU, MEMORY, IO bottleneck issues  ? Provided technical support for various databases and applications to assure full operational conditions 24/7  ? Migration from SQL Server 2008/2008R2 to SQL Server 2012/ 2014 and 2016 including Standalone and Clustered servers  ? knowledge in Microsoft azure and Amazon AWS  ? Accountable for maintaining SSIS packages using SQL Server 20XX and integrating them with other data sources including Oracle, Sybase, DB2 and flat files.  ? Knowledge in various ETL, Reporting and strong SQL coding skills with SSIS and SSRS  ? Created and managed schema objects such as Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers to handle complex business rules, history data and audit analysis  ? Constantly involved in SQL Server T-SQL in construction in Triggers, Tables, Store Procedure, User Defined Functions, Views, Indexes, relational databases models, and data integrity.  ? Familiarity with IGNITE8, Red gate SQL Data Compare 10, SQL Backup7, Share Point, DB Artisan 7.2, 8.1.5, BMC. IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN May 2016 to Present The primary responsibilities at Wells Fargo Security as a Sr. Database Administrator for handling, administration, troubleshooting and supporting the development, testing, UAT, Production environments and Apply regular maintenance and critical patch updates on all SQL servers.    Responsibilities Included:  ? Involved in Coordinating Migration Activities from Oracle RAC to Exadata platform by teaming up with EXADATA services team and EDABI Portfolio teams.  ? Supporting Critical and High alerts coming through Grid Control alerts.  ? Working on issues related to Data Guard, Oracle RAC environments, Golden Gate.  ? Working on issues related to RMAN Full, Archive and Control file backups via GRID Jobs and manually connecting to target and catalog.  ? Working on issues related to database performance, user administration, schema, profile and role handling.  ? Worked on database refreshes from production to test and development environments for Micro-Strategy, eDW, DPM portfolios.  ? Coordinating with Off-Shore Target India DBAs regarding the incidents and issues.  ? Investigate and fix failed backup jobs for large database using Symantec & Veritas NetBackup.  ? Automation of database refresh of lower environment from production using PowerShell scripts.  ? performed handling and managing SQL databases in a real-time production environment with sizes around 3TB +  ? Environment: SQL Server 2008/2008 R2/2012/2014 and SQL server 2016. SQL Server Database Administrator Zanzibar Industries January 2015 to April 2016 DBA Raytheon's Steady State Database January 2013 to December 2014 Supporting the S&P CAPITALIQ Production and Staging SQL Server (global) Databases over 12.3 TB size of individual database The DBA team includes 20 DBAs (7 in US, 13 in India). Support around 300 SQL Server instances with around 6000 databases, which include the following environments: Transactional replication, log shipping, mirroring with stand along and clustered server. Includes SQL Server 2008/2008R2, and SQL Server 2012    Responsibilities Included:  ? Perform level II incident on call 24X7 support and troubleshot day-to-day problems encountered on production databases and custom application issues  ? Implement and troubleshoot in Performance tuning using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and System Catalog Views, Profiler and Server-side Traces, Windows Performances Monitor and built in performance reports in SSMS, Query Plans, and Database Tuning Advisor  ? Responsible for applying service pack and hot fix to all version of SQL Server  ? Implement and maintain databases, perform software installations and upgrades, monitor database performance, perform capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and manage database Quality Assurance including database consistency check  ? Used PowerShell to automate admin tasks.  ? Responsible for installing SQL Server on Standalone and Clustered servers  ? Designing, implementing, maintaining, and generating daily report to monitor backup job for all SQL Servers  ? Perform post-upgrade tasks including updating statistics, changing data-base compatibility level, reconfiguring log shipping, executing upgrade testing, verifying agent jobs and maintenance tasks, bringing system online and monitoring system activity  ? Manage MSSQL Server (storage, memory, processing) and their dependencies and performance bottlenecks  ? Responsible for maintaining database security, and high availability such as transactional replication, SQL Clustering, Log shipping  ? Monitor strategies, processes, and procedures to ensure data integrity; optimize/reduce data redundancy; maintain required level of security for all production and test databases  ? Review/apply Stored Procedures, Triggers, and other TSQL code developed by developers  ? Monitored and ensured Disaster Recovery for critical database  ? Develop/create Stored Procedures, advanced queries, Triggers, Views, indices and Function for Database  ? Ensured developers coordinated their efforts in managing and maintaining different application databases  ? Manage the granting of access to testing, development application and system databases  ? Implement various automated scripts to monitor disk space, fragmentation, failed jobs step, backup and mirroring activities, and configured various job alerts for immediate notifications  ? Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014 Sr. Database Administrator Raytheon's Steady State Database February 2012 to 2014 in production, QA and Developer database environments, including back-up, performance tuning, capacity planning, monitoring critical events and documentation    Responsibilities Included:  ? Created and managed multiple databases and assisted in capacity planning  ? Monitored, maintained database systems and troubleshoot problems that may arise  ? Maintained data integrity and security (managed roles and permissions of database users)  ? Use tools like SQL Profiler for database tuning  ? Generate traces, execution plans, identify performance issues, deadlocks/contention and resolve them  ? Developed strategies and implemented solutions for managing back-ups, restoration and replication  ? Created and managed constraints and indexes  ? Supported software developers with database operations including the development of complex SQL, tuning of DML and the creation of stored procedures  ? Created detailed documentation including diagrams of database infrastructure  ? Learn relevant business processes and understand the data flow, critically and dependencies  ? Effectively coordinated and communicated with all the stakeholders  ? Set up and maintained database infrastructure for the company's BI needs DBA Aegis Media January 2012 to December 2012 Supported the Aegis Media account within a team of 10 DBAs (6 are in India, 4 are in US). The SQL DBA team is responsible to support more the 200 servers (including Standalone and cluster servers), more than 4000 databases for Aegis Media Global (includes US and Europe and Asia), which includes the following: environments: transactional replication, log shipping, mirroring with stand along server also Clustered server.    Responsibilities Included:  ? Provided 24/7 support to SQL Server Production serves (MS dynamics financial systems) and Production Historical server for analytics systems  ? Evaluated database performance and performed databases, perform software installations and upgrades, monitor database performance, perform capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and manage database quality assurance including database consistency check. The project migrated SQL Server 2005 to SQL server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Migrated DTS packages in SQL Server 2000 to SSIS of SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008  ? Designed/prepared pre-upgrade plan  ? Performed post-upgrade tasks including updating statistics, changing data-base compatibility level, reconfiguring log shipping, executing upgrade testing, verifying agent jobs and maintenance tasks, bringing system online and monitoring system activity  ? Monitored strategies, processes, and procedures to ensure data integrity; optimized/reduced data redundancy; maintained required level of security for all production and tested databases  ? Extensive experience in SQL Query Performance tuning by Using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and System Catalog Views, Profiler and Server-side Traces, Windows Performance Monitor, built in performance reports in SSMS, Query Plans, and Database Tuning Advisor to optimize the queries and enhance the performance of database servers for SQL Query Performance tuning  ? Managed the granting of access to testing, development application and system databases  ? Ensured Disaster Recovery for critical database  ? Created and managed schema objects such as Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers to handle complex business rules, history data and audit analysis  ? Troubleshot day-to-day problems encountered on production databases and custom application issues  ? Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2 DBA The Hartford Financial Services April 2011 to December 2011 DBA San Francisco, CA January 2005 to March 2011 UCSF Medical center has licensed EPIC software developed by EPIC Systems, located in Verona, Wisconsin. The software will be customized to meet the needs of UCSF Medical Center. EPIC software is an end to end  solution for Healthcare organizations, enabling them to seamlessly integrate all modules starting from patient registration, all the way to billing    Responsibilities Included:  ? Managed and Administrated the SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 production and Non-production servers.  ? prepared maintained and modified SQL server installation and configuration documents  ? Involved in the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2005.  ? Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  ? Evaluated data storage considerations to store databases and transaction logs. Created databases using Transact SQL Statements, SQL Server Management Studio and Database Wizard  ? Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 that are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE) , Data Partitioning, Snapshot Isolation  ? Maintained databases, performed software installations and upgrades, monitored database performance, performed capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and managed database Quality Assurance including database consistency check  ? Disaster Recovery for critical database with compliance for HIPPA  ? Monitored strategies, processes, and procedures to ensure data integrity; optimized/reduced data redundancy; maintained required level of security for all production and tested databases  ? Performed post-upgrade tasks including updating statistics, changing data-base compatibility level, reconfiguring log shipping, executing upgrade testing, verifying agent jobs and maintenance tasks, bringing system online and monitoring system activity  ? Migrated DTS packages in SQL Server 2000 to SSIS of SQL Server 2005  ? Environment:SQL Server 6.5/7.0/2000/2005/2008/2008 R2 DBA 2005 to 2008 The project was aimed at integrating the existing data sources for the ordering web-site to reduce the maintenance and to increase efficiency of ordering. The Supporting DBA team includes 10 DBAs (5 in India, 5 in in US). Support around 500 SQL Server instances with around 4500 databases, which include the following environments: log shipping, transactional, mirroring with stand along server also clustered server. It includes SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2    Responsibilities Included:  ? Provided 24X7 supports to SQL application developers on production servers  ? Maintained databases, performed software installations and upgrades, monitored database performances, performed capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and managed database quality assurance including database consistency check  ? Implemented various automated scripts to monitor disk space, fragmentation, failed jobs step, backup and mirroring activities, and configured various job alerts for immediate notifications  ? Perform to ran Traces from the Profiler to trouble shoot database and running database consistency checks for other database maintenance aspects  ? Monitored database performance and rebuilt indexes on tables using various SQL Server commands to reduce fragmentation  ? Performing backup and recovery tasks and restoring databases (when database is moved from one environment to other or database is crashed and needs manual recovery)  ? Designed custom Maintenance jobs - schedule to run daily and on weekends (tasks like rebuilding. Indexes, defragmenting Databases, Shrink Database, and Database complete backup)  ? Review/apply Stored Procedures, Triggers, and other TSQL code developed by developers  ? Designing, implementing, maintaining, and generating daily report to monitor backup job for all SQL Servers  ? Environment: SQL Server 6.5/7.0/2000/2005/2008/2008 R2 Education Bachelor's Degree in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering New York Institute of Technology Diploma in Relational Database Management in Bridge & Router New York University Skills capacity planning (10+ years), Database (10+ years), MSSQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Database and Database tools: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016, Sybase 11.0, 12.5, MySQL and Oracle  ? Software:T-SQL, SQL, PL/SQL, IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager, Ignite8, Red Gate SQL Backup7, Red Gate Data Compare 10, Share Point, DB Artisan 7.2, BMC, SSIS, DTS. SSRS, Crystal Reports, Access, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning, ODBC, JDBC, OLEDB, DTS, SSIS Installation, Upgrade, & Migration  ? OS: Win 2012/2008/2003/2000 Server/Windows 2000 Professional/ UNIX (Sun Solaris), Red Hat Linux  ? Language:Windows Power shell, C+, COM+, Visual C++, .Net, HTML, SML, ASP, JSP, JavaScript, VB.