Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - U.S. Department of Labor Washington, DC I am an Oracle DBA with 9+ of professional experience. I thrive in dynamic work environments where I can both problem-solve issues as they arise, prevent performance issues from occurring and continue to further deepen my knowledge of database processes through training participation and self-study as software continues to evolve. Over the course of my career, I have developed expertise in Data Migration; Backup and Recovery; Patching and Security; Space Allocation and Management; Software Upgrading and Installation as well as ongoing Database Monitoring and Maintenance to ensure minimal downtime, and Performance Tuning to improve data saving and retrieval speeds. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator U.S. Department of Labor - Washington, DC March 2017 to Present • Responsible for Oracle 11g logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance on Windows NT.  • Create new databases and users: set up backups, export, and other monitoring scripts.  • Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.  • Managing database security. Design, develop, and implement automated data backup and restoration procedures. Provide technical support for database maintenance and disaster recovery.  • Identify, recommend, and implement all new database technologies and keep up-to-date on Oracle license management. Oracle Database Administrator ATMAN Corporation - Cheverly, MD July 2015 to February 2017 • Involved in checking and managing table space growth, monitoring the data file growth and extents as well.  • Involved in export and import of database objects in order to copy them from one database to another and for backup the tables.  • Responsible for continuous monitoring of CPU usage, i/o contention, memory paging and identify the resource and performance bottleneck and reorganization for ensuring performance.  • Collecting performance statistics using stats pack/AWR and analyzing by ADDM rebuilding indexes or analyzing the index as per the fragmentation level and minimize the performance issues.  • Refresh and cloning of database from the production environment to test the environment and application of patches.  • Import schemas as part of the recovery process in times of logical corruption.  • Tuning of instance, database with the help of system views and init parameters. Database Administrator ICF - Rockville, MD May 2013 to June 2015 • Created databases in an Oracle RAC environment and involved in moving databases from test to production environment.  • Installed data recovery for eight databases using Data Guard for single instance and also in an Oracle RAC environment and troubleshoot issues in Oracle Data Guard environment.  • Upgraded the oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Worked on x2-2 machine where backups, restores are run across all database instances in exadata system with two or four RMAN channels allocated per instance.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities.  • Monitoring day-to-day backups, logs and recovering them as per the requirement.  • Weekly data refresh from production to development and test environments using data pump export/import. Junior Database Administrator Business Wire - New York, NY April 2011 to April 2013 • Design data security and/or backup/recovery programming specifications that meet security requirements.  • Create and maintain appropriate documentation as it relates to database creation/implementation.  • Work simultaneously with other departments and/or outside contractors to resolve system production problems.  • Participate in, and may facilitate technical review meetings with the team and/or customer as required.  • Maintain industry knowledge and participates in technical training as recommended or required by the manager. Database Coordinator Kushi Foundation - Becket, MA October 2008 to April 2011 • Assisted in maintenance, reorganization, and expansion of existing database with recommendations and development of the overall database structure and future requirements.  • Maintained and updated donors' and customers' profiles on Raiser's Edge.  • Contributed in the launch of a new website through website testing and writing content.  • Managed a database with over 3500 customers and donors. Education Bachelor of Arts Temple University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Disaster recovery, Rman, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Etl, Informatica, Ab initio, Bash, Scripting, Loader, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Database, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Oracle Database Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Backup and Recovery, Upgrades, and  Migration Installation, configuration, and capacity planning    • Oracle RAC, ASM and Grid control  • Oracle Data Guard  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Bash/Unix Shell scripting and Automation    Software  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor.  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5    • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database security  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for high availability and disaster recovery  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader