Senior Database Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Senior Database Engineer - Ellie Mae Fremont, CA To obtain a position as a Senior Database Administrator, utilizing my strong technical, functional, analytical and communication skills in a challenging environment. Work Experience Senior Database Engineer Ellie Mae - Pleasanton, CA September 2018 to Present • Designed, developed and managed PostgreSQL database in AWS environment.  • Developed and set up HA, DR solution for PostgreSQL  • Developed custom scripts for monitoring PostgresSQL  • Provisioned AWS EC2 instance using Terraform and Jenkins and improved the process by automation.  • Experienced in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, IAM  • Deployed mongoDB in AWS, upgrade and troubleshoot performance issue.  • Deployed Redis clusters in AWS  • Set up SQL server in Linux and participated in the migration from SQL server to PostgreSQL.  • Backup and restore databases in SQL server databases. MTS DBA eBay - San Jose, CA June 2007 to July 2018 • Core QA & production ownership for NoSQL databases including Couchbase, Mongo and Cassandra spanning hundreds of clusters and thousands of nodes in eBay private cloud.  • Delivery of HA for NoSQL with multi-datacenter environment.  • Delivery of DBA home grown monitoring and self-healing framework to maintain health of NoSQL clusters and nodes.  • Worked with product development team to support their mission critical NoSQL needs for capacity planning, setup, expansion, performance tuning and disaster planning needs.  • Full lifecycle management for all NoSQL software and hardware.  • Close partnership and input to NoSQL vendor teams with support engineers, troubleshooting performance problems, log analysis, bug discovery, product input to fix features and full testing and deployment.  • Troubleshoot data transfer from couchbase to Elasticsearch as part of internal product strategy.  • As a member of QA/Development team, provided support for 150+ QA/Development Oracle databases (range from 50GB to 5 TB) and 30+ MySQL servers.  • Setup and supported Dataguard / Active dataguard, Golden Gate for oracle databases and implemented other replication solutions.  • Led setup of oracle databases cloning using Netapp and provided developer tool to clone database on demand, resulting in saving time for data copying, and significant reduce of storage usage.  • Led the efforts of datacenter move of 200+ oracle instances by setting up dataguard standbys, and executing graceful failover to new datacenters.  • Routinely installed and upgraded different versions of Oracle and NoSQL databases.  • Planned and setup Oracle and NoSQL databases for new project launch, and subsequent capacity planning..  • Set up master-slave and master-master for mission critical NoSQL databases to ensure disaster recovery in shortest period of time possible.  • Monitored, identified and resolved database performance problems across NoSQL / Linux platforms.  • Worked with developers and data architects to provide technical expertise on performance tuning, database design and resolved other bottlenecks in the Application.  • Participated in automation of routine DBA such as node replacement, tablespace addition, file system usage, export/import, schema change etc, so we can manage large number of databases.  • Provided 24x7 production on-call to database operational support on rotating basis. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Yesmail/infoUSA - San Carlos, CA March 2003 to May 2007 Provided 24x7 support for large production databases (range from 400GB to 3 TB ), such as backup and recovery, tablespace and datafiles management, users, role and privilege management, disk space monitoring and performance monitoring.  • Completed upgrade of databases from version 8i to 9i and from 9i to 10g.  • Routinely Monitored and tuned production performance issues using utilities such as OEM, STATSPACK, DBArtisan and Spotlight.  • Set up Resource Manager plan to prioritize the utilization of database resource.  • Set up replication for reporting database using snapshots and advanced replication.  • Responsible for routine maintenance of 10+ development/qa databases.  • Routinely cloned and refreshed database from production to development and qa environment. Synchronized qa/development databases with production databases structures by Change Manager.  • Set up and maintain standby databases for disaster fail-over and graceful switchover, and for datacenter move.  • Worked with developers and client service engineers to identify and tune the problematic SQL queries and resolved other bottlenecks in the Application.  • Implemented partitioning for data aging as well as performance tuning.  • Developed stored procedures and coordinated with developers to incorporate the codes into the application.  • Provided support for application releases from development, qa to production.  • Designed and implemented scripts to monitor the growth of production database for capacity planning.  • Developed PL/SQL and unix scripts for generating custom reports and data processing.  • Provided 24x7 on-call database operational support on rotating basis. Oracle Database Administrator ClickAction Inc - Palo Alto, CA August 2000 to March 2003 Responsible for data loading from list files into the Production database using a combination of SQL loader, shell-, awk-, sql-scripts, stored procedures and functions.  • Upgraded the production database from 8 to 8i, and from 8i to 9i.  • Provided backup, recovery, and turning of the production database.  • Exported and imported data from production database to development database.  • Developed shell script for custom data extracts from Production database.  • Set up and maintained reporting database for Data Warehousing.  • Developed custom web based report using PHP and Oracle Reports6i.  • Maintained and developed custom EXCEL reports using Shell and PL/SQL procedure.  • Responsible for providing support to the clients in maintenance of their data. Database administrator/Scientist Genelabs Technologies, Inc - Redwood City, CA May 1998 to July 2000 Responsible in maintenance RS3 (Oracle 7.3) database, backup and recovery,  • Provided support to database users.  • Wrote SQL queries for the end users.  • Preprocessed the assay data and loading into database. Education certificate Foothill College September 1999 to June 2000 B.S. in genetics and genetic engineering. in genetics and genetic engineering Fudan University - Shanghai, CN Skills Sql Server, Nosql, Mongodb, Oracle Database, DBA, PostgresSQL, Cassandra, Couchbase, Sql