Project Manager / Team Lead Project Manager / Team Lead Project Manager / Team Lead - Verizon Communications, Inc Alexandria, VA Accomplished Information Technology professional with a long history of delivering high-quality, on-time results. Skilled Project Manager with a track record of increasing responsibility in a broad range of IT initiatives. Strong background in all aspects of the Software Development Life Cycle with a focus on Database Administration. Experienced also in the areas of Data Masking, Disaster Recovery, Data Security, Agile Methodologies, DevOps, SOX Compliance and IT Audit. Work Experience Project Manager / Team Lead Verizon Communications, Inc - Ashburn, VA June 2002 to Present • Supervised team of DBAs, including off-shore and contractors. Responsible for hiring and performance review. Closely monitored progress of team initiatives to ensure timely delivery of yearly goals in the scope of budgetary demands.  • Lead cost savings initiatives which produced substantial year over year savings in excess of $1M. Savings were realized due to performance tuning and storage reclamation.  • Served as main point of contact for DevOps, leading meetings, organizing training sessions and keeping team on track to achieve stated database automation goals.  • Responsible for review and approval of production access for systems with sensitive data, observing all regulatory security requirements.  • Provided compliance and security support including Sarbanes-Oxley control evaluation, monitoring of compliance dashboards, documentation review and internal IT audit deliverables.  • Dramatically reduced the likelihood of outages by initiating proactive database monitoring. This has prevented issues in the areas of performance and space allocation, helping our organization reach or exceed system availability goals. Database Administrator Bell Atlantic - Arlington, VA September 1998 to June 2002 • Provided database administration support for several mission critical, high volume applications. Duties included environment upgrades, DDL creation, performance tuning, production implementations, trouble shooting, and general database support.  • Performed database and SQL performance tuning, reviewing SQL for access path effectiveness and making suggestions for improvement.  • Provided 24x7 coverage for mission critical production applications as part of an on-call rotation.  • Performed key role in proactive Disaster Recovery planning and execution, with use of third party software and hot site recovery.  • Work closely with clients gathering requirements for database/software development.  • Provided training sessions for client base on new features of DB2.  • Extensive use of IBM and BMC Tools and utilities for DB2.  • Served as mentor for new team members, giving guidance and advice. Programmer Bell Atlantic - Arlington, VA March 1997 to September 1998 • Supported all phases of the software development life cycle during the development of a new customer billing system.  • Responsible for reference table loads in the test and production regions.  • Used programming skills to develop numerous reports as needed for various testing and software development efforts.  • Provided production data verification for all software releases. Education Master's Degree in Computer Information Systems Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO Bachelor's Degree in Music University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Links http://linkedin.com/in/eric-scorce