Senior SQL Database Administrator Senior SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior SQL Database Administrator - Automated Financial Systems Chalfont, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior SQL Database Administrator Automated Financial Systems - Exton, PA February 2019 to Present Collaborate with company managers and directors in developing future architecture of Business Intelligence systems as well as other SQL-based financial systems  ? Provide technical assistance to developers; recent technical changes resulted in queries completing up to 34% faster  ? Perform migrations to new servers including SQL Server installation and configuration, databases and maintenance plans, user roles and permissions  ? Ensure backups meet business recovery time objectives and recovery point objectives as defined for each system and perform disaster recovery testing  ? Install, configure, administer, and manage SQL 2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017  ? Consults with management team to ensure conformity with system best practices, and presents weekly updates on project development Senior Database Administrator Jefferson Health Systems - Philadelphia, PA 2001 to 2019 SQL Database and Systems Administrator for high-criticality hospital systems including Physician Practice and Clinical Management System  ? Manages, monitors and guarantees efficient day-to-day operations of systems across multiple platforms for both Microsoft Windows and Unix-based database systems  ? Investigate and resolve database and application performance issues  ? Serve as project/technical lead in the completion of medium to large scale implementations, managing projects from business requirements analysis to solutions delivery and support  ? Maintain and install updates to OLAP database and analytics application servers which run nightly Extract Transform and Load (ETL) process  ? Experience with SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Maintain, modify, and create SQL Server Integration System (SSIS) packages  ? Database performance tuning including index creation and maintenance  ? Install, configure, administer, and manage SQL 2008/2012/2014/2016  ? Build multi-cluster nodes with Active-Active and Active-Passive  ? Apply application and security updates for SQL Server and Windows Operating System  ? Planning, executing, and documenting systems and procedures as part of disaster recovery planning  ? Reviews upgrade projects as well as changes for proposed system upgrades, vendor statement of work and cost proposals for hardware and software implementations  ? Consults with management team to ensure conformity with system best practices, and presents weekly updates on project development  ? Extensive experience with SQL Server High-Availability: AlwaysOn (AAG), Replication, Mirroring, Clustering  ? Perform both in-place and side-by-side system and application software upgrades  ? Automated notification of critical system events resulting in significantly increased uptime and reduction in event criticality  ? Create and modify queries and stored procedures  ? Experience with a wide array of scripting languages as well as some programming languages  ? Maintain SQL Server user security via authentication modes, roles, and logins Education Learning Tree 2017 Architecture Penn State 2011 Project Management Penn State 2009 Master's Degree (enrolled) in Information Science Pennsylvania State University Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems Holy Family University - Philadelphia, PA Skills ADO, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, ADO.NET, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, DBA, Sql Database, Sql Server, Sql Dba