MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator Irving, TX Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Irving, TX October 2018 to Present ? Manage critical SQL Server databases through multiple product life-cycles ( Dev-UAT-PROD).  ? Manage the development and performance of SQL databases for use by applications and other organizational needs.  ? Install and configure new SQL Server Services and migrate databases from lower environments to production.  ? Configure high availability and disaster recovery solution SQL Server AlwaysOn  ? Ensure all database servers are backed up in a way that meets the business's Recovery Point objective (RPO)  ? Promptly provides analysis and design support for production enhancements to include but not limited to problem tickets, work requests, work orders, change request and other database related tasks as assigned via pac2000 system.  ? Review and apply Sql Server Patches and hotfixes to ensure audit compliance are met.  ? Ensure TDE is actively enabled on all SQL Server databases via t-sql scripting  ? Monitor SQL Server performance using native tools, T-Sql, DMV's and 3th party tools.  ? Involved in developing new documentation, departmental technical procedures and user guides  ? Recommend optimizations for production processes to user community.  ? Finding DMV queries to answer questions about server-level performance  ? Using free tools like sp_Blitz and sp_WhoIsActive to diagnose server reliability and performance issues MS SQL Server Database Administrator Pechanga Resort & Casino - Temecula, CA January 2017 to October 2018 Managed SQL Server databases through multiple product life-cycles and environments, Dev-UAT-PROD mission-critical production systems.  ? Primary Lead in regularly performance of Database Engine, SSAS, SSRS and SSIS Installation, Configuration, Upgrades and Migrations from lower level environment to production.  ? Ensured the upkeep of SQL Server Patches and hotfixes met quarterly Sql Server Database audit compliance.  ? Lead role in performing SQL Server deployments via TFS and Bitbucket and other application user inhouse deployment systems  ? Troubleshooting and resolved daily database(s) availability, connectivity, performance issues and Database security concerns as reported.  ? Proactively performed Database Health check and Performance tuning checks to prevent critical application query performance issues, timeouts, deadlocks and blockings.  ? Worked closely with system Administrators in deploying new servers to production and other Database Server level projects.  ? Ensured compliance with business Recovery Point Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO) were met at 99.9 %.  ? Worked on documenting database environments and communicating improvement needs with leadership.  ? Installed, configured and managed all versions of SQL server to include SQL server 2008 -2016  ? Provide 24x7 support for critical production systems. MS SQL Server Database Administrator ConMed Corporation - Largo, FL October 2015 to January 2017 Performed database systems consolidations, and version upgrades.  ? Installed, configured and managed all versions of SQL server to include SQL server to include Data Engine, SSAS, SSIS and SSRS.  ? Perform scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities after hours.  ? Configure and maintain database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security  ? Independently analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end.  ? Provide 24x7 support for critical production systems.  ? Researched and identified solutions that enhance and progress technology for the organization; and  ? Mentored, advise, and instruct user community in the database administration role MS SQL Server Database Administrator Home-Design - Miami, FL May 2009 to November 2015 Refreshed SQL server databases on UAT/DEV as needed by developers or functional teams.  ? Monitored and managed SQL Server databases backups and logs; Installed, maintained and upgrade SSAS, SSIS and SSRS SQL Servers.  ? Ensured technical and functional designs of all SQL databases meet business requirements.  ? Independently analyzed, solved, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to end.  ? Performed scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities after hours.  ? Refined and automate regular processes, track issues, and document changes.  ? Enhanced users' understanding of database systems by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering group and individual training sessions and creating user-friendly training materials.  ? Provide 24x7 support for critical production systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Psychology Southeastern University - Lakeland, FL Skills MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2005, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, SQL, BACKUPS, DISASTER RECOVERY, R2, OPTIMIZATION, PTO, PERFORMANCE TUNING, TEAM PLAYER