Sr. Database Consultant Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant Sr. Database Consultant - USDA Annandale, VA • Hands on experience in Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting,  Upgrading and Migrating SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008 & R2/2005/2000 on Clustered  and Standby Environments.  • Efficient in upgradation and migration from MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008R2 to MS SQL  Server 2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017. Migrated Oracle and MySQL Databases to SQL Server.  • Extensive work experience on system analysis, design, development, testing and  implementation of projects with full SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Experience in Database System Analysis, Design, Implementation and Administration of SQL  Server 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005 & 2000 in Production, Test, Development  and Replication & Cluster Server Environments.  • Extensive work experience with Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2013/2015/2017 for  accomplishing data warehouse projects in different organizations  • Expert in ETL-Extraction Transformation Loading, Data warehousing, Operations Data Store  concepts, data marts and OLAP-Online Analytical Processing technologies.  • Comprehensively involved in Data Extraction and Transforming and Loading (ETL) using DTS  package in MS SQL Server 2000, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) & SQL Server Data Tools  (SSDT)  • Certified AWS Solutions Architect and experienced proficiency in AWS Cloud: VPC, EC2,  CloudFormation, S3, RDS, Route 53, CloudFront, IAM, CloudWatch, KMS Certification  Management and server distributions  • Strong abilities with designing and implementing IAM policies, Auto Scaling, EC2, EBS, S3,  CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, ECS or EKS, Lambda, Elastic Beanstalk, DynamoDB, RDS, Aurora,  Redshift, EMR etc.  • AWS Networking & Content Delivery - VPC, Cloud Front, Route 53, API Gateway, Direct Connect,  ELB  • AWS Security - IAM, Cognito, SSO, KMS  • AWS Storage - S3, EBS, EFS, Storage Gateway  • Hands-on design, architecture and deployment for hybrid cloud environments and associated  security and networking requirements  • Hands-on experience on AWS and Azure infrastructure, implementation, and configuring  • Experience in administration of MS SQL server in AWS cloud platform.  • Experienced in configuring and administering VMware.  • Participated and led client engagement in developing plans and strategies of data management  processes and IT programs for the clients, providing hands on assistance in data modeling,  technical implementation of vendor products and practices  • Facilitating, guiding, and influencing the clients and teams towards right information technology  architecture and becoming interface between Business leadership, Tech leadership and the  delivery teams  • Leading and mentoring other IT consultants within the practice and across business units  • Supporting business development and ensuring high levels of client satisfaction during delivery  • Providing best practice advice to customers and team members  • Hands on experience with T-SQL (DDL, DML, DCL) in Implementing & Developing complex Stored  Procedures, Triggers, Nested Queries, Joins, Cursors, Views, User Defined Functions, Indexes,  User Profiles, Relational Database Models, Creating & Updating tables and checking the  database consistency by executing DBCC Commands.  • Excellent experience in Configuring and Administering of SQL server DR (Disaster Recovery) &  HA (High Availability) solutions (Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Windows Failover Cluster &  SQL Clustering, AlwaysOn High Availability Groups).  • Experience in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, Database Mail and Scheduled DTS and SSIS  Packages  • Experienced in using various types of Database Designing, Monitoring and Managing third party  tools (Solarwind, Idera, Foglight, Spotlight, Redgate, TOAD, ERwin, Visio)  • Experienced in installing, configuring and managing Citrix Server and Clients  • Experienced in configuring and managing router, switch, AD (Active Directory) and users in  Windows 2012/2008/2003 server.  • Worked as both Production DBA and Development DBA with 24 x7 support.  • Experienced in formulating policies, procedures, and standards relating to database  management, and monitors transaction activity and utilization.  • Experienced in performance tuning of indexes, optimization of storage functionality, and  databases in general  • Experienced in SQL Server Sever and Database level auditing to aid a forensic analysis of any  data-breach that may occur.  • Experienced in configuring Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to protect organizational data at  rest from unauthorized/malicious access by encrypting entire SQL Server Data, Microsoft Azure  SQL Database, and SQL Data Warehouse data files  • Experienced in configuring and managing central management servers to manage and monitor  multiple servers from single platform  • Quick learner, excellent communication skills and good performer both in team and  independent job environments. Never missed the deadline of any projects.  • Ability to work individually as well as in a team with excellent problem solving and trouble-  shooting capabilities.  • Ability to Architect and configure resources in Microsoft Azure portal and experienced with  migrating MS SQL Server Database from On-Prem to Microsoft Azure portal  Work Authorization & Security Clearance    Work Authorization: U.S. Citizen  Security Clearance: Public Trust from IRS MBI level 5 (Active)    Education, Professional Certification & Training Work Experience Sr. Database Consultant USDA - Alexandria, VA July 2018 to Present with Cloud Architect and Security role  Employer: Kaimetrix, NC    • Install, upgrade and administer SQL Server database engine, Integration Services (SSIS), Reporting Services (SSRS), and Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Architect, design, install, create architecture documentation, and performs operational support  for database environments in MS SQL and Oracle.  • Provide support for multiple applications using Microsoft SQL RDBMS Platforms, SQL Server  2008 R2, SQL 2012, 2014, SQL Server 2016, and SQL Server 2017; SQL Server Reporting Services  and SQL Server Integration Services, and High Availability (Clustering & Replication) solutions  • Implement and maintain security, backup and disaster recovery strategies for OS and databases.  • Prepare technical documentation.  • Provide recommendations and strategies to application owners on how to improve performance  and scalability of their database components.  • Create/modify/maintain and optimize ETL processes using SSIS.  • Perform capacity planning required to create and maintain the databases.  • Perform as a technical expert and mentors other team members and application developers on technical solutions  • Implement security for all the Databases.  • Perform Tuning and Optimization; troubleshoots and resolves database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues, replication issues, log shipping issues,  connectivity issues, security issues, index management and statistics. All aimed at ideal business  support while limiting after hours support incidents.  • Provide application development support - DDL implementation and maintenance, code review.  Includes DDL/Schema changes implementation in development, test, and production systems.  • Perform and/or coordinate installations, upgrades, and patches to Microsoft SQL products and tools.  • Design, deploy, manage, and maintain data architecture in AWS and MS Azure environments.  • Work with cross-functional technical teams including architects, developers, and system  engineers to create holistic, automated solutions to achieve CDM(Common Data Model)  integration and implementation activities at federal agencies and data reporting to various  dashboards.  • Responsible for design, development, and hands-on implementation of Azure cloud solutions  • Serve as a AZURE technical resource in team's efforts to determine the needs of our businesses  that will simplify and automate the applications as well as make them more efficient  • Hands-on experience in EMR (Elastic Map Reduce aka Hadoop), RDS (Relational Database  Service), Lambda, Elastic Beanstalk, Redshift  • Migration from on-premise databases to AWS Cloud  • Migration from on-premise database to MS Azure  • Provide architectural guidance on strategies to improve operations and monitoring of current  and future implementations.  • Participate in planning, implementation, and growth of our customer's Azure foundational  footprint  • Work closely with other architects and engineers to recommend and design database or data  storage solutions that effectively reflect our client's business needs, security, and service level  requirements  • Architect and migrate enterprise customers from On-Premise data centers to AWS and MS  Azure and then managing the environments. Sr. Database Consultant (SQL & Oracle) DBA Advanced Threat Analysis, Inc - New Carrollton, MD July 2018 to February 2019 MD  Sr. Database Consultant (SQL & Oracle) DBA/Developer Job Role    Responsibilities:  SQL Server & Database Management  • Installed & Configured SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, and 2008R2 in Development, Test and Production environment.  • Responsible for gathering requirement, design, architect, plan, and implement virtualized and physical data base cluster solutions on MS Windows 2012R2, MS SQL Server 2012 & 2014 platform  • Performed SQL Server installation, administration, operational support, troubleshooting, and performance tuning  • Performed capacity planning, resource management, and event management service  • Upgraded and Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2008  R2 to SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016 and SQL Azure.  • Migrated Oracle (10g/R2, 11g/R2) Database, MySQL (4.0.3, 5.0.15) database and DB2 to SQL Server  2008 R2, 2012 and 2014.  • SharePoint upgraded and Databases migrated from SharePoint 2007 to SharePoint 2013  • Administered SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012 & 2008/R2 in standalone and cluster environment  • Configured SQL Server Active-Active and Active-Passive clustering  • Configured multiple replicas on SQL Server 2012, 2014 & 2016 with AlwaysOn features for HADR  solutions and load balancing  • Created and Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including database  maintenance tasks  • Performed monitoring, troubleshooting, performance tuning, query optimization, and resolved  database integrity, performance, blocking and deadlocking, replication, log shipping, connectivity, and security issues  • Deployed databases to different environments in development, test and production environment  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring including automatic fail-over option in SQL  Server 2008 R2 and 2012  • Configured Log Shipping as Standby database from Production database for Reporting purposes  • Configured and maintained Transactional Replications and snapshot Replications for load balancing  and report generation  • Configured Peer-to-Peer Replication for Object Level DR & Sync load balancing solutions  • Configured and maintained Database Mirroring for mission critical database  • Configured, deployed, and managed MS SQL 2012 & 2014 at VMware environment.  • Planned and implemented Database backup strategy to meet organizational RPO & RTO  • Applied Service Packs and Hotfixes on SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, SQL Server 2014 & 2016  • Generated report on configured database maintenance jobs  • Generated report and review on Long-Running Queries  • Provided backup & recovery and make recommendations regarding enhancements and/or improvements.  • Verified database & user security and integrity controls  • Researched and developed the new database technologies and solutions  • Performed deployments of code or data loads to development, test, and production.  • Performed database hardening including database encryption.  • Maintenance of database dictionaries, overall monitoring of standards and procedures, file design  and storage, and integration of systems through database design.  • Controlled database access, permissions, and privileges  • Work on Microsoft Azure and AWS Cloud migration plan    • Worked with the Database and Business Intelligence teams to establish a security program and governing process for database and data security.  • Worked with various business units by providing guidance on design architecture, data security  policies, and remediation of data/ database issues related to information security.  • Conducted regular testing and assessment of the entire environment to ensure database security  baseline, database patch status, and track/remediate any vulnerabilities that poses a risk to the enterprise  • Coordinated with the project team related to data and database technology to ensure proper data  classification and security requirements are properly considered  • Participated in recommendation of security improvement to overall Database & application security  • Installed and configured database security metrics using IBM Guardium & Tripwire  • Provided monthly IT security metrics and audits and regulatory reports to the management.  • Monitored the application security and performance  • Periodically assess the security and set the standard  • Managed security at Server level, Database level, and object level as per SLAs Sr. Database Consultant (SQL & Oracle) DBA Internal Revenue Service - New Carrollton, MD August 2014 to June 2018 Developer Job Role  Employer: PM America, Gaithersburg, MD SQL DBA/ Database Administrator USAID - Crystal City, VA April 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2012, 2008R2, 2005 & 2000 in development, test, and production environment and Oracle 10g & 11g  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2012 for testing different features and stability  • SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008/2008 R2  • MS Access 2003/2000/97 databases into MS SQL Server 2000, 2005, and 2008R2. DB2  databases to SQL Server 2008 R2 and Oracle to SQL  • Configured SQL Server clustering and AlwaysOn Availability Groups in SQL Server  2008R2 and SQL 2012 platforms  • My-SQL 4.1.0/5.5 databases to SQL Server 2005 and 2008 R2  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring including automatic fail-over option in SQL Server 2008 R2  • Configured Log Shipping as Standby database for Reporting purposes  • Use 3rd Party Tool -Red Gate for comparing and synchronizing Database schemas and also use compression and encryption for SQL server database backups.  • Used DBCC to check database conditions, fix database corruption  • Developed Reports for different purposes like DBA Reports, user reports using SSRS and Report Builder 3.0 & 2.0  • SSIS Package create, deploy and manage, Moved data from flat file, Excel, Oracle, MS  Access, OLEDB Data Sources to SQL Server  • Schedule jobs to automate different maintenance activities such as monitoring database  health, disk space, job alert, index optimization and data integrity.  • Use 3rd Party Tools RedGate, Idera for SQL Server Administering and Performance monitoring  and alerting.  • Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP, Export & Import data from/to databases like Oracle, My-SQL, and Access to/from SQL  Server  • Leveraged expert root-cause analysis skills to resolve a wide range Database performance tuning  issues, server crashes, and defragmentation problems.  • Managed, maintained, enhanced and tuned production database applications that resulting in increased performance.  • Delivered all projects on time and within budget despite some inherent legacy design  challenges.  • Optimized queries, store procedures, views and triggers as part of performance tuning  optimization methodology.  • Efficiently setup SQL Cluster, Mirroring, log shipping, and replication services to solidify the database infrastructure.  • Expertly partitioned big tables to reduce memory surge and CPU spike.  • Adept at running SQL profile to identify and resolve systemic application problems.  • Maximized the utility of Data Warehousing and data integration services for SQL using SSIS.  • Fine-tuned the reporting capability of applications using the SSRS. IBM InfoSphere Guradium 2012 to 2014 2008 R2,2005, Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c, Unix, Windows Server 20012, 2008 R2, 2003 R2, IIS 8.0, 7.5, 6.5, ASP, ASP net, AD (Active Directory), Tripwire,  IBM InfoSphere Guradium , SharePoint, ITSM, VMWare, DMZ, STIG Public Trust (Active) 2005 to 2008 Work Environment: SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, 2005, 2000, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Unix , Windows  Server 20012, 2008 R2, 2003 R2, IIS 8.0, 7.5, 6.5, ASP, ASP, .net, AD (Active Directory)    Security Clearance: Public Trust (Active) Education Bachelor in Applied Physics & Electronics University of Dhaka - Dhaka, BD Master of Science in CIS in Computer Information Systems University of Dhaka - Dhaka, BD