Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Memphis, TN Highly skilled Database Administrator with 12 years of Naval service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator US Navy - Virginia Beach, VA September 2012 to October 2017 - Hand-selected to account for all pilot flight hours and reconcile mission data with the Sierra Hotel Aviation Readiness Program (SHARP) database. Efforts resulted in zero discrepancies on a monthly Budget Operating Target Report.  - Supervised and trained team member in accurately tracking and maintaining SHARP database used for monitoring pilot codes, qualifications, and pilot flight hours.  - Distributed and maintained over 60 portable electronic maintenance aid computers by installing/updating patch software updates quarterly ensuring accurate and "by the book" maintenance throughout the squadron. Laptops are utilized in rotation with work deployments for long distance maintenance.  - Performed configuration updates for aviation database systems.  - Configured Aviation database systems for use while on ship/land for deployment intervals of 6-9 months.  - Utilized proprietary SQL system within NALCOMIS database to build, manage, and improve aviation system.  - Monitored network traffic using error logs, system diagnostics programs, command prompt to ping and fix networking issues. This prevented system lag and hang-ups for smooth performance of maintenance system.  - Used error logs and VMWare system to monitor operations and network traffic of NALCOMIS system. This program is used to manage the transfer and receipt of aviation and support equipment parts and maintenance documentation.  - Manually performed antivirus patch updates weekly for home server integrity and portable aid laptops, ensuring safety of data maintained within Naval squadron.  - Database back-ups completed daily using tape backup drives and external USB hard drives for server system holding 8 TB data. This is to ensure no loss of data for aircraft in service for historical purposes and maintenance purposes. IT Security Officer US Navy - Oak Harbor, WA October 2009 to August 2012 - Assisted Command Security Officer maintain over 1000 employee profiles and clearance levels. Performed computer system audits quarterly to verify no data losses. Utilized Top Secret PC network to communicate with encrypted emails to US Navy high authority figures.  - Antivirus updates and system backup weekly.  - Network monitoring of error logs to correct badging systems for employee use to access proper areas of related fields of work. Data Entry US Navy - Oak Harbor, WA February 2006 to September 2009 - Performed data entry for the technical maintenance of 6 aviation aircraft, ensuring aircraft maintenance and inspections were on track for deployment purposes. Assisted in the setup of standalone Naval database system while stationed in Afghanistan for squadron readiness. Managed Naval Aviation Logistics Command Managed Information System (NALCOMIS) database for 7 months maintaining the integrity of system for maintenance purposes.  - Antivirus updates and system backups weekly. Education High school or equivalent Middle College High School - Memphis, TN August 2002 to May 2005 Certifications/Licenses System Analyst/DBA May 2015 to Present Attended Naval Education Training Center for 2 month course.