Software Developer Software Developer Software Developer Bainbridge Island, WA Work Experience Software Developer NBC UNIVERSAL - Seattle, WA 2007 to 2018 Designed, developed, and maintained applications (CMS, web) and databases. Worked with Drupal modules / concepts (Features, Media, Chosen, Conditional Fields, Field Collections, Devel, Entity API, Forms API [FAPI], Taxonomies, etc.).  • Engineered 2 CMS applications to support nbcnews.com and today.com (Drupal 7, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, MySQL).  • Enhanced performance by writing complex custom Drupal Views SQL queries.  • Built custom Drupal modules; used Drupal Forms API and jQuery for managing Drupal forms.  • Managed AJAX asynchronous calls to APIs for URL retrieval with Drupal Menus, custom PHP callbacks, and jQuery.  • Debugged issues using Xdebug and Devel.  • Implemented and maintained internal tools using C#, PowerShell.  • Designed and developed MS SQL database to support web API. Reporting Analyst & Program Manager MICROSOFT 2005 to 2007 Served as member of MSN Internet Access Service Delivery reporting team.  • Managed MSNIA data warehouse, generating reports on customer and Internet provider usage patterns using SQL, MDX, Crystal Reports + Crystal Analysis server, and OLAP cube data sources and normalized and de-normalized relational dbs. MICROSOFT - Redmond, WA 2004 to 2007 Database Administrator MICROSOFT 2004 to 2005 Supported SQL Server farms used by MSN Internet Access and collaborated with large team (DBAs, QA personnel, developers) as member of SD SQL Internet Access Services Team (MSN).  • Managed permissions, replication, log shipping, database backups and installs, scripts, and jobs for developers and testers on production servers, investigating database blocking using SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, and other tools. Database Architect APEX LEARNING - Bellevue, WA 1999 to 2003 Led architecture, development, and engineering of in-house and 3rd-party OLTP databases, data migration, and reporting databases.  • Functioned as architect, engineer, and developer lead for the Instructional Management System (IMS), supporting the Apex Learning Environment (ALE) and the entire range of Apex products built on ALE.  ? Designed, built, and implemented initial system in less than 5 months.  ? Completed 3 major subsequent updates.  ? Created a system that handled 50K active enrollments with no performance issues.  ? Designed a database schema that was used as example of good relational database design principles in internal Apex Learning classes and in college classes.  • Designed, built, and supported other production OLTP databases, including Blackboard (a 3rd-party learning platform).  • Provided near real-time complex metric reporting to students and teachers by designing and building multiple data marts using replication. Database Programmer, Technical PM & Technical Writer CORBIS - Bellevue, WA 1996 to 1999 Engineer and Technical Program Manager for customer apps in JD Edwards OneWorld, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) suite. Engineer for Onyx Customer Center, a customer relationship management system. Designer, Engineer and Writer for Image Tracking Database Reference Guide, a client/server intranet app documenting internal tools. Education Certificate of Software Development in Full Stack JavaScript Code Fellows - Seattle, WA MPhil in English St. Catherine's College, Oxford University - Oxford Bachelor of Arts Pomona College - Claremont, CA Master's in Information Management Uniiversity of Washington - Seattle, WA Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, JAVASCRIPT, OBJECT-ORIENTED, OO, ETL, PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, Git, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Jquery, PHP, Node.js (1 year), Microsoft SQL (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-ohalloran http://github.com/Kevinoh47