Job Seeker Manhattan, NY Certified Robotics Automation and Business Analyst with more than 12 Years of experience in Business Process Automation, RPA, Apps Software Analysis and Business Analysis/ Testing of enterprise wide, web based applications and web services along with solid knowledge in Software development methodologies including Agile and Waterfall models across multiple projects.    SPECIFIC EXPERTISE  • Highly skilled in RPA- Automation development with the tool Automation Anywhere & UIPATH. Requirements Capture, Executing unit test with developed workflow  • Working on Business process diagrams and process flow charts with RPA tools.  • Understand the requirement from Business and define technical scope and process change requirement  • Hand on experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) with UiPATH across different platforms and successful implementation in Production environment.  • Automated Web Based, Java Based, Mainframe, Desktop based applications using automation tool UiPath and Automation Anywhere.  • Worked on Business process diagrams and process flow charts with RPA tools.  • Comprehensive exposure in project delivery management and the Development Life Cycle including design of the workflow Plans  • Good knowledge on Machine Learning.  • Involved in identifying the opportunities to automate manual tasks using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) technology, and established Commercial-wide RPA program  • Develop and support data capture and data management processes for core systems to support the delivery of identified projects  • Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as part of a structured change control process.  • Comprehensive exposure in project delivery management and the Development Life Cycle including design of the workflow Plans  • Extensive Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, testing and deployment as well as software engineering methods like Rational Unified Process (RUP), AGILE.  • Expertise with Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) specifications to make better understand businesses.  • Worked closely with Process SME's to prepare Process Definition Document (PDD) & Solution Design Document (SDD) and educated SME's to work with Bots in production.  • Worked as a SPOC for RPA developers and acted as a bridge between developing and testing.  • Working knowledge of WorkFusion, Automation Anywhere and Ui Path Studio for developing front office and back office robots.  • Prepared reports like Defect Statistics and Tracking, Weekly and daily status reports.  • Great Interpersonal and communication skills.  • Extensive experience in writing complex stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views, Indexes and Joins on SQL Server and Oracle.  • Hands-on technology professional accustomed to working in complex, project-based environments. Multifaceted experience in QA software testing, software development and user-acceptance testing.  • The delivery of projects for identified process improvements using RPA methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience HPDA Enterprise LLC - New York, NY February 2018 to Present New York, NY Feb 2018 - Present  Domain: Telecom/Retail    Responsibilities:  • Defined RPA automation strategy for process involving mainframes, web service calls and web applications implemented  • Creating solution on process automation for different Business Applications (Windows based, Browser based, Java and Mainframe).  • Working on development of objects, actions, queues and processes. Build of automated solution containing processes, objects, work queues, environment variables and report templates design control and development best practice.  • Automated routine backups and file management tasks.  • By using Different extraction methods in UiPath extracted data from Web, Excel, PDF, Citrix.  • Supported and did Analysis of business processes at operational level, provide recommendations and potential RPA solutions for individual process and process integration.  • Maintained centralized systems for backup, security, and resources.  • Managed robot's workloads using work queues.  • Maintenance and development of database objects like Queues, Tables, indexes, Stored Procedure, constraints, triggers, Table & Index Partitioning, DB links, users, roles, profile and SQL NET and Listener.  • Managed job scheduling and executed batch data processing with ease in UiPath Orchestrator.  • Managed different Robots and Processes by Deploying, Scheduling, Monitoring in the Orchestrator.  • Monitored and troubleshoot the environment through control server.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of MS SQL Server including Service packs and patch Management ad also checking the status of Backups and Restoration of databases on daily bases.  • Setup Always on high availability group of databases  • Service packs and Patch management creation  • Implemented user authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Worked on Different databases, to Query the specified data.  • Used OCR technology to Extract data from Citrix environments and different PDFs.  • Creating and documenting test procedures and scenarios for Pre-UAT phases supporting the operational teams during UAT and rollout phases.  • Analyzing the user stories and breaking up the user stories into sub-task with estimation  • Used Multiple Flowchart activities in the complex workflows.  • Used web scrapping to extract Structured data from the web.    ENVIRONMENT: Uipath, SQL server, VB.Net, SharePoint, Oracle. Analyst RPA - Dallas, TX January 2015 to February 2018 Domain: Insurance    Responsibilities:  • As an RPA Consultant providing End to End to solution for Business process using Robotic Process Automation.  • Involved in prominent level RPA assessment and Solution designed for a business process.  • Regularly interacted with the core developers to help in fixing the defects in less time.  • Reviewed & fixed Business Process Production issues using Work Fusion  • Regularly interacted with the core developers to help in fixing the defects in less time.  • Worked in all phases of diverse technology projects specializing in Data Science and Machine Learning.  • Good experience in Machine Learning, Data Mining with large datasets of Structured and Unstructured data.  • Implemented Workfusion RPA AI solution for HR operations.  • Implemented IBM Datacap solution with machine learning capabilities for the document management process.  • Used various actions like Conditions and Loops, User prompts, Error Logging and commands ( Object Cloning, OCR, Key Strokes)for coding the automation process  • Participated online meetings to demonstrate the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and potential clients.  • Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation.  • Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and non-functional requirements based on interactions with process owners, stake holders, and designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging, Documentation and Implementation of Business Process Solutions.    ENVIRONMENT: WorkFusion, UiPath, SQL server, VB.Net, SharePoint, Oracle. AllScripts - Chicago, IL January 2013 to December 2014 DB Performance Administrator Unisys - Dallas, TX April 2010 to May 2013 Unisys provides supply chain management services to global technology and software companies across its worldwide operations. Unisys executes comprehensive supply chain and logistics services that are designed to improve clients' revenue, cost, and sustainability, customer experience objectives, through its wholly owned subsidiary, it is a trusted and integrated provider to the world's leading companies in consumer electronics, communications, computing, software and retail.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for using DBA experience in supporting SQL server instances comprising of versions (2000/2005/2008/2008R2) on a 24×7 production  • Resolving all DB related external/internal production & non-production incidents within SLA.  • Handling routine DB related requests like backup/restore/refresh, Table refresh, DB changes deployment.  • Responsible for backup, restoration, recovery and export-import of SQL databases.  • Experience in MySQL and Implement Database Change Controls.  • Interact with business & Microsoft counterpart on daily basis for understanding requirement designing solution and implementing the same  • Extensively working on parameterization such that the solution is reusable with different solutions.  • .Created and managing Users, Roles and Groups and handling database security policies.  • Upgrading/Downgrading and Migrating the Sql Servers as per client requirement.  • Maintenance and development of database objects like Queues, Tables, indexes, Stored Procedure, constraints, triggers, Table & Index Partitioning, DB links, users, roles, profile and SQL NET and Listener.  • Involved in creating database objects like tables, views, procedures, triggers, and functions using T-SQL to provide definition, structure and to maintain data efficiently.  • Maintaining source and target mappings, transformation logic and processes to reflect the changing business environment over time.  • Worked on Active Directory for the User Account Management.  • Worked on Group Policy, Password policy and Reset account.  • Plan the work for self and team to meet the dead lines  • Actively involved in Data Center Consolidation and planning.    ENVIRONMENT: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Configuration Tools, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 and 2008 Database Analyst DELL - Round Rock, TX June 2008 to April 2010 Database Analyst/ Administrator EarthLink - Columbus, GA March 2006 to April 2008 Responsibilities  • Responsible for using DBA experience in supporting SQL server instances comprising of versions (2000/2005/2008/2008R2) on a 24×7 production.  • Assisted Business and Development team with application process analysis and modification.  • Worked with Business users to resolve technical questions, assessed needs and recommended changes; wrote and maintained technical and process documentation.  • Helped testing team in designing and executing the test scripts and test scenarios in UAT/Prod environment.  • Responsible for backup, restoration, recovery and export-import of SQL databases.  • Created and modified new and existed crystal report by adding and modifying logic in stored procedure utilizing business logic provided.  • Added Users for various business applications and provided the roles as requested by the managers.  • Develop and run T-SQL database queries to investigate data related issues and support user ad-hoc requests.  • Involved in administration including planning, installing, deploying, implementing, and configuring MS SQL Server  • Responsible for backup, restoration, recovery and export-import of SQL databases  • Worked on monitoring, tuning, Index management, analyzing database performance and allocating server resources to achieve optimum database performance  • Participated in maintaining high database availability for supporting non-stop business operations  • Providing connectivity and troubleshooting of connectivity problems. AllScripts 2005 to 2008 is a publicly traded American company that provides physician practices, hospitals, and other healthcare providers with practice management and electronic health record technology. Allscripts also provides solutions for patient engagement and care coordination, as well as financial and analytics technology. The company has more than 180,000 physician users and has solutions in 2,700 hospitals and 13,000 extended care organizations. Project involved supporting SQL Server instances comprising of versions (2005/2008/2008R2 and 2012) on a 24×7 production on call support. Including Maintenance, upgrades of the database and EEHR (Electronic Health Records).    Roles & Responsibilities  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of MS SQL Server including Service packs and patch Management ad also checking the status of Backups and Restoration of databases on daily bases.  • Migration of databases between the servers. Migrations of SQL Server 2005 to 2008 and 2008 R2 to 2012, 2014.  • Setup Always on high availability group of databases  • Service packs and Patch management.  • Administering the MS SQL Server by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Maintenance and development of database objects like Queues, Tables, indexes, Stored Procedure, constraints, triggers, Table & Index Partitioning, DB links, users, roles, profile and SQL NET and Listener.  • Migration of databases and servers from older versions to latest versions of SQL Server 2012 and 2014.  • Responsible for IIS Administration for web applications includes creating virtual directories, connecting to servers, managing Services and configuring IIS backup and recovery  • Worked on Client/Server tools like SSMS, SQL Server Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer to Administer SQL Server.  • Responsibility includes Upgrading the Electronic Health Records (EEHR).  • Handled Production Releases individually for enhancement activities.  • Involved in Bug fixing and Incident ticket management.  • Production Support, Batch Monitoring and also handling User queries.  • Analysis for tickets raised by end users regarding data issues and addressing it by giving solutions.    ENVIRONMENT: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Query Analyzer, SQL Server Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Configuration Tools, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003 and 2008. DBA DELL 2005 to 2008 is a trusted and integrated provider to the world's leading companies in consumer electronics and computing. Project involved supporting SQL Server instances comprising of versions (2005/2008/2008R2) on a 24×7 production on call support. Worked on internal Databases of Dell Financial and Global support comprising of versions (2000/2005 and 2008) on Windows Server operating system    • Involved in routine DBA activities like analyzing space availability, backups (transaction log, complete and differential) and scheduled jobs  • Participated in administration including planning, installing, deploying, implementing, and configuring MS SQL Server 2005/2008 and 2008R2  • Troubleshooting performance issues and fine-tuning queries and stored procedures.  • Responsible for backup, restoration, recovery and export-import of SQL databases.  • Expertise in using SQL server performance monitor, Index Tuning & SQL query analyzer for monitoring SQL Server.  • Participated in monitoring log shipping and the sync between primary and standby databases using in- house customized scripts.  • Resolving Technical issues related to hardware and networking.  • Took the role of Case Manager in the first 3 months of joining the organization.  • Leadership role was taken to groom the agents in the team with all technical issues.  • Interact with client and onsite counterpart on daily basis for understanding requirement designing solution and implementing the same.  • Participating in all the code reviews and explaining team with all the review comments.  • Warehouse data testing against Unit Test Case specifications  • Plan the work for self and team to meet the dead lines    ENVIRONMENT; SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Query Analyzer, SQL Server & Unix SQL Server Configuration Tools, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 and 2008 Education Master's in computer systems technology in computer systems technology Harrisburg University Skills Java, C, Mainframe (9 years), XML, SQL, ShellScripts (10+ years), VB Script, JavaScript (9 years), Robotics Process Automation (9 years), WorkFusion, UiPath, (9 years), Automation Anywhere (8 years), TCP/IP, DNS, WINS (9 years), , DHCP, FTP, SMTP (9 years), HP Quality Center 10 & 11 (9 years), Test Director, WinRunner (9 years)