IT Performance Engineer IT Performance Engineer IT Performance Engineer Worthington, OH Work Experience IT Performance Engineer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH 2007 to 2017 Led cost reduction efforts across multiple business application and system areas in both production and test environments. Savings were from CPU, DASD, Hardware, and license expenses in both blue and green dollars. Runtime Service level agreements were also address and reduced. Provided metrics and savings in dollar figures to the areas. Year after year savings were in multimillion-dollar cost reductions and cost avoidances. The performance team also supported Test and QA environment performance testing prior to production migration.  ? Monitoring of weekly and monthly charge-backs were examined for trending and abnormalities.  ? Realtime performance monitoring to limit high cost CPU and problematic issues with application and system software. Alerts, alarms, and warnings were created across all production and test regions and tuned to run as efficiently as possible.  ? Evaluated and reported on Software licenses for monitoring as needed to guarantee Nationwide had the best fit. Ran proof of concept tests for potential new software involving multiple groups across impacted areas.  ? Supported and maintained BMC Mainview Mainframe software performance products. Resolved product issues and APARs and reviewed available maintenance on a monthly basis.  ? Supported operations and developers in using the tools. Participated in IBM Z maintenance rollouts on system wide RSU levels 4+ times per year.  ? Represented the performance team on Group Capacity implementation. Procedures, alarms, reporting. MSU levels were setup and installed.  ? Provided job shadowing to members of the operations group on using the performance tools effectively.  ? Ran a Gallup Engagement Survey poll review for the direct management group. A 12-week course directed toward improvement opportunities resulted in a 30% increase in the following survey.    on z/OS DB2 Database Administrator, Enterprise Systems JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH 2001 to 2007 Provided DBA duties for the DB2 databases across the Enterprise systems including customer authentication.  ? Responsible for application support and communications  ? Reviewed performance and created backups and reorgs as necessary.  ? Implemented Online reorgs. Supported application and system software releases and conversions  ? Used Platinum and BMC tools to maintain and update 20+ test copies of production data  ? Worked with many different groups to convert multiple acquired banks legacy systems into one common system.  ? Reviewed and supported buffer pool tuning and disaster recovery testing. Provided backup support for IMS and Oracle. Consultant z/OS DB2 Database Administrator Ohio Bureau of Workers Compensation - Columbus, OH 2000 to 2001 Hired to bring DB2 V5 up to migration maintenance level and install DB2 V6  ? Installed and supported third party software (BMC & Platinum)  ? Provided DBA support in addition to the installs. Handled DB2 object creation and change requests  ? Built utilities for migration of data between subsystems. Support development in day to day activities. z/OS DB2 Database Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH 1997 to 1998 Provided support for seven z/OS DB2 subsystems including development support, object creations, alters, migrations, backup and recovery.  ? Worked on bank conversions, performance tuning, and Y2K testing.  ? Migrated DB2 V3.1 to V4.1.  ? Used Platinum and Boole and Babbage tools. QMF. z/OS DB2 Database Administrator Franklin County Data Center - Columbus, OH 1996 to 1997 Installed DB2 V4.1 and provided technical support duties for system software including CICS  ? Provided documentation, development of standards, training, and support to analyst, operators, and programmers  ? Responsible for budget figures for products and training.  ? Selection and testing of new software and recommendations for database use. Education Bachelor of Science in Finance in Finance Franklin University - Columbus, OH Associate of Science in Data Processing in IMS Physical Org Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH Skills BMC, COBOL, IBM MAINFRAME, IBM Z/OS, MAINFRAME