Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Federal Home Loan Bank Grimes, IA Work Experience Database Administrator Federal Home Loan Bank - Des Moines, IA May 2016 to Present Automated Database Migration, SSRS deploys, SQL Server Patching, Backup/Restore and other manual administration jobs  using PowerShell to be scheduled as Tidal Jobs.    • Worked with senior DBAs for proficient Disaster Recovery Planning. Hands-on experience with disaster recovery to ensure  business continuity.  • Served as on-call DBA to fulfill ad-hoc requests for multiple development verticals for troubleshooting and triaging purposes.  • Migrated SQL Servers 2008 R2/2012/2014 to SQL Server 2016 as a part of SQL Server Standardization Project.  • In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity to develop efficient backup strategy.  • Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and Index Analysis. Set up scheduled maintenance jobs for  Index and Statistics Maintenance.  • Handled memory configurations for SQL Server 2016 on Windows Server 2012 R2.  • Configured user and tempdb databases’ initial file size and growth as per business requirements and projected growth  statistics.  • Supported/Developed Batch processes, Import, Export, Bulk Loads and Bulk Insert ETL operations.  • Ensured that instances are compliant to the best practices and the policies of the bank with the aid of Idera Third-party  Software.  • Continuous review of Business critical Database to proactively identify and remedy Space/Memory and Performance Tuning issues.    Technologies used: SSMS, PowerShell, AWS, TSM, Veeam, Idera Compliance Manager, Tidal Enterprise Scheduler, RedGate, Imperva, TrackIT, Jenkins, XAMPP Web-Developer Food Pantry, MISA, Southeastern LA University - Hammond, LA March 2014 to May 2015 • Implemented twitter bootstrap flow layout in .NET accompanied by CSS and JQuery validations.  • Tested code in TDD approach creating test cases using annotations with VS Testing tools.  • Designed and developed data access layer with EF and populated MS SQL database with food details using barcode scanner.  Implemented POS system to check-in and check-out items.  Technologies used: ASP. NET, CSS, JQuery, Visual Studio, VS Testing tools, MVC 3, IIS Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Mathematics Southeastern Louisiana University - Hammond, LA May 2017