DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/CNC ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span>/CNC <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/CNC ADMINISTRATOR Ypsilanti, MI Results-oriented Database Administrator with comprehensive experience in Microsoft SQL Server 2005-2016. Offering a progressive career with strengths in troubleshooting and maintaining databases Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/CNC ADMINISTRATOR Stoneridge Inc - Novi, MI October 2018 to June 2019 • Created documentation to harden SQL servers with CIS best practices  • Setup standalone 2014 SQL servers to eliminate cluster due to issues with ERP application. Each standalone SQL servers were mirrors of current production and training in both North America and Europe  • Created documentation to install SQL 2014 and migrate from old to new SQL server  • Performed JDE database refreshes from PRD to Training  • Ran SQL trace with filters to provide to BI team for troubleshooting  • Created an inventory list of all SQL servers for documentation  • Implementing systematic backup solution on all SQL servers currently not backing up  • Reconfigure database files and move from old to new locations  • Completed JDE CNC basic training through JDETips  • Monitoring inactive databases by connection count queries and processing database for future elimination  • Configure SQL security permissions DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Dawn Food Products Inc - Jackson, MI December 2013 to September 2018 • Experience with SQL 2005 - 2016  • Install SQL instances (2008-2016) on Windows Server (2008-2016)  • Reduced and condensed databases to eliminate SQL servers thus saving over 1 million dollars in licensing  • Perform updates and service pack levels to database servers  • Participated in setup of Availability Groups (First time implementation)  • Maintain and monitor over 100 databases in Production, Quality, Development, and Training environments  • Set up backup jobs (Full, Differentials, Transaction Logs) for weekly, daily, and 15 minute schedules.  • Provide database support in an SAP environment  • Database support to SAP teams during implementation and rollout of SAP software  • Participate in disaster recovery with database migration from POD A to POD B and tested software functionality by ensuring database is accessible  • Backup and restore databases from production to other environments on a regular basis  • Run SQL traces and provide findings to development team or third-party  • Determined business and functional requirements for business needs  • Coordinated with project teams on database development timeline  • Create, modify, and maintain database security  • Create documentation in database knowledgebase  • Installing SQL and configure for clustered failover environment  • Perform SQL server upgrades  • Track tickets through TrackIt software, resolving issues to meet SLA  • Setup and configure disks via disk management APPLICATION ANALYST JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATE Jack Henry & Associates Inc - Northville, MI January 2010 to June 2013 • Install, uninstall and reconfigure SQL 2005 and SQL 2008/2008 R2.  • Setup SQL agent jobs, configure security users, and execute scripts.  • Use update statements to change column values and select and query databases.  • Setup test servers and implemented test databases.  • Able to provide operational review training in a classroom environment.  • Configure security folder permissions and users for Server 2003 and Server 2008 R2.  • Configure IIS in regards to application pools and web services.  • Provide consultation services on best practice and ideas for efficiency.  • Test application for bugs, then notified engineering for resolution in future hotfixes or releases.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues.  • Configure firewalls to allow applications through ports.  • Familiarity with using Access and Excel 2003, 2007, and 2010.  • Add, delete, and edit records/fields to database tables or columns/rows in Excel.  • Created documentation of processes and lessons learned to improve future processes.  • Provide training and document to clients new to the application in a training environment.  • Perform file exchange through secure sites or third-party FTP client. TECHNICAL SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE Audatex North America Inc - Ann Arbor, MI April 2007 to January 2010 • Troubleshoot in house software for clients in the Insurance and Body Shop industry.  • Supported five individual software applications.  • Knowledge of Internet based applications and configuration setting.  • Configure DNS, WINS, and host files.  • Resolve network issue such as conflicting IP addresses and sharing.  • Working knowledge of using PCanywhere and Bomgar remote software.  • Use SQL Database commands to modify or make changes.  • Configure and troubleshoot IIS.  • Access TPX for client contract information.  • Monitor and resolve issues in support inbox.  • Reset passwords and look up configurations in provisioning tool.  • Generate cases in Remedy.  • Follow up on open tickets and make call backs.  • Provided support though cases open via email.  • Only personnel to handle support for our top two revenue clients on private lines.  • Supported retention queue to handle calls for dissatisfied customers to retain their business.  • Test upgrades and changes made to software on multiple operating systems.  • Use NextGen Ptool application for contract queries. Education Bachelor of Science in Technology Management Eastern Michigan University - Ypsilanti, MI 2014 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server