Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Developer / Data Analyst Chantilly, VA Driven Database Architect and Developer with 15 years of experience designing, coding, and testing database solutions. I'm an analytical problem-solver, skilled in understanding business concepts and operation processes, with the goal of developing solutions that improve productivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator LASERSHIP - Vienna, VA January 2015 to May 2019 Administered 50 databases on 7 servers in an environment with a total of 20 SQL servers and more than 200 databases for this transportation company that has more than 50 facilities on the east coast.  • Administered 3 SSRS servers and created more than 100 report templates for the accounting, operations, and management, for more than 50 customers.  • Developed and implemented a complete database application from conceptual design to production, in order to perform weekly auditing, and generate and distribute more than five thousand invoices to customers, which saved the equivalent of 200hr/wk of employees' time.  • Developed server-side of GPS/IMEI Clock-In mobile app for couriers, to save them travel time and to save money for the company. With an average of 30 minutes per day, per courier, the company has been saving one courier pay-day, per each 16 couriers, every day since.  • Developed and supported ETL jobs using Adeptia-B2B 6.2 with EDI and SSIS using Task Factory components.  • Developed and optimized stored procedures assemblies by utilizing CLR in C# and in-code SQL scripts.  • Utilized Jira for Agile project management and for resolving hundreds of end-user's issues. Database Developer NAUGA Needles - Louisville, KY March 2010 to January 2015 Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained the database and business layer for this high-tech nano  size needles manufacturer in the biomedical industry.  • Designed and developed the inventory and order system with 7 databases.  • Created business reports for accounting and management.  • Communicated actively with senior leaders to improve and update the system.  • Maintained and supported database, server-side processes, and website contents.  • Developed and optimized in-application SQL statements and stored procedures assemblies. Technical System Analyst Royal Bank of Canada - Toronto, ON September 2008 to September 2009 • Developed and supported hundreds of lines of business in Teradata Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW).  • Implemented hundreds of ETL jobs using IBM DataStage v7.5 and scheduled their job flows in OS/390.  • Performed batch code-tuning on ETL jobs, modified data types and mapping of data in more than 1,200 jobs with performance and latency issues, in bulk, and in one process flow, utilizing Linux shell scripting. This hack saved weeks of manpower that would have been required to modify these files manually.  • Provided technical support and troubleshooting database applications and connected third-party apps.  • Prepared ad-hoc report and SQL scripts for wealth management report system and provided extensive data analysis and statistics to the clients.  • Administered and monitored database security for unauthorized access. Senior Design Engineer INSUN - Toronto, ON June 1995 to June 2007 Designed, developed, and implemented an interrelated-project management system for an engineering consortium in the aeronautics industry. This system was implemented on 4 Oracle 10 g database servers, and one application server, and saved an average of 20% of the time-cost of each project.  • Developed a fully automated control system for a high-rise power generator, by gathering data from sensors to data acquisition boards, processing and analyzing big data in C/C++, and finally using visual basic for graphical interface. This system minimized the monthly energy cost by smart distribution of usage between the generators and the high voltage lines, based on the time of the day, and the price bracket and other factors for a skyscraper.  • Evaluated and appraised the bids of an international RFP (KOBELCO from Japan, VOEST-ALPINE AG from Austria, DANIELI-CORUS from Italy, CHMC from China), for an open-pit iron ore mine site, with the capacity of 4.6 million tons per year, including off-shore excavation and hauling equipment, an hydraulic gyratory crusher, an over-land conveying system, a concentrate plant with SAG mills, and a pellet plant.  • Developed dozens of Finite Element Stress Analysis Programs (FEA) in C/C++, including an application that simulates the autofrettage effect on high speed rotating high temperature tubes. Education Graduate Certificate in Database Application Development Seneca College - Toronto, ON 2007 to 2008 Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering Sharif University - Tehran, IR 1990 to 1995 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, DBMS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE FORMS, PL/SQL, SQL, DATA MINING, DATASTAGE, ETL, INFORMATICA, POWER BI, TERADATA, COGNOS, SSRS, TABLEAU, DBA, Ssis, PL SQL, Oracle Database Certifications/Licenses Teradata Advanced SQL Certificate 2008 to Present