SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - A&E Consult Indianapolis, IN Around 2 years of experience as Microsoft SQL Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, high availability solutions, space management, database security, migration and documentation.  * Excellent knowledge on database administration on complex databases of SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2012 and 2008 R2 with experience within very large-scale database environment.  * Installed, Configured, and Maintained SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2 in development, test and production environment  * Hands on experience in test, production and development databases.  * Proficient in database design for OLTP and OLAP.  * Extensive experience in Backup and Recovery of Databases based on the RTO and RPO of the company.  * Expertise in supporting client server GUI software and Operating system.  * Created development, testing, staging, production and standby databases.  * Extensive experience in database security and protect the data from SQL injection  * Migrated existing databases into Azure cloud platform.  * Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in Operating System Tuning, SQL Tuning, Database, profiler and extended events.  * Experienced in performance Tuning, Query Optimization, using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and other related monitoring and Troubleshooting tools.  * Experience in data migration using Database Migration Wizard  * Implemented automated backup strategy using database maintenance task and power shell.  * Expertise in maintaining Database Security and creating database and server level roles.  * Experience in applying security patches to the databases.  * Effective troubleshooting of database and Performance problems.  * Configured and Managed High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Solutions (Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always On, Clustering, and Replication), TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), IPSec and SSL  * Developed various T-SQL stored procedures, triggers, views and adding and changing tables for data load, transformation and extraction  * Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  * Experience with partitioned schemas and tables, creating File groups using SQL Server.  * Experience in SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client Connectivity and Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC.  * Experience in Administering SQL Server security by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring user accounts, granting privileges to users and groups.  * Experience with Implementation of Team Foundation Server and its packages.  * Experience in using PowerShell, Git and GitHub, SSMS, VC code etc  * Extensive knowledge of SQL Architecture, parsing and algebraizing process.  * Experienced with Power BI, SSAS, SSRS administration.  * Extensive experience in managing Windows servers and Implementation of Team Foundation Server and its packages  * Extensive Experience in using PowerShell, Git and GitHub, SSMS, VC code etc  * Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical skills, Documentation & Problem-solving skills, Good co- ordination and communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator A&E Consult July 2017 to Present Database Security User Management 2016 to 2016 Windows, Postgres SQL, TOAD, MS Office, Import/Export  Responsibilities:  ? Daily database administration tasks including scheduling backup, verifying night backups and recovery.  ? Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of databases.  ? Successfully upgraded SQL server 2008 to 2016.  ? Worked as a part of team in Data warehouse developing project.  ? Involved in Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2016.  ? 24x7 remote support and on call Database support for Database developers & end-users.  ? Involved in Database design and architecture, SQL server performance optimization, Scripting on Stored Procedures, Triggers, Index's, Views etc. using T-SQL.  ? Involvement on performance Tuning, complex query tuning and Schema refinements  ? Involvement on Disaster Recovery Strategies design, and involvement on monitoring, troubleshooting and managing issues and problems related with Replication, especially on Transactional Replication and other tolerance capabilities including Failover Clustering, Mirroring and Log shipping  ? Experienced in implementing SQL Database advanced security practices.  ? Created File groups, Table Partitioning, and created Index  ? Database Sizing, Tablespace Management, Transaction Management and Security Administration.  ? Relational and non- relational Database Administration on Azure and AWS  ? Created Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigned users to groups and granted privileges and permissions to appropriate groups.  ? Automated backups for the Production and Test Databases using power shell and maintenance plans.  ? Experienced in Design, implementation and generating documentation of SQL Server on both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  ? SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, profile and extended events.  ? Experienced in performance Tuning, Query Optimization, using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and other related monitoring and Troubleshooting tools.  ? Installed, Configured, and Administered Database Mirroring, Always On, and Replication as High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) Solutions  ? Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups based on the SLA  ? Assisted SQL developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  ? Expertise in recovering the database. Performed complete recovery and data file recovery  ? Experienced in Database Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  ? Applying security patches both Server side and Client side and Performed testing.  ? Experienced in documentation, provided documentation for database design, analysis, modifications, creating schemas etc.  ? Implementation of SQL & Application Software Patches and maintaining SW License and maintenance agreements.  ? Experienced with PowerBI, SSAS, SSRS administration  ? Experience in managing Windows servers and Implementation of Team Foundation Server and its packages  ? Experience in using PowerShell, Git and GitHub, SSMS, VC code etc Education BSc in Geology University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Kwara State June 2008 Skills DBA, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Ssis, Sql Server, Postgresql, ETL, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses SQL Server 2017 Administration,TSQL Programming certificate Present