Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle database Administrator Upper Marlboro, MD 10 years of Oracle DBA experience working in a federal government site including strong technical background in Microsoft, Unix/Linux application. Daily support and analysis of corporate management systems including database management, administration, production development, architecture in client/server and web-based environments.    Key Areas of Expertise  Configuration, installation and implementation of Oracle database 10g, 11g or 12c, Upgrades, Patches, Troubleshooting and performance tuning, Data pump utility, Database security, Backup and recovery, Data migration, Data guard. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - Washington, DC April 2016 to Present • Provide DBA technical support to the OIG software development Team on issues, Oracle database installations, deployments and maintenance of our systems.  • Independently maintained and managed Oracle 11g Databases on 6 servers. Download Oracle Database software from OTN and performed a fresh installation of Oracle Database 12c software onto one of the OIG servers in a Microsoft environment. Create a new database for the purpose of 12c Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Repository.  • Installed JAVA JRE on database 12c and ensure the JAVA security update is maintained.  • Create users profile and password file for the encryption of user passwords and profiles to efficiently manage our system resources.  • Maintained the system DBA privileges on Oracle Database 12c and managed administrative user access into the OIG server operating system.  • Applied quarterly Bundle patches to OIG 12c Oracle Database for security fixes and perform backups of the database using RMAN tool.  • Knowledge of installation, configuration and monitoring of Standby databases for disaster recovery using Data Guard.  • Installed and configured Oracle Web logic server for 12c OEM Domain. Installed 12c OEM unto OIG server for the management and administration of our databases from one single console. Deployed 12c Agents unto Target Databases to monitor the administrative tasks on those Hosts.  • Provided an Implementation Plan for 12c OEM to Team Administrators describing how the system will be deployed, installed and transitioned into an operational system.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web services (AWS). Amazon Cloud Services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)  •     Simple storage services(S3) Bucket, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon Cloud watch.  •     Hands on experience with the AWS CLI and SDKS.  • Attention to detail and listen attentively to Clients needs and response in order to satisfy their expectations. Consistently, I deliver positive feedbacks as the job proposition inquires.  • Provide customer service to our Clients, Agencies. Delivered a daily and weekly status reports on Database health check, Remote server’s connection, JAVA update and Database progress reports upon Client request which is normally conducted via email.  • Effectively communicate in English both orally and verbally. Attend scheduled Team meetings with both OIG employee Network Administrators and Oracle Database Administrator.  • I am an experienced, self-motivated Oracle DBA with skills in problem solving, organization and communication. Precisely engages in thorough research procedures on Oracle products and awaits final approval from the OIG employee Team Lead supervisor before an installation of a new software and/or application. Oracle Database Administrator Department of Transportation - Washington, DC June 2014 to March 2016 • Managed backups of data and its validation.  • Security management for database, network and operating systems.  . Experience in RMAN backup, Full and incremental backups, flashback technology, Enterprise Manager and Oracle OEM Grid control.  • Backup/Restore/Recover of databases/tables/schema using Data pump on Linux OS to take an export or import of a schema for data migration.  • Knowledge and understanding of database design using Erwin Data modeling.  • Participate in application development project, database architecture and design.  • Load and transfer data using SQL*loader.  • Managed, access, retrieve data using Microsoft SQL server by applying DDL and DML commands on Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL.  • Apply patches using Oracle OPatch utility, PSU to upgrade oracle home versions.  • Managing, monitoring and optimizing the performance of time databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations to developers and project team leads.  • Manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles and provide privileges for implementation and maintenance of user security.  • Solid knowledge of installing and configuration of Linux 5.4, Oracle Linux 6.4 operating systems, Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c databases.  • Automate database administration routines in backup and recovery using Recovery Manager (RMAN), routine import/export activities. Oracle Database Administrator Library of Congress - Washington, DC August 2008 to May 2014 • Performed upgrade and migration of Oracle databases from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Applied PSU/CPU patches, Grid infrastructure patches, online patches and rolling patches.  • Design of databases following OFA: creating Databases schemas, profiles, synonyms objects as required to ensure data quality and security to comply with company’s business rules.  • Oracle scripting in Unix platform using OEM.  • Backup/Recovery methodology specification for mission critical databases.  • Performed hot and cold backups.  • Scheduled daily Exports/imports to serve as temporary backups.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 11g and 11g Enterprises editions, OEM with Oracle and Tuning packs.  • Performed proactive and reactive tuning/managing database space utilization and growth.  • Detailed analysis of the business and user requirements by doing various information gathering techniques.  • Manage performance of 30 databases, performed health checks and administered multiple instances of 10g and 11g databases running on Linux operating systems. Computer Operator Bureau of Engraving and Printing - Washington, DC November 2002 to December 2007 • Managed databases on windows and Linux platforms.  • Performed user account management such as account lockouts, password resets and account creation.  • Provide technical support for the database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using Windows as well as Unix shell scripts.  • Performed daily, weekly and emergency backup procedures using ultra backup software and ensure their accuracy.  • Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability.  • Scheduled jobs to automate database system backups, database health and backup verification. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information System and Analysis Design HOWARD UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC May 2002 Skills Oracle 9i,10G, 11G, 12c installation and configuration, Apply Patches, Upgrade, RMAN backup and recovery, Export-Import of data, SQL*Loader, Technical support, Troubleshooting and performance tuning-AWR/ADDM, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Creating Databases, DBUA, NETCA (10+ years), Microsoft, Linux, Windows 2008 server, window 7,8., DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql server management studio (2 years), Microsoft SQL Server 2014 (2 years), MYSQL, Sql Database, Rman, Oracle Database Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate 11g Present Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified Developer Associate Present