Database / Report Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> / Report Developer Database / Report Developer - Evanhoe & Associates Montgomery, AL Work Experience Database / Report Developer Evanhoe & Associates - Montgomery, AL July 2018 to Present Contractor)  Project: OASIS system (Phases 1 and 2)  Specific Experience:  • Developed solutions requiring analysis and research. Worked on small to large, complex  projects that require increased skill in multiple technical environments. Worked on multiple queries and reports at the same time.  • Developed .NET applications with SQL Server.  • Creation / Modifications of Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Constraints, and custom  functions.  • BI-Weekly review by consumers/customers to better tailor data/report output to their  needs  • Document coding to plainly identify provided code for other IT staff.  • Creation / Modification of SSIS packages for data importation, conversion, and manipulation  • Responsible for several Long Term Reference SQL Special Procedures that determine  median of a range of values to if an inputted day falls on an Alabama State holiday.  • Development of Reporting outputs for Federal Grant documentation.  pattersonguy69@yahoo.com Montgomery, AL 36110    Agency / Project: AFCIS / HIBC - USAF Standard Procurement System  Contractor: Evanhoe & Associates Period: 07/2018 - Present Contractor Advanced Systems Design November 2018 to July 2019 Remote Database Administrator Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters February 2018 to June 2018 Title: Remote Database Administrator / Adapter Team Lead / Senior Systems Analysist  Specific Experience:  • Management and maintenance on 100+ Air Force database environments  • Assisting field site administrators in resolving a variety of database problems revolving  around connectivity and user logins and roles  • On Site and remote support for Air Force bases performing upgrades on their SPS  environments  • Weekly based reports needed to help proactively resolve issues before they become  problems  • Perform Script and Syntax analysis of SQL scripts sent to the field from outside sources  • Recently promoted to SSA and Adapter Team Lead. The Adapter Team handles more  than 50% of the trouble tickets for the agency/project. These ticketed problems range from troubleshooting webMethods operations to ftp file transfers between secure servers.    Company: Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters Period: 02/2018 - 06/2018 Contractor Macalogic Technological Solutions June 2016 to February 2018 Database Administrator Alabama Community College System December 2015 to March 2016 Title: Database Administrator  Project: Civil Air Patrol - KMS  Specific Experience:  • Stage 1 normalization of database objects  • Resolution and repair of long term DBMail problem.  • Conversion of Crystal Reports into SSRS reports with standardized report appearances  • Daily and Weekly planning meetings to chart next objectives in the current AGILE sprint  • Perform long term usage analysis on database objects to determine what is in use and what needs to be archived.  Company: Alabama Community College System Period: 12/2015 - 03/2016 Database Administrator Hyundai Glovis of Alabama - Montgomery, AL November 2010 to December 2015 Data Certification Officer  Specific Experience:  • Learning the realm of education technology, terminology, and reporting requirements  • Process and compile data reports for state and federal agencies  • ADHOC reporting was critical and usually had to be done immediately for state  legislators requiring information in a legal debate  • Central coordinator for 26 colleges federal reporting (IPEDS / PERKINS)  • Staffing and assisting my department in their various projects  pattersonguy69@yahoo.com Montgomery, AL 36110    Company: Hyundai Glovis of Alabama Period: 11/2010 - 12/2015 IT Administrator Kreatek Inc October 2006 to August 2009 Title: IT Administrator / SQL Server & .NET Programmer  Specific Experience:  • Well-rounded and fully functional IT Administrator's position.  • Help desk to assist operations in any and all of their technology needs.  • Install and Troubleshooting a Computer Station and Hand-held computer maintenance.  • Responsibility of maintenance and principle troubleshooting of our hand-held computers  • Development of several Web and Window applications using tools like Dreamweaver, Infragistics, and Microsoft Visual Studio  • Troubleshot and improved existing custom software  • Development of SQL Jobs/Stored Procedures to automate much of our database  maintenance and reporting needs  • Supporting SQL Server Cluster and Datawarehouse Environments.    Company: Kreatek Inc. Period: 10/2006 - 08/2009 SQL Server & .NET Programmer Bedzzz Express February 2005 to September 2006 Title: SQL Server & .NET Programmer  Specific Experience:  • Tracking down discrepancies within an insurance company's data warehouse (SS2000 & SS2005)  • ETL Processing using SSIS & DTS  • Creating custom SQL code using T-SQL  • Indexing and Full-Text Searches  • SS Analytical Services  • VBScript for data analysis  • Clustering and Replication of SQL Server Instances (SS2005 & SS2008)  • SSRS reports for the mass deployment  • Various projects using Infragistics, VB.NET, C#, ASP.NET, and MVC  Company: Bedzzz Express Period: 02/2005 - 09/2006 Accounts / IT Manager CompEasy Inc - Montgomery, AL June 2003 to December 2004 Specific Experience:  • Central coordinator and troubleshooter for 14 stores and the warehouse  • Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable  • Invoices and check writing on a weekly basis  • Inventory control  • Creating a database system for inventory control  • Database reporting for delivery companies and schedules  • Issue tracking  pattersonguy69@yahoo.com Montgomery, AL 36110    Company: CompEasy Inc. Period: 06/2003 - 12/2004 Senior Technician Computer Barn December 1998 to August 2001 Title: Senior Technician / Office Manager  Specific Experience:  • Office Management  • Computer sales/service.  • eBay consignment for customers  • Consigned items required photographing, ad posting, and shipping    Company: Computer Barn Period: 12/1998 - 08/2001  Title: Field Technician / Office Manager  Specific Experience:  • Schedule my assigned repair vouchers  • Travel to people's homes and businesses to repair/ install their computer systems  • Promoted to office manager for the Montgomery office