Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - NewDayUSA Financial, MD Silver Spring, MD Sr. SQL Server Administrator (DBA) with more than eight years' professional experience designing, implementing, and maintaining SQL Server solutions. I have a proven record of generating and building relationships, managing projects from concept to completion, designing educational strategies, and coaching individuals to success. I utilize my communication and relationship building experience to uphold the established integrity and core values of the company. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator NewDayUSA Financial, MD May 2016 to Present • Install, Upgrade, update, patching, and hotfix/side by side/in place.  • Design On-premises database structure model and cloud database for the hybrid solution.  • Implement replication, mirroring, and log shipping data structure.  • Initiate and apply safe data archive solution.  • Initiate and implement least privilege the environment which has high data vulnerable.  • Improve data structure for integration server data flow, analysis service cube processing, and optimize reporting base source data.  • Interactively working with SQL server 2008R2, 2014, Sp2, and 2017.  • Optimize daily, weekly, and monthly executable jobs scripts for better performance time.  • Design and create Power BI based performance monitoring and report dashboards.  • Create an index and allow queries to benefit from index structure seeking.  • Add alert, email notification, and page to monitor and audit.  • Create a linked server to enable the SQL Server database engine to execute a command against OLEDB source outside of the instance.  • Add table partition on the data which benefit from the data partition.  • Create stored procedures, triggers, and functions.  • Manage data maintenance plans and workflows tasks.  • Use proxies account defining a security context in which a job step can run.  • Create a login, user, roles, and groups with least privilege.  • Assess security periodicals as maintenance and security.  • Manage proper storage, CPU, network, memory, and terminal utilization.  • Encrypt cold backup and an archive file.  • Secure and encrypt confidential external drives with drive password encryption and an additional layer of file encryption.  • Teach multiple departments on how to interact with SQL data through multiple data connections including, Excel, Access, Power BI, and Data Mining.  • Design packages for multiple data formats, data types, import, and export. Database Administrator Moya Tech, VA April 2010 to May 2016 • Involved in all phases of System Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Overall administration of the database and system.  • Created views to reduce database complexities for the end users.  • Performed T-SQL tuning and optimization of queries.  • Created indexes rebuilding and reorganizing jobs.  • Intensively analyzed performance regarding the SQL Server Database Administrator.  • Developed an application to track all the intervention to the database in all SQL Servers.  • SQL Server Integration Service Import/Export Wizard to perform ETL operation.  • Regular Monitoring of SQL Server and Analyzing Logs.  • Troubleshoot SQL Server Services, worked with Performance Monitor, SQL Server Profiler, Data Collector Tool, Identifying Bottlenecks, Concurrency, and Indexes fragmentation.  • Administered the minimum privilege rules for SQL Server Security by enforcing policies and check the Permission Chains.  • Created the master key, certificates, symmetric, and asymmetric keys.  • Implemented the DB maintenance plan for MS SQL Server and Running SQL Trace.  • Tuned up performance by running Index Tuning Wizard for creating, rebuilding, and reorganizing indexes.  • Performed Snapshot replication for updating a critical table to various branches.  • Used merge replication to update the publisher from the subscribers.  • Worked with energetic DBA's teams, DB developer's teams, SAS engineer teams, SSIS teams, QA teams, testing teams, and network teams.  • Configured log shipping, mirroring, and replication.  • Mirrored one of our critical databases with zero latency/synchronized.  • Tested and deployed new database structures, such as tables, indexes, and stored procedures.  • Implemented and configured Always On with availability group SQL Server 2012 via nodes on Windows Server Failover Cluster.  • Participated in SQL Server Engineering to identify the root cause of the disaster.    MONITORING AND MAINTENANCE TOOLS:  CommVault • SolarWind • Idera • Red Gate • SQL Monitor custom monitoring tool  Excel Micro based custom monitoring tool, POWERBI Computer Maintenance Technician COMPUTER A+ - Silver Spring, MD August 2009 to July 2010 Replaced the motherboard, LCD screen, hard drive, memory, video card, setting up multiscreen monitors, upgrading, installed Window OS /MAC, Installed patch and Service packs, and configured Ethernet or Wireless connection. Mechanical Engineer JP Engineering January 2007 to May 2009 Ground Accessorized Designer EriAirlines July 2003 to December 2006 Education BS in Engineering in Engineering Asmara University Skills Database, Ddl, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql, Etl, Power bi, Ssrs, T-sql, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, R2, Ms office, Optimization, Best practices, Bi, Capacity planning, Problem-solving, Detail oriented, Written and verbal Additional Information SKILLS:  • Strong ability to work independently and manage one's time.  • Good knowledge of High Availability (HA), Always On and Disaster Recovery (DR), and options for MSSQL Server.  • Ability to apply detailed knowledge of organizational procedures to make independent decisions and serve as a credible resource for a senior management team.  • Strong experience in database installation, capacity planning, implementing backup and recovery strategy for applications and database.  • Stronge experience in performing T-SQL DDL/DML/DCL commands using SQL Server Management Studio SSMS  • Proficient with SQL Server 2005/2008, 2008 R2, 2012 & 2014 optimization, fine-tuning, and scalability techniques with knowledge of SSIS.  • Data security and enforcing least privilages  • MSSQL Admin, MSSQL - DEV, POWER BI, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, ETL DEVELOPER Architect,  • Window Server 2012/2012 R2, 2016 • MSSQL 2008 - 2017  • AWS Cloud Solution Architect Certified.  • Strong knowledge of MS Office 365 including SharePointSite, Power BI Online  • Strong interpersonal skills, written and verbal communication, strong decision-making, problem-solving,  • Lead efforts to guide team to best practices for database usage, high availability and business continuity  • Critical thinking, intitiative and detail oriented.