Manager / Business Analyst Manager / Business Analyst Manager/ Business Analyst/ Software Developer / Database Administrator Round Rock, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager / Business Analyst CGI - Belton, TX May 2015 to Present Manager of a team of Business, Technical and Program Analysts which consists of 18 members. Responsible for each member's career development which consists of writing their annual review.    Designed and wrote a conversion strategy approach document which was used to identify the initial approach to be used during a client conversion. Responsible for gathering requirements and writing the functional design document that will be used for conversion. Responsible for defining direction and content of all conversion deliverables in order to meet the client’s requirements to include leading working sessions in support of the conversion.    Responsible for creating functional designs, table definitions and table entries. Responsible for capturing the current and future state business processes. Responsible for reviewing the High Level Requirements Document (HLRD) with the client; this review would later become the Detail Requirement Specification (DRS) document for conversion. Software Developer / Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corp - Fort Hood, TX November 2012 to October 2014 • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the Department of the Army's Configuration Management Tracking System; this system is a .NET web application that's used all over the world.  • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of a .NET application that's used by the organization to track and manage interoperability testing and evaluations for the Department of the Army.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining multi-user databases using Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008; ensuring that the databases meet the business requirements of the organization and are accessible to authorized users through the LAN. Used performance tuning tools and database management methods to optimize system performance and troubleshoot database performance problems. Designed physical data models that describe the structure for data storage, data indexing, data manipulation, and data retrieval applications. Software Developer United States Army - Fort Hood, TX December 2010 to September 2012 Database Administrator / Information Assurance Support Officer    • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the Department of the Army's Configuration Management Tracking System; this system is a .NET web application that's used all over the world.  • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the organization's Business Intelligence based reporting and analytic solution (MicroStrategy). Designed the attributes, facts and metrics that gives Testing, Configuration Management, Systems Engineering and all support functions the ability to analyze the time and cost for each product that's tested at the facility.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining multi-user databases using Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008; ensuring that the databases meet the business requirements of the organization and are accessible to authorized users through the LAN. Used performance tuning tools and database management methods to optimize system performance and troubleshoot database performance problems. Designed physical data models that describe the structure for data storage, data indexing, data manipulation, and data retrieval applications.  • Responsible for enforcing Information Assurance policies, guidance and training requirements for the organization.  • Responsible for ensuring all users meet the clearances, authorization, need-to-know and security responsibilities before granting access to information systems (IS).  • Responsible for ensuring users receive initial and annual Information Assurance (IA) awareness training.  • Responsible for ensuring all of the organization's information systems (IS) are certified, accredited and reaccredited.  • Conducted risk and vulnerability assessments of organization's information systems (IS). Software Developer / Database Administrator ManTech International - Fort Hood, TX December 2008 to December 2010 • Developed a web application using .NET technology and Microsoft SQL Server that is used to capture Activity Based Costing for the organization. This application gave the Testing, Configuration Management, Systems Engineering and all support departments the capability to analyze time and cost of tasks that their employees were performing. Built the database scheme, tables, procedures and permissions in support of this application.  • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the organization's Business Intelligence based reporting and analytic solution (MicroStrategy). Designed the attributes, facts and metrics that gives Testing, Configuration Management, Systems Engineering and all support functions the ability to analyze the time and cost for each product that's tested at the facility. Designed a data warehouse that supports MicroStrategy, which consists of building database schemes, tables, procedures and permissions.  • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the organization's project and resource management solution (TENROX). Installed and configured servers running Microsoft Windows 2003 and Microsoft SQL Server 2008 that are required to host the TENROX application. Created complex database scripts that were used to export data from the organization's legacy application into the TENROX.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining multi-user databases using Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008; ensuring that the databases meet the business requirements of the organization and are accessible to authorized users through the LAN. Used performance tuning tools and database management methods to optimize system performance and troubleshoot database performance problems. Designed physical data models that describe the structure for data storage, data indexing, data manipulation, and data retrieval applications. Software Developer / Database Administrator / Instructor / Systems Administrator EWA SERVICES - Killeen, TX October 2001 to December 2008 • Provided Information Assurance Training and Integration aid (GPO development, Firewall maintenance, Security Policies, etc.) for various DoD Exercises located throughout the world. Trained military personnel on how to mitigate problems that were identified as being a network or system vulnerability.  • Developed web applications using .NET technology and Microsoft SQL Server 2000 for the Killeen Independent School District that allowed the district to test students, grade the tests on-site and get results in the form of custom reports in real time, gave the teachers access to the districts centralized curriculum database and gave the district the ability to maintain their internal grants in a central location. These applications saved the district over $475,000 annually.  • Developed a web application using .NET technology and Microsoft SQL Server 2005 for the Homeland Protection Institute that provides a user-friendly interface that allows government agencies to enter their needs (requirements) in great detail, and also allows potential solutions providers to enter the specific capabilities of their technologies. The application provides the capability to match and rate potential solutions against requirements, allowing for a quick and efficient identification of potential technologies that will meet agencies' needs.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining multi-user databases using Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005; ensuring that the databases meet the business requirements of the organization. Used performance tuning tools and database management methods to optimize system performance and troubleshoot database performance problems. Designed physical data models that describe the structure for data storage, data indexing, data manipulation, and data retrieval applications.  • Microsoft Certified Trainer responsible for delivering Microsoft Official Curriculum (MOC). Oracle Database Operator/Reporting Administrator ppoONE, Inc. - Dallas, TX October 2000 to September 2001 • Loaded and verified data from client’s legacy database systems into the Oracle database using Oracle PL/SQL scripts on a SUN Operating system using UNIX.  • Developed and taught the company’s curriculum for its Cognos Impromptu report writing course. This course was successful in eliminating over 80% of the calls that were being received at the Helpdesk. Database Administrator/Business Analyst Amerimax Building Products - Plano, TX December 1997 to October 2000 • Responsible for the design, implementation and life cycle management of the organization's Business Intelligence based reporting and analytic solution, which consisted of Cognos Powerplay and Cognos Impromptu. Designed a data warehouse that supported Cognos Powerplay and Cognos Impromptu, which consists of building database schemes, tables, procedures and permissions. Used performance tuning tools and database management methods to optimize system performance, troubleshoot database performance problems, and performing a wide range of other systems administration.  • Responsible for designing physical data models that describe the structure for data storage, data indexing, data manipulation, and data retrieval applications.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining multi-user databases; ensuring that the databases meet the business requirements of the organization.  • Corporate trainer responsible for training personnel on the use of the organization’s data warehouse utilizing Microsoft Excel, Cognos Powerplay and Cognos Impromptu.  • Project Manager responsible for implementation of the organization’s enterprise resource planning system (Avante). Trained plant managers and shop floor personnel how they would use Avante to analyze the time and cost of making products. Trained the sales manager and representatives on how they would use Avante to analyze sales revenue for products that were being made and sold. Reported all known issues to the vendor of the software package. Helpdesk Technician Source Services Corporation - Dallas, TX July 1997 to December 1997 • Provided telephone computer support for a nationwide corporation with sixty-three branches.  • Instructed the branches on proper virus eradication procedures and kept a close watch on the frequency and characteristics of recurring viruses.  • Acted as liaison between the corporate engineers and the branches.  • Maintained a database of codes that were instrumental in the function of the corporation’s specialized software package. Police Officer/System Administrator City of Russellville - Russellville, AR March 1994 to July 1997 • Enforced all municipal, state and federal laws as an officer.  • Maintained the police department's Crime Reporting Information System (CRIS). This system is a centralized application that is accessed by all employees within the police department.  • Responsible for the police department's network and all computer systems that are connected to the network, to include systems' installation, configuration, and monitoring the throughput of the internal network.  • Responsible for ensuring the WAN connectivity via a modem for software updates for the site.  • Developed a database application to handle evidence storage and tracking in FoxPro.  • Assisted in designing a WAN infrastructure integrating four of the city's critical departments. Personnel Administration Noncommissioned Officer United States Army July 1986 to March 1994 • Supervisor of the Personnel Administration Center (PAC).  • Liaison between Personnel Administration Center, soldiers of the unit and the Personnel Services Center (PSC).  • Trained soldiers on a continuous basis to keep their skills current with the Army's regulations.  • Responsible for configuration management and maintenance of all computer systems within the office, to include the Tactical Army Combat Service Support Computer System (TACCS).  • Through research and development was able to configure the TACCS so it was capable of sending and receiving email over a modem to other Army units. Education High school or equivalent Skills DBA (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), Sql Server (10+ years), MYSQL (3 years), Business Intelligence, Excel, SQL, access Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: CPL July 1986 to March 2004 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft Server * Microsoft Windows * Microsoft .NET * Microsoft SQL Server * Microsoft Project