Senior Database Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant Senior Database Consultant Malvern, PA ? Oracle certified DBA with massive proven US working experience in Database  Design, Modeling, Development, Testing, Production Support, Backup Recovery,  Troubleshooting, Tuning and High Availability configuration.  ? Strong oracle DBA experience support OLTP by thousands concurrent users, 20  plus-terabyte Data Warehouse, Oracle EBS, PeopleSoft, SAP, OAM, Documentum,  ETL/BI tools -Informatica/Business Objects/Cognos on Solaris, AIX, HP, Windows,  Linux and physical/virtual servers using SAN/NAS storages. Shell scripts and  Windows batch programming. Job scheduling tools such as Rundeck.  ? Profound working knowledge/experiences on Oracle best features -- Optimizer,  ASM, Clusterware, RAC, Active/Passive configuration, Data Guard, Data Guard  Broker, Failsafe, RMAN, OEM/GRID, Table/Index Partitioning, Data Replication,  Advance Queuing, Streams, Golden Gate, Designer, Security, SQL Loader, Data  pump, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL Developer, SQL plus and PL/SQL.  ? Over 10 year experience to install, setup and support OPS/RAC DB with functional,  active/active and active/passive configurations. Upgrade/migrate/patch  Clusterware, ASM and RAC/single instance databases including no-downtime  rolling approaching for RAC databases and across platforms database  migration/integration using RMAN, TTS, export/import/Datapump.  ? Configure OEM/GRID as centralized tools for databases monitoring,  administration, troubleshooting, job scheduling, business and database reports.  Upgrade OMS 12c to 13c. Install and upgrade OMS agent.  ? Create procedures to backup RAC/single instance databases on full or incremental  levels with RMAN. Perform full or incomplete point-in-time database recoveries as  needed by business. Clone and refresh databases using RMAN and data pump.  Configure and manage standby databases with RMAN, Data Guard Broker.  ? Tune, monitor and troubleshoot databases with Tuning & Diagnostics Packs,  Statspack, AWR, ASH and ADDM. Optimizing SQL's using SQL Plan Management,  AWR SQL, explain plan, autotrace, hints and TKPROF to analyze execution plan and  improve SQL queries and transactions. Created detailed plans to routinely apply  oracle security patches to eliminate vulnerabilities and improve performance.  ? Rebuild tables and indexes to solve row chaining/migrations. Transform  non-partitioned tables into partitioned ones to enhance performance and easy  maintenance of purging old data. Set up jobs to automatically drop old partitions  and add new ones. Shrink large tables with Lob segments to free unused space.  ? About three years working DBA experiences supporting SQL Server 2005 and 2008  databases on single/cluster servers using SSMS, SSRS, Business Intelligence  Development Studio and T-SQL. Work done on database creation, refreshing,  space management, maintenance plans, job scheduling, creating/managing  objects and logins/users, code executions and BI reports generation with DTS.  ? No matter working on site or remotely, always work well independently and fit  perfectly into the team to complete single or multiple jobs simultaneously on  time, lead projects and production supports and act as mentor for junior DBAs.  ? Extensive 24/7 on-call experience supporting key business applications built on  Oracle and SQL Server databases like Credit Card Transactions, Brokerage,  Banking, Call Center, E-Commerce, Customer Care, Billing etc to meet stringent  SLA that requires response to Severity 1 tickets within 20 minutes to win clients'  satisfactions.  ? Technical guru with good communication skills, strong at problems solving and  quick learner with leadership abilities motivated to explore new technologies to  drive profits.    Work Status: Permanent Resident - Green Card Holder. Work Experience Senior Database Consultant Presidio, PA November 2018 to July 2019 Assign to AmeriHealth Caritas DBA team. Work on site and from home to support company Oracle databases with increased loads caused by  pre data center migration work.  ? Create patching plans to apply oracle OJVM patches against multiple databases on different servers through OEM with one shot to save time and efforts significantly  and increase success rate since Oracle validates implementation plans beforehand to make sure successful deployment. Use job tool Rundeck to prepare and apply  GRID/DB patches against multiple databases at one shot that greatly reduces DBA  involvement.  ? Work on 12c rman new features to recover tables/schemas using rman export and import that is much easier and faster than traditional way of point in time database  recovery.  ? Trouble shoot and fix 12c Data warehouse multiple nodes rac database inventory  corrupt issues. Improve database performance with detailed analyses using AWR  report etc. Create detailed steps to shrink large tables with Lob segments to free  unused space.  ? Configure physical standby database using active clone approach. Solve remote  logging and connection issues. Work with vendor to determine and implement the best way to duplicate production database for their upgrade project. Senior Database Administrator RRD-DFS, Lancaster - Malvern, PA November 2015 to June 2018 Manage complex corporation oracle DB environments with RAC on ODA, PeopleSoft HR, bi-way stream replications, advance queuing, AWS, Data Guard,  DB on Veritas Clusters, GRID etc. Shoulder on call duties to support DB  operations 24/7 to solve various event driven issues under strict SLA that requires  response to severe one ticket within 20 minutes.  ? Take the leading role to migrate DBs from RRD domain to DFS domain during company one to three split. Configure GRID monitoring jobs and fixing procedures  for DFS new DB environments.  ? Create detailed checklists to upgrade DB from 11g2 to 12c supporting bi-way  stream replications and advanced queuing. Upgrade GRID 12c to 13c for better  monitoring and administration. Apply oracle cpu and other patches regularly to eliminate any potential security risks and other bugs.  ? Programming in shell scripts to schedule database maintenance jobs, load data  into databases and transfer data to company data warehouse. Program PL/SQL  packages/procedures to handle user administrations.  ? Rebuild big tables by range, hash and composite partitioning to improve  performance and data manageability. Tuning SGA to add keep pool and recycle  pool. Rebuild indexes to overcome index stagnation to improve performance as well as save space. Senior Database Consultant- Assign to Pfizer, Zoetis and SunTrust Bank Infosys, PA January 2013 to November 2015 as onsite Senior  Oracle DBA for L2/L3 supports.  ? Handle 24/7 supports of bank SSO on 4 nodes 11g2 ASM/RAC running oracle  OAM. Setup environments to support OAM implementation, testing and production administration. Manage OAM capacity planning and growth. Partition  major transaction tables OAM and IAU_BASE to improve performance and ease  data purging.  ? Create and upgrade databases, migrate/integrate data from Pfizer to Zoetis.  Consolidate databases across data centers and migrate databases from physical  servers to virtual/zone environments to lower cost.  ? Support Argus Safety System, Oracle EBS, PeopleSoft and other critical  applications. Use Statspack, AWR, ASH and ADDM tools to diagnoses database  performance bottlenecks and detect resource intensive queries for SQL tuning with TKPROF, AUTOTRACE, SQL Analyze, EXPLAIN PLAN and SQL Plan  Management.  • Backup/ recovery databases using RMAN through CommVault or command lines  to retrieve lost data and solve data corrupt issues. Active clone databases to refresh and replicate data among different environments and set up data guard.  ? Manage Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c databases on Solaris, HP, AIX, Linux and Windows supporting Documentum, Informatica, Business Objects and other tools.  ? Perform Vblock virtual servers testing & Swingbench configuration as Pfizer  company wide database architecture evaluation from physical to virtual and from physical to zones. Conduct various Real Time DR testing using data guard and  flashback databases. Lead Database Consultant - Work onsite for Temple University Health System CSS Technical Services, PA August 2012 to October 2012 Provide oracle database supports to upgrade PeopleSoft Financials/SCM from 8.9  to 9.1 running oracle 11g2 databases on AIX platforms. Use AWR SQL Report, SQL  Plan Management and other tools to analyze/fix SQL executions to prevent query  deterioration caused by upgrade/migration and improve system throughput.  • Setup DBConsoles to monitor and tune databases with Tuning & Diagnostics  Packs. Create jobs to collect and export database statistics. Lead Database Consultant CDI Corp - Philadelphia, PA December 2011 to August 2012 Manage/upgrade oracle 10g and 11g RAC/single instance databases supporting  data warehouse with Cognos BI, Cost Point, Foot Print on Windows and Linux.  Install oracle 11g2, Failsafe 3.4.2 and upgrade 10g databases to 11g2 on active/passive clusters, virtual and physical computers. Refresh data between  production, QA and test databases using data pump and RMAN. Test data  replicating from OLTP to DW using Streams/GoldenGate. Run AWR, ASH, ADDM  reports to tune databases.  ? Manage SQL Server 2008 and 2005 databases on single/cluster servers to support  Great Plains and other applications using SSMS and T-SQL. Work on service  requests, tickets and projects to generate reports with SSRS, create and manage  database logins/users, objects and records, backup, recover and refresh  databases, resize data files and log files to free space and other jobs. Senior Database Consultant Crossfire Technology - Malvern, PA July 2010 to November 2011 - Assigned to IBM Global Services to work remotely for Kaiser Permanente.  ? Join IBM Oracle DBA team to shoulder oncall duties to support 24/7 high  availability database support and solve various event driven incidents as batch job  failures, database/instance/listener/agent crashes, space problem, job failures, alert errors, backup/export/data pump issues, locking sessions, database wait  events, memory fragmentation, extended long transactions, slow queries, disaster  recovery etc to meet stringent SLA and achieve clients satisfaction. Work and complete various service requests and problem tickets simultaneously on time.  ? Configure, build and maintain Standby Databases with RMAN, Data guard Broker  and other tools to support Customer Call Center, SAP, PeopleSoft and other key  applications. Backup, restore and recovery databases with RMAN.  ? Create detailed steps and checklist to upgrade Clusterware, ASM instances and RAC and single instance databases to from 10g to 11g. Apply various database  patches.  ? Install and setup multiple-nodes 11g Clusterware. Configure, build and manage  11g RAC and single ASM instances, 11g RAC and single instance databases. Install  OEM agents, configure GRID targets and troubleshooting GRID issues.  ? Work on pilot projects to use GoldenGate to replicate data and migration/upgrade  databases with no down time or very limited down time. Senior Database Consultant CDI Corp - Malvern, PA November 2005 to May 2010 - Assigned to IBM Global Services to work remotely for American Express, Ameriprise Financial and Panasonic Corporation.  ? Handle STAR projects for disaster recovery, upgrade and migration solutions of distributed Oracle database systems.  ? Database clone with RMAN to recover accidentally truncated partitions and dropped tables. Full database and incomplete database recoveries. Recover  tablespaces and corrupt datafiles. Manage Streams across databases for data  replication and HA.  ? Design and work on hot and cold backup procedures with RMAN using shell scripts  and three-tier OEM/GRID. Configure steps to access databases through web  browser. Install and configure BMC Patrol to monitor Oracle servers.  ? Implement, upgrade, manage and troubleshoot RAC using CFS, OCFS and raw  partitions on Solaris, Linux and AIX to support BIDS, GAN, Charles River, SAP  applications.  ? Redesign BMCPP databases with partitioning, parallel processing, space  management and other strategies to improve system performance by 30 percent.  ? Set up database audits and generate audit log files for analyses and monitoring to timely detect suspicious activities against company systems. Database Administrator ING Direct Inc - Wilmington, DE April 2005 to August 2005 Support Bank customer/transaction Oracle databases for 24/7 operations by thousands of concurrent users, marketing campaigns and PeopleSoft applications. Database Consultant - Assigned to Corporation Service Company in Wilmington Progressive Software Computing Inc - Wilmington, DE November 2004 to March 2005 Lead project to move Oracle 8i and 9i databases from Solaris to Red Hat Linux to reduce cost. Troubleshoot Oracle network issues among different servers. Solve  severe security and performance issues caused by database links. Set up OFA and standardize other parameter values to improve database configuration and  layout.  ? Implement and configure Oracle 11i Financials and 9i Application Server. Use  RMAN to backup and duplicate production databases to QA and development to improve support for Oracle 11i Financials, Documentum and other applications. Database Consultant NetEffects, Inc - St. Louis, MO March 2004 to November 2004 - Assigned to Mastercard International in St. Louis.  ? Manage 20-terabyte Data Warehouse built with Oracle OPS/RAC, other Decision  Support Systems and Oracle 11i Financials. Redefine data mart with more complex  star schemas to support OLAP functions to meet new business intelligence  requirements. Implement data aggregation with Oracle ETL tools. Database Administrator Spectra Marketing Inc - Lancaster, PA May 2002 to January 2004 Launch Phoenix - web-based system following J2EE standards to collect store data.  Support terabyte marketing system InfiNet to provide retail information online.  Transport huge amount of data with TTS. Create database design standards, maintenance procedures and access rules. Logical and physical design using Oracle  Designer as part of SDLC. Education Master's