Principle Project Cost Analyst Principle Project Cost Analyst Columbia, SC Project Controls professional with more than twenty years of planning, scheduling, cost and data integration  experience. Proficient at developing schedules that are deliverable based with correct activity links that  produces accurate critical path results. Possessing the knowledge and ability to effectively integrate  schedules with the other project control software and applications. Proficient with integrating Primavera  software tools with project data warehoused in other informational platforms, transferring data from legacy  project management systems to Primavera products. Experienced in administration of Primavera P6 on  complex projects utilizing multiple schedules and schedule levels, successfully managing multiple users  through development, update cycle, and maintenance. Motivated self-starter requires minimal supervision to  perform and produce meaningful results. Work Experience Principle Project Cost Analyst High Bridge Assoc - Waynesboro, GA December 2017 to June 2018 Work Management  Client: Southern Nuclear  • Developed/implemented methodology for the assignment GL actual dollar line items to a Prism cost account from client general ledger (GL) data where there was no direct  correlation or key field between the two applications data  • Developed report for analysis of the actual data by the cost analyst and department  managers in Excel using multiple pivot tables  • Developed load sheet for integrating actual cost to Prism software for cost management P6 Database Administrator High Bridge Assoc - Charlotte, NC April 2015 to December 2017 Client: Duke Energy - Coal Ash Management  • Assist in monitoring, analyses and maintenance of 200+ active EPC projects across some 27  sites in the Carolinas, Midwest and Florida.  • Responsible for maintenance of codes and calendars within the P6 database(s)  • Developed/implemented EPS structure for P6 database  • Developed/implemented methodology for update of 60+ vendor supplied schedules within clients P6 database weekly  • Developed reports ranging from detail to summary management reports across regions and sites for schedule adherence and variance analysis.  • Responsible for assignment of access and rights within the P6 databases P6 Database Administrator Lutech Resources - Waynesboro, GA April 2014 to March 2015 Client: CBI Power  • Assist in monitoring and maintenance of construction projects within the P6 database(s) Principal Consultant GATE 6 Solutions, Inc - Columbia, SC August 2005 to March 2014 PRINCIPAL PROJECT CONTROL SPECIALIST  COLUMBIA, SC (803) 240-7765 DBOWEN8300@ATT.NET  • Development of Management Reports for Unit comparison and milestone variance analysis  • Conversion of access database used at VC Summer station for use at Vogtle. Database was  used to provide metric and quality data for reporting across 26 EPC projects  Principal Consultant GATE 6 Solutions, Inc. Conyers, GA Aug 2005 - Mar 2014  Client: CBI Federal Services  • Proposal schedule development  Client: Alberici Constructors  • Proposal schedule development  • Preparing training/mentoring document  • Schedule review and analysis  Client: Omaha Public Power District  • Schedule development - Fort Calhoun - Containment Internal Structures  Client: Energy Solutions  • Proposal schedule development  Client: Babcock & Wilcox Nuclear Engineering - mPower and Medical Isotope Production System  • WBS development, Schedule development, Project Controls Integration - B&W mPower(TM)  • Schedule development, maintenance, review and analysis using Earned Value methods  Client: EOD Technologies, Inc.  • Working with the EODT Manager of Projects and EODT Project Control Manager, responsible  for mentoring EODT project managers and project control specialists in effective use of Primavera 5.0 to plan, schedule and manage various projects.  • Developed data transfer protocol between Primavera 5.0 and Deltek Cost Point accounting  software for capturing project actual costs. Developed protocol for capturing project costs  not yet in accounting and transferring data into Primavera 5.0.  Client: Shaw AREVA MOX Services, LLC - DOE MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility Project  • Responsible for administration/security of the P3/ P3ec databases.  • Performed critical path analysis.  • Managed and maintained the overall Integrated Project Schedule with regards to data  quality, merging external projects and coordinating the responsible discipline planners.  • Assembled and prepared project baseline schedules.  • Assisted in providing project management with the assessment of risks and uncertainties  within project schedules using range estimates and simulations.  • Prepared "what-if" scenarios and presentations for management review.  • Provided guidance in the configuration and implementation of P3ec and the interface with Cost Manager. Education Midlands Technical College - Columbia, SC Skills Risk analysis, Wbs, Evms, Ms access, Oracle, Primavera, Visual basic, Visual basic for applications, Excel, Ms excel, Critical path, Integration, Process development Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERTISE  • Primavera P6 • MS Excel  • Primavera P6 admin • MS Access  • Integration of PC tools (EVMS) • EPS/WBS Development  • Schedule Adherence • Schedule Variance  • Schedule Quality • Level 1-4 schedule development  • Critical Path Analysis • Visual Basic for Applications  • Schedule guidelines/process development • Oracle Primavera Risk Analysis