Senior Data Base Administrator Senior Data Base <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Data Base Administrator - Catholic Health Initiatives Plant City, FL Accomplished IT professional with 15 years industry experience. Has consistently demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives that improve business functionality with positive impacts on the bottom line. Technology savvy self-starter, adept at moving into new environments and extrapolating from existing experience to quickly adapt to new technologies. Possesses first-rate communication and collaboration skills to lead and work in concert with diverse groups effectively. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Data Base Administrator Catholic Health Initiatives - Denver, CO 2002 to Present present Database Administrator and System Administration Skills and Accomplishments 2012 to 2014 Installed and configured 2014, 2012 SQL server failover cluster on windows cluster 2008 R2, 2012. Configures always on high availability on different environments both on Pre-Production and Production environments.  • Management of the databases with respect to tuning, performance monitoring (spotlight, activity monitor), capacity planning, space management, reorganization and quality assurance.  • Implemented High Availability strategies like Always-On, Database Mirroring, Clustering and Log Shipping in production and staging environments and also troubleshooting issues with the same. Applied Hotfixes and Service Packs in clustering environments.  • Report on monthly database metrics  • Maintain documentation for sql servers  • Transitioning end of life from SQL2005/2008R2 to SQL2012 and SQL2014  • Write basic stored procedures  • Perform Database storage design and migration  • Understanding of complex logical to physical DB structures  • Perform Back-ups, Restores, Patch scheduling, Maintenance and Disaster Recovery.  • Develop plans and manage and execute complex technical efforts.  • Work on vendor selection committees to bring on new applications.  • Perform technical compatibility and proof of concept testing for new applications.  • Manage sql servers in VMware environment.  • Mentor Jr dba's  • Implementation of AllAcripts AEHR, PM, EPSI and DSS in large Enterprise environment  • Implementation and support of Eclipsys, and Sun Rise applications  • Meditech 6.0, magic and client server database support  • Implementation and support of McKesson Star applications  • Implementation and support of Hospira Med-pump application.  • Remedy ticketing and change management process coordinator.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008, T- SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Agent, SQL Profiler, Red Gate, Lite-speed, Spotlight, Windows 2012 R2/2008/2003 server, Visual Studio 2008/2012, MS Visual Studio 2012. Education Associates Degree in information technology Computer Learning Center - King of Prussia, PA 1999 to 2000 University of Phoenix Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cxm7jvuvmpjhxits Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xxjyw8lmfk9z-fo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.