Quality Database Administrator Quality <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Quality Database Administrator - Meggitt PLC Milford, OH SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  Highly motivated administrative professional experienced within Fortune 500 companies and Non-Profit organizations.    Capabilities    Office Management  Budget Management/Cost Control  Customer Service  Project Management  Process Improvement  Event Planning  Public Relations Work Experience Quality Database Administrator Meggitt PLC October 2018 to Present • Upload documents to Q-Pulse Database.  • Keep the users up-to-date.  • Run CA/PA, Audit and Occurrence reports on a weekly basis.  • Train others how to utilize Q-Pulse VANTIV - Finance (Workway) July 2009 to January 2018 ETHICON ENDO SURGERY - Packaging COE (Kelly Services)  GE AVIATION - Mechanical Systems Design Technology (Johnson Services)  LUXOTTICA RETAIL - Sunglass Hut (Adecco)  LUXOTTICA RETAIL - Lenscrafters Learning and Development (Brooksource)  GE CAPITAL - Risk and Fraud, Marketing (Viva Staffing)  TECHSOFT SYSTEMS, INC. - IT Consultants (Office Team)  GE AVIATION - Manufacturing and Process Engineering (Adecco)  Summary of Duties for Contract Assignments  • Provided administrative support to Vice Presidents, a Chief Marketing Leader, Executive Leadership Teams, Section Managers, and Sub Section Managers.  • Performed daily calendar management.  • Started conference calls and video conference meetings.  • Made domestic and international travel arrangements.  • Project management as assigned.  • Managed and reported on team budgets, processed expenses.  • Processed and distributed weekly financial reports.  • Large event management.  • Organized and attended team outings and department celebrations.  • Generated letters, graphic presentations, pivot charts and tables, general  correspondence, and other documents as assigned.  • Created / maintained electronic and hard copy filing systems for correspondence, records, reference data, reports, and sensitive documents for managers and staff.    DELOITTE - International and Multi-State Tax Executive Assistant Deloitte June 2007 to October 2008 Calculated, created and processed client invoices, ran various reports (i.e. life-to-date, CAD and summary) so managers  and staff can address billing issues via SAP.  • Acted as the Deloitte liaison to the Procter and Gamble Company by managing  scheduling, processing, billing, correspondence and the database maintenance for three Deloitte programs offered to P&G employees.  • Provided general office support (i.e. travel arrangements, copies, faxing, etc.) to one  Tax Partner, two Tax Directors and three Senior Managers  • Attended daily Connections meetings to collaborate with peers and improve customer  service. Program Assistant Knowledgeworks Foundation - Educators Knowledge Network October 2006 to April 2007 • Monitored department budget to ensure invoices are coded to proper accounts.  • Processed invoices, check requests and payments to online Facilitators, Advisors  and Ambassadors.  • Reconciled American Express Card reports for Manager and Trainer.  • Created event evaluation summaries to ensure improvement of future events.  • Assisted with the creation and distribution of monthly newsletters.  • Managed travel and conference registration for four program specialists and Team Manager.  • Created surveys with Survey Monkey and created reports of results to monitor  the success of online site.  • Attended and assisted in creation of large events for online members in Northern Ohio  by managing incentives, registration, music, photos and creating PowerPoint  presentations.  • Assisted with maintenance and managed photos on web site.  • Coordinated web site anniversary celebrations for Ambassadors in Northern Ohio.  • Maintained communications for four Action Research teams.  • Member of the Fine Arts Fund Planning team. Executive Assistant LUXOTTICA RETAIL - (CBS Personnel Services) July 2004 to October 2006 • Managed Associate Relations budget for US ($1.3 MM) and Canada ($200K).  • Coordinated Cincy-Cinco 2-Day event.  • Performed communications coordination for four culture teams, nine break-out groups  and nine diversity subcommittees.  • Performed internet researches for diversity programs as requested.  • Managed travel arrangements for Vice-President and Associate Relations Director  • Reconciled business travel account to monitor travel spending.  • Created PowerPoint presentations and managed event coordination for the Vice  President of Associate Relations.  • Move Captain for internal office relocation.  • Provided general office support for 10 Associate Relations Human Resource  Managers.  • Coordinated new hire orientations, online training modules and tracked applications.  • Created month-end sales reports and kept General Manager informed of current sales  volume.  • Created and distributed budget projection spreadsheets.  • Coordinated large events for sales customers. Administrator PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY May 1998 to November 2003 • Processed and managed Confidential Disclosure Agreements with outside vendors for quick access and legal reference.  • Initiated and delivered Effort Reports on a monthly basis for management to monitor workflow.  • Handled internal office moves for department to maintain daily workflow and minimize interruptions.  • Managed security audit process to maintain company security standards.  • Assisted in the orientation of new hires by sharing company policies and logistics.  • Monitored, forecasted and summarized department budget of $1.5MM and capital expenses of $175MM.  • Identified global cross charges of $28M internationally and $18M regionally which resulted in a reduction of dept. spending.  • Developed and led Order Tracking team, which created an easier format for team members to track purchases.  • Created a schedule for suppliers to deliver products on a routine basis which reduced excessive spending.  • Monitored monthly expenses and reconciled American Express travel cards and procurement cards for department.  • Processed project payment requests and purchase orders to maintain relationships with outside vendors and consultants.  • Coordinated one and two-day symposiums for outside suppliers and upper management.  • Designed and launched an online process for effective communication across administrative teams.  • Researched, organized and obtained management approval for a one-day on-site Memory Retention course.  • Assisted in knowledge mapping for tracking of various Research and Development processes.  • Managed recruiting correspondence for project managers to hire the most talented recruits. Education Finneytown High School University of Cincinnati Skills Sharepoint, Sap, Visio, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES    Microsoft Certifications    Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook  Access, SharePoint  Proficiencies  SAP  Visio  Concur