Database Admin <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin Database Admin - NOVA San Jose, CA • Experienced Data Analyst having experience handling large quantities of data  • Reconciliation of data between two database sources, Access Database and Excel spreadsheet to find out the data of customers missing in their database.  • Used toolpak in excel, Functions, formula, Vlookups, pivot table to assist analyzing for this work.  • Extract data from main Access database and SQL Server database to run query using to create crystal Reports in monthly, quarterly, yearly.  • Assisting in maintenance database and networking and troubleshooting of systems.  • Collected data from database to create reports by Microsoft access in each quarter.  • Reconciled the data sources included database SQL server, Oracle 9i clients, Microsoft Access Database, Filemaker, Excel spreadsheet to find out data missing and modify it to the Aperture Access Database Application.  • Remodel data in Database, backup, restores database. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Admin NOVA 2013 to Present Upgraded skills to newest version  Upgraded skills to SQL 2008  Microsoft certified in Access Database 2010  Microsoft certified in Excel 2010  And Microsoft certified in PowerPoint 2010 Data Reporting analyst/ database Administrator/ Database Consultant Jackson Hewitt tax, Inc - San Jose, CA January 2006 to December 2013 San Jose, CA Jan 2006 - Dec 2013  Data Reporting analyst/ database Administrator/ Database Consultant  Consultant and work on the projects related to Database including Data Entry, Analyst, Design, support programming, Testing, and Database Administration, . And concepts of Data Analyst, Flowing of data, Relationship of Database, how to understand relationship of Front End and Backend On the Client/ Server network including Access Database, SQL Server 7, and Server 2000 and Oracle.  The companies included Mosu Systems Inc, Itronic Systems Inc, TAC worldwide Inc, Jackson Hewitt tax franchises, the 7trees income tax services, and HR Block tax services.  • Reconciliation of data between two database sources, Access Database and Excel spreadsheet to find out the data of customers missing in their database.  • Used toolpak in excel, Functions, formula, Vlookups, pivot table to assist analyzing for this work.  • Extract data from main Access database and SQL Server database to run query using to create crystal Reports in monthly, quarterly, yearly.  • Assisting in maintenance database and networking and troubleshooting of systems.  • Collected data from sale force database to create reports by Microsoft access in each quarter. Data Analyst Synopsys corp - Mountain View, CA June 2005 to December 2005 Reconciled the data sources included database SQL server, Oracle 9i clients, Microsoft Access Database, Filmmaker, Excel spreadsheet to find out data missing and modify it to the Aperture Access Database, Management and maintenance of SKUs in EGenie (the tool).  • Remodel data in Database, backup, restores database.  • Extracted data from SQL database to support data in creating the reports  • Merge and compile large volumes of data and initiate reporting functions from a variety of locations.  • Update and clean data both manually and through automated processes Familiar with SQL, MS Excel macro and MS Access macro  • Manipulate/change the data  • Export data from one file to another and created reports in MS Access, Crystal Report Database Consultant Consulting Database - viet nam January 2003 to May 2005 I assisted remoting some projects of high tech FTP Company and Jackson Hewitt tax  • The projects focused on titles in analyzing data of Medical database systems in advanced Excel with Toolpak, formulas to summarize total, functions. And crystal reports in MS SQL and Oracle. Database Administrator SATI - Sunnyvale, CA January 2002 to December 2002 Assist in the coordination and monitoring of the design, development, modification and implementation of information technology applications within the school.  • Provided technical support and leadership for the database environment; provide and design tools to assist in the management of the database and client/server environment.  • Created Tables, views, procedures, jobs, and monitoring Msdb, profiles.  • Assist in training staff in effective utilization of databases and analytical tools.  • Including SQL server 7.0, 2000 and Oracle 8i.  • With SQL* plus, Transact- SQL, DTS, PL/SQL, DOS transcript languages. And concepts of programming on JAVA and PERL and With Database SQL server Admin, and created of report in Brio. Database Analyst and Programming The Brix Group, Inc - Campbell, CA January 2001 to June 2001 Worked in the Database Application of Enhances Logistic Solutions with Access 97, Oracle, And Visual Basic 6.  • Analyzed Database, migrate data from System to another System, Oracle to Access database, SQL Server to Access database or from Oracle to SQL server.  • Programming and Modify code for Database analyzed and generating Crystal Report, wrote Documentation and training the end users. Database Analyst/Administration RSA, Inc - Mendon, NY July 1999 to September 2000 Reviews, evaluates, designs, implements and maintains company databases.  • Identifies data sources, constructs data decomposition diagrams, provides data flow diagrams and documents the process.  • Writes codes for database access and modifications.  • Maintains database dictionaries, ensures database performance and resolves problems.  • Coordinates with others to ensure implementation and monitoring of databases.  • Guarantees the performance integrity and quality of databases.  • Controls system capacity for existing requirements and plans for future needs.  • Provide consultant and training sessions to database users Database programming/ Admin/software Design/ Sale support The Lochsheil Software Corp - Rochester, NY May 1998 to June 1999 Installed Software.  • Design and analyst database MS Access, FoxPro, and the Map files to create the Google maps database for use loading into Software.  • Produced a CD-ROM with a SDLC of Flood Maps Software application for 50 American States with team using Visual Basic 6, SQL, FoxPro, MS access, Adobe and Clear Case.  • And also supported in Sale Database with CRM and Excel.  • Lotus Spreadsheet Excel / Mail Merge. Data analyst and Access database Administrator lockshiel software corp - Rochester, NY September 1996 to May 1998 Analyzed Database and generating Crystal Report with Microsoft Access and tools report.  • Administrating all jobs of Database from A-Z with Frond end is the Microsoft Access Application and Backend Is the SQL server 7.0 Education BS in Management Information Systems Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY A.A.S in Computer Information Systems Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY Advanced of Technology Institute - Sunnyvale, CA Additional Information Skills:  Database: Access Database, SQL Server, Transact-SQL, DTS, Oracle DBA, and FoxPro  Languages: SQL*Plus, Access 97, VB6.0, HTML, PL/SQL, Perl, Java, COBOL  Operating Systems: Windows8, window7, XP, Macintosh OS, UNIX, VAX/VMS, and DOS  Networking: Modems, MS-NT, MS-2000, FTP, TCP/IP, IP Address, Hub, Router  Application Tools: ER Studio 5.5, PLUS32, Crystal Report, FileMaker, Brio, MS Suit Office MS Project, Excel functions, Analysis ToolPak, Vlookups, Pivot tables., Statistic Analysis. Charts, Reports