Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Altamed Cypress, CA My goal is to obtain a Database Administrator position that allows me to learn various new technologies while utilizing my professional experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Altamed July 2018 to Present Evaluate, recommend, and analyze processes and solutions to support business requirements and the goals of the company.  Effectively manage day-to-day database operations and routine maintenance (e.g., release deployments, patching, backups, purges, etc.)  Directs the development and maintenance of tactical plans for the operational support of all application areas supported by database Systems. This includes system  implementations, upgrades, change controls, training and departmental end-user  support.  Establishes and maintains a comprehensive application governance structure with end user departments that ensures adherence to best-practice workflows and system changes  Identify and lead the setting and exercising of data management standards and procedures for effective DBMS utilization and security  Provide highly responsive engagement for 24 x 7 support on premise and while in rotating on-call schedules.  Demonstrate the ability to operate as the primary resource on a project through planning, resource allocation, conflict resolution, project negotiation, and reporting.  Manage and adhere to systems development life cycle processes and best practices.  Identify and recommend solutions for opportunities to improve efficiency and effectiveness through understanding internal processes and procedures  Formulate and recommend technical direction for database-related activities for the project teams in collaboration with other IT organizations.  Write/review complex SQL Queries and Procedures, and monitor performance(SentryOne, IDERA, and SolarWinds) and tuning using SQL Profiler.  Design, implement, and maintain multiple SQL Server databases  Managing SSRS site and creating reports  Creating/Maintaining SSIS/BCP/PowerShell/Python ETL processes  Replication implentation and management  TFS source control  EZCap Support Sr. Database Administrator Advanced Medical Management January 2018 to July 2018 Stays current with emerging solutions and makes recommendations when appropriate for consideration and implementation to satisfy strategic IS and business requirements  Installing and upgrading the database server (SQL 2008, 2012) and application tools  Design and plan architecture of database and entity framework applications  Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system  Planning and creating Test and Dev environment.  Developing and PTO database queries for applications and SSRS/Crystal reports needed.  Managing LDAP and AD group on SQL server.  Diagnosing database problems and coming up with resolutions  Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases (Solarwinds).  Managing various ETL processes and data warehouse.  Transactional replication and snapshot replication.  Planning for backup and recovery of database information  Generating SSRS reports by querying from database as per need.  Planning for DR/Cloud solutions.  Testing various tools to help/improve team members.  EZcap support and customization.  Mentor and train IT team members to improve skill sets.  Python development Sr. Database Administrator Synermed March 2017 to January 2018 Supports database development, Participates in Agile Development and sprints  Maintains in MS SQL and informs Manager of changes. Installs new upgrades when applicable. Troubleshoots all levels of MS SQL problems.  Maintains BI Data Warehouse databases and all other SQL databases.  Works with staff in order to maximize data effectiveness as it pertains to reporting, general questions on EZCap, or projects.  Develops tools and reports to aid in SynerMed's vision of performing superior service.  Consults with appropriate personnel on system wide policies.  Develop stored procedures, indexes, triggers, scripts, publications, and replications to provide quick data access while maintaining data integrity including and not limited to performing optimization checks and developing business rules that include moving, integrating and cleansing of data.  Ensure and maintain data integrity at all times by helping maintain consistent data throughout all databases.  CommVault maintenance.  IDERA Sr. Database Consultant Optum July 2012 to March 2017 Sr. Database Consultant at Optum 360  July 2012 - March 2017 (4 years and 9 months)  Coordinate and collaborate with the infrastructure team to ensure appropriate environments are provided in support of solutions including low level environments, performance environments, scalable production.  Develop and establish departmental standards and procedures. Assure team members adhere to technical standards, estimation guidelines and best practices.  Drive development projects to completion; create, execute and revise project work plans to meet changing needs and requirements. Identify resources needed and assigns individual.  Work with internal business teams to evaluate complex client requirements, service levels, business processes and other contractual requirements  • Optum Actus and CAC product's Database (MS SQL 2008, 2012) troubleshooting ( database mapping, bug fixing), developing ( database architecture, stored procedures, synonyms), performance tuning (index analysis, locking level tuning) and administration.  • Data center performance monitoring and upgrades.  • Developing Redgate packages to deploy updates and hotfixes on clients' environments.  • Support clients' databases and SSRS base on TFS system.  • Developing SSIS packages to deploy updates and hotfixes.  • Creating SSRS reports for the Dashboard products by client's request. Reports are driven by stored procedures.  • Managing job agents to run daily nightly aggregation and purging processes.  • Support clients 24x7 on call rotating basis.  Managing Enterprise CAC HL7, UI, NLP (over 1 PB) and Pro CAC HL7, UI, Reporting and NLP DBs  Managing transactions between SQL server and Clover leaf server. DBA Marina Medical Billing May 2007 to July 2012 Managing and creating database.  Managing MS SQL 2005 Server (150GB).  Maintaining and developing ASP web pages based on MS SQL and DB2.  Creating and updating document management program.  Reporting (SSRS) and Analyzing.  VMware maintenance.  Laserfiche Ver.7.2.1 server and applications (3TB).  Laserfiche Ver.7.2.1 customization (customized workflow and applications).  Maintain and developing ETL process from Med/FM on IBM AS400 to MS SQL servers.  MS SQL disaster recovery from Evault.  Tuning DB maintenance plan.  System change management.  Purging and archiving management.  Creating and developing SMTP and POP3 server.  Creating and developing sharepoint server.    Laserfiche customization at Personal DBA Laserfiche May 2005 to July 2012 at Laserfiche Sales Laserfiche May 2005 to May 2007 analysis  Maintaining and developing web pages  Laserfiche 7.2.1. Localization Math Tutor B.E.S.T March 2004 to May 2005 Instruct 3 class sessions of 10 students in Mathematics from Elementary level to High School level  Responsible for planning and organizing field trips and other activities Student Sogang University March 1999 to January 2001 BK21 Project supported by the Korean Government  Responsible for case study and theoretical analysis of outsourcing    Skills & Expertise  Databases  Microsoft SQL Server  SQL  C#  Visual Studio  Business Intelligence  ASP.NET  ASP  VMware  SSIS  Disaster Recovery  DB2  SSRS  ETL  SQL Server  MSSQL  GoldMine CRM  Rational Rose 2000  AS400 Administration  WSUS  SugarCRM  Laserfiche  POP3  SharePoint  SMTP  Catalyst  C  VMware Infrastructure  Python Education Master of Science in Management Information System Sogang University Graduate School 1994 to 2002 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Engineering Sogang University 1994 to 2002 Bucheon High School Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database, Documentum, DB2, MYSQL, SSRS, SSIS, Oracle Database, ETL Certifications/Licenses MCITP: Database Administrator 2008 MCTS: SQL Server 2008, Implementation and Maintenance MCTS: SQL Server 2008, Database Development