Salesforce Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Analyst/Crystal reports developer - Wolters Kluwer Buffalo Grove, IL Summary: Proficient in the use of Salesforce.com, Salesforce Apex Data Loader, CyberSource, Microsoft Office, Visual Basic, Crystal Reports, Access, Monarch, Power Builder, Goldmine , AS/400 Query Tool, SQL Server 7.0, 2000, SalesLogix 6.2 , Visual Analyzer2.5, Lotus Notes Work Experience Salesforce Administrator Wolters Kluwer - Riverwoods, IL 2007 to Present Responsibilities included:  ·Perform administrator functions such as user management, profiles, roles, permissions, rules, assignment rules, queues, licenses, capacity and storage management across all Salesforce instances.  ·Create and maintain custom objects, object relationships, standard and custom fields.  ·Manage dashboards, reports, forms, templates, page layouts, workflows, and approvals.  ·Customize reporting and dashboards for various teams, provide reports and report training.  ·Work with end-users to provide best practices and tips on Salesforce usage, and support as necessary.  • Assist in resolving support cases as they occur and provide technical support as needed.  • Data migration/bulk data loading into Salesforce using the Apex data loader.  • Supporting all company CyberSource Instances.  • Maintaining Salesforce.com CPQ products, Promotions, Price Rules.    • Developing and maintaining customized sales management and sales reporting systems using Crystal Reports and CRM Visual Analyzer.  • Creating views, tables, using SQL Server.  • Creating and maintaining reports distribution processes.  • Creating sets of data, analyzing data using SQL Server Query Analyzer and Microsoft Access.  • Monitoring SQL Server database activities.  • Creating and scheduling SQL Server DTS jobs.  • Responsible for the analysis, development and maintenance of CRM applications and tools which directly support the sales and marketing teams.  • Serving as a CRM systems administrator.  • Designing, developing and maintaining synchronized data feeds for the CRM and affiliated systems.  • Sybersource administration. Programmer/ Database administrator IMC Intrupa - Grayslake, IL 1997 to 2006 Grayslake. Illinois  (Mid-sized national/international manufacturer of lift truck parts. Distribution Center.)  Programmer/ Database administrator  Responsibilities included:  • Managing SQL Server and Access databases.  • Creating views, queries, store procedures, tables, user defined functions  • Import export data using data transaction services.  • Scheduling jobs to back up data.  • Converting data into reports.  • Designing new reports, or make changes in existing reports using Crystal Reports  • Performing Queries using AS/400 query tool.  • Upgrading GoldMind program to new version to eliminate a duplicate problems.  • Creating new distributing software's for existing company customers.  • Supporting all company software's and databases.  • Data manipulation using AS/400 and SQL Server. Software Developer United Medical - Wheeling, IL 1996 to 1997 Responsibilities included:  • Developing, coding, and testing Transportation and Inventory System.  • Creating weekly and monthly reports, and maintain the payable functions using Power Builder SQL queries, and WATKOM SQL.  • Designed user interface.  • Coding and testing single tables and multi tables data windows.  • Coding and testing embedded parameterized SQL.  • Using Power Script language.  • Creating initial program to generate reports using Power Builder software.  • Initializing user objects. Education Mechanical Engineering in Power Builder Technical College - Skokie, IL Skills Salesforce Admin, Salesforce