BI Developer / Database Developer BI Developer / <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Database Developer Minneapolis, MN ? Extensive experience in SQL Database and .NET development, implementation and support of software and web applications using Microsoft platforms and methodologies.  ? Highly regarded for proficiency in database development and administration.  ? Demonstrated ability to adapt to ever changing technologies and practices.  ? Recognized for broad-based skills encompassing database, web, hardware and software.  ? Detail orientated and resourceful in the completion of projects with the ability to multi task and meet strict deadlines.  ? Adopts a creative approach to problem solving through use of excellent analytical skills.  ? Excellent interpersonal skills, confident and poised in interactions with individuals at all levels, readily developing rapport with clients and colleagues.  ? Dedicated individual; achieving a reputation for consistently going beyond what is required. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience BI Developer / Database Developer Abbott - Saint Paul, MN January 2019 to Present *contract*    ? Developed configurable, multi-platform (MSSQL, Oracle, XLSX, CSV) ETL application using C# and SSIS.  ? Designed and developed data reporting warehouse for SSAS to accommodate complaint reporting and processing for new EU reporting policies.  ? Created SSIS package to retrieve data entry files from SharePoint site and import into MSSQL.  ? Completed analysis, architecture and ETL development for a Salesforce to SAP project using DBAmp.  ? Created new as well as updated existing migration scripts with T-SQL and SSIS running on SQL Server 2008R2, 2014 and 2017. Data Migration Specialist / Database Developer Conduent - Waite Park, MN December 2017 to September 2018 *contract-remote*    ? Participated as part of a 7-person team (4 off-shore, 3 local working remotely) engineering and performing a data migration for a Hennepin County Property Tax system change.  ? Coordinated with end users and subject matter experts using TFS and Jira to create requirements and mapping documents.  ? Created new as well as updating existing migration scripts with T-SQL, running on SQL Server 2016.  ? Performed query tuning for long running, high volume scripts. Software Engineer / Database Developer Delaget - Eden Prairie, MN December 2014 to January 2017 *contract*    ? Maintained and created new DTS packages for loading and manipulating of flat files (CSV, XML, Custom reports).  ? Created new reports and website functionality from BRD's, functional specs and end user input using both C#.NET and VB.NET as well as some 3rd party API's.  ? Setup credit card verification system to check various BAI2, OFX and other bank files against POS reports.  ? Maintained and updated VB6 based POS polling applications.  ? Maintained and updated C# utilities for file analysis, report emailing and sending via FTP.  ? Provided external customer and internal end user level 3 support.  ? Setup and configured development / testing environments to mirror current production system, as well as guiding in establishing Best Practices deployment process.  ? Created SSIS packages to assist in keeping environments in sync.  ? Assisted in upgrade from SQL 2008 R2 to SQL 2014 Database Developer Optum - Eden Prairie, MN May 2013 to August 2014 *contract-remote*    ? Enhanced existing and created new ETL processes for reporting data warehouse.  ? Optimized many transform SQL procedures including complex group association process for core reports.  ? Created new reports and data extracts as per business needs, utilizing requirements documents and creating design and implementation documentation as necessary.  ? Helped to automate multi-source monthly reporting process with file management system supporting dynamic imports and UNIX interaction via PSCP.  ? Setup partition swapping for production report tables to minimize down-time during data loads. Database Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN September 2012 to May 2013 *contract*    ? Performed analysis and developed utility queries for in-house developed ETL scheduling application.  ? Co-authored process to duplicate current environment to a new production Teradata server and creation of UAT environment - implementing needed standards in ETL code and developing promotion processes.  ? Created new and updated existing ETL processes to pull data from flat file, Teradata, Oracle and SQL sources; process data into dim and fact reporting tables.  ? Created new and updated existing reports in both Crystal and in-house proprietary report creation application.  ? Worked with business users to gather requirements for new reports and revisions of existing. Database Developer CHS Inc - Inver Grove Heights, MN May 2012 to July 2012 *contract*    ? Maintained, developed and debugged MS SQL 2005 data warehouse which used 200+ SSIS packages to pull data from XML, DB2 and other MS SQL sources.  ? Developed SSRS reports, both new from base requirements and existing Crystal Reports that needed to be converted.  ? Performed DB schema analysis, recommended changes such as foreign key restraints, indexes, and structure changes, and implemented changes.  ? Reviewed and rewrote in-line T-SQL and stored procedures for better efficiency and maintaining data integrity. Database Developer Syngenta - Minnetonka, MN September 2011 to January 2012 *contract*    ? Provided guidance and direction and salvaged previously written scripts for an in progress data migration.  ? Performed DBA tasks for multiple on-going projects, including database design and architecture, database environment implementations, report and query writing.  ? Expanded "Data Conversion Factory" system concept to facilitate new systems and enhancements for data migrations. Database Developer AON Benfield - Bloomington, MN December 2009 to June 2011 *contract*    ? Created SSIS package to allow copying metadata and data from any ODBC accessible database to a MS SQL database.  ? Created re-usable process using SSIS packages, stored procedures and functions, T-SQL Scripts, .NET web applications (for user interaction in data mapping), for migrating from multiple source systems into GriDs, the main reinsurance broker application used by Benfield.  ? Architect and Designer of a "Data Conversion Factory" system to facilitate system migration tools, logging, and audit reports. Database Developer United Health Group - Hopkins, MN July 2009 to December 2009 *contract*    ? Reviewed, documented and re-wrote for efficiency and data integrity ETL SSIS packages to pull from multiple sources including FTP, SQL, Oracle, and Excel spreadsheets.  ? Created stored procedures for call center reporting purposes, including a function to convert date/times to any time zone from any time zone, calculating for the different starts and ends of daylight savings where applicable.  ? Provided guidance and mentoring to other developers in T-SQL and SSIS development. Database Developer Augeo Marketing - Saint Paul, MN March 2009 to June 2009 Designed, developed and maintained SSIS packages for ETL, OLTP to EDW, and EDW to OLAP data transfer.  ? Designed and developed an SSIS package to export leads files in XML, CSV, or tab delimited files.  ? Designed and developed an SSIS package to retrieve XML, CSV or TAB delimited files from FTP. Senior Developer / Network Admin / SQL DBA Marzan Interactive - Minneapolis, MN July 2008 to March 2009 Designed, developed and maintained VB.NET/ASP.NET (2.0 and 3.5) / SQL 2005 / DotNetNuke websites and intranets for various clients.  ? Performed daily network administration tasks including Active Directory configuration, user setup, Exchange configuration, new network, server and workstation setup.  ? Configured custom websites/email/networking/vpn including DNS record setup, IIS configuration, and more.  ? Team lead on development project utilizing DotNetNuke of a data centric intranet for local NBA team.  ? Installed, configured, and maintained many SQL 2005, and SQL 2008 Express databases; including performance tuning, disaster recovery planning, and security setup. Database Administrator / Software Engineer Wolfnet Technologies - Minneapolis, MN April 2007 to July 2008 Administrated, designed and maintained more than 35 SQL 2005 databases, fed daily/hourly by FTP or RETS (Real Estate Transaction Standard - an http data feed).  ? Re-engineered ETL process using PHP, DTS, SSIS, and HTTP.  ? Contributed business expansion concepts which helped this company grow 40%/yr.  ? Created and maintained PHP scripts to update our Linux photo servers using FTP and RETs  ? Guided/trained fellow db staff on RETs, PHP, SQL and general coding efficiencies.    Various other developer positions held since 1997 Sr. Developer / Production Support 2006 to 2007 Database Developer Best Buy 2004 to 2005 MyWorksite.com 2002 to 2004 Manna Freight Systems - VB6, ASP, SQL6.5 1999 to 2001 RCIS - VB6 development ~ 1999  ? McLean Midwest - Network setup/support - AS400 ~1997-1999 Education CERTIFICATE Hennepin Community College - Brooklyn Park, MN October 1997 Skills Data Warehouse, Ssis, Business Intelligence, SSRS, BI, ETL