Sr. Postgresql Database & AWS Administrator Sr. Postgresql <span class="hl">Database</span> &amp; AWS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Postgresql Database & AWS Administrator - American Express Atlanta, GA • Over 9+ years of experience in database design, performance tuning and optimization of core Oracle Database 10g and 11g, 12c.  • 4+ Years of experience in PostgreSQLRDBMS with knowledge of. installations and Configurations, Backups, Warm/Hot Standby/Streaming Replication/pgHA, pgbouncer, Stado and ora2pg.  • Over 1+ years' experience in Database Administration, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS and Mongo utilities.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Extensively worked on Mmapv1&Wiredtiger storage engines.  • Experience in handling CRUD operations in MONGODB.  • Have successfully managed high availability of production systems for Corporate Sectors and Individual  • Organizations as MySQL DBA.  • Not only strong MySQL skills but also significant general system administration skills on UNIX/HP Open VMS, Linux and Windows environment. Proficient writing shell scripts as well as knowledge in general systems administration tasks.  • Provide senior-level consulting services in the identification and resolution of database issues.  • Experienced in Oracle 9i, 10g and Physical Hot Standby setup and administration.  • Having hands on experience in Upgrade/Migrate Oracle Database from 10g to11g and 12c.  • Hands on experience in configuration of Oracle Real Application Cluster [ ] databases on Linux/Solaris Servers.  • Installation of OEM grid control, configuration and installing agents on all database servers.  • Experienced in Capacity Planning, Configuration, Installation, Upgrades and High Availability (HA) solutions and & Backup & Recovery, performance tuning & Cloning.  • Unix shell scripting and business reporting using sqlldr and SQLPlus  • Have strong logical and physical database architecture and design experience, provide day to day DBA support.  • Experience in setup Oracle Data Guard, Logical and Physical database designs, object layout and sizing.  • Setup and configured Oracle 10g and 11g RAC implementations.  • Setup, implemented and supported Disaster Recovery on the production environments.  • Strong Perl and Shell scripting abilities and on-call support 24 X 7 Production server support.  • Strong communication, leadership, organizational, analytical, interpersonal skills and strong problem solving skills.  • Good knowledge of implementing changes to development, test, and production environments. Work Experience Sr. Postgresql Database & AWS Administrator American Express - New York, NY September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configuring and fixing the Issues with Pgadmin-III client application.  • Responsible for monitoring environments using monitoring tool viz. Nagios, Check_Postgres.pl, pgOn, custom scripts and other supporting tools like pgBadger and tailnmail.  • Installing and configuring new servers as per customer's request.  • Cloning the Development, test and UAT environments with production data as per customer's request.  • Design and implement disaster recovery for the PostgreSQL Database.  • Configuring third client software pgadmin-III, phppgadmin to access the database server.  • Configuring the backup jobs on customer system.  • Experienced in performing PITR.  • Patch, Upgrade and keep the PostgreSQL DBs current.  • Develop and enhance scripts to automate and execute various DBA tasks.  • Assist engineering team in the design of appropriate DB Schema and indexing strategy for performance and scalability.  • Experience supporting a mission-critical database environment with 24x7 On-Call Support including weekends.  • Identifying and resolving incidents and address to user problems/concerns.  • Trouble shooting database issues.  • Support developers for efficient SQL query and Identifying long running queries and optimizing.  • Setup/Maintenance of Test/Development/UAT Servers setup  • Coordinating of Service Request (SR) with business team and providing them SQL queries.  • Monitoring of system logs, OS logs, database logs, trace files, database alert files to detect and troubleshoot runtime problems.  • Planning, deploying RDBMS Upgrades/Patches and performing other weekend maintenance activities as a part of On Call support.  • Active participant in discussions related to Backup Strategy, DC/DR architecture.  • Maintained, patched, and upgraded servers as required.  • Expertie in Analyzing data Quality checks using shell scripts.  • Upgrading, installing, and configuring PostgreSQL servers.  • PostgreSQL Installation, Configuration, Migration, Upgrades and Patches.  • Server versions ranged from PostgreSQL 8.2 to 9.5.  • Disaster recovery planning or Emergency Recoveries and Ensuring Recoverability of Databases.  • Optimize postgresql.conf for performance improvement.  • Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems.  • Ensure night cron jobs for backups, re-Indexing & vacuuming & materialized views executed properly on 24/7/365 high availability Postgres production and development databases.  • Administration and management of the entire development, QA and production environment.  • Installed and configured MySQL on Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and • schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware.  • Schema and Percona toolkit to identify redundant and unused indexes.  • Configured and administered company websites, including general LAMP stack  • Worked with Assisted with sizing, query optimization, buffer tuning, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  • Utilized performance New Relic to monitor database and find out slow queries to tune further.  • Worked with the engineering team to implement new design systems of databases used by the company.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication as part of HA solution.  • Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB/ Cassandra clusters. Implementing on-premise MMS monitoring and backup solution.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL, MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  • Installation of MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS. Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from high availability, Locality, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Environment: PostgreSQl 8/9 and Command center., Linux, Sr. Oracle Database Administrator & Postgresql Modell's - New York, NY January 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities  • Performing Database Cloning in Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g using RMAN. Upgradation/Migration of databases from Oracle9i RAC to 10g RAC.  • Experienced in setting up/Installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS.  • Experienced in configuring & Managing the ASM.  • Extensive knowledge in working with the utilities like OEM, TOAD, Export / Import, Stats pack, SQL* Loader, SQL Analyze, TKPROF, Explain Plan and Oracle Supplied DBMS_PACKAGE.  • Scripting and scheduling of oracle database backups using hot backup and RMAN.  • Daily activities include taking backups with RMAN, Hot and Cold Backups.  • Extensive experience in Database Backups RMAN (Full/Incremental backups) and in traditional hot/cold backups.  • Setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g & Grid Control (11g) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  • Upgrade Oracle 10g database to 11g and 11g to 12c.  • Extensive experience in Dataguard configuration, implementing and maintaining standby databases.  • Involved with installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC/oracle 11gRAC and standby database for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Experience in Database Refresh and patch management and in Database cloning with RMAN and manual methods.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Applied CPU patches.  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and manual methods.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Extensive uses of Oracle Data pump Exports/Imports utility for moving data among the servers.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  • Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TRACE FILE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle Standby Servers.  • Expertise in RDBMS Tools like SQL Loader, Import/Export, Data Pump, RMAN, OEM Grid Control.  • Database Management - Backup, & Recovery, Performance Tuning, Configuration of Database, Table space administration, User management, Index management.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Performance tuning Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM reports for the Better performance.  • Database Administration support and troubleshooting, including install PostgreSQL software, patches and upgrades; manage and monitor Tablespaces.  • Setting up Replication Day-to-day maintenance of Database Server.  • Provide Oracle servers using Warm standby and slony replication.  • Planning for PostgreSQL backup & recovery of database through Physical and logical (pg_dump/pg_restore)  • Single Point of Contact for technical support, application support, users and help desk personnel of all applications.  • Maintaining documentation and standards for Database.  • Refreshing the Development, test and UAT environments with production data as per customer's request.  • Implementing DR Solutions like Warm/Hot Standby and Streaming Replication.  • Server versions ranged from PostgreSQL 8.2 to 9.5.  • Disaster recovery planning or Emergency Recoveries and Ensuring Recoverability of Databases.  • Optimize postgresql.conf for performance improvement.  • Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems.  • Ensure night cron jobs for backups, re-Indexing & vacuuming & materialized views executed properly on 24/7/365 high availability Postgres production and development databases.  Environments: Oracle 11g, RAC, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Grid Control, OEM RMAN, Golden Gat ASM, SUN Solaris, Linux, Active Data Guard, PostgreSQl 8/9 and Command center., Linux. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Rabobank - New York, NY September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provides high technical expertise for the planning, analysis, design, development, implementation, maintenance and control of the organization's server-class databases.  • Identifying performance bottlenecks using AWR and ADDM reports and resolving them.  • Worked on SQL and PL/SQL tuning. Worked on systems with high transactions rate.  • Identifying deadlocks and other lock contention issues during stress tests. Extensively involved in fine tuning home mortgage application SQL's.  • Proactive tuning, suggesting recommendations to avoid performance problems. Extensively used EXPLAIN PLAN, Auto Trace and TKPROF for query refining.  • Analysis of Execution plans for each and every query for above application and recommending required Indexes, hints and partitioning to improve SQL query performance.  • Setup, configuration and installation of the RAC environment and ASM.  • Participated in designing and development of software using agile development practices  • Developed user interface (UI) and data analysis component with integration of duplicate file finder  • Developed multiple automation scripts using shell script. Used Grid Control and OEM Tool to monitor Stress tests.  • Oracle Advanced features to resolve performance issues. Extensively worked on Partitioning to improve performance.  • Implementing user level security, object level security, dataencryption. Hands on exprience Oracle Transparent Data Encryption and Oracle RMAN.  • Configured Active Data Guard for maintaining physical standby databases. Extensive knowledge for PL/SQL programming.  • Performed POC for implementation of Oracle 11g new features. Architectural design for Golden Gate Implementation.  • Lead architect in data retention and data purging strategy. RMAN for backup and recovery.  • Dataguard for maintaining physical standby database.  • Exploring 12C database new features on local machine. Conducted root cause inspection for outages  • Wrote tickets reporting system outages  • Installed WebLogic applications and spearheaded deployment activities.Monitored and analyzed system health and performance maintaining documentation concerning status  • Aided in enforcement of off-the-shelf resources  Environments: Oracle 11g, RAC, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Grid Control, OEM RMAN, Golden Gate ASM, SUN Solaris, Linux, Active Data Guard. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Adecco Group - New York, NY March 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for issue resolutions participates in client meetings and presentation. Managed performance of team members, career, training and development planning.  • Facilitated goal and objective setting, promotions and performance reviews. Installation and Configuration of Oracle 11g R2 Real Application Clusters (RAC) databases on OEL 5.5  • Adding nodes to existing RAC environment.  • Cloning the Oracle Databases from Production to Development servers. Performing Logical backups using Export and Expdp Utilities.  • Performing daily incremental backups, weekly backups using RMAN. Schema, Table, Database refreshes on demand for dev teams  • Cloning the databases from Production to Test environment using Hot/cold/export/RMAN backups.  • User creation and providing necessary Roles, Privileges and quota as per the requirement.  • Monitoring the Table spaces and adding/resizing datafiles.  • Created indexes and rebuild indexes in order to improve query performance.  • Configured physical standby database (DATAGUARD) and tested for failover and switchover.  • Configured the Cloned databases for reporting purpose.  • Generating AWR reports to monitor database health. Oracle Database Patching.  • Upgrading the database from 9.2.0.6 version to 10.2.0.3 version  • Doing cross platform migration using Export/Import from Sun Solaris to Linux server.  Environment: Oracle 9i,10g, RAC, SAN, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, Oracle Data Warehouse, TOAD, Windows 2000, 2003, SUN Solaris, Sybase, Linux, AIX and HP-UX. Oracle Database Administrator Travelers - New York, NY June 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Provided the Oracle 9i and 10g RDMS environments and performed installation, configuration, upgrade, maintenance and support.  • Configured logical and physical database architecture and design experience, provide day to day DBA support.  • Experience in setup Oracle Data Guard, Logical and Physical database designs, object layout and sizing.  • Involvement in Disaster recovery Level of experience with parallel servers  • Standby Server for Oracle 9i and 10g Databases  • Table Partitioning, Creating Index Organized tables, Creating Locally managed Tablespaces.  • Cloning databases.  • Setting up new environments (Development, Production etc)  • Used Oracle Advanced replication feature to set up multi-master replication, dealt with conflict resolution and performance issues.  • Setting up Oracle Parallel server, 9i RAC.  • Creating databases, setting privileges, user logins, passwords (security), tablespaces, data objects, tables, indexes.  • Deciding the naming conventions of data file, redo log files, tablespaces, and segments.  • Provided the support for application development team by doing data refreshes using cold backup cloning and hot backup cloning for various development and test instances.  • Created the duplicate databases and did databases refreshes of Production databases on remote nodes using the NFS mount of production servers to the remote nodes, FTP transfer of data files to remote nodes, and copying the backup data files from the tape.  • Database installation, Configuration and Creation.  • Created and maintained hot standby databases using Oracle Data Guard  • Provided on-call and call back support for 24/7 continuously for the last 2 months for the issues related to RDBMS software and related database components and also for application related issues.  • Implemented database monitoring system using Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control  • Installed and configured RMAN for automatic backup and recovery of databases at pre-defined schedules  • Managed projects by developing implementation plans and timelines, providing weekly status reports,  • preparing technical documentation pertaining to various projects, exchanging relevant information with • Management and technical teams, and meeting timelines established.  Environment: Oracle 9i,10g, RAC, SAN, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, Oracle Data Warehouse, TOAD, Windows 2000, 2003, SUN Solaris, Sybase, Linux, AIX and HP-UX Education Masters in Computer Engineering Florida Atlantic University B.S. in Computer Engineering Florida International University Skills DATABASE (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), ORACLE (8 years), RMAN (8 years), SOLARIS (8 years) Additional Information Skills:    Database (9 years), Linux (9 years), Oracle (7 years), RMAN. (7 years), Solaris (7 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c. Web/Application Servers: Jboss 4.2.x, Jboss 5.1 EAP , WebLogic [ ] Apache.  Operating Systems: UNIX, SUN Solaris, HP UNIX, Linux, AIX, HP, Windows [ ]  Tools: TOAD, Oracle Data Guard, ASM, Golden Gate ,Oracle Grid Control, SQL Tuning adviser, Oracle Enterprise Manager, ERWIN, RMAN, EXPDP, IMPDP, Oracle Snapshots, IMPPD, EXPDP, SQL*loader, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Oracle Trace, UNIX tools (vmstat, sar), Pgadmin-III, Nagios,Check_Postgres.pl, phppgadmin  Backup Tools: RMAN.  Languages: PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Perl Scripting, UNIX shell scripting, Unix CRON jobs.