Sr. Database Administrator / Cloud Database Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Cloud <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Sr. Database Administrator / Cloud Database Engineer - Yapstone Inc ? Senior database administrator/cloud database engineer and certified scrum master (CSM) with over 18 years of expertise working with production application development teams using agile methodologies,  and internal BI teams utilizing data warehousing techniques.  ? Hands-on experience in database engineering and administration activities with SQL and no SQL, database performance and conducting release and sprint planning, story grooming, burndown  ? Successfully managed large project teams and produced high-quality deliverables that meet or  exceed timelines/targets.  ? Tracking, daily stand-ups, retrospectives, review meetings from across the globe, change control and route cause analysis.  ? Experienced in SaaS, PaaS, Payments, Finance, Networking, Healthcare, Market Research and Legal industries. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator / Cloud Database Engineer Yapstone Inc - Walnut Creek, CA June 2017 to Present Walnut Creek, CA    Yapstone is online payment service provider for global marketplaces and large vertical markets - allowing businesses to accept payments online.    Sr. Database Administrator / Cloud Database Engineer  Environment: Java, MS SQL server 2008/2014/2016, PostgreSQL 9.5.7, Couchbase 4.6,5.01,5.1,6.1, AWS, RDS, S3, Route53, Redgate, Confluence, Splunk, Datadog, Liquibase, Kafka, Kubernetes, New Relic, Jira, Git, Windows server 2008/2012/2013 and Linux    Responsibilities:  • Lead Database Efforts in maintaining reliability of the database systems.  • Architect, design and built multi-site clusters to support Disaster Recovery and business continuity.  • Build the servers in AWS EC2, RDS with SQL server 2016, PostgreSQL and MySQL, creation of users, roles and indexes, Autoscaling, route 53  • No SQL database such as build Couchbase instances using AMIs, Index and views creation, XDCR, N1QL  • Configure and maintain Haigh Availability clustering, replication and security  • Database performance tuning, scalability, capacity planning and cost optimization  • Code review of all database development and assist engineering team  • Lead off-shore team and on-site team coordination  • Work with cross functional teams such as Data, Prod-Ops, IT, PM, QA, engineering, sales and marketing  • Database deployment in SQL server, PostgreSQL, MySQL with Liquibase  • Database performance monitoring using Redgate, DMV and SQL profiler  • Manage database backup and recovery using AWS S3 and Glacier  • POC for database migration, backup and restore tools such as Imanis Data  • Creating new databases instances for QA and Pre-Production and Blue-Green environments  • Assist Change Advisory Board for the production database changes and Route Cause Analysis  • User, role creation and assign permissions  • 24/7 availability for on-call DBA activities.  • Database related documentation in Confluence Sr. Database Engineer/DBA Confirmit Inc - Emeryville, CA September 2012 to May 2017 Confirmit's software (SaaS/PaaS) and services helps businesses listen to customers, markets, and employees, analyze insights, and take action to drive business growth.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2012/2013/2015, MS SQL server 2008/2012/2014/2016, PostgreSQL, Azure, Python, API, C#.Net 5.0, SVN, Redgate, Tableau, Octopus, TeamCity, Jira, Git, Smartgit, Windows server 2008/2012/ 2013 and Windows 7    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and prioritize the business requirements, database design and development of programmability objects such as stored procedures, views, functions, and custom types in SQL server and PostgreSQL  • SQL server Installations, upgrade, patching and database security  • SDLC as it pertains to Database Development.  • Query optimization and performance tuning using SQL query plan  • Code review of all database development and change control process.  • Database migration from SQL server to Azure in the cloud.  • Monitor and identify the blocking issues like long running queries and deadlocks using monitoring tools such as profiler and Redgate  • Monitor backup and recovery, Disaster Recovery, data replication, High Availability (Windows Cluster) and manage user and roles.  • Lead off-shore and on-site teams  • Work with cross-function teams to achieve sprint goals and quality performance database code.  • Management of database build and release process CI/CD using agile methodologies and industry standard 3rd party tools such as Teamcity and Octopus Deploy.  • Assist engineering teams with database development best practices to ensure the quality and organizational standards and with test cases.  • 24/7 availability for on-call DBA activities. Sr. SQL Database Engineer MarketTools Inc - San Francisco, CA August 2008 to August 2012 MarketTools software (SaaS) helped clients to better understand their target customers through global market research driven by the MarketTools consumer network and facilitated by specialized web applications.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2005/2010/2012, MS SQL server 2005/2008, Oracle 11g, SSMS, SSIS, API, C#.Net, SVN, Jira, Windows server 2008 and Windows 7    Responsibilities:  • Providing Technical solutions for Enterprise & analytics  • Database development of programmability objects such as stored procedures, views, functions, and custom types.  • Database performance tuning, data replication, data backups and Disaster Recovery  • Responsible for resolving functional defects, data issues and supporting enhancement requests by working collaboratively with clients, Development team ,QA Team and Business Intelligence team  • Implemented the Salesforce framework within CustomerSat/Markettools  • 24/7 availability to support the DBA activities. SQL Database Engineer MarketTools Inc - Mountain View, CA July 2007 to July 2008 CustomerSat software (SaaS) solutions enable companies to improve satisfaction, loyalty and profitability by turning key customer, partner, employee and supplier insights into targeted actions.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2005, MS SQL server 2000/2005,SSMS,DTS,SSIS,API,C#.Net,SVN,Jira, Windows server 2003 and Windows Vista    Responsibilities:  • Providing Technical solutions for Enterprise & analytics  • Writing complex SQL Procedures, Functions, Views and Indexes for Customizations.  • Designed DTS, SSIS to extract external data source (Databases, Excel file, CSV, etc )  • Upgrading and upsizing databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2005.  • Responsible for resolving functional defects, data issues and supporting enhancement requests by working collaboratively with clients, Development team, QA Team and Business Intelligence team  • Referring and enhancing ASP, ASP.NET Web Applications and Visual Basic Components  • Implemented the Salesforce framework within CustomerSat SQL Database Engineer NETGEAR Inc - Santa Clara, CA April 2007 to July 2007 Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2005, MS SQL server 2000, DTS, Windows server 2003 and Windows XP    Responsibilities:  • Development and maintenance of Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) operations using Microsoft Sql Server and ensure the quality of EDI data received from clients to support Enterprise & analytics  • Writing complex database maintenance and Migration scripts, SQL Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes and triggers.  • Designed DTS, SSIS to extract external data source (Databases, Excel file, CSV, etc )  • Troubleshooting performance issues and fine-tuning  • EDI Administration Duties and Database backup and Recovery  • Provide Systems knowledge and process workflow to business analysts. SQL Database Engineer / DBA CT Summation Legal Technologies Inc - San Francisco, CA October 2006 to March 2007 Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2003/2005, MS SQL server 2000, DTS, Windows server 2003 and Windows XP    Responsibilities:  • Development and maintenance of Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) operations using Microsoft SQL Server and ensure the quality of Case data received from clients to support Enterprise & analytics using DTS, SSIS  • Writing complex database maintenance and migration scripts, SQL Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes and triggers.  • Troubleshooting performance issues and fine-tuning  • Maintaining and enhancing ASP, ASP.NET Web Applications and Crystal reports.  • Database backup and Recovery  • Conducted SQL Database Administration duties including define users, assign Responsibilities SQL Database Engineer / DBA The First American Corporation - San Francisco, CA February 2006 to September 2006 Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2003, MS SQL server 2000, DTS,SSAS Windows server 2003 and Windows XP  Responsibilities:  • Development and maintenance of Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) operations using Microsoft Sql Server and ensure the quality of mortgage data received from clients to support reports & analytics  • Responsible for management of ongoing periodic ETL processes and exchange of reports/data extracts using DTS, SSIS for the 48 global banking clients  • Writing complex database maintenance scripts, SQL Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes and triggers.  • Used Datastage ETL Tool.  • Partitioning and Processing the cube in SSAS and used Netezza for data warehousing  • Developed, maintaining and enhancing ASP, ASP.NET, Crystal reports and Micro Strategy reports.  • Conducted SQL Database Administration duties including Define users Sr. Software Developer ACSBPS Jamaica Ltd February 2003 to December 2005 Environment: Windows 2000/2003/NT Server, SQL Server 7 / 2000, 2005, Oracle 9i, Delphi 7, ADO. Net, ASP/ ASP. Net and Crystal Reports.    Responsibilities:  • Study, Analysis & Going through the client's requirements and coming up with database Creation (Data Models) and application architecture.  • Writing complex database maintenance scripts, SQL Procedures, Functions, Indexes, Views and triggers.  • Designed DTS/ETL to extract external data source (Oracle, Excel file)  • Implementing and administering database replication between SQL Server databases as well as dissimilar databases.  • Used PL/SQL, developed PL/SQL procedures that handle key business logic.  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures and Used ADO.Net and ASP.Net to retrieve the data and maintaining and enhancing existing ASP, ASP.NET Reports.  • Involved in Technical Documentation. Software Programmer Impetus Solutions Pvt. Ltd September 2001 to July 2002 Environment: Windows XP/NT Server, SQL Server 7/2000, Visual Basic 6.0, Remote Data Objects and ActiveX Controls  Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the specifications provided by the client.  • Worked in Design, Development, Coding and Testing and Implementation of the database units.  • Developed stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Database management and Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Madurai Kamaraj University - Madurai, Tamil Nadu April 2000 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Mathematics Kakathiya University April 1997 Skills Database, Database systems, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Replication, Sql, Stored procedures, Database development, .net, C#, Git, Hadoop, Json, Perl, Python, Subversion Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/vijaygil Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  * MS SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008, Oracle 10g/11g, PostgreSQL 9.5.7, MySQL, MongoDB, Couchbase 4.6,5.01,5.1,6.1  * SSIS, SSRS, Looker, Tableau, MicroStrategy, C#, .Net, Python and Perl  * Kafka, Kubernetes, On-Premise, AWS and Azure  * Redgate SQL Tools, Redgate DLM Suite, Datadog, New Relic, Splunk  * JIRA Issue tracking and Confluence Team collaboration software  * Octopus Deploy, Liquibase and Subversion (SVN)  * Git, Smartgit and Invision    PROFICIENCIES  * Lead Database Efforts in maintaining reliability of the database systems.  * Architect, design and built multi-site clusters to support disaster recovery and business continuity.  * Requirement gathering, database layout, design, high availability, replication, XDCR and backup and recovery.  * Agile Database Development of programmability objects - Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Custom Types, Index tuning, Database performance tuning using SQL execution plans and IO, use of DMV, fill factors in profiler and SLAs bound tuning and troubleshooting  * Build the database EC2 instances/servers, RDS, Serverless, route53 changes  * Creation and alteration of database schema including tables, triggers, and linked servers.  * Database monitoring for 99.99% uptime with Redgate monitoring tool and Redgate source control for development code  * Data warehousing, Index, query nodes and XDCR in Couchbase, AWS EC2 and RDS  * SSIS, SSRS, SSAS MicroStrategy and Tableau.  * Lead off-shore and on-site teams  * Management of CI/CD database release processes using proven agile methodologies.  * SQL database migration to AWS RDS and Azure.  * Exposure to JSON and BSON for MongoDB.  * Source control and application lifecycle management experience using Git and GitHub.  * Extensive knowledge on Oracle, PostgreSQL, My SQL NoSQL database Hadoop and Cassandra concepts.  * Results orientated and passionate for new technologies  * Work with cross-functional teams, with test cases and collaborating to achieve sprint goals and database development quality inline with organizational standards.  * 24/7 support