Database Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist Database Specialist Camp Hill, PA Experienced Senior Oracle Database Administrator with a demonstrated history of working in the computer software industry. Strong information technology professional skilled in Oracle Database, Enterprise Software, PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL SQL Server, SQL, and Agile Methodologies. Work Experience Database Specialist Penn State College of Medicine - Hershey, PA June 2017 to Present • Administration of Oracle 12c, MySQL, and SQL Server databases.  • Installation, configuration, and upgrading/patching of server software and related products.  • Regularly review the performance and health of the databases, and ensure they are operating optimally.  • Establish and maintain DBA policies and standards, including backups and disaster recovery.  • Define database architecture and strategies to meet application availability, scalability and performance requirements, while providing technical guidance to application developers.  • Implement and maintain database security, plan for growth and changes, and troubleshoot database-related problems and resource management.  • Supporting the existing systems team in administration duties for a Linux(Red Hat, Oracle, Solaris), Windows, and Virtual Hosting Infrastructure (VMware) environment.  • Perform effectively within an established IT team assist with daily operational support, monitoring, and evaluation of critical systems to ensure service delivery is maintained  • Mentor and share knowledge, develop thorough system documentation, and implement robust operational procedures Sr. Database Administrator Mzinga (formerly Knowledgeplanet) - Harrisburg, PA November 2005 to June 2017 · Manage multiple instances of Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g 12c, databases as well as some SQL Server databases  · Backup and Recovery of multiple Oracle Databases  · Cloning and Refresh of Customers Databases for Testing and Development  · Design and maintain logical and physical database structures  · Performance tuning of Application and Database  · Maintain and document current level of patching for Applications and Databases  · Disaster Recovery planning and testing  · Mentor and train Junior Database administrators Database Administrator Select Medical Corp - Harrisburg, PA January 2001 to November 2005 • Manage multiple instances of Oracle 8i & 9i databases  • Manage Oracle Applications 10.7 and 11i  • Manage 9i Application Server  • Backup and Recovery of multiple Oracle Databases  • Cloning and Refresh of 11i Applications for Testing and Development  • Design and maintain logical and physical database structures  • Performance tuning of Application and Database  • Manage multiple AIX 4.3 & 5.2 Operating Systems on RS/6000 servers  • Performance tuning of RS/6000 servers  • Maintain and document current level of patching for Applications and Databases  • Disaster Recovery planning and testing  • Monitor and report on any security violations related to unwarranted access to corporate data  • Mentor and train Junior Database administrators Field Engineer IBM - Harrisburg, PA June 1998 to February 2001 • Manage client's hardware and software support needs.  • Maintain client's equipment.  • Diagnose and repair client's hardware and software.  • Train new field engineers. Laboratory Technician Penn State Hershey Medical Center - Hershey, PA June 1991 to January 2001 • First point of contact in department for computer training/problems.  • Helped to test and tune new software.  • Draw venous and capillary blood specimens from patients.  • Process and prepare patients specimens for laboratory testing.  • Interview and evaluate prospective blood donors.  • Collect units of whole blood from acceptable donors and prepare blood components.  • Train new technicians to use proper policies and procedures. Hospital Corpsman United States Naval Reserve December 1987 to May 1995 • Certificate of completion of course for General Duty Hospital Corpsman  • Certificate of completion of course for Field Medical Service Technician  • Providing patient care, assisting troops on the field. Education Dell Certified Systems Expert Penn State Education Skills SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Linux, Solaris, AIX Additional Information Technical Skills  • SQL and PL/SQL  • Oracle 7, 8, 8I, 9i, 9iAS, 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  • Oracle 10.7 & 11.5.x HRMS and Financials  • Oracle Discoverer, ADI, Portal, OEM, Reports and Forms  • Oracle RMAN backup and recovery  • Oracle Enterprise manager 10g, 12c, 13c  • Oracle SQL Developer  • SQL Management Studio  • Windows NT/95/98/2000, AIX, Redhat Linux, Solaris  • HTML, MS Front Page, FTP, Telnet, Citrix, Termserver  • Repair skills on a multitude of vendors (i.e., IBM, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett Packard, Compaq, etc.).  • Repair skills on a multitude of platforms (i.e., servers, workstations, PCs, laptops and printers).  • Experience working in a variety of environments (i.e., home user to large corporations).