Senior DB2 DBA Senior DB2 DBA Senior DB2 DBA - Leidos/Lockheed Martin Millington, TN IBM Certified Advanced Database Administrator for DB2 LUW v5 - v11, IBM Certified DB2 Solutions Expert. Vast 25+ years IT experience in Database Administration, Network Administration, Software Development and large database migration. Expertise in database migration to AWS Cloud, performance tuning, replication, database design, change management, systems development life cycle (SDLC), real-time problem analysis/resolution, database security, DB2 patching/upgrades, and High Availability Disaster Recovery (HADR) implementation. Software tools include Dell TOAD for DB2, Data Studio and IBM Data Server Manager ( Database Performance Monitoring tool). I received the Florida TaxWatch Productivity Cash Award for IT work for the Dept. of Education. I received my first National Publication and Award from Southern Association of College and University Business Officers (SACUBO) for my IT work at Florida State University; I received an award from United States Department of Homeland Security and TSA for the successful completion of the classified project 'Secure Flight'. Work Experience Senior DB2 DBA Leidos/Lockheed Martin November 2017 to Present for Navy Support Activities Mid-South (subcontract with Web services/Leidos/Lockheed Martin) Responsibilities include: Database upgrades, applying fixpaks, improving database performance through monitoring & modifying changes to database configurations or SQL tuning. I designed and implemented the Navy's Database Monitoring System, Navy's first Merit Board, and Navy's first database archive system. I provide full application and system support for seven database environments running AIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2012, and Windows 2016. I work onsite at the Naval Support Military base in Millington, Tennessee. I hold secret clearance. Contract Sr. DB2 DBA for IBM Project Infinite/India IBM / US IBM / FL Department of Children and Families May 2017 to August 2017 FL Dept. of Children and Families Database Migration to the Amazon Cloud (AWS). Duties include installing, patching, building and migrating databases to the cloud, monitoring database performance and SQL tuning. I migrated on-premise databases to Amazon Cloud by creating dev, test and production environments on AWS. I migrated sixteen DB2 databases on AWS, created, and performed secure data transfers from the Data Center to the Amazon cloud. I identified and corrected a database production Change Management defect and corrected all DCF Amazon databases to be in-sync with on-premise production databases.  Using a compression and secure file transfer method, I reduced the large data migration time from several days to three hours from the on-premise in Tallahassee, FL to AWS located in North Virginia. I recommended the DB2 UDB OLTP Amazon database be re-designed with OLTP best practices to achieve highest database performance. Other: OS Redhat 7, DB2 UDB v10.5, z/OS, Toad for DB2, Spotlight. Agile, Data Studio, IBM's Passport Advantage. Database Administrator Contractor Blue Cross Blue Shield - Jacksonville, FL July 2015 to May 2016 IT Staffing Recruiter: Innovative Systems Group Inc.  DBA assigned to multiple Healthcare DB2 UDB projects; Expert experience on IBM DB2 for LUW Database Editions 9.7 and 10.5; IBM DB2 for LUW backup and restore processes; Strong experience troubleshooting and supporting DB2 for LUW database instances; Experience providing customer and developers support; Data Extract, Transformation and Load experience ETL; Experience with DB2 for LUW live monitoring and performance tuning; Knowledge of DB2 for LUW high availability and DR solutions; Knowledge of SQL performance tuning; Knowledge of Agile Methodology; Database design and development concepts for OLTP and DSS skills. DB2 Database Administrator Contractor John Deere - Moline, IL February 2014 to February 2015 IT Staffing Recruiter: Entegee, Davenport, IA  Description: Contract DB2 DBA in a distributed (AIX, LINUX) and z/OS Environments, MongoDB and WLM Netezza. Database Administrator with expertise in database capacity planning, backup, recovery, patching, upgrades, database performance monitoring and tuning. Responsibility included communications with Administration office and Development teams to ensure quality support and Service Level Agreements Contract DB2 Database Administrator IL State Police - Springfield, IL October 2013 to November 2013 Contract Sr. DB2 DBA LUW on AIX Delhaize America - Salisbury NC - Springfield, IL April 2013 to September 2013 IT Staffing Recruiter: Levi, Ray & Shoup Inc. (LRS), Springfield IL  Description: Contract DB2 Database Administration. Assist Illinois State Police in CCW Conceal Carry Weapon project named: FOID NARRIP Phase II. Phase II project was completed for IL State Police. Received recommendation letter from ISP IT Director (Second contract with Illinois State Police)    April 2013 - Sept 2013 - Contract Sr. DB2 DBA LUW on AIX for Delhaize America - Salisbury NC  IT Staffing Recruiter: Insight Global Inc.  • Mission is to implement key DB2 UDB production warehouse components that will optimize inventory, improve in stock position, reduce shrink, improve the customer's shopping experience, thereby enabling an increase in sales and allow Delhaize America to become the best class chain organization in the US.  • Used standard data management tools and techniques for the creating, support and administration of database objects Contract Sr. DB2 LUW - SQL Server Administrator Apex Systems - Raleigh, NC November 2012 to April 2013 Provide full support for DB2 LUW (AIX) and SQL Server Administrator environments for large private international based company.    Senior DB2 LUW Database Administrator for Enterprise Solutions, Inc. - Reno, NV  Provide insight on a fast-paced IT contract-project for a publicly-traded corporation to identify and recommend resolutions to problematic areas: Going live date was set Oct. 1, 2012 but placed on hold.    • DB2 Database configuration requires additional file systems/LUNS.  • Performed data management such as metadata management, data mining, data modeling, data cleansing, transformation and matching, data integration, data security  • Online DB2 monitoring is required for testing and going-live  • Change management software is required - Current manual method introduces inconsistent environments  • Database Security Audit required - DBA authority granted to non-DBA staff  • Incorrect DB2 Index Advisor usage - Excessive number of unused indexes created  • Application testing requires additional level of testing to ensure reliable deployment.  • IBM Optim DB2 DBA software tools not installed for project  • DB2 growth management must be known and analyzed - Early warning for Prod storage requirements. Optim DB2 Database Admin Infinite/India IBM / US IBM / FL Department of Children and Families - Greenwood Village, CO November 2011 to January 2012 • Short IT Project for one of the largest U.S. banks - focus using IBM InfoSphere Optim for DB2 for z/OS 7.1. Optim software used to access, classify, subset, archive, store enterprise application data across databases and platforms.  • Primary focus utilized Data privacy features which prevent misuse of information by de-indentifying, masking, obfuscating, and privatizing personal information that is propagated outside of production environment. DB2 Infinite/India IBM / US IBM / FL Department of Children and Families July 2011 to August 2011 Database New Software Testing - Home Based Testing  DB2 IBM Optim Adviser for IBM Global Technology Solutions Group (GTSG) responsible for suggesting recommendations for new IBM database software for quality and intuitive interface. DB2 Database Administrator/DBA Kansas City Southern Railroad - Kansas City, MO February 2011 to June 2011 Project: Historic Kansas City, MO Southern Railroad - DB2 mainframe Conversion to DB2 9.7 LUW on Linux  • Assist Mainframe Conversion to UNIX based computing environment  • Responsible for High Availability Disaster Recovery configuration and testing  • Responsible for High Availability DB2 instance configuration utility  • Database performance tuning, problem analysis and resolution  • Monitor database performance and tuning  • High Availability Disaster Recovery setup and support  • IBM Optim Query Tuner and IBM Optim Database Administrator and Performance Manager DB2 Database Administrator/DBA Allegiant Air Airline - Las Vegas, NV May 2010 to January 2011 Project: Allegiant Airline modernization project; Database Conversion from MYSQL to DB2 LUW.  • Support for MYSQL conversion to DB2 UDB v9 on AIX and Linux  • Responsible for database performance tuning, problem analysis and resolution  • Increased system performance by monitoring and tuning databases  • Created export and load procedures/ ETL for Conversion  • Responsible for High Availability Disaster Recovery setup and support  • Optim Query Tuner, Optim Database Administrator and Performance Manager  • Frontline Support and IBM liaison Kruger & Associates Inc - Springfield, IL February 2009 to April 2010 Advised Springfield, IL area companies with information technology issues and/or troubleshooting; Corrected network problems and applied updates, database troubleshooting, performance enhancement, database backup and recovery, new program development and database design, and computer and software purchases configuration and installation DB2 Database Administrator Convergenz Inc - Annapolis, MD July 2008 to January 2009 US Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration, Transportation Threat Assessment & Credentialing, Annapolis, MD  • DB2 UDB Database Administrator for AIX Federal Classified Government project  • Secure Flight is a classified government airline passenger prescreening program created by the US Dept of Homeland Security and Transportation Security Administration (TSA).  • This classified program was developed to compare passenger information from Passenger Name Records against terrorist watch lists for passengers who may be wanted by US law enforcement or other countries.  • Primary duties were building, tuning, creating Database & OS Alerts and maintaining many DB2 UDB ESE Database servers, instances and databases on site and at fail-over sites.  • Responsible for DB2 upgrade v8 to v9 on IBM P Series DB2 Performance Database Administrator/DBA on AIX State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2006 to December 2007 • Performance DBA for non-DPF and DPF databases. Selecting, installing, testing, submitting final recommendation for DB2 Performance/Admin software.  • Assisted with DBA DB2 performance training and provided numerous application project teams with DB2 and Oracle support.  • Responsible for identifying potential bottlenecks and correct database problems.  • Many proactive procedures and best practices adopted due to effort. Platform: IBM P Series. DB2 Unix & Mainframe Administrator - DB2 DBA Contractor State of Illinois Department of Human Services - Springfield, IL June 2002 to December 2005 Integrated Software Specialists, Inc., Mega Force Inc. & Capital Systems Group Inc (3 state/federal contracts)  Database design, implementation, maintenance, tuning and security for all DHS statewide non-DPF and DPF databases. State's large Databases: Partitioned database EBT (Electronic Benefits Transfer), Child Care database, Clinical Restraint/Seclusion/Injury database, Unit Dose Database, Inpatient Database, ROCS database, Cornerstone database and VCM (Virtual Case Management database). Also system maintenance, database performance, tuning, archives, capacity requirements, estimating growth rates, load procedures, database recovery and providing replication between state agencies. Analyzed the statewide Name Search Program and seek ways to improve performance. This performance effort increased the statewide Name Search performance by 40%. Database Administrator/Designer IL State Police - Springfield, IL April 2001 to June 2002 • Responsibilities included: Re-engineering Oracle Criminal History database to DB2 UDB on AIX Criminal History Reporting database. Oracle data conversion to DB2 UDB LUW on AIX. The criminal history database interfaces with FBI and the National Crime Information Center.  • Software included: DB2, Oracle, Erwin 4.0, Microsoft Project, SQL Navigator Pro and Lotus Notes.  • Platform included: IBM Mainframe R45, DB2 Version 6 for OS390, DB2 UDB on AIX, Oracle 7.3 for OS/390 Database Administrator - Contractor Illinois Department of Human Services - Springfield, IL July 1999 to April 2001 Primary responsibilities included: implementation, maintenance and security of all DHS DB2 databases. Databases included the partitioned EBT (Electronic Benefits Transfer database also known as the IL LINK database.) Child Care database, Clinical Restraint/Seclusion/Injury database, Unit Dose Database, Inpatient Database, ROCS database, Cornerstones database and VCM (Virtual Case Management database.) Florida Department of Education - Tallahassee, FL June 1998 to July 1999 • Database Administrator Promoted to overseeing IT group of Computer Operators, Programmers, DBAs and Network monitors).  • Primary responsibilities included: design, organization, definition, security, implementation and maintenance of all Data Center's DB2 z/OS databases. Systems Project Analyst FL Department of Transportation Tallahassee, FL May 1997 to June 1998 • Primary responsibilities included: design and implementation of statewide intranet/internet applications and DB2 databases on MVS and Unix.  • System development tools included: Microsoft FrontPage, Cactus Developing software, Photoshop and FOCUS.  • Technology platform included: Oracle, DB2, FOCUS, IIS Web Server, and Netscape Enterprise Server. Computer Program Manager/Analyst Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL August 1994 to May 1997 • Responsible for developing, testing, debugging and documenting complex computer programs as requested from the University Controller Staff.  • Databases include: DB2, SQL Server. Designed and created DB2 Surplus Property System, which included a web application for University Departments.  • Served as Departmental Security Coordinator for mainframe application and database access. Program Development included: SQL, JCL, COBOL, FOCUS, MS Access, and HTML.  • Mainframe Environment: IBM ES9000. Location: NWRDC (Northwest Regional Data Center). Technology Platform experience included: MVS, DB2, IMS, TSO/ISPF, FOCUS and VSAM.  • Received national publication and National Award from SACUBO (Southern Association of College and University Business Officers) for my work on FSU Surplus. Education FL Community College - Springfield, IL IL State Police Clearance Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: N/A