Senior Database Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Senior Database Engineer - Pinnacle Foods Group, LLC Mount Laurel, NJ I have been an Oracle DBA for over 20 years and have experience with Oracle on many platforms. I also have RAC, RMAN, OEM Grid Control Administration, Dataguard and Goldengate Replication, TDE experience, team management as well as much more to offer. I also have experience administering Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL as well as different flavors of Linux OS as well as serving as both the Database and System Administrator on Oracle Database Appliances (ODA's). I am also proficient in AWS administration. I am goal driven and very diligent in my work. I believe I can be a valued asset to your team. Work Experience Senior Database Engineer Pinnacle Foods Group, LLC November 2013 to Present Put in place backup and recovery standards as well as the scripts to perform RMAN and datapump exports. I defined and set up database auditing standards and procedures. I hardened all critical Oracle passwords. Analyzed and proposed database migration from costly and unstable windows platforms to more cost efficient Oracle Linux systems with ASM. I performed database consolidation to save the company money and other capital resources. I performed Oracle 9i, 10g migration to 12.2.0.2.x including PSU and CPU security patch implementations Installed Oracle Cloud Control 12c and configured all of the Oracle and SQL Server database server systems with agents to actively monitor the health of the databases. I wrote scripts and procedures within Cloud Control to run the backups, and other repetitive tasks with email and text alerts and automatic corrective actions. After 3 years I migrated the system to Oracle Cloud Control 13c. Set up dataguard high availability system for Peoplesoft HR system. Wrote procedures to refresh the lower environments and took the refresh time from about 26 hours down to about 6. I also prototyped and implemented Oracle TDE encryption on the system to provide a security layer in case of unauthorized intrusion into the system. Served as a Database and System Administrator on Oracle Database Appliances (ODA's) as well as Linux Administration. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Comcast Corp July 2010 to November 2013 My duties include all database functions/monitoring/maintenance, on multi node 9i through 11g RAC systems. I am responsible for implementation of CPU/PSU patchset testing, documentation and installation. Wrote unix shell scripts to assist in the maintenance of the systems. RMAN Catalog creation and backups, dataguard and golden gate. Issue ticket creation and resolution. I installed the Corporate Oracle Grid Control system for monitoring the databases and hosts for both the production and lower environment systems. I engineered and project managed system migrations from one data center to another when the data center was closed. Installed and configured Oracle Gateway for Teradata. Created from scratch a PHP/Mysql solution for gathering team status reports and presented it to senior leadership which won approval. Senior Oracle Database Administrator | Disys Amtrak June 2007 to July 2010 Set up Dataguard standby databases on Oracle 10g. Set up Oracle Streams to replicate data from production so that the developers can still work with the data real time and won't have to access the production database. All day to day duties such as backup/recovery, performance tuning and new development. Initiated a consolidation process to merge various databases into a fewer number of instances which saved thousands in Oracle license fees. Implemented security standards and procedures including password hardening and encryption, auditing. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Radian Guaranty December 2004 to June 2007 I administer approximately 100 databases built on HP/UX. I am also the lead DBA for the company's Data Warehouse. I have prototyped and the implemented the Oracle Transparent Gateway for RMS. This allows Unix databases to connect to RMS files on VMS so that we can access the data with Brio. I have prototyped and then implemented the upgrade from 9.2.0.6.0 to 10.2.0.2.0. I then migrated many of the databases to a 2 node RAC system with full failover and load balancing. I prototyped and then implemented the migration of our HP/UX PAS-RISC systems to HP/UX Itanium systems. I have analyzed and implemented many performance tuning changes from system to sql. I participate in all design and development sessions and try to steer the projects down a correct path with Enterprise goals in mind. I have designed and implanted many process improvement standards, as well as SOX auditing standards. I have implanted RMAN for the databases and have recovered successfully from catastrophic failures on more than one occasion. I have also been responsible for sql server development and support. Oracle Database Administrator Comverse Network Systems November 2000 to December 2004 Administered multiple systems worldwide which run a 24x7 cellular phone network. Major accomplishments to date: I have been integral in redesigning our system to run on an active/passive OPS 8.1.7.4 configuration on Compaq Tru64 Unix 5.1a. This system runs Oracle from a shared cluster instead of on each local machine. I have also designed a no downtime upgrade process for our database schema which is fully automated so that there will be no loss of calls or revenues on any of our sites when an upgrade of the database is needed. I have rewritten the database installation process to be more streamlined and efficient thereby reducing the need human intervention. This has eliminated the likelihood of failure due to human error. I have written a completely automated process to upgrade Oracle 8.0.5 to Oracle 8.1.7 running OPS with 2 nodes. As the backup/recovery specialist I have set up backup and recovery procedures using RMAN. I have written nightly full backup and hourly archivelog backup scripts as well as full recovery and point in time recovery scripts. I have created import/export scripts used by many others in the company. On two occasions so far I have recovered databases from catastrophic hardware failures which have caused the database to be corrupted and unusable. I also write and implement performance and monitoring scripts and procedures so that we can take proactive measures to avoid downtimes. Setup replication from Master OPS databases to multiple OPS slaves. I along with others maintain the database repository which houses the data model for the database. I am currently working on the redesign of our system to upgrade to Sun and AIX servers with Oracle 10g RAC with EMC Clarion Disk Arrays. Also experimenting with converting our system to 2 node OPS on Linux. Unix scripting. Oracle Database Administrator ADP March 2000 to November 2000 Oracle Database Administrator Oracle 8.0.4.0 and 8i (8.1.5) on Windows NT Service Pack 6 and Sun Solaris 2.6. My duties covered all Oracle DBA responsibilities as I was the only Oracle DBA. Major accomplishments: I had completely rebuilt and reorganized 7 instances which had all objects created in the system tablespace. I had split them into dedicated tablespaces which also separate tables and indexes. I had initiated backup procedures which include nightly exports and RMAN backups and archivelog backups hourly. I had instituted naming conventions and change control processes. I had built many new databases. Implementing RMAN backups include creating the recovery catalog and writing the scripts to perform the backups. I had also implemented many performance and space monitoring scripts and procedures. I also traveled quite frequently to Roseland NJ and Parsippany NJ offices to aid in development processes and administer databases. Oracle Database Administrator Cendant Mortgage June 1995 to March 2000 Duties covered all Oracle DBA responsibilities running on Sun Sparc OS. Programmer/Analyst Prudential Insurance Company February 1994 to June 1995 Cobol, CICS, JCL and SAS programming. Education Ongoing College Education - Burlington County College December 2007 Diploma in programming Computer Learning Center - Philadelphia, PA January 1994 Diploma Roxborough High School - Philadelphia, PA June 1980 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/j-gary-oprendek-5550914