Oracle Database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle Database administrator Chicago, IL ? Having around 5 years of focused experience in IT industry in Telecom domain fields  ? Performed DBA support on a 24x7 running apps.  ? Good experienced in database migration, database monitoring, analysis, performance tuning, administration, implementation, trouble shooting and quality management on UNIX and Linux platform.  ? Adept at providing leadership, managing multiple concurrent projects, being attentive to detail and maintaining the ability to make rational decisions in pressure situations.  ? Good understanding of the Oracle architecture.  ? Proven ability to install and administer Oracle GoldenGate in a variety of operating system environments including Linux, Unix and Windows and make effective use of logdump utility to resolve GG error/abend  ? Able to build lasting relationships with vendors and customers.  ? Translating business demands into prioritized initiatives to fill business requirements across services and/or projects  ? Working in the team of Oracle database administrators and actively coordinated with the end user community.  ? Managing client requirements, project workflow, and preparing and/or coordinating complex written and verbal materials related to technical problem solving  ? Supportive Individual capable of Managing incidents, being proactive in terms of preventive maintenance and knowledgeable in terms of risk management    Project engineer  Duration: July 2011 to Mar 2012    Description:    ? Develops, implements, and monitors information systems policies and controls to ensure data accuracy, security, and regulatory compliance.  ? Reviews database and manage reports of computer and peripheral equipment production, malfunction, and maintenance to determine and address problems.  ? Generates and organizes data collected from SCADA system information into tables, lists of rows and columns using RDBMS.  ? Helps support and ensure the accuracy and integrity of information.  ? Accommodates data processing and reporting needs  ? Manage data collected by Recording Software - Mini SCADA to facilitate Standard features like Tabular Reports, Online graphs, History graphs, Batch Recording, Multiple level passwords.  ? Perform database backup/cleanup at regular intervals Work Experience Oracle Database administrator Tech Mahindra May 2012 to Present Client: AT&T    Key areas of responsibilities    ? Installation and Configuration of Oracle 10g/11g  ? Supporting over 150+ production/non production application databases including Mission Critical apps  ? Managing data file objects including tablespace and data files, object sizing as well as monitoring database usage and growth.  ? Monitor, analyze and tune databases to ensure that levels of performance, data integrity and availability are within measures defined by Service Level Agreements.  ? Creating and maintaining logins, synonyms and access privileges using roles, controlling access to the database using operating system and Oracle security features.  ? Primary ADBA for multiple mission critical Oracle databases supporting applications operating in a high availability 24x7 environment  ? Working closely with oracle support metalink to report bugs and support Provide third level support for critical escalations from production  ? Responsible for creating user logons and managing user accounts.  ? Monitor the instance and plan for future availability of storage on user's tablespaces.  ? capacity planning and space management  ? Prepare scripts for monitoring GG processes  ? Suggesting tuning solutions for SQL queries and Database.  ? Performed data to day deployments on production environment  ? Performance Monitoring the Server's for Better performance.  ? Adding space to the data files according to tablespace growth  ? Data pump export/import, index rebuilding  ? Performed GoldenGate activities for Oracle database and enable real-time data integration and continuous data availability by capturing and delivering updates of critical information as the changes occur and providing continuous data synchronization  ? Backup and Recovery strategies for Oracle database using expdp/impdp  ? Taking export backup of tables for future database recovery.  ? Modifying Oracle parameter (init.ora) for Oracle performance and growth  ? Provide Performance Tuning guidelines and direct the team in constantly optimizing response times for both batch processes as well as online transactional systems.  ? Performed database object sizing (performance tuning of database objects) and space allocation.  ? Prepare the roadmap and implementation plan for the migration and upgrade of applications currently on UNIX to Linux platforms. Advice the best practices of data migration using enhanced techniques available like Golden Gate and Data Pump.  ? Work with users/developers to design portion of database needed for specific application  ? Managing the communication with ORACLE for critical issues    ? Troubleshooting performance issues.  ? Schema/Table level Replication using Golden Gate  ? OEM alert monitoring    Key Projects Managed    ? Migration of over 30 production databases including 3 TB of databases from UNIX to Linux platform with minimal downtime to business.  ? Partitioning of large size tables for improved performance  ? Golden gate implementation and monitoring for Data replication including cascaded db configuration for over 30+ schemas  ? Configured Golden gate for over 20+ DB's  ? Set up Bidirectional replication for critical mobile app database    1. Scan Electronic Systems, Pune Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sachin-murkar-93257015 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating System:  UNIX Sun Solaris, Windows 2000/2003, Linux Red Hat Advanced Server 2.1, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5    Databases:  Oracle 10g Release 2, Oracle 11g Release, Golden Gate    Database Utilities:  Oracle Enterprise Grid Control 11g, SQL plus, Toad, Sql Developer, logdump, RMAN, SQl Loader.SQL Developer    Languages:  SQL, UNIX shell scripting