Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Warrenton, VA Over 20 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator in multi- database environments under numerous platforms including Unix/Linux and Windows through the various stages of the development life cycle. Expertise in Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, Oracle Advanced Replication, Oracle Data Guard, physical and logical database design, normalization, architecture, installation, configuration, administration, backup and recovery, security management, resource management, data integrity, database and operating system performance tuning, Oracle tools and utilities. Very strong UNIX shell scripting, SQL and PL/SQL script skills, as well as excellent leadership and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator NTT DATA Services Federal Government, Inc October 2014 to Present Name of Client FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency)  Responsibilities  As a Sr. Database Administrator for FEMA, I work as a Production DBA in a multi- database Oracle 11g/12c RAC environment, deploying database modifications, including DML and DDL changes, as well as changes to stored procedures. Also performing system performance monitoring as well as standard maintenance (backups, restores, etc.). As this is a replicated environment, I am also responsible for monitoring Advance Replication push jobs and troubleshooting any deferrors that occur within the replicated system. Due to the nature of this position, I hold an active Top Secret security clearance.  Environments Red Hat Linux 2.6, Windows 7, 10 Senior Database Administrator URS February 2013 to October 2014 Name of Client DLA (Defense Logistics Agency)  Responsibilities  As Sr. Database Administrator for DLA Document Services, I support the application EDA (Electronic Document Access), a high availability multi-master replication environment using Oracle Advanced Replication. Its main purpose is as a repository for government contracts, including all modifications and PDF/XML versions. This is an Oracle 11g environment running under HP-UX 11.31 operating system on HP servers. As DBA, I am responsible for maintaining the integrity of all seven EDA test databases at JITC (Joint Interoperability Test Command). I install all Oracle PSU's and other Oracle releases, troubleshoot and correct all data issues, ensure all weekly server backups are performed (using RMAN), work with JITC SA's to troubleshoot network issues and other connectivity issues, monitor the Advanced Replication push jobs at Production to ensure that they are not broken, debug and eliminate deferrors from the databases, work on trouble tickets as assigned by the Help Desk at Production, submit Service Requests to Oracle Support when necessary and work with Oracle to fix the problem, troubleshoot any user or data issues that occur in the EDA databases at the Production sites, monitor database performance by using AWR, ASH, ADDM, analyze, tkprof, and explain plan, and scripting using SQL, PL/SQL, and UNIX shell scripting.  Environments HP-UX 11.31 Senior Database Administrator CyberData Technologies, Inc 2002 to February 2013 Name of Client General Services Administration (OCIO & OGP)  Responsibilities  As Database Administrator for GSA's web portal and intranet, I implemented a high availability multi-master replication environment using Oracle Advanced Replication and load balancing to allow for local and remote site access to the databases as a security measure. I also implemented an Oracle Data Guard environment for the department's content management system. Part of these implementations also involved partitioning of certain tables to increase performance. I have been providing database support for the existing Oracle databases which support GSA's primary website, www.gsa.gov. These duties include stabilizing and maintaining replication, database design, development, and administration, monitoring and performance tuning, backup and recovery, disaster planning, and scripting. I am also the system administrator for the department's JIRA system, both in administering its underlying MySQL database, as well as providing software upgrades for the application. My expertise is in Oracle 9i, 10g, and 11g, MySQL 5.x, Apache, IIS, Oracle Wallet Manager, and managed PKI for SSL.  Environments Windows XP/Server 2003/08, Unix, Red Hat Linux, Solaris 10 Sr. Database Administrator Verisign, Inc./ Network Solutions, Inc 1999 to 2002 Responsibilities  • Administering development databases in a Unix (Sun Solaris 6, 7, 8) environment, including schema design and implementation, performance tuning, backup and recovery, and stored procedure design and development using PL/SQL.  • Coordinating database testing with QA and coordinating database deployments with Operations.  • Designed and implemented both multi-master and snapshot replication environments.  • Configured update conflict resolution, uniqueness conflict resolution, and delete conflict resolution as well as guaranteed data convergence in replication environment.  • Experienced in Oracle8i & 9i administration.  • Oracle software installation, server configuration and migration, and Reverse engineering  • Database objects (tables/partitioning, views, indexes, sequences, etc) and structure management, resource management, and auditing Education BSEE Duke University 1977