Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant Fremont, CA An Oracle Certified database administrator / data warehouse specialist, with more than twenty years information technology experience. I usually conducted both database administration and database development work for many companies at the same time. Good at resolving different kinds of database issues, including database performance tuning, in production environments as well as in development environment. I also had conducted many life-cycle database development on database design and its implementation. In many occasions, I found myself being able to provide many organizations the key solutions to solve their important issues. Most recently, I had worked on ODI, Oracle RAC, goldengate and streams extensively.  I am an Oracle certified DBA (OCP) for version 9i, 8i, 8, 7.3. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Consultant Department of Industrial Relations, State of California January 2013 to Present • Database trouble-shooting and performance monitoring and tuning.  • Migrated OWB to ODI for core database schema reporting_etl for nightly ETL processing. Including planning the route to migrate OWB 11.2.0.3 to ODI 12C, migrating the OWB mapping to ODI mapping, converting the PL/SQL used by OWB to ODI workflow, verifying the migration result, help application team doing testing, etc.  • Managing Curam 5.2 reporting database as a DBA, including OWB ETL configuration, deployment, execution and error checking and trouble-shooting. Now after migrated to ODI, take the same responsibilities for ODI product.  • Working on current WCIS data warehouse project to design and implement the data warehouse, as well as routinely modify the data warehouse to meet users' requirements, and successfully putting the data warehouse into production  • Technical leader designing and improving data warehouse structure for new version of data warehouse, defining ETL strategy and implementing the data warehouse ETL loading process; Designing and implementing the data cleaning procedure usage on the ETL  • Developing ETL script for newer version of data warehouse.  • Modifying ETL ( OWB process ) based on new business requirements and OWB software capabilities.  • Trouble-shooting production issues related to the database and oracle warehouse builder; Diagnosing performance issues and finding remedies to resolve issues: Analyzing data mapping and resolving issues related to mapping  • Working on upgrading OWB versions; Successfully upgrading the OWB from version 10G to 11G, along with the database upgrade from 10g to 11G  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12c. Work with application team on dealing with various issues, including performance issues during the upgrade process.  • Work with OTECH and Oracle technical support to fix the 12c SQL performance bug during the 11g to 12c upgrade process.  • Helping users on performance tuning the sql query; Diagnosing and fixing database issues related to performance issues; Using different tuning tools provided by Oracle and other vendors to tune the sql query.  • Performing GoldenGate installation, configuration, and implementing data replication for production databases  • Explaining and training team members to get familiar with ODI, goldengate, and OWB.  • Backing up the database copy in development Env. and recovering or replicating to other development Env.  • Writing database monitoring script for monitoring databases under DIR DBA monitored environment  • Implementing and testing database auditing and implementing it in the production environment  • Using different database monitoring tools, including script to monitor database  • Knowledge transfer to team members and employees.  • Identifying, analyzing and solving ETL issues  • Worked with Amazon to explore the possibility to migrate data warehouse database to amazon's REDSHIFT database in amazon's cloud Env., including setting up the database, moving the data from oracle to redshift, performance test ( running redshift query vs oracle query to compare performance, etc ). Consultant Ebay, Paypal - San Jose, CA March 2010 to December 2013 • 11G upgrade project to upgrade existing 10G database to 11G. the project is to upgrade all 10gR2 databases of single instance to 11GR2 RAC of multiple instances. Install cluster and database binary. Configure RAC database. Migrate schema objects and data, all databases are from 10 to 50 TB. Sql Analysis for application sqls to achievement equal or better performance when it moves from 10g to 11g platform. Setting up plan for each database object movement and implement it. Set up database monitoring script. Trouble-shooting if any issues after 11G database put into use.  • Worked on several projects to convert databases on solaris platform to databases in Linux, by using data pump and goldengate.  • Deploy goldengate as data replication tool to move data for different purpose including 11g upgrade project. Set up extract, replicat and data pump process, parameter files. Trouble-shooting any issue if arises.  • Deploy goldengate performance monitoring mechanism; it is used for monitoring goldengate process status, performance statistics, used to detect goldengate performance any time if it occurs.  • Build 11GR2 RAC standby database. Using dataguard technology as a backup strategy to massively deploy standby database for all primary database. Some of them are later used to switchover or failover as primary database, while the previous primary served as standby database.  • Set up a down streams capture database environment for data replication. Wrote a script to replicate data for log table to relieve the streams replication burden.  • Use RMAN to archive, backup and recover databases for different purposes Consultant Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA May 2008 to February 2010 • Configure and install streams on different projects to implement data replication. (Bi-directional, DML&DDL replication, schema, table and database level )  • Diagnose and resolve production database streams issue. Streams is set up on terabyte database and transaction rate is very high, different issues can come up any time and constant monitoring and trouble-shooting are needed to maintain streams work without latency.  • Conduct many testing on streams to improve performance, and set up scripts to implement streams to fit for different projects.  • Write script to detect and resolve streams data conflicts, including DML handler.  Trouble-shooting and resolve different database performance issues. Collecting database info from AWR reports, OEM grid control,and other tools, diagnose performance issues on database level and sql level as well, work out strategy to resolve the issue, test different strategies in the test environment and choose the best before release to Production Environment.  • Conduct regular DBA duties, write DDL, DML script with SQL and PL/SQL, install database 10g and 11g, applying patches. Create ASM instance, disk group creation and other disk management for ASM.  Using CDC (change data capture) to replicate the auditing tables.  • Configure and install CDC using the streams technology.  • Write script to implement CDC table structure changes.  • Extensive testing for CDC large volume data replication. Wrote script to speed up the data replication in CDC environment to reduce replication latency.  • Work on ETL process to write procedure to handle the data loading suitable for streams environment. Work with team to identify the data warehouse performance issue and inefficient sql query, and work out solutions for it.  • Database backup and recovery with RMAN, RMAN backup scripts for full database and incremental backups Consultant Cingular - New AT&T May 2006 to April 2008 Work as Application DBA consultant for multiple applications, or projects.    • Worked as DBA consultant on different project team to assist the project design, implementation and issue resolution. I was the first to install and implement the oracle 10.2.0.2.0 version at Cingular last year, helped the company to set up the 10gr2 database setting on development database after extensive testing.  • Diagnose and resolve all database performance related issue, since the tables are all from 10 millions rows to 150 million rows, so extensive sql tuning are involved at all stages of design, testing and migration, and production environment. Database monitoring and tuning using OEM grid.  • Researched and implemented Oracle stream to do data replication. I had conducted extensive Oracle stream testing in Cingular environment, and collected a lot of testing data as well as the performance data for Oracle 10gr2 stream, I am the first to implement the 10gr2 stream in the company, and maintain the only 10 gr2 stream production database (master to master) at Cingular. Wrote the monitoring script to detect the replication delay and unexpected stream broken case.  • Work on OWB as DBA team member with application team for different requests and issues.  • Installed and configured 10g grid control (OEM) to monitor the database performance, set up the threshold and alerts to monitor the database health and get informed of the database issues/errors.  • Using AWR and ADDM to detect and monitor the database status, and using the 10g advisory framework to diagnose and correct the database problems.  • Implemented the resource manager to control the resource consumption of thousands online transactions, so resources can be properly allocated for different applications, and over-long-time transactions are restricted, and idling sessions, which consume resource without doing anything, can be ended.  • Trouble-shooting and resolving tough database issues, sometimes database can have unexpected performance issues, or have problems of different sorts, Under the request of the manager, I was often sent to solve issues of that nature.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure on GEAR (iPhone related) project for application data refresh.  • Working on testing of using Golden gate to do database replication. Attended the Golden Gate training class. Contractor Bell South December 2005 to May 2006 for Accenture)    Worked as Accenture consultant for Bellsouth singleview application development. I found an unique way to do the database cloning, which fit the special database settings of the singleview database. Comparatively, it make the traditional way of database cloning seems obsolete. For example, it might take 48 hours to clone a 500G singleview database in traditional way, but with my method, it only need take about 8 hours.    • Built the singleview application databases, which is the company's billing system, for pre-production, performance testing, convertion testing, quality control, based on the intec's technical requirements and customization requirements, as well as the Bell South standards.  • As primary singleview DBA, help maintain all the singleview application databases, especially the databases used for the later stage of the development. Trouble-shooting the daily issues.  • Conducting database performance tuning for the database development, specially the later stage of the development, analyze the database status by statspack, narrow down the performance bottle neck, and resolved the issue based on the nature of the problem.  • Database environment: Oracle enterprise server 9.2.0.6.0; Platform: IBM AIX 5.2;  • Installed, configured and maintained sqlbacktrack for database backup and recovery. Using obacktrack to configure the backup pool group, backup pool and catalog; using dtobackup to backup the database; using dtorestore to restore the database; using dtwatch to monitor the backup and restore progress, and other utilities)  • Installed, configured and maintained Veritas Cluster Manager (VCS) for database failover. (hrgrp, hares)  • BMC split testing after building the database, to make sure the system has properly mirrored.  • Installed and configure Oracle stream for database replication on source and target site, configured capture process(dbms_capture_adm), propagation process (dbms_propagation_adm) and apply process (dbms_apply_adm), implementing flow control, trouble-shooting the replication issues.  • Cloning the database in a unique way to fit the special settings of the singleview databases.  • Carrying a page to get informed of any database problem, and resolved it in a timely manner. Contractor Neteffects December 2002 to November 2005 • Majorly Responsible for the HR(Human Resources) databases of the company, including production database, development database and test database. Database type are OLTP, OLTP and DSS hybrid, database warehouse style, the OLTP system is used on customized applications written in C, visual basic, Java. DSS system is used on the third party applications like Business Objects, Prism. Deal with and solve any issues related to those databases. Communicate with HR database clients for all the database activities. And coordinate them in a manageable manner.  • Database environment: Oracle enterprise server 10.1.0.0, 9.2.0.4.0; Platform: HP superdome 9000/800, version 11;  • Backend: EMC storage Symmetrix DMX 300 system; Database structure: OLTP database with MTS setup for large number of users on-line transaction, and real application clusters on three nodes, DSS system for database reporting, data is replicated from OLTP to DSS through Oracle replication. Database monitoring: OEM, BMC patrol, Dbartisan; Database backup  • Work with data architecture to implement the Human Resource data model. Implemented the complex cross schema data model in the development database as well as production databse. Creating schemas, tables, views, materialized views, jobs, synonyms, stored procedures, triggers, packages, procedures and functions associated with it; And make proper grants for them from a script. Examine all these objects in the test environment by testing different applications to fix bugs and optimize performance, then promote the change to the production database after proof-testing.  • Implement the data replication to other related databases, which pulling data from HR databases.  • Configured the Recovery Manager (RMAN) to backup and recover the database, using data repository to do the multiple database backups.  • Monitoring and tuning the databases for maximum performance. On UNIX side, sizing the proper shared memory parameter and semaphore parameter and memory paging and swapping monitoring and tuning. On database side, tuning the SGA and PGA, disk I/O by using statspack, etc to achieve the best performance. Many so often help developers to tune their SQL and PL/SQL code. I have successfully tuned one of the UNIX AIX box, to reduce the WIO of CPU from 70-90 % range to 15-30 %, solve the CPU hogged situation on the box, by using comprehensive tuning methodology of tuning database memory combined with application tuning.  • As one of the on-call routine member, provide the 24*7 on-call services for all the company databases, need to resolve any issues promptly 24 hours a day for any database issue once I get paged. The database environments include IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, OPS, VMS, NT and window 2000 with various applications like SAP, etc.  • Responsible for the maintenance of all the Human Resources databases, including production, development and test databases. Keep coordinating the synchronization of these databases if needed. Help application team balance tuning the database to accommodate the different applications to achieve best result in hybrid environment.  • Help application development work by working with developers on portal development, database modeling, loading Java files, wrote stored procedures, solve all issues on database and development tuning, so the application can run in an optimized way. Wrote shell programs to automate some tasks.  • Currently on the Oracle 9.2 to Oracle 10.2 upgrade process. Conducted extensive performance and stress test on 10g database(UAT test), to make sure the performance match and overpass the 9i version, make and adjust the parameter to suit for the current application. Writing document about the process to build a baseline for company's future upgrade from 9.2 to 10.2.  • Implementing 10g features on the HR databases for the better performance and management of the database.  • Conducting extensive testing on the new Oracle 10g advisory frame work (including buffer cache advisor, shared pool advisor, segment advisor, undo advisor, PGA advisor, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor) and try to find a useful way to implement it companywise.  • Keep communicate with Oracle support to update the product information, including tars, patches, product expiration, etc.  • Implement the database security features, like password control, remote access control, sqlnet control and monitoring the AUD$ table.  • Help team members when needed.  • Worked as one of the 24 Oracle DBAs to help maintain company's 250 databases.    As a technical leader, help the company to build a new data warehouse on a data warehouse project:  1. Work with business analyst, client manager and business users of the data warehouse to define the data warehouse scope, define data elements, choose data source, as well as refine the supertype structure of the data warehouse.  2. Using ERWIN to design the concept model, and discuss with all the party to get consensus on it.  3. Using ERWIN to design the logical model, with close working relationship with business analyst, having numerous meetings and discussions with client to understand the data flow of the source data, refined data model to suit all party's need.  4. Constructing the physical data model, and writing the document regard to the star schema logic for data warehouse design.  5. Using Oracle warehouse builder 9.2.0.2.8 to design ETL process, installed the client side OWB and server side OWB, finished the necessary configuration for the OWB, like design repository and runtime repository install, metadata browser configuration.  6. Wrote the data mapping sheet to map the source data element to the target element.  7. Design the data load mapping by using OWB for ETL the data to the data warehouse table.  8. Design the process flow for data flowing from source to target. Use Oracle workflow and OEM to schedule the data flushing time table Senior Database Consultant Cap Gemini, Inc February 2001 to November 2002 Information Technology Services    • Helped a large energy company building a data mart, joined an analysis team to do business feasible analysis of the data mart, data modeling using ERWIN, project estimation, data mart logical and physical design, ETL tool and OLAP tool estimation and selection, and final data mart implementation.  • Designed and developed an internal database used for internal sales and administration. The database has the keyword search capability, which can quickly retrieve the documents containing the keyword. The sales can do a quick search on the resume database based on the keyword to find the consultant who matches the skill set client needed. The application is written in PL/SQL web toolkit, the Internet browser work directly with Oracle 8i 8.1.7 database through apache server, which enables quick data processing and retrieval. Database Consultant Osage Systems Group January 2000 to March 2001 NCI  Worked as consultant (Oracle DBA), to help the company to do performance tuning of their financial database (Oracle financial 10.7)  • Conducted heath check on the 150gb Oracle financial database with 800-1500 concurrent users.  • Pinpointed the bottlenecks which cause the 'slow performance', which the user complains  • Adopted step-by-step method to tune database memory, database configuration, disk I/O, contention  Project Technologies: Oracle financial 10.7, Oracle performance tuning    Splitrock  Worked as a consultant (Oracle DBA), took over all their database administration duties.  • Diagnosed the existing database and write a heath check report regarding to the status quo of the database.  • Reconfigured the database, tablespace and table to suit their exponential growth rate on some tables for their OLTP system.  • Conducted routine database tuning to speed up the online processing  • Wrote the database monitoring script to monitor the tablespace, table, index growth  • Wrote backup and recovery script for database backup and recovery  • Provide 24*7 production support for their online database  • Upgraded their database from 7.3 to Oracle 8i (8.1.6) and moved the new application to work with Oracle 8i database  • Redefined database security policy for the high security need of the online transaction, and implemented policy in database level.  • Provided trouble-shooting upon client request.  Project Technologies: Oracle 7.3, Oracle 8i, OLTP, Oracle Security (Fine Grained Access Control), SQL and PL/SQL, UNIX Script, Oracle performance tuning    Connectsouth  Design and implement a database backup and recovery strategy by combing Veritas software, Robotics tape system and Oracle RMAN technology.  • Installed and configured Oracle recovery manager(RMAN)  • Installed and configured Veritas and its oracle application  • Tested the veritas software and check its connection with Robotics  • Linked RMAN and Veritas together  • Integrated testing of RMAN, Veritas and Robotics  • Configured to backup and recover multiple database at the same time  • Made schedules for the multiple database backup and its checking process  • Finalized the database backup and recovery strategy  Project Technologies: Oracle 8i(8.1.6), Veritas NetBackup Datacenter 3.4 and its Oracle application, RMAN Database Administrator Oil Data, Inc July 1997 to January 2000 • Migrated and redesigned the oil data processing database from Ingres to Oracle, move and rewrite the existing application to fit the Oracle based database, integrate the databases of different branches with distributed system.  • Tested, maintained and tuned up the database for optimal performance. I was the only Oracle person to handle all Oracle related issues in the company.  • Joined a team to make strategic plan regarding the migration strategy, schedule, and objective.  • Communicated with different Dept. to collect and examine the possible data source, analyzed the data source to check its usability in the future data modeling based on the scope of database.  • Finalized the data elements which will be used based on the function analysis of the business logic and end user requirements.  • Built the concept model by using ERD and reached agreement from all the relating Dept. for the model.  • Built the prototype of the application interface as well as its related forms and reports, which could be accepted by different parties.  • Built the database physical model by using ERWIN according to previous logical modeling, the database consists of 250 tables, all normalized according to third, fourth and fifth normal forms. All tables are connected through referential integrity check (primary and foreign keys relationships).  • Created database physical and logical design and hardware layout.  • Oracle database implementation (Installation, configuration, etc).  • Moved 960gb data from INGRES to Oracle.  • Rewrote all the applications with C and Pro*C communicating with the Oracle database.  • Complete testing of the new application with the new Oracle server.  • Put the new database and application into production.  • Designed and implemented the backup and recovery strategy for the database.  • Created test database for testing and development database for future development.  • Built up the databases in other branches as part of the distributed and replication system.  • Provided maintenance support for the databases in main site and all the branches.  • Provided routine performance tuning for all the manufacturing databases in the company.  • Upgraded the database for future development.  • Installed and maintained Oracle web application server for new application.  • Designed new application with developer/2000 and upgraded the existing application for efficiency.  Project Technologies: Oracle 7.3, Oracle 8, SUN Solaris, ERWIN, C/Pro*C, SQL*Loader, Oracle distribution/replication, OEM, Oracle developer 2000 (Form, Report), Oracle Application Server, Oracle Partition Technology, SQL and PL/SQL Programmer Seisnaiv April 1997 to July 1997 Wrote program with C/C++ on SUN SOLARIS X Window system for GUI interface used on seismic data processing. Math Lab Instructor University of Houston September 1996 to May 1997 Taught undergraduate student calculus, helped them solve study problem, arranged and graded all the tests for them. Education Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering ShangHai Jiao Tong University Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering University of Houston Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston Skills Data modeling, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Stored procedure, Unix, Datawarehouse, Rman, Veritas, Linux, Shell scripting, Sap, Application server, Web application server, Client/server, Perl, Scripting, Visual basic, Bmc Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Oracle 9i October 2002 Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    Operating Systems: UNIX , Linux, Windows NT, Client/Server    Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Shell scripting, C, Pro*C, Perl, Visual Basic    Softwares and Skills: Oracle Enterprise Server 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, 8.0, 7.3,  Oracle Data Integrator,  DataWarehouse,  Oracle Warehouse Builder,  SQL and SQL*PLUS,    Oracle Distributed/Replication system,  Oracle Partitioning Technology,  Oracle SQL*Loader, Oracle Streams,    Data Modeling and Design,  Stored Procedure and Trigger,    Recovery Manager (RMAN),    Oracle PL/SQL,  Goldengate,  Oracle Report,    Veritas,  Quest software,  Oracle web application server,  Oracle discover, SAP(Backend), BMC Patrol, SQLbacktrack,  Veritas cluster manager (VCS)