Senior Operational Database Administrator Senior Operational <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Operational Database Administrator Saint Paul, MN • To improve SQL server processes and performance through a process review. To design and build SQL reports, integration packages and environments that help a business move forward.    Business Intelligence Tools  • SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Integration Services (SSIS)    Database  • Microsoft SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008/2005/2000    Languages  • Transact-SQL/T-SQL, SQL, C#, VB, VBA, COBOL, NCR NEAT/3    Applications  • Microsoft Office Suite, SSMS, SharePoint, PowerShell, SolarWinds, Idera DM, Idera SQLSafe, Redgate toolbelt, West KM, Westlaw Citation Check tools, Aderant's CMS Back-office, Compulaw Docketing system Work Experience Senior Operational Database Administrator Equity Staffing April 2019 to August 2019 • Cloud migration design and support of all CareLink databases. (40 Tb)  • Production Database support for Very Large Databases. Senior Database Engineer HEALTHEAST June 2018 to January 2019 • Standardized the HEALTHEAST SQL backups for all environments giving greater stability.  • Analyzed a proactive SQL Server monitoring tools set.  • Patched several SQL Server environments for greater supportability.  • Lead the SQL Server security audit. IT Database Consultant OPTUM/UHG February 2012 to June 2018 • Built, migrated and standardized SQL Security while migrating the Prescription services application to SQL2008R2. Note: Was a consultant to OPTUM/UHG and was hired on at Eod-of-Contract.  • Lead the DBA team on the AS/400 to MS SQL Server migration project. Provided direction to the vendor for implementation. Submitted overall application re-design to the vendor.  • Tested viability of SQL 2014 within the OPTUM/UHG database Infrastructure.  • Monitored SQL Server Capacity in the all SQL environments including TRICARE (Military Healthcare). Database Consultant Smiths Medical (Technisource) January 2011 to February 2012 • Created, modified and tuned SQL Stored Procedures used in ETL packages.  • Designed database structure and modified database automated deployment scripts.  • Documented FDA required database design and testing documentation. Database Consultant Allianz Life Insurance November 2010 to January 2011 • Stored Procedure maintenance and new development  • SQL Performance turning  • SQL Server hardware performance turning  • SQL Stored procedure performance turning  • DTS/SSIS Development Programmer Analyst Ecolab Corporation October 2008 to July 2010 • Enhance C# application to add new Customers scoring  • Built new stored procedures used in SSIS or DTS packages. Production DBA Lighthouse 1 - Minneapolis, MN April 2008 to June 2008 • Built, tested and modified SQL Stored Procedures  • Performance monitoring Applications Manager Bowman and Brooke, LLP April 2002 to March 2008 • Designed and built new billing templates using Microsoft Word and VBA.  • Monitored all SQL Server environments for performance.  • Patched SQL Server to keep SQL supportable by Microsoft.  • Built testing environments for the Aderant Time/Billing system.  • Implemented Compulaw's legal docketing calendaring system.  • Lead the design and implantation of Westlaw knowledge Manage System. Systems Analyst 3M Corporation February 1982 to January 2002 • Designed and built several SQL Server applications in the Corporate Quality and Manufacturing Services group.  ? Resource Recovery application that saved time and money to 3M.  ? 3M Challenge '95 initiative for Corporate Manufacture waste minimization.  ? 3M St. Paul Distribution Center's Trailer Control System.  • Managed a small Microvax for 3M Corporate Quality and Manufacturing Services Group.  • Managed a one-million-dollar PC budget for all the departments with 3M Corporate Quality and Manufacturing Services Group.  • All positions (Computer Operator, Lead Operator, Operations Analyst) related to HP3000 and NCR Criteria mainframe applications. Skills Ncr Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jay-bukstein-33734b1b Additional Information Operating Systems  • DOS/MSDOS, Windows, HP3000 MPE, NCR Criterion OS