Lead Infrastructure Consultant Lead Infrastructure Consultant Lead Infrastructure Consultant - GE-Appliances/Tek Systems • Oracle Certified Professional DBA with over 20 years experience working with prestigious Organizations.  • Over 20 years functioning as a Oracle DBA, Proficient in DBA activities such as 12c/11g/10g/9i RAC, Replication, Database creation, Database Maintenance, Database backup and Recover, Database Tuning, Application Tuning, Security, Data Conversion, Character set Conversion and Migration, Experience managing large databases upto 40 Terabytes.  • Have strong exposure to Database Administration, SQLplus, PL/SQL, Parallel Server, Oracle Partitioning, Stored  • Procedures/Packages database Triggers, Developer 6i, and Java programming/J2EE.  • Possess strong skills in the area of oracle Database Administration under the UNIX and Windows environment.  • Have been extensively involved in end user group discussions to get the system requirements and in developing system specifications. I have extensively worked on installing Oracle software, creating databases, developing backup and recovery strategies. I possess strong technical aptitude with strong analytical and problem solving skills. I am a good team leader with ability to lead teams into delivering assignments as per schedule, and possess strong communication and interpersonal skills.  • Having worked using ASM, Grid Computing.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced security for Windows authentication.  • Implemented Oracle Goldend Gate Replication.  • Implemented Oracle Database In-Memory. Work Experience Lead Infrastructure Consultant GE-Appliances/Tek Systems September 2018 to Present Environment: Oracle 12c. OEM 13c.    • Handling Project Schedules from Initiation to Implementation.  • Define and Implement Standards.  • Planning and Designing Project documents.  • General Database Troubleshooting.  • Creating container and pluggable databases in 12c  • Upgrading and migrating from 11g to 12c.  • Implemented Oracle Golden Gate Muliti phase replication.  • Implemented Oracle In-Memory Database.  • Performance tuning for both Oracle BIAPPS/EBS Databases  • Co-ordination of a team of 30 Developers and Infrastructure Admins Sollution Architect JPMChase September 2015 to September 2018 Environment: Oracle 12c/11.2/10g. OEM 11g/12c.    • Handling Project Schedules from Initiation to Implementation.  • Plan Co-ordinate and Assign DBA resource to Projects.  • Define and Implement Standards.  • Planning and Designing Project documents.  • Implement Process to move database to prod.  • General Database Troubleshooting.  • Creating container and pluggable databases in 12c  • Upgrading and migrating from 11g to 12c.   Narven Inc Sr. Database Administrator/Team Lead Maximus Inc September 2012 to August 2015 Environment:Solaris 10, Oracle 12c/11.2/10g. OEM 11g/12c.    • Handling Project Schedules from Initiation to Implementation.  • Plan Co-ordinate and Assign DBA resource to Projects.  • Define and Implement Standards.  • Setting up Qtrly/Half Year/Yearly Goals to the Team Members.    Apart from Regular DBA Tasks like below  • Configuring OEM 12C  • Migrating Standalone systems to RAC 11.2 systems  • Migrating Non-ASM databases to ASM.  • Analysis of the existing design and new requirements.  • Planning the System including the Hardware and Software.  • Design and implement the Architecture.  • Upgrading Oracle 9i and 10g systems to 11g.  • Mentoring the staff.  • Knowledge transfer  • Documentation of the Implementations  • Migrated DB' to ASM using RMAN  • Implemented DR strategies. Sr. Database Administrator/Team Lead Barclay Card US, Delaware November 2006 to September 2012 Environment: IBM 570's 590's, AIX 5.3, Sun Solaris 10, HP UX 5.10, Oracle 10g RAC, Streams, ASM Grid  • Handling Project Schedules from Initiation to Implementation.  • Plan Co-ordinate and Assign DBA resource to Projects.  • Define and Implement Standards.  • Setting up Qtrly/Half Year/Yearly Goals to the Team Members.    Apart from Regular DBA Tasks like below  • Analysis of the existing design and new requirements.  • Planning the System including the Hardware and Software.  • Design and implement the Architecture.  • Built Oracle RAC 11.2 and 10.2 environment on Aix 5.3 and Linux.  • Design and implement the Oracle Streams.  • Upgrading Oracle 9i systems to 11g.  • Migrated Databases from Solaris to Aix using Convert Database.  • Working on upgrading 9i databases to 11G RAC.  • Configure and implement the Backup procedure using Netbackup 6.  • Identifying and applying the patches for Oracle and O/S.  • Mentoring the staff.  • Knowledge transfer  • Documentation of the Implementations  • Lead the effort of Datacenter migration  • Migrated External mirrored ASM Disk to ASM Mirror's  • Migrated DB' to ASM using RMAN  • Participated in DR strategies with EMC and Recovery Point  • Implemented Oracle Identity Manager 10G and currently migrating to 11.x. Sr. Database Administrator Mayors Office - Philadelphia, PA November 2005 to October 2006 Environment: IBM eServers, x360, x366, x460, Oracle 10g, RAC, Grid, Replication, Streams, Toad, Erwin, Linux, SQl Server 2000, Windows Active directory 2003, KDC.  Responsibilities:  • Install and configure Oracle 10G RAC with ASM, Grid,  • Configuring up the Flashback.  • Configuring Backup Recovery  • Performance Tuning  • Setting up Oracle Streams.  • Migrating data from SQl Server to Oracle 10g  • Replication between SQl server and Oracle using DTS.  • Configuring Oracle Advanced Security  • Implementing windows authentication with AD 2003 Sr. Database Administrator JP-Morgan Chase/Bank One - Newark, DE January 2005 to November 2005 Environment: Sun Solaris, AIX, UX, Oracle 10g/9i RAC, Replication, Sqlplus, iSqlplus, PL/Sql, Sql Loader, TSQL, DTS, Toad 7.6, Erwin 4.1, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting,, RMAN, Net Backup, Tivoli, SQL Workshop, Data workshop. JDK 1.4, C++.    Responsibilities:  • Migration of the Database from Sun Solaris to Aix, UX boxes.  • Configuring and Setting up Multi master Replication.  • Setting up the Dataguard.  • Configuring up the Flashback.  • Backup Recovery  • Performance Tuning  • Installation of Oracle Software  • Setting up Oracle Streams.  • Testing the Oracle 10g Database for the exiting applications  • Install and configure Oracle 10g/9i Software on Linux, Solaris, Aix and HP-UX  • Configuring and Maintenance of 10g RAC  • Configuring the Hardware and Software for Oracle Software.  • Workarounds for bugs in 10.1.0.2  • Identify o/s required packages and patches for Oracle 10g/9i and applying.  • Generate the backup procedures for Production and Development Database.  • Database Tuning.  • Implementing Partitions.  • Regular Database administration using TOAD and SQL Navigator.  • Educating the staff and Knowledge transfer.  • Regular documentation tasks performed.  • Designing the Physical and Logical Data model using Erwin.  • Develop standards and guidelines for the design of data architectures, data models, tools and databases, including organization, structure and nomenclature of data elements. Sr. Database Administrator/Team Lead Fortna - Reading, PA July 2004 to December 2004 Environment: Sun Solaris, AIX, Red hat Linux, Oracle 10g RAC, Sqlplus, iSqlplus, PL/Sql, Sql Loader, SQL Server 2000, TSQL, DTS, Toad 7.6, Erwin 4.1, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting, Sybase 4.0, RMAN, HTML DB, SQL Workshop, Data workshop. JDK 1.4, C++.    Responsibilities:  • Handling Project Schedules from Initiation to Implementation.  • Plan Co-ordinate and Assign DBA resource to Projects.  • Define and Implement Standards.  • Setting up Qtrly/Half Year/Yearly Goals to the Team Members.    Apart from Regular DBA Tasks like below  • Install and configure Oracle 10g Software.  • Installing Redhat Linux.  • Configuring and Maintenance of 10g RAC  • Installing and Maintaining of Redhat cluster software  • Configuring the Hardware and Software for Oracle Software.  • Workarounds for bugs in 10.1.0.2  • Identify o/s required packages and patches for Oracle 10g and applying.  • Generate the backup procedures for Production and Development Database.  • Database Tuning.  • Configuring up the Flashback.  • Implementing Partitions.  • Installing and setting up HTML DB  • Creating Database Centric application using HTMLDB  • Building Application Pages using Application Builder  • Setting up Sql Workshop  • Loading and Extracting Data using Data Workshop.  • Regular Database administration.  • Educating the staff and Knowledge transfer.  • Regular documentation tasks performed.  • Installing and Maintenance of SQL Server software.  • Creating and maintaining of SQL Server Database.  • Backup Recovery of SQL Server.  • Fine Tuning SQL Server Queries.  • Designing the Physical and Logical Data model using Erwin. Sr. Database Administrator Bearing Point/Unisys, McLean March 2004 to July 2004 Client: TSA.  Environment: Sun Solaris, Linux, Windows 2003, Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle 9i RAC, Sqlplus, iSqlplus, PL/Sql, Sql Loader, IBM WebSphere, Microsoft BizTalk, Toad 7.6, Erwin 4.1, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting, MSSQL Server 8.0, MS Cluster Server Software, RMAN, Veritas Clusters Software  Responsibilities:  • Implementing and managing of Oracle 9i RAC.  • Installing and managing Websphere Application Server.  • Installing and managing BizTalk server.  • Configuring and Setting up Multi master Replication  • Creation of users, roles and implementing database security  • Creating the backup and recovery procedures  • Installation of Oracle 9i/10g software and Sizing, creating and managing production databases.  • Setting up the standby database using DATAGUARD 9.i.  • Creating triggers, procedures and functions.  • development center for Dev and QA on Sun Solaris with different configurations  • Creating and managing table spaces, data files, rollback segments, tables, views, triggers and indexes  • Preparing scripts for creating databases, creating and adding data files, adding table spaces, creating tables, indexes, views and synonyms  • Regular monitoring of performance, space utilization, disk and memory usage  • Involved in tuning the database to increase the response times  • Involved in the Production support of 24 x 7 Databases at Anytime Access  • Involved in Setting up of the Standby Database for the existing production instances  • Set up several Standby Databases and RMAN backups for Disaster Recovery situations and Data warehousing project of big Staging DB.  • Regular performance monitoring of the daily statistics report of various instances which helps in determining how efficiently the shared memory is being used  • Performing recoveries of databases in the development and QA environments  • Setting up and maintenance of Veritas.  • Setting up and maintenance of Microsoft Cluster software. Sr. Database Administrator/Team Lead MobilCom Multimedia October 2000 to March 2004 Client: Mobilcom AG (Germany), Energy IT (Italy), Best Energy (Germany),  Zalto (Norway), Freenet (Germany).  Environment: Sun 10000, Sun 6800/ 4500, IBM RS6000, Sun Solaris , Aix 4.x, Unix, Linux, Windows, Oracle 9i/8i, Oracle Express Server , PL SQL, SQL Loader, Java Script, HTML, Unix Shell Scripting, Korn shell, struts Java, J2EE, EJB, Toad 6.5, Erwin, MS Query, XML, RMAN, Web logic. Developer 6i, Veritas Clusters, ETL, Oracle apps 11i, Oracle 9iAS, Windows NT, Oracle Partitioning, Oracle Replication, RAC, Hot Standby, Veritas Cluster, Informatica, Visio 2000, SqlNavigator, Rational Rose, UML, MS Project.  Responsibilities:  • Managing Project Resource.  • Working with Project Teams onsite ad offshore from design phase to implementation,  • Co-coordinating resource around the globe.  • Working with Project Teams on Purchasing the required hardware/software based on the client requirement..  • Installing Oracle 8i/9i software and Sizing, creating and managing databases at the Production unit, development center for Dev and QA on Sun Solaris with different configurations  • Creating and managing table spaces, data files, rollback segments, tables, views, triggers and indexes  • Involved in the creation of users, roles and implementing database security  • Involved in creating the backup and recovery procedures  • Preparing scripts for creating databases, creating and adding data files, adding table spaces, creating tables, indexes, views and synonyms  • Regular monitoring of performance, space utilization, disk and memory usage  • Involved in tuning the database to increase the response times  • Creating scripts for creating DB  • Automating scripts for DB Backup using RMAN in hot backup mode  • Creating scripts for collecting statistical information from database for administering purposes  • Performance tuning on Sun Solaris server in the production environment (which was a critical issue in the production environment) Involved in trouble shooting various database issues through Oracle technical support  • Prepared Complete documentation.  • Designed front end user administration application using Developer6i.  • Designed, implemented and thoroughly tested PL/SQL packages for billing system.  • Created PL/SQL packages and no of database objects for building distribution tables.  • Setting up and maintenance of Veritas.    • Application tuning and performance monitoring (tuned sorts and optimized for throughput of critical queries using Explain Plan, Sql Trace, TKProf & Analyze)  • Database tuning by collecting statistics using UTLDstat, UTLEstat and statspack  • Involved in the Production support of 24 x 7 Databases at Anytime Access  • Involved in Setting up of the Standby Database for the existing production instances  • Regular performance monitoring of the daily statistics report of various instances which helps in determining how efficiently the shared memory is being used  • Performing recoveries of databases in the development and QA environments Sr Developer VJIL Consulting Ltd - Secunderabad, IN January 1996 to October 2000 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Study, Design Review, Server side Coding, and Testing  • Involved in Design, Coding, Testing  • Installing Oracle 8i software and Sizing, creating and managing databases at the Production unit, development center for Dev and QA on Sun Solaris with different configurations  • Creating and managing table spaces, data files, rollback segments, tables, views, triggers and indexes  • Involved in the creation of users, roles and implementing database security  • Involved in creating the backup and recovery procedures  • Preparing scripts for creating databases, creating and adding data files, adding table spaces, creating tables, indexes, views and synonyms  • Regular monitoring of performance, space utilization, disk and memory usage  • Involved in tuning the database to increase the response times  • Creating scripts for creating DB  • Automating scripts for DB Backup using RMAN in hot backup mode  • Creating scripts for collecting statistical information from database for administering purposes  • Performance tuning by handling Transfer load, Link tuning, Server and Database tuning of the Web site with the technical team of the client  • Handling Coding, Testing and implementation  • Writing PL/Sql programs, triggers and procedures  • Development incudes Oracle 7.3/8i, Power builder, VC++, VB. Additional Information Software Skills:  Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i//7.x/6.x, Oracle Partitioning, Oracle Replication, RAC, Hot Standby, Oracle Parallel Server, Oracle Express Server, HTML DB, PL/SQL, SQL Navigator, Toad, SQL plus, Sqlloader, Sqlnet, Developer6i, NET8, Enterprise Manager, Erwin, ETL, Informatica, Business Objects, Cognos, Java, Unix Shell Scripting, Java Server Pages, Sybase, Oracle Applications 11i/11.x/10.7, Oracle Developer, Oracle Designer, Oracle 9iAS, Web logic, IBM WebSphere, Tivoli, Vignette, Crystal Reports, MS Visio, Rational Rose, UML, Erwin, Visio, MS-Project, J2EE, EJB, JMS, Java Servlets, Java script, HTML, XML, C/C++, PRO*C++/Pro*C, Perl, UML, Use Cases, Veritas Cluster, UNIX (Sun Solaris, AT&T SVR4, HP Unix, IBM AIX, SCO, DEC), Red Hat Linux, Windows 2000/2003/NT/XP family, and MS DOS.