sql database administrator sql <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> sql database administrator Lithonia, GA Work Experience sql database administrator Systems, inc - Lithonia, GA 2009 to Present Provide remote support to SQL Servers on customer sites of different companies.  • Writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL, ETL and stored procedures.  • SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design)  • Setting up and administering SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.  • Database maintenance, replication and tuning  • System database migrations and maintenance  • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers  • Ensuring definition and development of database documentation and standards  • Ensuring Database performance monitoring and tuning is regularly accomplished  • Designing backup and restore strategies and Disaster Recovery solutions  • Implement security policy design for current and new applications.  • Coordinate team meetings with groups for any new design/strategies.  • Creating database design for new projects support.  • Configuring MS SQL Server clients.  • Configuring and auditing MS SQL Server security.  • Create databases and indexes.  • Working on testing database, queries optimization and performance.  • Implementing a DBA maintenance plan for MS SQL-Server(DBCC, updating index statistics,  monitoring database ).  • Backup / Restore, User creation, Security policy.  • Scheduling and managing jobs.  • Monitoring jobs performance and impact on operations  • Monitoring disk space, transaction log growth, CPU etc  • Documenting MS SQL Server logical and physical design.  • Responsible for importing and exporting data to and from the SQL Server using Import/Export Wizard, BCP, BULK INSERT, OPENROWSET and SSIS.  • Worked as a team member with other DBA's to ensure 24 hour x 7 day a week support of all corporate databases.  • Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  • Managed and executed maintenance jobs that ensured the stability and performance of the database servers.  • Check the SQL Error logs for any errors that may have occurred overnight.  • Performed Administration tasks ( configuration, tuning, troubleshooting)  • Performed backups of all databases daily and weekly  • Maintenance of database servers by monitoring the health, fragmentation, disk space and agent jobs  • Installation and configuration of MSSQL Server 2005/2008R2 and Oracle 11g  • Designed and implemented logical and physical database architecture  • Performed disaster recovery using backup and restore  • Designed and implemented MSSQL Server Database backup strategy.  • Monitor multiple servers for resource utilization (disk space, memory, CPU, etc.).  • Support applications by troubleshooting, diagnosing, and resolving database issues.  • Tuning and implementing indexes and queries.  • Running DBCC to check database integrity, index fragmentation, log space etc  • Check the jobs for failed completion.  • Perform physical disk fragmentation on data drives.  • Use SQL SERVER Migration Assistance 5.2 for migrating Oracle and SQL Server 2005 databases to SQL server 2008R2. Global Crest Systems 2007 to 2009 Implementing Configuration and Installation of MSSQL Server 2005 and Oracle 10g  • Designed and implemented logical and physical database architecture  • Performed database maintenance such as upgrades and patches  • Performed disaster recovery using Oracle Recovery Manager  • Networked Oracle databases Servers and Client applications using Oracle*Net  • Designed and implemented MSSQL Server and Oracle Database backup strategy.  • Configured and Maintained Oracle shared servers with connection pooling and multiplexing capability.  • Monitor multiple servers for resource utilization (disk space, memory, CPU, etc.).  • Support applications by troubleshooting, diagnosing, and resolving database issues.  • Perform Backup and Restore for all databases.  • Create users, profiles and grant permissions.  • Create databases, tables and indexes.  • Monitoring, Managing and Scheduling jobs.  • Import and Export data using SQL Loader, Import/Export wizard and Data Pump utility.  • Maintaining and Monitoring database performance  • Creating Stored Procedures and User-difined Functions  • Monitoring Performance with Performance Monitor and Activity Monitor.  • Check SQL Error log for any errors that may have occurred.  • Check the Event Viewer.  • Check for outstanding active or blocked transactions.  • Check backups and log sizes.  • Responsible for SQL Server Installation and Upgrades.  • Responsible for importing and exporting data to and from the SQL Server using BCP, DTS and SSIS  • reviewing service related reports: database backups, maintenance, monitoring on a daily basis to ensure service related issues are identified and resolved within established SLAs  • Helped Design, maintained and controlled the corporate database and data dictionary.  • Maintain the proper use of storage space requirements and add new storage space (disk drives) per company standards.  • Establish standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. Education Pacific Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA 2006 Accounting Institut de Formation Professionnelle 1996 Bachelor in General Studies (U.C.A.D)University 1993 Additional Information Technical Skills Summary    Programming languages: SQL, TSQL, PL/SQL UNIX SHELL SCRIPT, XML    RDBMS: SQL-Server 2005/2008/2008R2 ;Oracle 10g/11g    Operating systems: Unix(HP, SUN, AIX, LINUX);Windows /Xp/Vista;/7,Windows Server 2003/2008R2