Enterprise Database Architect - Database Administrator Enterprise <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect - <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Enterprise Database Architect - Database Administrator - Softech Consulting Services Inc., New York State Rexford, NY Work Experience Enterprise Database Architect - Database Administrator Softech Consulting Services Inc., New York State - Albany, NY January 2015 to Present Performed daily database administration tasks and provided support, built and configured new Oracle and SQL Server Instances, executed upgrades, and applied periodic service packs.  Database Management  * Managed the Oracle and SQL Server Database Data Center migration valued at $95M for a data center consolidation, merged and consolidated 50 New York State agencies with 300+ SQL server database instances, and created mechanisms to coordinate interagency activities and streamline operations.  * Troubleshot critical database performance issues related to memory, CPUs, I/O, disk utilization, blocking, and deadlock and index fragmentation.  * Configured and maintained database backup using RMAN for Oracle and Commvault backup for Microsoft SQL Server, oversaw performance and capacity planning for Oracle and SQL Server database environments, and installed SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS application stacks.  * Managed Oracle databases with 100-500 users in New York public safety and law enforcement, performed database administration in UNIX, Linux, AIX, and RHEL, conducted Oracle DataGuard Switchover and Failover, and executed refresh and cloning with RMAN manual methods  Process Improvement  * Reduced licensing costs by $3M-$4M in annual costs and reduced the number of resources required for database consolidation and systems administration by 50%.  * Reduced overall average CPU consumption for 100 databases from 98% utilization to 68% consumption on average and eliminated I/O bottleneck by separating workload to different physical disk/LUN.  * Configured and maintained Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and implemented Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) security encryption.  * Wrote KSH shell scripts for database administrator task automation in UNIX environments and monitoring and utilized PowerShell scripting to automate advance SQL Server database tasks, which reduced severity one incidents from 10 per month to a single issue each month.  * Enhanced SQL performance using Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and performance counters, which reduced CPU and I/O consumptions from 98% utilization to 65% average utilization.  Operational Support  * Attended database design reviews and capacity planning sessions with team members, provided on-call support for production databases, and coordinated with the Oracle Support team to resolve issues.  * Installed and configured the Microsoft SQL server application stack, which included analysis services, integration services, SQL Server Replication, and notification services.  * Recovered databases from backup during disasters, implemented the Point-In-Time recovery solution, and created and documented restore strategies and disaster recovery mechanisms.  * Monitored and evaluated database consistency and SQL Server Instance activities. Lead Architect Sybase Databases August 2016 to August 2016 on a $600K project to migrate all Sybase Database ASE/IQ and Pentaho Webservers to Microsoft SQL Server, which included designing SQL Server architecture and decommissioning outdated systems to reduce licensing costs.  * Redesigned the Microsoft SQL Server infrastructure to leverage new capabilities such as xVelocity, Advance database encryption (Always Encrypted), and SQL Server advance in-memory capabilities. Lead Solutions Architect and Database Administrator CDPHP January 2013 to January 2013 January 2013  * Built six Oracle Linux Virtual Machines for the Oracle FACETs database upgrade, served as Lead Solutions Architect and Database Administrator, coordinated with a team of Oracle Database Analysts, and installed and configured databases, backups, recovery strategy, and tuning. Senior Oracle Database Administrator UNISYS - New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services - Albany, NY June 2007 to January 2013 * Installed and configured Oracle databases, IBM AIX, Linux, and Windows Enterprise Servers 2008, conducted maintenance, provided support, and managed database backup and recovery using RMAN.  * Oversaw Oracle 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure configuration and implementation, conducted DataGuard Switchover and Failover testing, and implemented the RYSNC utility to synchronize files.  * Performed Oracle database upgrades, CPU patches, and Microsoft SQL Server database patches.  * Wrote shell scripts to monitor and identify gaps in the Oracle DataGuard archive log shipping.  * Conducted database performance and tuning of multi-terabyte databases utilizing TKPROF, Query Explain Plan, ADDM, ASH, and SQL, and supported database design reviews and capacity planning.  * Configured, implemented, and maintained the Microsoft SQL Server Application Stack.  * Managed all levels of security for both Oracle databases and SQL Server databases. Senior Oracle Database Administrator/MS SQL Server DBA January 2004 to June 2007 Oracle DBA and SQL Server Database Administrator August 2000 to January 2004 Data Architect Data Modeler - Schenectady, NY February 1996 to August 2000 * Provided database administration services for 24/7 critical shop floor automation systems and KRONOS payroll application databases.  * Conducted database backup and recovery, performance tuning, and database upgrades, applied service packs, conducted schema changes, and installed and configured Oracle Database instances on UNIX operating systems, which reduced weekly payroll processing time from seven hours to three.  * Coordinated databases with up to three TBs, which containing BLOBS and image schematics, which included providing change analysis and troubleshooting critical database and performance issues. Senior Programmer Analyst Matthew Bender Lexus Nexus March 1992 to February 1996 INDEPENDENT CONSULTING PROJECTS  Create SQL Server Report Server (SSRS) April 2018  * Created a high availability SSRS and database environment for Microsoft SQL Server, which included a disaster recovery environment for the SQL server database repository, F5 for local traffic manager (LTM), and global traffic manager (GTM). Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.) Computer Information Systems Russell Sage College - Albany, NY December 2001 Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, ENCRYPTION, RMAN, CLUSTERING, HYPER-V, T-SQL, SCRIPTING, DATABASE ARCHITECTURE, ARCHITECTURE Additional Information Senior Database Administrator with 20+ years of technology work experience, specializing in database administration, process improvement, storage management, and capacity planning.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  * Database Architecture: Database Design & Implementation, Enterprise Database Architecture  * Scripting: PowerShell, T-SQL Scripting, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle PL/SQL Scripting  * Oracle: Oracle DataGuard, Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) Support, Oracle 12c Cloud Control, Oracle on Linux and AIX, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) backup utility, Oracle ASM, Database Flashback Technology, Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)  * SQL Server: Microsoft SQL Server, SQL Server In-Memory and xVelocity Indexing Capabilities, Microsoft Always-On Availability Group (AAG), SQL Server Clustering, Hyper-V, SQL Server Virtual Environment  Microsoft SQL Server Database Encryption TDE, SQL Server 2016 Always Encrypted