Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Sr. SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator - Blue Cross Blue Shield of Kansas City Kansas City, MO Work Experience Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Blue Cross Blue Shield of Kansas City June 2016 to Present My role as the Senior Database Administrator involves many duties. Some of these are to improve performance through analysis of existing business problems and development of future plans supporting a Microsoft SQL Server environment. I am also responsible for coordinating, validating, and implementing changes to the database environment. Through the years, I have gained a deep technical expertise in SQL Server including performance analysis, tuning, system setup, resource (e.g. I/O, CPU, memory) bottleneck identification/elimination, security, maintenance, setting standards, and logical/physical database design. I maintain a current knowledge of SQL Server features, pitfalls, and online resources. I also review project requirements for the databases and assist development with the coding and implementation of the requirements, provide technical leadership in planning and implementing strategic technology initiatives including SQL version updates, implementation of third-party tools where appropriate, and supporting platform upgrades.  • Currently, I am in charge of the SQL 2008R2 upgrade project.  • Work with business units to define and analyse the needs of their units.  • Maintain the replication, backup of data within the environment.  • Experience administrating and installing Microsoft SQL Server 2005/ 2008/ 2008R2/ 2012/ 2014/ 2016, and 2017.  • Supporting MySQL on a Red hat system.  • Supporting DB2 on a Linux OS.  • Supporting Sybase on a Linux OS. Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Waddell & Reed November 2012 to June 2016 • Install, manage, and maintain all databases in the enterprise environment. This includes tuning the database structures for performance and service levels expected.  • Work with functional business units to define and analyse the needs of their units and architect the system standards to support them.  • Work with System/Network Administrators to develop and maintain the replication, backup, and restoration of data within the system.  • Maintain clustered, highly redundant environments with SLA targets of 99.99% while meeting SLAs for transaction performance - such as quote times.  • Experience administrating and installing Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014.  • Experience with replication and HA concepts.  • Supporting MySQL on a Red hat system. SQL Database Administrator UMB Bank March 2005 to July 2012 • Implemented database installation and configuration per standards set forth by best practices.  • Responsible for regularly scheduled backups ensuring recoverability, monitoring of audits and alarms for database stability, troubleshooting and researching database issues related to performance, space management, and other technical issues.  • Responsible for ensuring the database complies with current published standards, researching new or changing standards with each DMBS release, and looking for innovative ways to improve automation, operational stability.  • Responsible for performance in a database environment - this includes creating indexes, rewriting stored procedures, and creation of views.  • Establish policies and procedures for data utilization, security, and maintenance across production, staging, QA and development environments.  • Conduct proof-of-concept initiatives and determine technical data feasibility of product concepts as required.  • Monitors and tracks emerging data and information related trends and associated tools and approaches.  • Create DBA tools were there were none available for user monitoring.  • Experienced in performance benchmarking, monitoring and tuning.  • Familiarity with enterprise level hardware.  • Provide support for database servers supporting multiple test and development environments as well as a production environment.  • Creating and modifying scripts for automation of database maintenance to include, but not limited to, database dumps, update statistics, backups, recovery, index rebuilds, replication, profiling, configuring, archiving, scalability, managing indexes.  • Help provides day-to-day support for users.  • Experience in SQL 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, as well as clustering.  • Experience in SQL SSIS, Reporting Services, and T-SQL. UMB Bank January 2004 to July 2012 System Engineer UMB Bank January 2004 to March 2005 • Initially responsible for workstation development in an effort to create a standard operational environment.  • Responsible for 2nd and 3rd tier support of customers and desktop technicians.  • Responsible for the development and updating of the Windows NT and XP desktop standard images. This includes all security updates as well as application changes.  • Administration of the GPO's for all users and computers within the corporation.  • Another duty was to modify applications from 3rd party vendors to work within the environment. System Consultant Entre Computer Center November 2003 to January 2004 • Performed network and server setup and configuration for multiple customers throughout the Kansas City area.  • This included router and firewall configuration, along with server setup and problem diagnostics. Network Engineer C P Commercial Specialists May 2002 to October 2003 • Responsible for maintaining daily network operations at the home office and support for the 24 branch locations, including servers, routers, cabling, battery backup systems, disaster recovery plans, and tape backup operations.  • Performed administration of the Avaya phone system for the home office as well as the branch locations.  • Lotus Notes Administration - Upgraded the entire corporation to R6. Installed a new clustered server to provide a maximum uptime for the end users. Cleaned up the address book and created several groups to help the users with mass mailings.  • Symantec Virus Protection System - built and installed a primary server that obtains automatic updates and sends them out to the workstations throughout the company.  • Veritas Backup Exec - Installed software on a major server and configured the other servers to backup to a central location.  • Great Plains Accounting Software - Designed, Planned, Built the entire system including the server to support the accounting department.  • Provided 2nd and 3rd tier support to the Hardware and Help Desk departments.  • Built a test environment including Linux servers.  • Setup a Cisco VPN to ADP and install Citrix clients at the workstation location. Senior Systems Consultant American Century Investments August 2000 to May 2002 • Responsible for desktop support for 1750+ employees.  • Provide hardware installations, end-user support, remote and onsite software installations and troubleshooting.  • Applications support includes SMS, Lotus Notes, MS Office Suite, and financial and proprietary software in an NT environment. Systems Technician Computer Source February 2000 to July 2000 • Responsible for hardware and software functions, including: Hardware diagnosis/repair, software troubleshooting, network operating systems, and network operations. The ability to load, maintain and operate a variety of software platforms and applications for different customer needs.  • Executed project management for large volume system, and network upgrades.  • Utilicorp United - Large-scale hardware and software refresh upgrading the entire desktop environment from Office 97 to Office 2000. Also, a standardization of the desktop systems took place bringing all users up to the same level of software. Team leader over several technicians during the rollout. Provided direction and leadership as well as next level support with customer service and satisfaction.  • Output Technologies - Performed hardware support and diagnostics on software issues.  • HealthNet - Provided hardware and 2nd tier support to the desk side support. Senior Service Technician Inacom Information Systems February 1997 to January 2000 • UMB Bank - System Refresh with upgraded hardware and software. Upgraded desktop operating system from Windows 95 to Windows NT including Office 97. Developed the image for several different laptops used by the bank. This image was locked down to control the user environment. Once the development of the image was completed, I traveled to 18 different locations to provide support and leadership throughout the rollout process.  • Sprint PCS - Strategic planning and technical support of continues large-scale hardware moves. Coordinated the moves with IBM Global Services, Sprint PCS, and Inacom technicians.  • Western Resources - Performed diagnostic troubleshooting and problem resolution for a 1700 user environment. Managed help desk technicians and was lead technician for 2nd and 3rd tier support. Skills DBA, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, ETL, Ssis