Senior Database Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Jersey City, NJ • 10+ years of experience in analyzing, designing, tuning, and developing Client/Server,  Business Intelligence (BI) database applications and various segments of Software  Development Life Cycle (SDLC), using MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005 DTS/SQL Server  Integration, Reporting & Analysis Services.  • Extensive SQL development experience in Insurance and Healthcare industries with a strong  understanding of data & analytics.  • Proficient in ETL using 2012/2008 SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and Data Transfer  Services (DTS).  • Hands on experience with creating Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Cursors,  Triggers, User Profiles, User Defined Functions, Relational Database Models and Data  Integrity in observing Business Rules.  • Worked as Senior Developer in large-scale production environments.  • Experience in Relational Database Management Systems, Database Physical and Logical  design, Data Mapping, Table normalization, Data Modeling, Creating ER Diagrams using  tools such as MS Visio.  • Able to take a large conceptual problem or project, break it into components, establish plans and a  critical path, achieve incremental goals and deliver project on time.  • Self-motivated and able to work independently as well as in a group environment with an active team  player attitude.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.  • Extremely motivated, able to work smoothly even under pressure, meet deadlines in advance, ready to  accept new challenges and adapt quickly to new technologies. Work Experience Senior Database Engineer 81qd - New York, NY November 2014 to Present Successfully migrated company core application data from old database to new database using VS Senior Database Engineer Cigna Qualcare - Piscataway, NJ November 2012 to November 2014 Designed database schema, implemented logical and physical database design by creating database  and its objects covering tables, defaults, constraints, indexes, user defined functions, stored procedures and triggers on SQL Server 2008.  • Evaluated Source systems, standardizing received data formats, understanding business/data  transformation rules, business structure and hierarchy relationships, data transformation through mapping development, validation and testing of mappings.  • Migrated data from different sources (text based files, Excel spreadsheets, and Access) to SQL Server  databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Supported ETL Processes for large-scale data warehousing.  • Worked on SQL Profiler and Estimated Query plan to optimize the performance of SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked with .Net application teams in the development of database objects for transactional systems.  • Troubleshoot and minimized production down issues.  • Ensured patient privacy standards are followed in regards to HIPAA Database Developer MedAssets, Inc - Saddle River, NJ September 2010 to November 2012 Worked closely with the business users and analysts to understand the requirements and converting  them into project level technical capabilities.  • Provided QA analysis and support to data processing and analysis team in various testing phases of the projects.  • Analyzed sample files of client medical data for quality check before and after processing, check data  cleanliness and ensuring the ability to use it in existing and for new processes.  • Built automated SSIS/DTS processes to transfer client data from various different sources (excel, csv,  flat, access) into MS Sql Server.  • Converted old DTS production packages to new standard SSIS packages to reduce the data processing  time and reduce resources and costs.  • Created SSIS Packages to transfer data between servers, load data into database and schedule the jobs  to do these tasks periodically  • Assisted in developing and maintaining documentation on all databases and processes changes.  • Assisted Data Processing and Analysis Team in constructing data cleaning, loading and distribution  requirements as well as building process to transfer and integrate new data development projects into the existing maintenance project schedule.  • Wrote ad-hoc query batches and stored procedures to assist in analyzing, cleaning, checking and processing data to ensure the maximum possible integrity and quality.  • Optimized the performance of queries with modifications in T-SQL queries, removed unnecessary  columns, eliminated redundant and inconsistent data, normalized tables, established joins and created  indexes whenever necessary.  • Created end of the day and intraday web and email reports for users daily using the reporting tools. Database Administrator/Developer MDtablet - East Brunswick, NJ October 2009 to September 2010 • Developed small add-on .NET modules that are absent in the EMR package to meet clients needs.  • Collaborated with developers, network administrators, system administrators to implement secure,  reliable database environments.  • Set up/Install/Configure SQL Server 2005/2008 on standalone as well as clustered environments.  • Involved in preparing SQL Server related detailed technical documents.  • Responsible for upgrades, patches, and security for numerous SQL Server databases  • Ensured the security of servers to prevent any unauthorized users to access firm servers.  • Handled database tuning, application tuning to make sure the clients are satisfy with the application  performance  • Performed periodical full backups on weekly and differentials backup on daily basis.  • Periodically tested backups to ensure they are valid and can be restored.  • Monitored the database usage activity regularly using MSSQL profiler and also in an event where application is throwing up errors.  • Reviewed and optimize SQL queries, stored procedures, views and triggers to achieve maximum  efficiency and scalability.  • Created DTS packages to handle large data imports, exports on production servers. Application Developer KKGB Enterprises Inc - Saginaw, MI July 2007 to August 2009 Gathered business and high level technical requirements and assisted architecture analysis and design  using UML and Rational tools.  • Designed, developed, and implemented an internal application to manage the company financial  database.  • Build web-based applications, including front-end and back end, that automate business processes.  • Created the software in C++ environment for the product information, new product release, stock of product, demand etc.  • Developed a Windows-based client-server application using that remotely monitors the statuses of the base stations.  • Troubleshoot and resolved bugs in .NET applications to ensure optimal development environment Jr. Database Administrator September 2006 to July 2007 • Clarified client requirements and project objectives via feedback sessions and client meetings.  • Performed daily DBA activities, including database backup and recovery, testing, and performance  Monitoring.  • Formatted, loaded, and transferred data into MS-SQL databases.  • Created stored procedures, views, functions and SQL queries to perform data manipulation and imports.  • Created DTS Package to import and export data from SQL Server to Text and Excel files.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler and database engine tuning advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  • Implemented database refresh using full export for tables level and full database defragmentation,  resulting in improved performance and effective space management.  • Documented and maintained database system specifications, diagrams, and connectivity charts.  • Aided in development, execution, and maintenance of disaster recovery plans for all data services.    Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Saginaw Valley State University, University Center 2009 Skills .Net (5 years), C+ (2 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (1 year), SQL (6 years), T-SQL (2 years)