CAD Drafter CAD Drafter CAD Drafter Dalton, GA A highly accomplished and reliable IT professional specializing in telecommunications, with extensive experience in engineering, databases/ database administration, mapping software, GIS/ facilities, conversions, budgeting, project management, and vendor relations. Utilizes analysis and forward-thinking skills to merge acquired systems, screen and select key vendors, and establish GIS maps. A dedicated and goal-driven producer who coordinates large conversions to ensure accuracy, improves efficiency through data server improvements, and implements reporting systems to increase communication and data accuracy. Work Experience CAD Drafter Luffman Byers Engineering - Dalton, GA 2018 to 2019 • Prepare construction drawings from engineering field notes.  • Prepare city, county and state DOT permit drawings.  • Prepare construction site detail drawings for telephone equipment.  • Train new drafters in standard best practices for telephony drafting.  • Provide review and feed back to new CAD drafters Supervisor, GIS ALLTEL/WINDSTREAM - Dalton, GA 2001 to 2018 • Managed staff of ten drafters and designers.  • Oversaw posting of engineering work prints for 13 states.  • Created special purpose GIS maps for regional and corporate executive.  • Served as member of conversion teams to integrate records of purchased companies into company systems. Added 25 new exchanges and several thousand customer records to system  • Developed departmental budget.  • Specified and ordered computers for CAD group.  • Collaborated with software manufacturer Bentley to customize version of MicroStation Telco for company. Met engineering practices and standards, as well as set up data server to pull data from GComms system. Achieved 20% time savings.  • Converted company from old FRAMME system to GComms, converting over 300 exchanges.  • Trained drafters and engineers on GComms system.  • Solicited potential vendors for contract labor through RFQ process, including identifying vendors meeting RFQ criteria and interviewing and selecting vendors.  • Coordinated invoicing and payment of contract labor. FRAMME Database Administrator ALLTEL/WINDSTREAM - Dalton, GA 2000 to 2001 • Maintained FRAMME Informix database.  • Administered Oracle database.  • Oversaw data backup and recovery of over 2,000 map files.  • Created quarterly and yearly reports for regional and corporate executives.  • Generated copies of GIS map data in other formats for use by various company partners.  • Installed and supported FieldView software for engineering staff.  • Implemented web-based reporting system to allow engineering managers to quickly generate reports for type and number of facilities placed, reducing report filing time. ACD Administrator ALLTEL/WINDSTREAM - Dalton, GA 1998 to 2000 Programmed and maintained ACD (automated call distribution) switch. Scheduled work times for 250-seat call center. Optimized call flow using real-time call arrival data. Analyzed historic call data to set staffing levels. Produced reports for regional and corporate executives. Maintained IVR (integrated voice response) system. Oversaw implementation of statistics-based call volume and scheduling software to better match schedules to anticipated call volume. Education B.A. in History UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA - Athens, GA 1993 Skills Autocad, Auto Cad, Drafting Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pauladempsey Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  AutoCAD 2018, SQL Oracle PL/SQL 1998+, MicroStation V8i, MicroStation Telco, Intergraph GComms 10.2, Microsoft Office Suite, Oracle PeopleSoft 8.54, Google Productivity Tools.