AWS Architect (Amazon Web Services)/Cloud specialist AWS Architect (Amazon Web Services)/Cloud specialist AWS Architect (Amazon Web Services)/Cloud specialist - Deloitte/ATC, Inc Alexandria, VA Work Experience AWS Architect (Amazon Web Services)/Cloud specialist Deloitte/ATC, Inc December 2015 to Present Senior Oracle Database/Application Administrator Deloitte/ATC, Inc December 2015 to Present I am proficient in cloud Technologies such as AWS - IaaS, PaaS, SaaS. I am hands on and experience in design, implementation, migration, and development of applications. I have been successful in technical consulting and architecture engagements with large-scale customers to provide enterprise solution. I am a domain expert in clouds industry. I am experienced in developing Innovative and Transformative solutions across technologies like - Content Management, Ecommerce, Mobile, Enterprise Business Integration. I am mastering in business communication and leadership skills. I have in-depth working knowledge to leverage cloud platform such as AWS EC2, S3, Redshift, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudFront, Storage Gateway, ElasticCache, Load Balancing, DataLake, AWS Database Migration Service, and GuardDuty.    I am supporting production/development team with full-life cycle development from design, implementation, production deployment, and maintenance within Dept of Transportation and FAA. Providing hands-on and expertise for all applications consolidation. I Provide best approach and methodologies to build Oracle 12C R2, 18C, 19C databases and application servers running on AWS and Oracle Cloud environment. I Provide Oracle installations, upgrades, patches, tunning backup/recovery, and cloning for Oracle RDBMS systems including Oracle Financial, Peoplesoft, and eBusiness Suite. Provide on-call support as needed. I provide Prototype environment to test Oracle 12GR2, 18C, 19C new features such as (Automatic In-Memory, Memoptimized Rowstore, Automatic Indexing,..etc) to enhance performance. Participating in weekly status meeting with all teams. Proven to be a team player in many projects. AWS Architect (Amazon Web Services)/Cloud specialist Booz Allen March 2011 to December 2015 Senior Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Booz Allen March 2011 to December 2015 I work with customers with their Cloud environment strategies and master plan of development based on business strategies (capturing current state, defining future state-to-be architecture leveraging Cloud Foundry) and building transition state architecture. I am devoted to success in building and migrating applications, software and services on the Cloud platforms. I propose and execute solutions to resolve complex business problems for areas of responsibilities where analysis of issues require an in-depth knowledge of organizational skills. I am in partnership with the sales team, and formulate sales strategies to exceed revenue objectives through the adoption of Cloud technologies. I work with customers on the value proposition of Cloud platforms, and participate in deep architectural discussions to ensure successful solutions and deployment into the cloud environments. I build deep relationships with senior technical individuals within customer organization to enable them to be cloud advocates. I discuss and ensure solutions are designed for successful deployment into the cloud environments.  • I am providing technical expertise to large team of developers to modernize, build, and re-architect existing database systems (Oracle RDBMS 10g/11g/12C), SQL Server 2005/2008 within FAA.  • Building new Development, UAT and Production databases to support new applications in AWS cloud environment.  • Integrating multiple data sources using snapshots, database links, ETL tool.  • Successfully built and maintain multi-terabytes Data Warehouse database using various data modeling tools - Erwin, Informatica, Warehouse builder, Rational suites.  • Analyzing system performance, database tuning, backup support, data migration and database configuration and proposed database organization and structure approached.  • Working with developers and data architects to achieve greater application performance, by troubleshooting databases and resolving data-related applications issues  • Presenting status of database support activities to FAA Senior Leadership.  • Hands-on and expertise in managing enterprise Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C Databases running on Sun Solaris/HP Unix, Windows, and Redhat Linux in Oracle Cloud environment.  • Experience in capacity planning, database re-organization, security and tuning the databases on ongoing basis.  • Subject matter expert in migrating Oracle 9i database to Oracle 10g/11g/12C.  • Experience with PL/SQL, SQL, and RDBMS programming.  • Experience with Database Design, Analysis, and Data Modeling.  • Experience of managing Java/J2EE applications using Oracle database.  • Experience with RDBMS performance monitoring tools.  • Dedicating to team work and a member of core successful team.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills.  • Strong oral and written communication skills. Oracle Database Administrator/Developer/Architect Lead SAIC/Occam Solutions August 2008 to March 2013 I am providing technical expertise, and playing a central role in a large team of Database Administrators to modernize and re-architect existing Oracle RDBMS 10g/11g, and SQL Server 2005/2008 database systems running on AWS and Oracle Clouds environments within Federal Communications Commission (FCC). I evaluate current configuration of multiple production Oracle database systems. I provide recommendation for database replication and disk mirroring for enterprise networks. I also provide performance tuning/optimization for all enterprise applications. I participate in new server consolidation project for all Oracle database servers. I provide recommendation, and implementation to enhance fragmented database systems. I streamline current business process by modifying, and creating new processes to better support new requirements. I build new database systems in high availability (Oracle RAC, DataGuard, SRDF, EMC SAN) environment during test, and development phrase. I provide full scope of documentation to better explain current system functionality. I provide affective recommendation for system enhancement during modernization phrase. I contribute and provide major effort to migrate existing production databases from IBM AIX to SUN Solaris platform which is utilizing Oracle Virtualization (VM), and VMware. I use Oracle Centralized Database Management System Grid Control to manage all databases within enterprise network. I maintain current production database systems including upgrades, installations, and patches running under SUN Solaris 9/10, HP-UX, RedHat Linux, and Windows operating systems. I participate in a new data architect project by producing new data models and integrating'other data sources using Oracle Warehouse Builder, Erwin, and Informatica ETL tools. I am in the process of building multi-terabytes Data Warehouse which is utilizing the latest Oracle RDBMS 11g R1/R2 features. In order to achieve the optimal performance, high availability, and secured Very Large Database (VLDB - Data Warehouse), I am leading in prototyping, and evaluating Oracle RDBMS features such as Timesten In-Memory database, Data Masking, Data Mining, Data Partitioning, Advanced Compression, Data Encryption, and Active Data Guard. Senior Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Oracle Corporation/Netcom Group July 2007 to August 2008 I participated in a major modernization project to enhance a 39 Terabytes mission-critical 24/7 database for Department of Homeland Security. Works involved prototyping, designing, and implementing series of databases to mimic production environment. I worked with a team of developers, and database administrators to conduct test, and to analyze different methodologies to improve production environment. I was a member of a core team to provide solution to implement high availability (RAC, DataGuard, SAN SRDF) database systems, and failover secondary site. I also participated in prototyping new 77 Terabytes database image storage architect. I researched and analyzed in-dept of Oracle RDMBS 10g/11g, SQL Server features such as data partitioning, data compression, data encryption, and data vault to improve database performance, storage, and security. I assisted developers to write affective PL/SQL, stored procedures, and triggers to gain optimal performance. I also provided hands-on Oracle RDBMS/Application installations, upgrades, patches, and performance tuning. I completed building several Oracle 10g/11g database servers. I completed numbers of data architect, and data migration projects using data modeler Erwin, and Warehouse builder ETL(Extract, Transformation, and Load) tools. Senior Oracle Database Administrator/Developer/Architect Lead CSC/ATC May 2005 to July 2007 I provided technical consulting to the Counterintelligence Field Activity (CIFA). My specific responsibilities included (1) developing logical data models using ERwin CASE tool for all Point Solutions projects (2) creating the physical data models and configuration of the targeted database (e.g., Oracle 10g/11g RDBMS, Microsoft SQL, Microsoft Access) to support data-driven Web applications, (3) using various CASE tools to support application development (e.g., Oracle Designer 2000, Oracle Migration Workbench), and (4) responsible for maintenance, upgrade, installation, and security patches for all database servers to ensure that the deployed software have the latest patches/updates. I was responsible for developing required life-cycle documentation like the Database Design Document (DBDD) and the Software Installation Plan (SIP). I helped the projects in maximizing its investment in Oracle 10g, and SQL Server RDBMS by identifying built-in features that would eliminate or reduce development effort. For example, I identified the Oracle Ultra Search/Oracle Secure Search for 10g as an enterprise-level search engine with minimal programming, the Oracle Ultra Search component is now the standard/reusable search component for all projects. I recommended Oracle Database Vault as a standard data security feature which was used for all projects. I planned all production deployment for newly developed data-driven applications. Senior Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Lead at CACI November 2002 to May 2005 I provided database and application support for users and developers at Department of Defense. Specifically, I was responsible for installation, configuration, and upgrade of Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle application server 9i/10g, and SQL Server databases. Also, I was responsible for setting up test environment and backup/recovery procedure using RMAN. I contributed to the design and implementation of disaster plan and high availability environment using SharePlex, and Oracle DataGuard software. I am experienced with supporting high availability database designs using Veritas, EMC/SRDF/BCV and 24/7 Cluster Server failover technology on EMC/SAN; and Oracle replication for distributed systems. I am an expert in using database management tools - OEM, and TOAD. Also, I provided expertise in database performance tuning and optimization. I am experienced in CMMI level 3 of configuration management and PVCS tracker. I am a member of core team supporting mission-critical applications. I streamlined and provided standard database operation procedure running on Unix/Windows/Linux platform. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Northrop Grumman August 1998 to November 2002 At Department of Defense, I worked with a team of more than 35 software and database engineers to support 10 different applications in development and production mission-critical environment (24/7) operating in Unix, NT, Linux and hybrid environments within Department of Defense. My specific responsibilities included:  • Installations, upgrades, and maintain of new Oracle RDBMS 8i/9i, and SQL Server databases.  • Provide guidance in using Oracle 8i/9i, SQL Server new features.  • Provide test scenarios for backup and recovery using RMAN, and Legato.  • Provide data modeling/ database design, reverse and forward engineer for different applications.  • Provide database migration/conversion from existing disparate databases (e.g., Informix, DB2, Sybase, MS SQL Server, MS Access) to Oracle.  • Define and enforce security by creating database auditing, access control, data security, traces, and monitor users activities.  • Design database system infrastructure to accommodate rapid business data growth. Standardized database support, and operating environment for other business units to follow.  • Responsible for development and deployment of an Oracle database to support PeopleSoft project. For example, I supported two very large Data Warehouses running on Oracle 8i/9i databases.  • Assisted in developing Oracle 9iAS Portals, and applications using Java, JavaBeans, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, ASP, HTML, JSP, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, SQLLOADER, Stored procedures, and Triggers. Consulted in building applications using infrastructure software IBM-WebSphere, BEA-Webgain, SUN-iPlanet. For example, I involved with the development of a US Army portal using Oracle 9i Web portals and Oracle application servers that process information and images for the US Army. The system is able to process global input utilizing wireless technology and Worldwide Web connection.  • Provide system administration on SUN Solaris/HP-UNIX/NT operating systems as needed. This role included writing scripts to automate backups and nightly batch jobs.  • Contribute to CMM level 3 complaints by using PVCS tracking implementation. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Lead Oracle Corporation/Netcom Group May 1996 to August 1998 I provided database design and development consulting for Department of Education. My specific responsibilities included supporting Oracle 7/8i databases on NT, Sun OS, and HP-Unix environment across multiple hardware platforms. I lead the DBA team in supporting ongoing projects and new development projects involving different OLTP/DSS systems. I integrated many COTS applications, implemented new Data Warehousing projects, consulted in implementing new Oracle Web-Servers. I participated in full life-cycle of software development process to develop applications using Java, HTML, Javascript, Pro*C, Visual C++/Basic, Powerbuilder, PL/SQL, Stored Procedure, Triggers. I provided support and development of PeopleSoft/Oracle, Provided system administration on SUN Solaris/HP-UNIX/NT operating systems. Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Corporation/The Expert Inc January 1995 to May 1996 I provided database design and development consulting for Department of Justice via many prime contractors (i.e., Syscon/Logicon, Fannie Mae, I-NET and PRC). Specifically, I was responsible for the design and development of various Oracle databases to track equipments within DOJ:  • Defined and enforced the database standards and standardization for database operation.  • Member of a team of four Oracle database engineers to implement a 100Gig plus Data Warehouse. The Database had potential growth up to 3 Terabytes, and the capacity planning with regards to the hardware and the Oracle sizing was done to support this growth factor. The Operating environment was on Sun Solaris. I administered databases for approximately 55 users during Acceptance Test/Pilot phase.  • Designed, developed and deployed an Oracle database to support PeopleSoft project. I performed as the principal DBA to support Human Resource Dept running on Oracle/PeopleSoft. I was responsible for the sizing and both physical and logical layout of the database schemas. I was responsible for reverse engineering of COBOL-base application running on IBM/AIX mainframe to Oracle/PeopleSoft based solution. I was an integral part of the development team that developed the applications using Pro*C, Visual C++/Basic, Powerbuilder, PL/SQL, Stored Procedure, Triggers. I performed Optimization/Tuning of the databases. I was responsible for providing operational support to guarantee 24/7 availability of the database systems. Also, I was responsible for defining disaster recovery plan. Education B.S. in Computer Science George Mason University May 1994