Laboratory Technician Laboratory Technician Laboratory Technician Spring Valley, CA Data-driven masters student of biology and master of MS Excel, Word, and Access seeking a position in the field of life sciences where I can help people. Cancer genetics is my passion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Laboratory Technician Ethos Diagnostics - San Diego, CA September 2017 to Present ?     Process laboratory tests: CBC, biochemistry, coagulation panels, blood typing, serology, fecal, urine sediment.  ?     Microscopy: parasitology, hematology, urinalysis; microbiology: plating, MIC.   ?     Data entry and resulting in a Laboratory Information System, prepare specimen for send out, filing, stocking, customer service. Develop SOPs. Control and QC biochemistry analyzers. Instructional Assistant Grossmont Community College - El Cajon, CA 2013 to Present • College Reading and Learning Association (CRLA) Certified English Tutor.  • Embedded tutor at Las Colinas Women's Prison.  • Philosophy teacher's assistant and tutor. Instructional Assistant Miramar Community College - San Diego, CA May 2017 to September 2017 ?     Split cells, transform competent cells, pour/run agarose gels, assist with PCR, and aliquot samples.  ?     Assist instructional lab tech and instructors with classroom laboratory needs.  ?     Run experiments in advance of class to assure they work as expected. Director of Membership/ Database Administrator California Medical Association - San Diego, CA May 2005 to August 2012 ?     Increased membership 20% to 3,500 physician members; develop analytical reports using relational databases, Excel charting, graphing, and pivot tables; train staff, physicians, and physician office staff.  ?     Develop and maintain platform application; maintain and integrate MS Access DB to the Internet Cloud,  ?      Negotiate member benefits with vendor partners, create manuals, protocols, and Standard Operating Procedures, maintain relationships with physicians and physician office staff. Registrar/Corporate Database Developer/Manager Youth Specialties - El Cajon, CA January 1996 to April 2005 ?     Coordinate convention customer registration including housing for 3500 attendees; manage 26 volunteers and seven employees at events in five locations.  ?     Build database from the ground up and write manuals and SOPs; write customer contact and marketing pieces.  ?     Train staff in MS Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, and in proprietary software. Education Master's in Biology University of Nebraska at Kearney - Kearney, NE September 2018 to Present B.S. in Molecular Biology University of California - San Diego, CA June 2017 Skills Aseptic (Less than 1 year), Aseptic Technique (Less than 1 year), autoclave (Less than 1 year), Bacterial (Less than 1 year), Bioinformatics (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Phlebotomy Technician I M2E9L3H8 July 2018 to July 2020 CPT1 Additional Information Lab Skills  ?      CellCulture, Asceptic technique  ?     Light Microscope and Hemacytometer  ?     Assays – LDH, Bradford, ELISA  ?     PCR/Bacterial Transformation  ?     Agarose Gel Electrophoresis  ?     Bioinformatics  ?     Fecal parasite identification  ?     Phlebotomy - venipuncture and capillary draws  ?     Digestion and cloning of plasmids  ?     Microbiology - Plating/MIC  ?     Aliquotting samples  ?     Blood smears/CBC analyzer (Advia/Horiba)  ?     Chemistry machine (Beckmann, Immulite)  ?     Prepare samples for send out  ?     Quality Assurance/GMP  ?     Buffer and solution preparation  ?     QA/QC Chemistry Machine  ?     Drawing patient samples (phlebotomy)  ?     Urinalysis  ?     Accessioning/Releasing Results (LIS)  ?     Centrifuge, vortex, spectroscope, autoclave, chromatograph, balance, pH Meter