Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Richmond, VA To obtain a full-time position as a database administrator. Work Experience Database Administrator True Health Diagnostics - Richmond, VA February 2016 to Present I monitor and maintain several three node high availability SQL Server Clusters  ? Utilize Ola Hallengren and native maintenance/backup jobs to ensure SQL server databases are in excellent working condition  ? Identify owners of databases and schedule maintenance windows to patch SQL server instances  ? Archive backups of unused databases and removed the databases from the production servers  ? Develop and update documentation on disaster recovery and keep an inventory of all databases current  ? Rewired and physically re-racked servers in the server room to consolidate server into smaller racks  ? Install and monitored Vipre installations on all user workstations. Database Administrator Virginia Premier Health Plan - Richmond, VA March 2015 to February 2016 Richmond, VA  ? Configured Idera Diagnostic Manager to monitor: long running or failed jobs, disk space utilization, and high memory and CPU consummation.  ? Maintained existing and created new Idera SQLSafe plans for backing up and restoring databases.  ? Project lead for planning and upgrading production data warehouse servers from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012  ? Identified all databases that had never been backed up or never had regular maintenance plans ranging from SQL 2000 to SQL 2012  ? Resized log files that had grown out of control due to misconfiguration of recovery type. As well as I worked with the owners of the database to explain the recovery modes and how they should be configured Database Administrator Video Gaming Technologies - Franklin, TN October 2013 to March 2015 Installed and upgraded production and development instances to SQL 2008 R2 or SQL 2012  ? Established database maintenance routine containing scheduled re-indexing and consistency checks  ? Created database backup schedule for production and development environments to ensure data recovery  ? Restored databases from backups as well as detaching and re-attaching databases per customers' requests  ? Promptly addressed failed MSSQL jobs when alerted by System Center Operations Manager  ? Performed database tuning for optimization on production servers: Corrected VLF, moved MDF and LDF to separate drives, and updated file growth rates to appropriate levels Systems Analyst Level III Video Gaming Technologies - Franklin, TN August 2010 to October 2013 Performed network monitoring and troubleshot both LAN and WAN issues  ? Monitored server health of over 600 Windows servers across the US and Mexico  ? Provided 24/7 on-call support for the database and network team  ? Maintained clear and complete documentation in ticketing system  ? Adhered to strict remote access regulations for over thirty different Native American Tribes Technical Analyst Level I Health Management Corporation - Richmond, VA March 2009 to August 2010 Managed user accounts with Active Directory  ? Created a training manual for troubleshooting VPN issues  ? Audited tickets for quality assurance  ? Troubleshot work at home user computers, printers, phone systems, and network drives Contracted Technical Analyst Health Management Corporation - Richmond, VA June 2008 to March 2009 Provided a single point of contact for all users to report problems and service requests  ? Provided first level technical support to internal users for troubleshooting problems  ? Solved complex issues by leveraging knowledge from higher level techs Network Management Center Intern Video Gaming Technologies - Ruckersville, VA June 2007 to August 2007 Answered incoming telephone calls from customers and offered technical support expertise  ? Built client machines for the testing of new software being developed  ? Helped troubleshoot internal problems with co-workers' computers  ? Answered e-mail messages using Outlook and updated tickets to record all elements of each situation  ? Reset passwords and unlocked user accounts using Active Directory tools Education B.S. in Information Systems & Technology Radford University - Radford, VA May 2008