Database Administrator (DBA) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Database Administrator Adelphi, MD Experienced SQL Server Database Administrator with a demonstrated history of working in the government administration industry since 2005. Skilled in SQL Server Database Administration, T-SQL, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), C#. Strong information technology professional with a Master's degree focused on Information Systems and Technology from the University of Michigan. Currently studying Big Data. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (DBA) State of Michigan - Lansing, MI August 1999 to Present  Current Duties:  1. Ensure all database servers are backed up in a way that meets the business’s Recovery Point Objectives (RPO)  2. Test backups to ensure we can meet the business’ Recovery Time Objectives (RTO)  3. Troubleshoot SQL Server service outages as they occur, including after-hours and weekends  4. Configure SQL Server monitoring utilities to minimize false alarms  5. Install and configure new SQL Servers  6. Change configurations on existing SQL Servers  7. Deploy database change scripts provided by third party vendors  8. When performance issues arise, determine the most effective way to increase performance including server configuration changes, or index/query changes  9. Document the company’s database environment  10. On-call troubleshooting experience for production SQL Servers.  11. Finding DMV queries to answer questions about server-level performance  12. Tuning T-SQL queries to improve performance  13. Building and maintaining SQL Server Integration Services projects  14. Building and maintaining SQL Server Reporting Services projects     Core Competencies:  o  SQL Server Database Administration  o  Backup and Disaster Recovery  o  Data Design and Implementation  o  SQL Server Reporting Services  o  SQL Server Integration Services  o  SQL Server Replication  o  Log Shipping  o   Database Mirroring     Technical Proficiency:  o  RDBMS   Microsoft SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008, 2005   Microsoft Access 2016 / 2013 / 2010  o  Languages   T-SQL   C#   ASP.NET  o  Development Environments   Microsoft SQL Server 2016 / 2014 / 2012 / 2008 / 2005 Reporting Services   Microsoft SQL Server 2016 / 2014 / 2012 / 2008 / 2005 Integration Services   Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2015 / 2012 / 2010  o  Platforms   Microsoft Windows 10, 7, 2000  o  Big Data - Currently studying the following at www.pluralsight.com   Big Data   Hadoop   R programming language   Python   Google Big Query   Tableau  o  Other Tools   Microsoft Office 2016 / 2013 / 2010   Microsoft Visio   Microsoft Project     Professional Experience:  o  Data Administration:   Installed, upgraded, configured and maintained MS SQL Server for different releases and editions   Monitored transaction activities for different environments and editions   Worked closely with project managers, programmers and testers to ensure that applications meet business requirements   Developed and maintained T-SQL stored procedures, views and triggers for various databases   Created, reviewed and implemented maintenance plans on development, testing and production servers   Created and maintained documentation for DBA standard operating procedures   Created and maintained documentation for disaster recovery  o  SSIS Projects:   Developed and maintained SSIS projects for the development, testing and production environments of different agencies  o  Replication:   Implemented, tested and supported SQL Server transactional replication in both test and production environments for different agencies   Involved in complete project development life cycles from design to implementation of systems  o  DTMB – Agency Services, 2014 - present:   Working as a database administrator for the following agencies:  ·        Attorney General  ·        Lottery  ·        Michigan State Housing Development Authority  ·        Enterprise Call Center  ·        Treasury  o  DTMB – Agency Services, 2012 - 2014:   Part of the team that developed the Meal Tracking application for the Michigan Department of Corrections.   Part of the team that developed the VASOR application for the Michigan Department of Corrections.  o  State of Michigan – Michigan Economic Development Corporation, 2007 - 2012:    Database Administrator:  ·        Provided Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008 Database Administration support for the MEDC. Supported and implemented database standards on SQL Server instances. Was responsible for database maintenance, backup and disaster recovery policy implementation.   Salesforce Administrator:  ·        As part of a Salesforce Administrator team, I set up, configured, and maintained Salesforce CRM functionality. I also managed data utilities, security, and reports.  ·        I was part of the team that created new and maintained existing:  o  page layouts, fields, and tabs  o  secure Salesforce environment  o  Maintain and import clean data  o  Reports and dashboards   Call Center Administrator:  ·        Worked with a teammate to administer and maintain two call centers at the Michigan Economic Development Corporation.  ·        Was responsible for the maintenance and backup of the databases that serve the two call centers.  o  DTMB – Agency Services, 2005 - 2007:    Database Administrator:  ·        Provided Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008 Database Administration support for the Attorney General’s Legal Files project. Supported and implemented database standards on SQL Server instances. Was responsible for database maintenance, backup and disaster recovery policy implementation. Education Masters in Information Systems and Technology University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Microcomputer and Network Management in Microcomputer and Network Management Davenport University - Lansing, MI Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Systems Analysis and Applications in Development Davenport University - Lansing, MI Associates degree Liberal Arts. Lansing Community College - Lansing, MI Skills database (10+ years), Database Administration (7 years), disaster recovery (7 years), Microsoft SQL Server (7 years), MS SQL Server (7 years), Sql Dba, Sql Server Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sainey