Senior Manager of Database Operations / Database Architect Senior Manager of <span class="hl">Database</span> Operations / <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Senior Manager of Database Operations / Database Architect - Stubhub.com Novato, CA Work Experience Senior Manager of Database Operations / Database Architect Stubhub.com - San Francisco, CA 2012 to Present 2017-Present  Oversee a team of 15 in database administration projects; collaborating across the globe (India, China, and the United States) to meet business needs. Retired unsupported data platforms to increase the efficiency of the organization; improved database security and implemented TCPS, data obfuscation. Ensured that all database items met the identified needs of the business requirements at hand.  • Integral contributor in growing the company from $500M to %5B+ while keeping data operations and uptime at an optimum level of 99%.  • Improved synergy and enhanced training communication by combining numerous splintered DBA groups into a single cohesive support group. Senior Database Architect Stubhub.com 2012 to 2017 Performed an array of service projects on Stubhub's ecommerce database, including performance tuning and stabilization of data. Led teams of DBAs in advanced performance tuning techniques, creating AWR reports, advanced troubleshooting, and more. Designed new, innovative processes and procedures to enhance database performance. Served as a subject matter expert on fraud management, delivering presentations at six Oracle conferences and Oracle Open World Executive panels.  • Improved database performance to operate at 99.99% uptime compared to daily brownouts.  • Slashed the data warehousing batch cycle from 15 hours per day to 7 hours; eliminated daily crashes and realized 99% uptime.  • Designed the very first successful disaster recovery switchover for Stubhub.com between datacenters.  • Created innovative SQL statement performance restoration process; obscuring data from production to development.  • Reduced the fraud rate by 25M+ annually by implementing Oracle's R language into the ecommerce engine. Associate Director of Database Operations Digital River, Inc 2005 to 2012 Administered daily DBA operations and oversaw a team of 8 DBAs in the United States and Ireland; spearheaded the management of 400 Oracle, MySQL, and SQLserver databases operating in 8 global data centers. Performed annual performance reviews, maintained SOX compliance, and scheduled annual employee training. Mentored team members.  • Successfully guided four acquisition migrations into corporate data centers; managed software licensing renewals and purchases including Oracle/Quest. Senior Database Administrator Digital River, Inc 2000 to 2005 Supported 120+ databases, supplying 80% of the world's ecommerce services for major customers such as Symantecstore.com and store.taxcut.com. Performed a variety of project work to configure, tune, and install Oracle's web cache, Quest's Shareplex, and Oracle databases to support 34,000 ecommerce sites.  • Developed, configured, and tuned standby and production databases, installing upgrades, and performing extensive SQL query optimization; tuned RMAN backups and applied patches using Oracle components.  • Assisted in the daily database maintenance process by creating numerous Kornshell scripts to maintain 100% uptime SLA.    * * * * * *  Additional excellent experience includes Database Administration Consultant for Best Buy World Headquarters, managing and maintaining a 1.4 terabyte database with 6,500+ users. Full project details available upon request. Education Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice University of Wisconsin - River Falls, WI Skills database