Data Architect Data Architect Data Architect - CPI One Point Lewisville, TX Mario has (18) years extensive experience as a database developer, windows and web developer in Visual Basic, VB.NET, ASP, ASP.NET, C#, and SQL Server 6-2016 and Azure Database. He has performed duties as project manager, database administrator, IVR developer and administrator, reports developer. Mario has provided classroom training on in-house business applications. Currently have a Secret Clearance that is not active. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Architect CPI One Point - Lewisville, TX August 2017 to Present Responsible for Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery   • Rebuilt BI/ETL/CC Finance Database Server    Responsible for all daily SSIS imports:  • CPI Data Warehouse  ? ProcessDataMarts  ? SalesOrder  ? SalesOrderDetail  ? SalesOrderJournal  ? SalesOrderJournalDetail  ? Sales Inventory  ? SKU/Maccodes  ? Sales people  ? PurchaseOrder  ? PurchaseOrderDetails  ? Customer Information  ? Many more  • Customer Automated React Systems  ? Use Constant Contact web api to send email events and flyers for sales purposes  • Purged Purchase Orders  ? Provides a daily list of PO  • Map Driver Data  ? Maps driver route and address for google maps  • Warehouse Inventory Tracker  ? Track, add, update and remove inventory on the Carousel machine  • Warehouse Inventory Machine Program  ? Track inventory on the VLM and Carousel machine to determine which item needs to be restocked    Provide email statuses to indicate a count or totals to their respective department's employees. Used VBA to manipulate most of the formatting and color formation to meet certain requirements.    All packages are using environment variables.    Responsible for all SSRS reports  • Modified and Maintained existing reports  • Created new reports    Responsible for all SSAS / MS Tabular Models  • Managed and Maintained all existing MS Tabular models  • Created new Tabular models  ? AR Collection Trial Balance  ? AR Collection Sales Trial Balance  ? Purchase Order Full History    Create and maintain web based tools for these company departments:  • Warehouse  • Delivery & Product  • Inventory  • Packaging and Shipping  • Finance departments.  • Security tool to manage the user to access the web applications  • Catalog  • Wrote API (C# and SSIS) to access Constant Contact WEBAPI to send CPI customer alerts, flyers, sales and event. Database Development Developer Project ELL - Plano, TX August 2015 to August 2017 • Managed the ETL Data Service team  • Oversee and responsible for ETL daily import / exporting data files  • Established and documented business processes and procedures  • Established and created business (DSS) data sheet specifications  • Established and created business data importing processes for each client's Student Info System  • Created and managed SQL Server AZURE Databases \ tables \ stored procedures \ functions  • Created and managed SQL Server Project to set up database staging environment  • Created and managed SSIS packages for each client  • Created and Established an email, data file cleanup and maintenance processes and procedures  • Provided internal and external client \ vendor customer services support  • Used Visual Studio \ TFS to maintain all client's packages  • Created and managed UDF's \ Stored Procedures \ tables  • Used SQL Profiler to troubleshooting issues  • Optimized SQL queries and stored procedures  • Used SQL profiler tracing and troubleshooting.  • Always looking for ways to improve the processes and procedures. Software Developer Data Paradigm April 2015 to August 2015 • Classic ASP / VBScript modifies and maintain software programs  • Developed a variety of customized application for corporate use on .NET technology, classic asp based websites and JavaScript.  • Responsible for enhancing and upgrading web applications that track product  • Responsible for solving web and database based ticket issues  • TFS \ Visual Source Safe Database Security Administrator / Developer Baylor Healthcare - Dallas, TX April 2014 to April 2015 • Debugged and modified existing Financial Services Systems Accounting asp.net applications.  • Debugged and modified existing Financial Services Systems Accounting MS Access Databases and SQL queries.  • Designed, created, modified the Financial Services Systems Accounting asp.net web based applications that provide approval requirement and approval requirement amounts on HFO grants.  • Designed all applications to retrieve AD employee status and email addresses  • Designed, created single sign-on AD application (ARTS) for users in Central and North Regions  ? Grant Management (Grants) VB.NET  ? Asset Retirement Transfers. VB.NET  ? Financial Edge Request Forms. C#  * Wrote Documentation.  * Request Form User Guide.  * Approver Queue User Guide.  * Technical User Guide.  * Administrator User Guide  • Built, designed, and implemented reports (Crystal Reports). Database Developer Sentari Technologies - Fort Worth, TX September 2012 to September 2013 • Designed and created an SSIS process that automated void checks and positive pay checks process and provided a date range process for check reprints in SSRS.  • Designed and created SSRS reports  • Designed and created asp.net C# web applications  • Modifying and maintaining multiple MS Access applications  • Writing a reconciliation process between the data warehouse and off the shelf application called Unifier to determine what financial data have not yet been sent to Unifier, and if the data sent was sent correctly in order to ensure that Unifier data is timely, meaningful and accurate. This process is to identify and resolve of any discrepancies between the financial data shown their mainframe and Unifier to ensure that the same transactions and balances are reflected in each system. The reconciliation process will include an automated and scheduled job on a daily process.  • Modified and adjusted reconciliation process to meet the clients need with explanations of what transaction was sent and how to handle that process.  • Rewrote Gas Well and Gas Lease financial reporting (detail and summary) process and created new reports.  • Supported, created, debugged, and modified Stored Procedures /tables / databases Contractor ITT Exelis (Department of Defense February 2012 to April 2012 IT Support Specialist  • Provided desktop support for the Department of Defense Army base on Camp As Sayliyah  • Supported Windows 7 users  • Maintain, analyze, and troubleshoot computer systems, hardware, printers and peripherals.  • Coordinate the configuration and installation of PCs, CS, DT, printers, terminals, thin clients and network equipment.  • Document equipment locations and complete software upgrades when necessary.  • Educate users on policies and procedures as necessary.  • Manage technicians and the schedules  • Performs routine install, move, add, and change activities based upon prescribed procedures and processes and as specifically directed for (NIPRNET) and classified (SIPRNET)  • Installed/Configured/Troubleshoot  • Ghost image and Restore/Configure user profile, mail, and data Independent Contractor Data Magic September 2011 to November 2011 Developer  Successfully designed and implemented a new functionality to the metrocommunication.com website using visual basic.net and SQL Server 2005. The goal for this enhancement is to give current customers access to printable service orders and inspection reports via the web. Detailed below are the items that will be implemented on the Metro website to reach this goal. They include:  • Login page with the ability to log in in as Community or Management Company  • Two new pages displaying service history in table format for respective logins.  • Service orders displayed in table act as a link to print single service reports as PDF.  • Inspection reports displayed in table act as a link to print single inspection order as PDF.  • Ability to print grid view as PDF. Database/Systems Developer Sekisui Chemicals February 2011 to July 2011 • Completed an SDLC Sales Data Forecasting System that was a manual process  • Successfully wrote requirements, database, design, web, and training documents on newly designed Sales Data Actual, Budget and Forecasting System to produce Profit & Loss, Top20 Customer global & region, Gross Margin, Sales by Region, Top 20 basegrade and many more reports in SSRS.  • Successfully architected Sales Data Forecasting and reporting system using SSIS, SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2010, script components  • Designed and created ETL data integration system and data validation that imports actual, budget and forecasting sales data from SAP using SSIS SQL Server 2008 (Visual Basic & C#)  • Designed and created a financial calculation system to calculate sales data based on period year, sales volume, actual or budget or forecast in a stored procedure  • Created and designed web pages to track and store sales data, eliminate manual hands on process, lookup pricing values and generating profit & loss, top20 basegrades, top10 global & regional customers, sales by region and gross margin reports  • Created and designed database, tables, stored procedures  • Created and designed numerous web pages using visual studio 2010 (vb.net code behind) Database Developer Bank of America July 2009 to November 2010 • Worked 60% remote and 40% on site.  • Managing the enterprise contact server team servers to be transitioned from the countrywide datacenters to Bank of America datacenter  • Successfully created and implemented applications that allows the business unit to add/update/delete using C# and SQL Server 2005  • Successfully created and implemented automation application that eliminates the ECS team from manually creating new databases, tables, user access, drop and recreate tables, store, drop, recreate, and repopulate tables using C#, stored procedures and SQL scheduler.  • Successfully created C# web-service that pulls data from IBM Mainframe.  • Successfully converted multiple DTS packages to SSIS packages  • Converting multiple .asp pages to asp.net (C#) Software Architect Kaiser Permanente December 2008 to July 2009 • Responsibility to analyze, modify, architect, and enhance business applications that was written in VB, VB.NET, C#, Access, Stored Procedures to be transitioned to a VMware and VM desktop environment.  • Responsible for modifying and testing for any timing issues and connection issues that will affect the users.  • Migrated and converted multiple DTS packages to SSIS (SQL Server Integrated Services) Professional Services Consultant Aspect Professional Services September 2007 to October 2008 • Traveled 70% and 30% remote to various locations to perform IVR Development  • Successfully met all request set by Aspect and their clients.  • Developed IVR applications based on Aspects client's functional specifications designs  • Developed a host integration screen pop process utilizing LYRICall and visual basic 6  • Developed single inbound IVR call routing applications.  • Agent Desktop Application integration  • Created and modified functional specifications documents for their clients contact centers  • Perform administration duties on clients Unified Director application  • Used Visual Basic 6.0, ASP, SQL Server, IVR, and JavaScript to successfully implement and meet the client's needs. Education BAAS in Advance Technology University of North Texas May 2005 A.A.S in Computer Science Texas State Technical College September 1997 Skills Ado (Less than 1 year), Ado.net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Asp (1 year), asp.net (3 years), C# (4 years), Crystal reports (1 year), Data analytics (Less than 1 year), Database (6 years), Javascript. (1 year), Microsoft access (2 years), Microsoft ssrs (3 years), Ms access (2 years), Ms asp (3 years), Ms sql server (5 years), Sql (6 years), Sql server (5 years), Ssrs (3 years), stored procedures (5 years), Vb.net (2 years), Contractor Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses MCSA May 2019 to Present 2016 SQL Server Database Development MTA Database Fundamentals September 2017 to Present Microsoft SQL Server Database Fundamentas Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY                                Database:            SQL Server 6-2016, SQL Azure DTS, SSIS, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, MS Access  Data Analytics:  SSAS, MS Tabular  Languages:          ASP.Net, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, VB, ASP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  Reports:               Crystal Reports, SSRS, Access  Support:               Hardware, Software, Printer, Network Systems  Knowledge:          Web Services, Tableau, PowerBI, TFS, Azure Portal