Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Tuknik Government Services Albuquerque, NM Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Tuknik Government Services April 2018 to Present Environment: MS SQL Server (2008 R2/2012/2016), Windows 2003/2008/2012, Oracle  Responsible for migration and re-architecting of data warehouse from Sybase to SQL Server environment. Participate in design/development of enterprise data warehouse. Provide SSIS, SSRS, performance tuning, and general database environment support. Senior Database Administrator New Mexico Student Loans September 2014 to March 2018 Environment: MS SQL Server (2005/2008/R2/2012/2014/2016), Windows 2003/2008/2012, AS400  Responsible for all SQL Server database environment development and system maintenance. Utilize SSIS, SSRS, stored procedures, etc. to develop and maintain ETL processes for loan and phone call center interfaces. Perform database environment maintenance, performance tuning, and security monitoring. Created data warehouse for student loan analysis and payment performance monitoring utilizing SSIS, SSRS, SSAS (tabular), and SQL batch processes. Process enabled lowering of student default percentage. Skilled in SharePoint 2013 development and administration in order to migrate from previous version and to enhance usage with business intelligence capabilities. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator January 2013 to May 2014 Environment: MS SQL Server (2008/R2/2012), Windows 2003/2008,.Net, AS400  Develop and maintain insurance costing systems and batch processes utilizing SSIS and stored procedures. Integrated data from SQL Server, Oracle, and AS400 data sources. Introduced more robust operational database maintenance processes to SQL Server environment. Architected, designed, and developed data mart with ETL processes for financial data derived from SAP environment. Mentored effort to develop reporting environment for actuarial data analysis utilizing Reporting Services. Utilized SSIS and Espresso for ETL processes. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Wells Fargo, Inc June 2008 to December 2012 Environment: MS SQL Server (2000/2005/2008/R2/2012), Windows 2003/2008, ER/Studio, .Net, AS400  Develop database backend and administrative functions for standalone insurance quoting software to be utilized by field agents. Database capabilities include ability to download actuarial updates staged on an external web server. Project involves SQL Server 2005/2008/R2 and SSIS. Participate in team responsible for developing/building SQL Server environment to support online version of company application into which field agents will connect to enter policies and crop history. Lead migration to Windows 2008 / SQL Server 2008 R2 environment. Provide mentoring and support to junior database administrators. Product manager 2010 to 2012 * Managed 10-12 engineers in the development of test suites for INFORMIX server products.  * Responsible for development of test suites to ensure the interoperability of INFORMIX and 3rd party tools with server products as well as product testing of database engines.  * Product manager for INFORMIX ODBC driver product. Partnered with 3rd part vendors, technical writers, other product managers, and technical support to ensure timely and successful product release.  * Adhered to standard software development processes including the creation of development plans and specifications. Managed inspection and review of all project documents and code.  * Automated test ware for execution and analysis against Informix and 3rd party databases.  * Responsible for project management of multiple, concurrent testing efforts for database software releases. Coordinated activities of several testing groups for major releases.  * Managed software development of migration tool for INFORMIX NewEra graphical programming product.  * Participated in personnel and equipment budgeting processes. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Verifications, Inc August 2007 to June 2008 Environment: MS SQL Server (2000/2005), Windows 2003, ER/Studio, .Net, Cold Fusion  SQL Server database development and support for pre-employment screening, background check, and drug-testing. Development team member responsible for database modeling and design, schema development, and database architecture for high-availability for web site re-design effort. Responsible for data migration and conversion between existing applicant on-boarding web application and externally-developed application. Database maintenance and support for multiple (30+) SQL Server database servers (Dev/QA/Prod). Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Fidelity National August 2006 to July 2007 Environment: MS SQL Server (2000/2005), Windows 2003, MS Access  SQL Server database support for mortgage and mortgage foreclosure industries. Support database activities for .Net development platforms including performance tuning, architecture planning, and mentoring junior database administrators. Planning and implementation of server migration to SQL 2005, 64-bit clustered environment. Analysis, design, and planning of SQL 2005 migration for financial, analytical applications. SQL Server and Systems Integration Consultant September 2005 to July 2006 Environment: MS SQL Server (6.5/70/2000/2005), Windows 2003, MS Access, Progress, SCO UNIX  Description: Independent consultant performing database administration and application development in multiple environments. Data warehouse development for Financial services.    Responsibilities:  • Internet Retail  Develop and maintain SQL Server and Progress database environment for growing internet retailer. Unix maintenance and support for Order Fulfillment environment. Develop and maintain integration software to web site and vendors (EDI). Develop data marts utilizing SQL Server and reports via Reporting Services. Monitor database for performance issues and tune as appropriate.  • Healthcare  MS SQL Server development and DBA support for web site developed to support company drug-testing business. Develop and implement data models, stored procedures, triggers, and reports. Provide database support for EDI application. General database administration duties including nightly backups, performance tuning, and production support responsibilities.  • Retail  Provide application development for lighting showroom retail business. Develop Progress Database based applications and reports to support sales and inventory activities. Technology and Chief Technical Officer, Bellacor Directory November 2003 to September 2005 Environment: SQL Server, Windows 2003, MS Access, Progress, SCO Unix  Description: IT Director of Technology, SQL Server database administration and application support for web site order entry.    Responsibilities:  * Internet Application Development  Responsible for management of Bellacor's Internet development team. Implemented performance and feature enhancements which enabled Bellacor to grow from $9M company to $17M company in previous year. Managed internal and 3rd party development resources.  * SQL Server  Manage SQL Server environment to support web site for internet retailing. Perform standard, daily DBA functions. Maintain cold-standby, replication server. Participate in project planning and design for new site features. Develop and maintain data warehouse environment. Develop user reports utililizing Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services tool.  • Order Entry/Progress  Provide DBA support for Unix and Progress-based order entry system (Trend). Develop interfaces for order entry from web site and EDI. Create data extracts to populate SQL Server data warehouse environment.  • IT Manager  Responsible for all aspects of IT management (hardware, software, network) for department. Perform budget and administrative functions as well as represent IT on the management team. Database Consultant August 2003 to November 2003 Environment: SQL Server, Windows 2000, MS Access  Description: Provide SQL Server database administration and reporting assistance at client sites.    Responsibilities:  * Manufacturing  Manage SQL Server environment to support ERP system, grower accounting, and inventory management. Monitor daily backups, disk space usage, provide data extracts for adhoc-query users, manage security for overall environment. Assist in database migration project for data center consolidation.  • HealthCare  Provide training and mentoring for SQL Server. Provided input for the creation of best practices environment for database administration. Updated MS Access application to provide new functionality and reporting capability. Applications Development Manager Chiquita Processed Foods February 2000 to August 2003 Environment: Windows 2000, Visual Basic, Crystal Reports, SQL Server  Description: Responsible for leadership of 12 person software development team. Provided project and work direction in the development, maintenance, and administration of Chiquita systems. These systems included manufacturing, financials, EDI, data warehouse, reporting, and forecasting. Provided consulting assistance to the database infrastructure group.    Responsibilities:  * Managed design and development of data warehouse architecture for sales reporting. Developed system utilizing DTS for ETL. Resultant system provided consistent and accurate sales analysis data for critical business planning.  * Maintenance and support for Adage ERP environment at 12 manufacturing locations.  Designed system to integrate Gentran EDI with Adage ERP order entry module. 60% of orders are now processed automatically via EDI and DSO (Days Sales Outstanding) has been reduced by 30%.  • Provided leadership, mentoring, and coaching to development team in order to establish and maintain a high performance organization dedicated to customer service. Ensured that software and services were delivered to business users in a timely fashion.  • Designed, planned, and implemented improved system architecture that resulted in an integrated, robust suite of applications. Established standard processes and procedures for system development. Senior Database Administrator Digi International February 1999 to February 2000 Environment:  Microsoft SQL Server, T-SQL, Sun UNIX, INFORMIX, Windows NT, Baan, Vantive, Shell, Perl, Ulti-Pro    Description:  Responsible for maintenance and administration of Baan and Vantive database environments as well as SQL Server Intranet.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for database and application performance. Proactively monitored system performance, provided analysis, and implemented database and/or application performance solutions.  * Designed and managed data conversion activities for Baan implementation to support company acquisitions.  * Designed and developed data warehouse architecture for sales reporting and analysis. Participated in software vendor selection process for ETL and enterprise reporting tools.  * Performed data modeling and extraction design to populate data warehouse with Baan and Vantive sale data. Provided direction to developers utilizing Ardent Datastage ETL tools for data extraction.  * Involved in database support and maintenance calls.  * Assisted in data conversion and software installation for Ulti-Pro implementation Senior Database Administrator, Valspar February 1998 to February 1999 Environment:  HP UNIX, Oracle, Pro-C, PL-SQL, INFORMIX 4GL, INFORMIX ESCL/C, Shell, Oracle Manufacturing, Oracle Financials    Description:  Responsible for design and development activities related to order fulfillment with Oracle ERP.    Responsibilities:  * Project manager for migration of Order Fulfillment system from Unisys to HP Unix. Performed systems analysis, developed specifications, and oversaw coding and test efforts for conversion.  * Created test scenarios for stress testing Order Fulfillment system.  * Provided database administration assistance for INFORMIX and Oracle databases.  * Design and development of improved pricing software to aid product managers.  * Creation and implementation of process control for software development and change management. Manager Software Development and Quality Assurance, INFORMIX July 1994 to February 1998 Environment: Multiple Unix platforms, Windows NT, INFORMIX, Oracle, Sybase, Shell, C, C++, ODBC, Visual Basic, PowerBuilder    Description:  Responsible for a variety of functional areas related to INFORMIX server development.    Responsibilities: Member of Technical Staff Bell Labs June 1984 to July 1994 Environment:  HP UNIX, INFORMIX, Shell, C, Borland C++, X-Windows, IBM MVS, COBOL, IMS, DB2, Object-Oriented Design, JCL, TSO, Message Format Services    Description:  Provided programming and business analysis for corporate ERP systems.    Responsibilities:  * Assist in the design, development, and implementation of client-server applications.  * Migrate Sybase Time Entry software package to INFORMIX/Microsoft Windows C++ application. Performed database design and application programming. Provided maintenance and support for application.  * Programmer resource for X-Windows based network routing application.  * Member of programming team responsible for corporate accounting and pricing system which supported 25 manufacturing locations.  * Provided maintenance and programming support for Majure Data warehouse management system utilizing C and Shell programming languages.  * Provided maintenance and programming support for AMAPS MRP system. Designed and developed system to download pick list information to Majure Data warehouse management system utilizing COBOL and IMS.  * Plant supervisor for one-year tour of duty in manufacturing environment. Provided supervision for 25-30 hourly manufacturing employees.  * Designed, developed, and implemented electronic costing notification system to automatically collect cost approvals from responsible engineers and managers. System reduced level of un-costed/un-billed receivables from over $1 million to under $100K. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect Associate July 2019 to July 2022 https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-solutions-architect-associate/ ITIL v3 June 2016 to Present