Executive Director, IT Executive Director, IT Dallas, TX Respected Information Technology professional with experience leading IT operations, projects, and staff in a national staffing organization. Proven track record leading cross-functional teams in the selection, design, and launch of business solutions by driving efficiencies, engagement, revenue, and cost reduction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Executive Director, IT Snelling Services, LLC June 2015 to April 2019 • Promoted from Senior Director, Software Applications to Executive Director, IT after successful implementations of On Boarding solution and time collection solution by reducing operational risk by 30% and increasing compliance by 35%.  • Developed, operated, and maintained three year rolling strategic plans for the IT department.  • Built yearly IT operating and capital budgets. Manage IT department SGA expenses 10 - 20% below plan every year.  • Led cross-functional implementation team to modernize a 20 year old recruiting and applicant tracking system. Updated recruiting practices and implemented Bullhorn ATS platform. Project included vendor evaluations, Board presentation, data conversion, implementation, and integration with PeopleSoft, Peoplenet, EmployStream, EmployDrive, Bullhorn BBO, and Snelling.com website.  • Led project to split infrastructure team from shared services model with Intrepid USA, separated shared systems, and migrated companies infrastructure to a private cloud hosted by a Managed Services Provider. Project for both companies reduce overall IT SGA costs by 25% while providing a new Disaster Recovery site which neither company had before.  • Implemented BYOD policy and practice in conjunction with HR department. Reduced wireless costs by 25% monthly while allowing employee's to maintain separation between work and personal data. Use UCC functionality to maintain contact to desk phones.  • Managed team supporting the corporate relocation to new space.  • Managed team rolling out Windows 10 and O365 products to all corporate and branch desktops and laptops.  • Managed team updating financial budgeting process from Microsoft Forecaster to the Oracle's Planning and Budgeting Cloud Services product. Provided support of the product after the go live.  • Promoted software updates through the development, testing, production cycles.  • Wrote and executed SQL scripts against production and test databases.  • Performed system administration functions for Helpdesk ticketing system, BMC Footprints.  • Received Department Year of the Year 2016.  • Received Employee of the Year Award for 2015. Senior Director, Software Applications Snelling Services, LLC February 2010 to June 2015 • Implemented with HR department Efficient Forms employee onboarding solution with built-in eVerify. Reduced operational risk by 30% and increased compliance by 35%. Moved company from paper documents to a web based solution.  • Implemented with PayBill department Peoplenet time collection system with time clocks. Eliminated paper timesheets and improved time collection accuracy and timeliness. Moved payroll cutoff day by one day earlier resulting in revenue and margin reporting one day earlier.  • Managed team developing PeopleSoft Sick Pay accrual process to handle new regulatory requirements for Sick Pay accrual and payment in California, Illinois, and other localities as needed.  • Reduce software maintenance costs for Oracle products by 50%.  • Manage upgrade of eEmpACT ATS from version 12 to version 17 for branch and franchise locations. Designed upgrade process, arranged vendors to execute process for Snelling Franchises, and executed the process for Snelling Branches.  • Developed IT department operating and capital budgets. Manage IT department SGA expenses 10 - 20% below plan every year.  • Took over management and implementation of Snelling.com upgrade to Wordpress from the Marketing department due to cost overruns and mismanagement.  • Assume supervisory responsibility for Intrepid USA Business Analyst and Development resources as part of an IT shared services model between Snelling and Intrepid USA.  • Manage application of regulatory updates and patches to both Snelling's PeopleSoft environment and Intrepid's McKesson environment.  • Implemented a series of enhancements to PeopleSoft system to improve processing times, eliminate processing steps, and reduce manual intervention in the system.  • Revamped Snelling.com site with the Marketing department using the CMS systems, Ektron from a DNN implementation with large amounts of custom code. Allowed marketing users to maintain content on the site without IT assistance. Vice President, Information Technology Snelling Services, LLC June 2009 to February 2010 • Promoted to Vice President, Information Technology from Director, Database Administration amid company wide restructuring and cost cutting.  • Developed IT department operating and capital budgets. Manage IT department SGA expenses 10 - 20% below plan every year.  • Identified and implemented multiple reductions of monthly recurring costs by negotiating new contracts and performing system/equipment consolidation. 60% reduction of monthly Printers/Copiers costs, 50% reduction of Corporate Internet and MPLS circuits, and 20% reduction of Telecom fees.  • Maintained high level of support for the organization despite department personnel reduction of 40% by enforcing use of service desk solution and standardizing endpoint devices. Director, Database Administration Snelling Services, LLC September 2005 to June 2009 • Responsible for installation, configuration and administration of PeopleSoft version 8.9 re-implementation on Solaris 10 and Oracle Enterprise Server 10.2.0.4. Installed and configured PeopleSoft Windows and UNIX Process Schedulers, Application Servers, and Web Servers. Built new PeopleSoft production databases for PeopleSoft Portal, PeopleSoft Financials, and PeopleSoft HRMS.  • Implemented standard change management control processes for PeopleSoft and Oracle environments. Enforced documentation requirements, code migration practices, and multi-level signoff responsibility for business users.  • Assumed responsibility for SQL Server databases supporting front office ATS system. Reconfigured backup processes, scheduled tasks, and other maintenance processes for more automated, hands free environment.  • Applied PeopleSoft tax upgrades, fixes, and patches from PeopleSoft Customer Connection. Database Administrator Snelling and Snelling, Inc August 1996 to September 2005 • Managed multiple production, test, development, and upgrade instances of PeopleSoft and MasterTax on Oracle Enterprise Server 8.1.7.4.0 and prior versions.  • Performed Oracle upgrades between versions starting at 7.3.2 through 9.2.0.6.  • Participated in the installation and configuration of EMC Symmetrix 3930, Clariion FC4500, CX400, and CX420. Designed the configuration of BCV's and Timefinder on the Symmetrix array, and Clones and Snapview on the CX400.  • Determined and implemented the backup strategy for all Oracle databases. Wrote the UNIX scripts to automate the hot backup procedures for the production databases using the SAN BCV/Clone processes.  • Setup the production databases in a high availability configuration using Qualex High Availability software and two Sun Solaris servers.  • Performed UNIX System Administrator functions on Solaris 2.7 and 2.8  • Installed and managed PeopleSoft HRMS and ERP software from versions 5.x through 8.8. This includes the installation and configuration of the Application Server, Web Server with BEA WebLogics, Cobol Compiler, and the Process Scheduler Server on Windows and UNIX. Configured base workstation configuration for replication by system administrators.  • Performed multiple PeopleSoft upgrades on the HR/PR and Financials between versions 5.1x through 8.8.  • Applied PeopleSoft tax upgrades, fixes, and patches from PeopleSoft Customer Connection.  • Managed the migration of PeopleSoft objects through development, test, and production environments. Setup system to track customized PeopleSoft objects. Education BS in Computer Science University of South Florida, College of Engineering - Tampa, FL Skills Strategic Planning (9 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Peoplesoft (10+ years), Enterprise Architecture (9 years), Recruiting (4 years), IT Management (10+ years), Payroll (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (3 years), Vendor Management (5 years), Data Management (9 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/caren-coffel