Oracle Applications Specialist Oracle Applications Specialist President, Oracle Financial Applications Specialist - Omni-Comp, Inc Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Provide essential consulting services to clients who require expertise in Oracle Procurement and Financial Applications for versions 6.x through 12.1.x, or installation, conversion, and interfaces for various Oracle applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Applications Specialist Omni-Comp, Inc November 1995 to Present Oracle Procurement and Financial Applications specialist responsible for implementing Oracle Purchasing, iProcurement, Sourcing, Procurement Contracts, iSupplier, iExpense, Order Management, Oracle Accounts Payable, Fixed Assets, Cash Management, Accounts Receivable and Oracle General Ledger (Application versions range from 8.x thru 12.1.3), performing data conversions as well as Oracle database (RDBMS version 6.x, 7.x, 8.x, 9.x, 10.x, 11.x) installation, reorganization, tuning, and instance recovery on various Linux, Unix, NT, and VAX/VMS platforms.    1. Los Alamos National Laboratory (Procurement and Financial Applications Technical Specialist - SAE Division)  1. Created custom processes (plsql packages, reports, forms) for LANL's Reimbursable Work program  * Inbound and outbound interfaces for IPAC Treasury files  * Interface cash receipts into AR for Reimbursable Work  * Automate process to create .pdf images of AR transactions (invoices), attach them to the transaction for Reimbursable Work, and interface them to a Documentum storage system.  * Worked with "MRP" project to implement process manufacturing to utilize standard and non-standard jobs, bill of materials and routings, parts of which are interfaced to a 3rd party manufacturing system (Solumina MES).  2. Implemented new Approvals Management Engine processes for new and expanded requisition approval requirements  3. Created interfaces from existing Oracle Application modules to the LANL EDMS (Documentum) system  4. Created various custom BI Publisher reports for Reimbursable Work, iExpense and iProcurement users  5. Created/modified various inbound and outbound data transfers to and from other government agencies such as DOE and NNSA.  2. Los Alamos National Laboratory (Procurement and Financial Applications Specialist - ASM Division)  1. Provided post-production support for Oracle Sourcing, Oracle Procurement Contracts and Oracle iProcurement  2. Updated training courses for Buyers using the new Sourcing and Contracts modules  3. Updated training courses for Requesters using iProcurement  4. Created personalization's to meet business needs in Core Purchasing, iProcurement and Sourcing modules  5. Provided production support services for the procurement department  6. Reviewed Inventory setups and assisted with project to streamline setups and processes  7. Procurement lead for R12 upgrade project (11.5.10 to 12.1.3)  8. Assisted with Inventory R12 upgrade project (11.5.10 to 12.1.3)  9. Implemented iExpense module as a replacement for a legacy P-Card system  3. Kirby Corporation  1. Project lead for Procurement team converting a newly purchased company to an existing Oracle Applications installation  2. Provided technical support for PO account generator and FA account generator modifications  4. Los Alamos National Laboratory (Procurement and Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Implemented Oracle Sourcing  2. Implemented Oracle Procurement Contracts  3. Provided post-production support for Oracle Sourcing, Oracle Procurement Contracts and Oracle iProcurement  4. Created and lead training courses for Buyers using the new Sourcing and Contracts modules  5. Created and lead training courses for Requesters using iProcurement  6. Assisted with Oracle Framework customizations in the iProcurement and Sourcing modules  7. Created personalization's to meet business needs in iProcurement and Sourcing modules  5. Powell Industries (Financial and Procurement Applications Specialist, GL, AP, FA, CE, AR, PO, INV)  1. Provided production support for existing financial applications  2. Team lead for financial implementation (GL, AP, FA, CE, AR)  3. Assisted in providing training for key users in financial applications  4. Provided test scripts for new financial application module implementation  5. Demonstrated financial application functionality in conference room pilot exercises  6. Created XML Publisher reports from existing Reports 6i reports  7. Worked with manufacturing group to provide inventory expertise to streamline the job planning process  6. ThermoFisher Scientific (Financial and Procurement Applications Specialist, GL, AP, FA, CE, AR, PO, INV)  1. Provided production support for existing financial applications  2. Team lead for financial implementation (GL, AP, FA, CE, AR)  3. Assisted in providing training for key users in financial applications  4. Provided test scripts for new financial application module implementation  5. Demonstrated financial application functionality in conference room pilot exercises  6. Created XML Publisher reports from scratch and from existing Reports 6i reports  7. Developed form customizations using forms 6i for Oracle Financial applications  8. Developed custom forms in forms 10G for custom application  9. Set up demonstration of Virtual Private Database capabilities to restrict access to customer data using access policies (this never went live)  7. Dell Computers (Application Development)  1. Developed GL and AP external interfaces (inbound and outbound) for 11.5.10  2. Assisted with verification and testing of external interfaces (multi-org, MRC)  3. Assisted with implementation of custom imaging system  4. Developed form customizations in forms 10G.  8. Los Alamos National Laboratories (DBA, Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Supported production and integrated test environments  ? Apply patches  ? Techstack Upgrade to 10G  ? Moved production and test databases to RAC  ? Upgrade Oracle Financial Application suite 11.5.8 to 11.5.9  ? Perform application system administration functions  2. Developed custom workflows for specialized Human Resources functions  3. Set up access policies to restrict access to selected critical data sets (virtual private database)  4. Assisted with effort to transition Oracle Financials data to a new operating unit in a multi-org environment  5. Developed custom extensions for Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Purchasing, and Cash Management  • Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (Application Developer)  1. Provided technical support for Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledger, Purchasing, Project Costing , and Project Management (version 11.5.10)  • Los Alamos National Laboratories (Financial Applications Specialist, Oracle Developer, and DBA)  1. Implemented Accounts Payable in Oracle Financials version 11.5.9  2. Provided technical support for Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledger, Purchasing, Project Billing , and Project Resource Management  3. Built custom forms for budget entry into Oracle Project Billing module using Forms 6i  4. Built custom mapping forms using Forms 6i for generic data mapping  5. Implemented the Integra Apps portion of Applimation to track application changes between instances  6. Supported several development and sandbox instances for financial applications  ? Applied patches  ? Monitored space  ? Performed application system administrator functions  • Agilent Technologies (DBA)  1. Installed Oracle Financials version 11.5.5  2. Upgraded Oracle Financials 11.5.5 to 11.5.7  3. Implemented backup and recovery strategy  4. Provided support for 18 instances of Oracle Financials version 11.5.7  5. Patched several financial modules to version 11.5.8  • Automotive Finance Corporation (Oracle Developer)  1. Developed new functionality for a custom Accounts Receivable system and interfaces into Oracle's AP and GL  2. Maintained current interfaces between a custom AR system and Oracle's AP and GL  3. Provided functional support for General Ledger and Accounts Payable  • Austin Regional Clinic (DBA and Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Provide technical and functional support for financial applications  2. Develop new functionality for medical visit datawarehouse application  3. Develop interfaces between new practice management system and General Ledger  4. Develop a custom application to capture required data the practice management system does not accommodate  • Automotive Finance Corporation (Oracle Developer)  1. Developed new interfaces between a custom AR system and Oracle's AP and GL  2. Maintained current interfaces between a custom AR system and Oracle's AP and GL  3. Developed interface between a custom AR system and Oracle 11i modules (GL and AP)  4. Provided functional support for General Ledger and Accounts Payable  5. Provided functional and technical support for Cash Management  6. Assisted in developing and maintaining interfaces between Cash Management and a custom AR system.  7. Researched and implemented a multi-org configuration  • Austin Regional Clinic (DBA and Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Upgraded Financials from 11.0.3 to 11.5.4 (11i)  2. Upgraded database from 8.0.6 to 8.1.7  3. Provided functional and technical support for General Ledger, Purchasing, Accounts Payable, Order Management, Fixed Assets, and Inventory  • ACCO International, Inc. (DBA)  1. Assisted with installation, tuning, and monitoring of Oracle 8.1.6 and 8.1.7 databases  2. Instituted OFA compliant structure for all databases  3. Assisted in design and deployment of datawarehouse application  • Exult, Inc (DBA and Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Migrated Oracle Financial Applications and database from Oracle Business On-Line hosting service to Unisys hosting service  2. Installed and implemented Oracle Purchasing module  3. Installed monitoring tools for v8 databases  4. Provided functional and technical support for Purchasing, Accounts Receivable, and Project Accounting  5. Implemented and supported EDI for inbound invoices  • Austin Regional Clinic (DBA and Financial Applications Specialist)  1. Installed 8.0.5 database  2. Installed 11.03 Financial Applications  3. Upgraded Oracle Financials 10.5 to release 11.03  4. Assisted in planning and implementing backup and recovery strategies  5. Installed monitoring tools for v8 databases  6. Tuned database for Oracle Financial Application usage and user load  7. Provided functional and technical support for General Ledger, Purchasing, Accounts Payable, Order Entry, Fixed Assets, and Inventory  • ACCO International, Inc. (DBA)  1. Assisted with installation, tuning, and monitoring of Oracle v7 and v8 databases  2. Assisted in planning and implementing backup and recovery strategies  3. Installed monitoring tools for v7 and v8 databases  4. Performed data recovery after hardware failure  5. Instituted OFA compliant structure for all databases  6. Provided technical support for development staff  7. Trained client DBA staff  • Frito-Lay, Inc. (DBA)  1. Assisted with installation, tuning, and monitoring of Oracle v7 and v8 databases  2. Assisted with installation of Oracle Financials 10.7 SC and 11.02 NCA  3. Assisted in planning and implementing backup and recovery strategies  4. Assisted in implementation of GEMMS Process Manufacturing modules  • Magnetek (Financial Application Specialist and DBA)  1. Assisted with tuning and monitoring Oracle v7 database and implementing emergency recovery procedures  2. Provided functional and technical support for General Ledger, Purchasing, Project Accounting and Accounts Receivable modules including data conversions and interfaces from legacy systems  • Santee Cooper Electric (Financial Application Specialist and DBA)  1. Assisted with tuning and monitoring Oracle v7 database  2. Provide functional and technical support for Purchasing and Accounts Payable modules including data conversions and interfaces from legacy systems  • American National Can (Financial Application Specialist)  1. Assisted in analyzing and correcting problems with Accounts Payable module Database Analyst Exor Technologies August 1994 to November 1995 Oracle Database Analyst and Oracle Financial Application consultant responsible for installation of new Oracle databases and conversion of data from client legacy systems to Oracle Financials on various Unix and VAX/VMS platforms. Oracle Application versions 9.x thru 10.5 and Oracle RDBMS versions 6.x thru 7.1.6.  • Commercial Intertech (Financial Application Specialist)  • First USA (Financial Application Specialist)  • Rockefeller Foundation (Financial Application Specialist)  • Westwood-Squibb (DBA and Financial Application Specialist)  • Exor internal support (DBA and Financial Application Specialist)    Oracle, Inc. Senior Application Consultant December 1993 to August 1994 Oracle database and financial applications consultant responsible for conversion of data from client legacy systems to Oracle.  1. Provided functional and technical support for General Ledger and Accounts Payable modules Database Administrator Superconducting Super Collider Laboratories November 1991 to December 1993 Oracle Financials DBA, Powerhouse tools (Quick, Quiz, and QTP)    Skills:  DBA - database and application installation and configuration  Technical - SQL Plus, PL/SQL, Forms, Reports, data conversions from clients legacy systems to Oracle Financials.  Skilled in SQL, PL/SQL, Workflow, and other miscellaneous tools such as SQL*Loader, Import, and Export.  Functional proficiency - Purchasing, Financials Education Bachelor's Skills Application Support