Clinical Database Designer II Clinical <span class="hl">Database</span> Designer II Clinical Database Designer II - Covance CLS Terre Haute, IN Work Experience Clinical Database Designer II Covance CLS - Indianapolis, IN August 2013 to Present Create and modify protocol specific global databases via various functions within Zavacor, EnCompass, Realm and CIM to meet the needs of the client and support the  positions within project management.  • Review Statement of Work (SOW) and client's Phase 1-IV protocol's to ensure services  requested are feasible.  • Perform and document quality review of all documentation created by study set up team, ensuring adherence to all internal standard operating procedures and work instructions  is maintained. Database Administrator II September 2010 to August 2013 • Create, modify and support Test Definition Entry in global databases for Antrim, Zavacor, CIM and Labware as well as create training modules in Captivate.  • Implement Process Excellence with the merging of seven (7) documents into one (1)  global standardized computer driven document.  • InfoPath/SharePoint form ensuring the highest quality and accuracy of results in addition  to the reduction of 2 full time employees (FTE). The initiative has an estimated savings of $170,000.00, which includes processes to capture and triage signatures.  • Liaison and interact as a QA Delegate in the writing/maintenance of SOPs/Work  Instructions, ensure quality and continuous improvement of personnel's Training Files.  Improved regulatory compliance of the departmental Training Files by 82.09%.  Additionally improved staff efficiency by 12% with the reduction of reading requirements for each responsible position based on data vs. area of impact.  • Co-creator of CEO's highly promoted Signature Client Services iLearn training module.  The new course will provide a soft savings/revenue every year (i.e. Covance annually  hires 500 employees X 1.45hrs saved in non-required class participation X salary/benefit  average of $35 = $25,375/yr and every year going forward). Received Signature Client  Service Award. Global Project Manager Investigator Sites and Referral Laboratories March 2001 to November 2008 Partner with Clients, Investigator Sites and Referral Laboratories; build on the foundation  of a trusting relationship, maintain line of site on client pipeline and future needs.  • Initiate well-planned strategies of communication, ensure teamwork and conduct  research of client's pipeline to anchor my capability of maintaining line of sight for a successful management of Phase I- IV Clinical Trials.  • Manage global protocols containing multiple clinical indications: Cancers, HCV/HIV, Diabetes, Bone Diseases and Kidney/Liver Transplant. Allocate resources and prioritize  to effectively manage seventeen (17) sponsors and 60+ protocols daily.  • Coordinate all Central Lab developmental stages of production, processing, laboratory  analyses, and data management of clinical trial studies including protocol review, study  monitoring, and problem solving through-out the duration of the trial.  • Effectively manage various budget constraints ranging from $6,000 to $2B. Complete  modifications in a timely manner as required by protocol amendments. Monitor data  locks and confirm the client's goals of quality and reduced cost/time for drug  development are fundamentally maintained.  • Provide mentoring to new PMs and enhance cross-functional alignment while maintaining accountability for all my project deliverables at each established milestone. Supervising Technologist November 1995 to March 2001 Provide leadership during the management of 18 employees. Complete mid-year  evaluations followed by year end performance reviews (PMD). At this time, the role was  created to replace managers.  • Administrative/Management Role: Conduct 30+ interviews using the STAR Target  technique to hire for positions within the chemistry department, termination employees  design and implement flexible work schedules for employees.  • Develop, coach and promote continuing education seminars.  • Maintain regulatory compliance for NY, CAP and CLIA Audits to ensure the highest  standard of accurate results through QC/PM review, QA inspections and sponsor audits; in which the department had no citations.  • Ensure customer satisfaction by collaborating at Protocol Review meetings and  providing keen problem-solving skills. Solutions that ultimately provided the client with high quality data. Medical Laboratory Technologist Clay County St. Vincent Hospital January 1991 to December 1994 Education Associates Degree in Applied Science in Applied Science Indiana Vocational Technical College - Terre Haute, IN August 1990 to May 1992