Application Database Administrator Application <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> To obtain a position in the Information Technology field that will enhance my managerial, software development & data analytic skills while allowing me to effectively contribute to the goals of the company. Tallahassee, FL Eighteen years of extensive experience in software development, data analysis, technical documentation, and database development. During this time, I have developed software and reports using SAS, COBOL, ORACLE, SQL and PL/SQL. I have passed the 1Z0-007 Introduction to Oracle9i: SQL and 1Z0-147 Program with PL/SQL certification exams to become an Oracle PL/SQL Developer Certified Associate. In 2007, I was involved in the design, analysis, development and implementation of an Oracle 10g database for the State University System of Florida. I wrote ETL programs in SAS to convert flat files from a mainframe system to database files to upload into an ORACLE database. I also wrote validation programs to validate the historical data after uploading it into the database. For 6 years, I gained some managerial skills by supervising a team of 6 IT professionals. I also have some additional managerial skills that I gained a few years back when I supervised 2 Computer Programmer Analysts. I am a hard worker who works well under pressure within a fast paced environment. A quick learner, in which, I am able to grasp new concepts easily. I am a team player who is able to work with others in a supportive and courteous manner. I have the ability to follow directions and perform work duties accordingly without supervision. I am able to coordinate and prioritize workloads in order to meet deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Database Administrator Board of Governors, State University System of Florida - Tallahassee, FL June 2017 to Present Office of Data and Analytics  Tallahassee, Fl    • Provides professional support to the University Data Administrators, Board staff, and Executive Leadership including the Vice Chancellor of Finance & Administration, and the Chancellor  • Provides leadership to the administration of the State University Database System (SUDS) via a subset of existing applications  • Works closely with the system DBA who is responsible for the overall DBMS environment  • Serves as a portal manager for the BOG’s Application Portal (alters user access/passwords and permissions to the SUDS related applications)  • Serves as the Oracle Application Express (APEX) Administrator for SUDS applications  • Works with the system DBA to enhance the SUDS database system, such as separation of the database instances, load process improvements, person id (PID) management, etc.  • Responsible for the management of SUDS database objects, such as the SUDS email notification package, find values package, acceptance procedures, etc.  • Serves as a member of the BOG Data Committee and the new Data Governance Council  • Reviews and approves software updates prior to software release  • Administers and coordinates SUDS submissions, including: accepting data submissions, resubmissions, calendar adjustments, etc.  • Provides technical training and support to university and the Office of Data and Analytics (ODA) staff related to SUDS data management activities and general troubleshooting issues.   • Reviews SQL and PL/SQL code/procedures/functions/packages to ensure that the code is efficient, return the expected results, and integrate into the specific applications  • Rescinds degrees when requested by a University Data Administrator  • Reviews datamart and dashboard specifications to ensure accuracy prior to implementation  • Assists with the State University System (SUS) Annual Data Workshop preparation  • Assists with the FLDOE Education Data Warehouse (EDW) with their data needs  • Serves as the Integrated Post-secondary Education Data System (IPEDS) State Coordinator who performs the final validation and locks on the submitted data  • Serves as backup to all of the SUDS’ team job functions and performs their assigned duties when necessary  • Develops and maintains documentation that pertains to all SUDS related processes Database Coordinator Florida Board of Governors, State University System of Florida - Tallahassee, FL October 2011 to June 2017 Information Resource Management  Tallahassee, Fl    • Managed a team of 6 individuals (1 Systems Project Administrator, 1 Systems Project Analyst and 2 Data Administration Consultants, and a Database Consultant) who are responsible for maintaining all student, employee, and budget related university records for the State University System of Florida (SUS)  • Ensured that the processing of data submitted to the BOG is accurate and timely  • Corresponded with the University Data Administrators and the IRM (Information Resource Management) director regarding any data discrepancies and follows through to final resolution and acceptance of the data  • Ensured that requests for information from our database is handled promptly, accurately, and professionally  • Primary coordinator and support for standardized data files and specialized software.  • Provided technical support to university staff in using and building SUS database files.  • Assisted in the planning of the annual SUS Data Workshop  • Implemented decisions of the BOG Data Committee concerning definitions and formats for standardized data into computer systems.  • Managed and provides support for all reporting requirements from the State University Database System (SUDS), SUS, and external files (including, but not limited to: SUS Factbook, DOE High School Feedback, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) Data Exchange Coordinator, National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), Integrated Post-secondary Education Data System (IPEDS) Coordinator, FETPIP tracking, Talented 20 tracking.)  • Oversaw the reporting of data to the Educational Data Warehouse (EDW)  • Served as a liaison between the IRM and Institutional Research (IR), Budget, and Facilities staff to develop specifications and oversee the build of analytic data marts  • Oversaw the process for analytic data marts and reporting to ensure that specifications are met Application Database Administrator Florida Board of Governors, State University System of Florida - Tallahassee, FL May 2010 to September 2011 Information Resource Management  Tallahassee, Fl  Application Database Administrator    • Served as backup to the Database Coordinator  • Performed database maintenance tasks such as analyzing and implementing modifications to existing Oracle database structures and database content  • Reviewed and approved PL/SQL procedures and functions written by Board of Governors (BOG) analysts to ensure quality, accuracy, and consistency of results  • Promoted software from the development, beta, and production platforms  • Monitored normal database operations for possible error conditions  • Monitored the progress of all standard IRM submissions and performs the final acceptance processing  • Developed and maintained data base access and update procedures  • Aided BOG analysts in writing stored procedures - suggesting more efficient or effective ways of returning database results  • Refreshed the data in the SUS Reporting Instance (SUSRI)  • Added and modified users of the State University Data System (SUDS)  • Developed specifications and implements approved changes to the State University System (SUS) data files and IRM applications.  • Maintained the integrity of data and documentation in the State University Data System (SUDS) to support changes.  • Consulted with the Board of Governors (BOG) and university staff on the use of data and applications maintained by Information Resource Management (IRM).  • Consulted with users in identifying needs or problems and implements solutions for software and data requests from SUS database files.  • Implemented decisions of the BOG Data Committee concerning definitions and formats for standardized data into computer systems.  • Provided technical support for reporting requirements to SUS/BOG and external staff to maintain the integrity and use of the data.  • Was responsible for the development of dissemination methods in support of BOG management staff and universities.  • Provided technical support to university staff in using and building SUS database files.  • Primary coordinator and support for standardized data files and specialized software.  • Developed, analyzed, designed, coded, tested, debugged, maintained, and distributed (edits, updates, & reports in SAS and PL/SQL) and documentation for production releases of SUS database files. Systems Project Analyst Florida Board of Governors, State University System of Florida - Tallahassee, FL March 2003 to May 2010 Information Resource Management  Tallahassee, Fl  Systems Project Analyst    • Lead a team of 2 Computer Programmer Analysts  • Developed specifications and implemented approved changes to the State University System (SUS) data files and IRM applications.  • Assisted with the development and design of the new State University Data System (SUDS) in which we converted a mainframe system into an Oracle database system  • Migrated and validated data from our old mainframe system to our new Oracle database system  • Maintained the integrity of data and documentation in SUDS to support changes.  • Consulted with the Board of Governors (BOG) and university staff on the use of data and applications maintained by Information Resource Management (IRM).  • Consulted with users in identifying needs or problems and implements solutions for software and data requests from SUS database files.  • Implemented decisions of the BOG Data Committee concerning definitions and formats for standardized data into computer systems.  • Provided technical support for reporting requirements to SUS/BOG and external staff to maintain the integrity and use of the data.  • Was responsible for the development of dissemination methods in support of BOG management staff and universities.  • Provided technical support to university staff in using and building SUS database files.  • Primary coordinator and support for standardized data files and specialized software.  • Developed, analyzed, designed, coded, tested, debugged, maintained, and distributed (edits, updates, reports) and documentation for production releases of SUS database files.  • Wrote ETL programs for the universities to convert their submission files data from the old file format into the new database tables design format Computer Programmer Analyst II Department of Education - Tallahassee, FL June 2002 to March 2003 Accountability, Research & Measurement  Division of Colleges and Universities  Tallahassee, Fl  Computer Programmer Analyst II    • Maintained the State University Personnel Employee Records System's (SUPERS) DB2 database and production software along with the USPS pay plan booklet, class code, and Competitive Area Differential (CAD) software.  • Updated the pay range software for the State University System (SUS) and the Division of Colleges and Universities (DCU) database files.  • Analyzed, designed, coded, tested, & debugged SAS & COBOL production software, Job Control Language (JCL), & ad hoc software in support of the SUS & DCU database files.  • Assisted with the development, maintenance, & distribution of documentation to support production releases of SUS & DCU database files.  • Assisted users in identifying needs or problems & implemented solutions for software & data requests from SUS & DCU database files. Computer Programmer Analyst Florida Board of Regents - Tallahassee, FL March 2001 to June 2002 Division of Colleges and Universities  Information Resource Management  Tallahassee, Fl  Computer Programmer Analyst    • Analyzed, designed, coded, tested, debugged effective SAS and COBOL production software, JCL, and ad hoc software in support of the SUS & DCU database files to include edit, update, and report programs along with the associated procedures and files.  • Assisted with the development, maintenance, & distribution of documentation to support production releases of SUS & DCU database files to include the distribution of web accessible documentation that is maintained on the DCU/IRM web page.  • Assisted users in identifying needs or problems & implemented solutions for software & data requests from SUS & DCU database files. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematical Science, Computer Information Systems Florida Agricultural & Mechanical University - Tallahassee, FL December 2000 Skills Operating Systems : MS-DOS, Sun Solaris 2.7, OS 390, Windows 95/98/00/XP/NT/Vista/7/8/10 Languages: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, COBOL, SAS, JCL Software: Oracle 7.x/8i/9i/10g/11g/12c, Microsoft Office 97/2000/03/07/10, PC COBOL, PC SAS, Microsoft Visio, WS FTP95 LE, GroupWise 5.5, Internet Explorer, Netscape Navigator Corel WordPerfect 8, TSO, ISPF, DB2, Adobe Acrobat 4.0/5.0/6.0, Oracle Discover 4.0, PL/SQL Developer, SAS Visual Analytics, SAS Enterprise Guide Hardware: Personal Computer, IBM 3270, IBM 3290 (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle PL/SQL Developer Certified Associate Present Became certified in July 2007 Additional Information References Dr. Marie E. Zeglen  University of Florida  Assistant Provost – Retired  6420 SW 48th Dr  Gainesville, Fl 32608  352-275-8849     Keith King  University of West Florida  Director of Institutional Research  850-474-2053  kcking@uwf.edu    Elsa Leslie  Board of Governors  Database Coordinator – Retired  850-544-2169  elsal@comcast.net