DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR II <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> II DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR II - Smart IT Pros Hot Springs, AR Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR II Smart IT Pros - Little Rock, AR 2014 to Present DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR II (CONTRACT) for Arkansas Department of Career Education, ARS/ACTI  • HMS (HealthCare Management System) administrator, security and mainframe maintenance, backups, application support, maintenance, financial reporting and medical billing period closures. Provides end user training and support.  • Desktop support working tickets as needed, major equipment rollouts and training across the state for the agency, network support, server and application support to include advising and implementing effective options for keeping data needs.  • Ad hoc reporting, daily, weekly, monthly scheduled reporting to administration and management for agency reporting requirements, statistics to evaluate program success and identifying areas needing improvements.  • Experience with multiple database systems (MS SQL, MySQL, DB2, and MS Access), exporting and scrubbing of data, maintaining data integrity and validation, data conversion from various database sources for agency reporting needs utilizing JMP, Tableau, SSRS, Crystal Reports and excel to query and report data in numerous visual forms like charts, graphs and dashboards.  • Business analyst experience working with customers to determine their reporting needs and data requirements, rules and regulations to retain federal and state funding for agency operations.  • Support of data migrations, system and database planning for requirements during software implementation projects individually lead.  • Ability to work and drive projects unsupervised providing support and training. Client/Customer service and interpersonal skills reducing the IT and business communication hurdle.  • Experience interpreting and reporting data in multiple industries such as health care/medical services, private health insurance, education, social/human services and government organizations.  • Planning and support of system migrations, requirements, documenting business processes and workflows, mapping application interfaces with databases, data migrations to various systems across the agency for the retirement of legacy systems.  • Project management experience leading the medical services department transition from paper an EHR system. Providing application training, administration and reporting to administration and management. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR TASC Total Administrative Services Inc. - Little Rock, AR 2012 to 2014 DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR (CONTRACT) for Department of Human Services, Northrop Grumman  • Monitors/works secondary on call logs for status checks on SQL servers daily, monitoring to determine ways to optimize database performance, server disk space, logs, and ensuring jobs have run successfully, checking for errors.  • Creates, troubleshoots, and administers databases for Arkansas DHS with AGILE SCRUM management experience.  • Maintains and implements security/permissions and technical standards to comply with policies.  Importing and running jobs, DTS package management, linked servers, ODBC connections and DB2 connect.  • SQL Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, Idera SQL Diagnostic Manager, RedGate.  • Change Management, implement requests for scripts through testing stages for change control, system documentation.  • Installing, configuring, patching and upgrading SQL Server, SQL Database Administration (2000- 2012), SharePoint.  • Experience working with importing and exporting data, SQL Server indexes, preparing maintenance plans, transaction log maintenance, database security, backup and recovery.  • Experience in creating packages, scheduling jobs, sending alerts using database mail, experience in using DBCC Utilities checks database consistency, SSAS, SSIS and SSMS.  • SQL query optimization, storage and network performance, CPU and memory tuning, IO load balancing, participate in capacity planning, trend analysis, performance forecasting exercises and propose recommendations to meet the ongoing performance and scalability demands.  • Troubleshoot locking, loading issues, degraded performance, performance bottlenecks and proactive monitoring. Independent Contractor Hot Springs, AR 2007 to 2014 IT SUPPORT TECHNICIAN  • Analysis of business processes to determine the need for a database system that allows for automatic billing options. Successful implementation saved the FLS Fire Department enough money to lower annual fees.  • Installation of home networks to allow accessibility to all devices/media systems including wireless printers. Firewall configuration for remote access, router configurations, access points, cabling.  • Laptop/desktop hardware diagnostics and repairs, firmware updates, hard disk data recovery.  • PC software repairs, virus/malware removal, application installations, OS installations, driver updates.  • Offered on demand instruction of requested computer concepts including software training, basic web design and hardware maintenance education. SENIOR MICRO ANALYST GDH Consulting - Little Rock, AR 2010 to 2012 Little Rock, AR 2010 - 2012    SENIOR MICRO ANALYST (CONTRACT) for Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield    • Monitors/Works the server/application management team's ticketing queue for reported incidents affecting end users.  • Internal and external primary web server administrator, IIS 6/IIS 7 configuration, implements web site changes, creation of new sites and configuration.  • Administrator of multiple enterprise business systems: Claim Check, Top Team, Web Trends, Team Foundation Server, MS Access, Trizetto, MarketWrite.  • Secondary administrator for RHEL 6 systems, SharePoint, Symantec Netback up servers.  • SQL server administration experience importing and running jobs, DTS package management, database maintenance, backup and recovery, permissions, linked servers, ODBC connections and DB2 connect, security and permissions, SSMS, SQL Server Profiler, Idera, SQL Diagnostic Manager.  • Performance tuning and maintenance experience both hardware and software based. Citrix Netscalers LBS, WLBS, failover clustering. Skilled at troubleshooting server/application errors, diagnostics, debugging, process monitoring and logging.  • Experience with virtual machines via VMware VSphere. National Park Community College - Hot Springs, AR 2008 to 2010 ANGEL ONLINE LEARNING MANAGEMENT SUITE ADMINSTRATOR  • Updated application software, server patches and upgrades, monitored the servers.  • Updated courses/users databases each semester and archived older records.  • Implemented upgrades/applications for better quality of education, Wimba, University messaging, Whiteboard.  • Worked with end users on account issues, accessibility, browsers compatibly, user errors during sessions and course changes.  • Gained knowledge with SQL databases administration, queries and failover nodes and server administration. Education B.B.A. in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Little Rock, AR 2010 to 2012 A.A.S in Computer Information Systems in MCSE option National Park Community College - Hot Springs, AR 2007 to 2009