Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Oracle Database Administrator/Engineer Centreville, VA Experienced Oracle professional with solid experience in database design, development, architecture, engineering and administration. A team player with strong expertise in requirements analysis, data modeling, performance tuning, Recovery Manager (RMAN) backup/recovery, high-availability solutions using RAC and Data Guard, administration of 24x7 production environments, advanced replication, and implementing database management infrastructures using Grid Control / Oracle Enterprise Manager.    RDBMS: Oracle7, Oracle8, Oracle8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g RAC, 10g/11g RAC, ASM  OS: Windows NT, Unix, Linux, Solaris, HP-UX  PROGRAMMING: PL/SQL, Unix Shell scripts  TOOLS:Oracle OEM, SQL*NET, 10g/11g Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Data Guard, Microsoft Visio, Toad, SqlDeveloper Modeler Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Engineer CGI Federal - Fairfax, VA June 2015 to August 2019 Demonstrated extensive knowledge, skill and experience of Oracle 12c container and pluggable database administration in the day-to-day day operations of over 80 databases supporting Judiciary Integrated Financial Management System (JIFMS). Developed a process to create a container Resource Management Plan for Oracle PDBs to facilitate OEM duties of managing targets, establishing incident rules and alerts, and establishing blackouts. In addition, responsible for establishing the following functionality in OEM 13c to administer and monitor targets:  ·        Configure and manage target groups  ·        Install OEM 13c agents on host  ·        Setup target monitoring  o   Create monitoring templates and template collections  o   Manage incidents  o   Use OEM 13c monitoring tools to monitor target performance: ADDM / ASH / Top Activity / SQL Tuning advisor  ·        Administer RMAN Backups  ·        Identify poor performing queries and generate reports on resource consumption.  ·        Create Resource Management Plans    Small Business Association – Office of Disaster Assistance  Member of a 3-person DBA team responsible for all aspects of database administration for databases that support all phases of the development life cycle. Support included maintaining and administering RMAN backup scripts, daily monitoring of databases using Cloud Control (OEM), applying CPU and off-one patches, facilitating deployment builds. Administering Cloud Control, and providing Tier 2 support by responding to tickets issues for database issues. Served as key contributor in development of Oracle 11g to12c upgrade plan.    Center for Medicaid and Medicare Systems (CMMS)  Provided database expertise by development of database code and features in support of various components for several applications in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Service . Responsibilities required an intimate knowledge Oracle RDBMS and LINUX. Duties included reviewing code, coordinating with deployment manager, developers and DBA staff to define an efficient process for deploying code in various environment that support the application life cycle. Other duties included providing on-call support for trouble shooting database issues. Oracle Database Architect/Adminstrator Integrated Systems Inc - Tysons Corner, VA September 2014 to April 2015 Lead Database Developer responsible for architecture, conceptual/logical/physical database redesign and implementation of the Commissioner Action System (CAS) for the US Security and Exchange Commission (SEC). Developed conceptual and logical designs based on findings from interviews and meetings with business analyst and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) in the Office of Secretary of SEC. Facilitated meeting and interviews to gather requirements, analyze workflow, and identify business rules which resulted in the development of the CAS relational data model. Architectural responsibilities involved defining users, user roles, establishing security controls, coding database utilities using PL/SQL, and defining storage solutions. Database administrative responsibilities included the installation and configuration of RDBMS, performance tuning to optimize query response times, and creating build scripts using KORN shell, PL/SQL, and SQL. Oracle Database Administrator Ellumen Inc - Arlington, VA September 2012 to April 2014 Primary responsibilities included managing and monitoring 24 x 7 high availability production database platforms for Veterans Administration Health Systems. Platform configuration consisted of a 2 node Linux 11g RAC with 2 node Linux 11g RAC physical standby. Performed as primary database administrator for maintenance activities which included shell scripting RMAN backups, applying patches, and using Data Guard to administer physical standby. Supported hardware and network teams by defining specifications for building RAC platforms that supported various phases of the life cycle. Supported developer and test teams by providing tuning of SQL and PL/SQL procedures. In addition to the management and administrating of production databases, also performed administration of over 25 databases in support of phases of the development life cycle.    Additional task included:    • Development of shell scripts to manage archive process of logging data.  • Development of database upgrade plan to upgrade standalone and RAC databases from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3. This plan was used to upgrade all the databases in environments that support various phases of the life cycle.  • Coordinated with, and advised developers on best practices and efficient methods of writing SQL and PL/SQL statements.  • Developed a process to increase efficiency by reorganize data to better utilize allocated space. Oracle Database Engineer Mantech International/Evolvent Technologies Inc - Sterling, VA April 2010 to September 2012 Provided full database support to over 200 production databases for the Army's Joint Medical Logistics Functional Developments Center (MILFORD). Responsible for the execution of all aspects of database administration for single instance and 3 node Real Application Cluster (RAC) environments including platform builds, capacity planning, database migration, daily checks of Recovery Manager (RMAN) backups, weekly build processes, performance monitoring. Served as key contributor to the development of a plan to efficiently implement Oracle's context search into Joint Medical Archive Repository (JMAR). Provided support in responding to customer inquiries through servicing of support tickets.    As a member of the Military Health System (MHS) Integration Team, provided technical support to various MHS projects including building and administering performance and capacity test environments; Coordinated synchronized snapshots of virtual machines used in the test environment, managed multiple test data sets and scenarios by implementing Oracle's flashback utility, developed, monitored and debugged PL/SQL processes; Created performance monitoring scripts to monitor the impact of MEB on AHLTA and CDR database resources.    Developed Windows-based scripts to automate and simplify the upgrade process from Oracle 10g to 11g and apply quarterly CPU patches to over 100 database servers in the field; provided direct support to an effort to encrypt S traffic between combinations of various Oracle (9i, 10g, and 11g) systems.    Supported Knowledge Exchange team data migration effort involving moving a 24x7 production database from DISA in Alabama to SPAWAR at the Navy Yard in Washington D.C. Contribution included analyzing production workload to enable the appropriate specifications for hardware and configuration requirements; Developed an Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g infrastructure with special features such as automatic tuning advisor, lights out administration, and, and EM alerts. These capabilities and features were presented to management for future consideration. Oracle Consultant Kforce Inc - Herndon, VA April 2009 to April 2010 Provided consultant expertise and support on a 1 year contract for multiple aspects of database administrative for 30 Oracle databases. Databases support EAI, OMA-DM, GoldenGate replication, and XDW systems. The database technologies used included ASM, RAC and RMAN on LINUX, SUN Solaris and HP-UX platforms. Proactively provide database administrative support including instance tuning, capacity planning, and backups for several development, test, and pre-production environments, as well as a 24x7 Production environment. Served as the primary go-to person for ad hoc life cycle support to development team for providing problem resolution of issues such as SQL tuning, ERDs, and connectivity. Increased system productivity by constructing a database management infrastructure using Oracle's Enterprise Manager which provided the ability to continuously monitor all databases and allow the DBA to administer all databases within ClearWire through a single URL console. Oracle Consultant TEK Systems - Rockville, MD January 2009 to April 2009 Provided consultant support on a 4 month contract with the primary responsibility of maintaining development, test, QA and 24x7 production Oracle database environments for National Public Radio. Environments were configured with Oracle 10g using ASM and DbConsole as the utility for administration. Proactively defined a process to frequently refresh testing environments which utilized Oracle's Data Pump capability to export and import schemas from-and-to appropriate environments. Developed email notification capability using DbConsole for monitoring and lights out administration; provided routine database performance monitoring and backups; Coordinated with developers to identify Oracle's components to be used for new capabilities to be introduced to internal applications. Oracle Consultant Quadrant Inc - Falls Church, VA August 2008 to December 2008 Provided consultant support on contract responsible for the design and implementation of a high availability (HA) database infrastructure for a major Educational System Operating Center. During this short-term assignment, developed an HA solution for the database which integrated Oracle RAC, Data Guard, and Recovery Manager (RMAN). These technologies were integrated as a solution to provide a 24 X 7 database infrastructure. Solely incorporated Enterprise Manger to proactively monitor, provide email notification, and trend analysis in support of lights-out administration. The Enterprise Management solution also provided the capability to monitor and manage these technologies from a single HTTP console which allowed RMAN provided online rapid recovery for errors such as corrupted data block. Data Guard was used for site failover due to site disaster. Senior Oracle DBA SpinSys Inc - Falls Church, VA January 2008 to July 2008 Performed as a key contributor to the storage design of a new database platform running in a Linux environment. The objective of the new RAC platform was to enhance the performance of a large scale OLTP-based database with a transaction rate of 30 per second. Specific tasks included designing LUNs and disk in SANs to support new partitioning configuration that evenly distributed I/O across devices.    Other tasks included the development of data migration procedures using Oracle Import Utility to import data to a new RAC platform, and generation of backup/recovery gap analysis to identify deficiencies in the current process for data restores. The end result of the gap analysis was the development and implementation of an enhanced backup/recovery plan using Recover Manager (RMAN) which would restore database to point-in-time or SCN from any failure scenario. Education Electrical Engineering Hampton University - Hampton, VA Information Systems George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Server