Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Northwest Mutual Indianapolis, IN ? Over 7 years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with experience on 24x7 production and mission critical database support, including RAC and Data Guard. I possess strong analytical and problem solving skills, self-motivated, results-driven, team player with excellent verbal and writing communication skills. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions involving database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, rac, data guard , gold gate performance tuning, cloning, space management and security.    ? Skills Summary    ? Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.  ? Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication.  ? High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  ? Worked on GRID Infrastructure, CRS management and Real Application Clusters (RAC) in Oracle 10g and 11gR2.  ? Worked as team lead to design, create, manage, support and enhance large databases for applications running in parallel phases such as development, system & regression testing and production.  ? Ability to handle multiple projects with deadlines to meet date line and have good coordination skills with management, development teams, and systems administrators.  ? Worked in hands with developers to implement and maintain the database design, create database objects, promote data model releases to various environments and monitor application related jobs and data replication activities.  ? Installed oracle software for Database, RAC (10g), and in primary and DR sites.  ? Experience in Disaster Recovery (DR) Setup, DR simulation and DR Drill.    ? Installed Oracle Agent 11g, configured database in Grid Control.  ? Worked extensively on Oracle Tools like OEM, Grid Control and Monitoring through 11g grid control/OEM.  ? Proficient in shell scripting.  ? Designed strategic and tactical solutions for database capacity planning, scheduled database refreshes, backups and formulated recovery processes using RMAN, Data Pump, HOT/Cold methods, Export/Import and Database Cloning.  ? Knowledge on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) administration, ASMCMD.  ? Responsible for analyzing and tuning the performance of bad applications queries using Stats Pack, AWR and ADDM and well versed with utilities such as Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace and Auto trace.  ? Expertise experience in Installing and maintaining Oracle grid control application and Setup Golden gate,  ? Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents  ? In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  ? Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases.  ? Also responsible for well functioning of the database by Checking and Applying Patch set and Interim patches, Upgradations there by making the database software up-to-date. Upgraded databases from 10g and 11g to 12c.  ? Worked extensively on Oracle Migrations. Migrated database from Windows to Linux.  ? E-BUSINESS SUITE  ? Experience with oracle E-Business Suite 11i and R12.2 , it is an integrated set of business applications my experience involve administered , plan, developed and deployed E-Business using tools like OEM AND DEPLOYMENT MANAGER  ? Proficient in using Recovery manager (RMAN), Flash-Back Technology, Automatic Storage Manager (ASM) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Manager (ADDM).  ? Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  ? Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  ? Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  ? Cloned Database from Production to Test and Development.  ? Exporting and Importing of dumps using expdp and impdp.  ? Experience in Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, AWR report, 12c OEM Grid Monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  ? Database security using Oracle Security Features (roles, privileges), auditing & Network Config, Transparent data encryption, etc  ? Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  ? Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  ? Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  ? Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  ? UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  ? Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Northwest Mutual - Milwaukee, WI June 2015 to Present Renaming and Resizing the databases and Configured and implemented Or golden gate (Advanced Replication) for high availability.  ? Performed Schema as well as Table level Replication using golden gate  ? Implemented downstream capture at the destination database using  ? Responsible Advanced Replication in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  ? Worked on Multitenant databases.  ? Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  ? Oracle Install, Configure, Setup, Maintain and Support Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2,  ? 12c  ? RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database for Test, Development and Production for various home-developed applications  ? Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12 databases of 2.0 TB 3 Node production 10g and 11g RAC databases using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  ? Upgrade DBs from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1. Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.  ? RAC- Administration/Trouble-shooting of 3 Node cluster on Oracle 10g/11G R2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Migrate OCR files to ASM.    ? E-BUSINESS SUITE  ? Experience with oracle E-Business Suite 11i and R12.2 , it is an integrated set of business applications my experience involve administered , plan, developed and deployed E-Business using tools like OEM AND DEPLOYMENT MANAGER , CLUSTERCONTROL  ? Trouble-shoot Resource related issues. Cluster-wide Resource management such as create resource plan, Service configuration, parallel instance group, Application Isolation. Stress testing, benchmarking of clustered database.  ? Managed ASM storage. ASM cloning. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  ? Data guard - configure primary -standby using duplicate from active database command of 11g.  ? Apply SCN-based Incremental backup to sync standby after loss of Archivelogs on primary.  ? Measure data loss based on latency/lag. Cross-platform migration using Data guard.  ? GoldenGate - Involved in GoldenGate setup and monitoring. Hands on Troubleshooting replication errors & reading Trail files to identify replication issues. Performance/Latency test of GG. Hands on GoldenGate director experience. Write parameter files for EXTRACT/DATAPUMP/ REPLICAT process to perform Replication/Transformation /exception handling.  ? Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams  ? Upgraded the databases to version 12c from 11g and 10g  ? Installed, Setup, Configured Oracle version 12c Release2 64 Bit on Solaris 10 and RHEL 6  ? Up-gradation and Migration of Database from 10g to 11gand then to 12c and also applying patches whenever required.  ? Applying upgrade patches, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases.  ? Worked on Automatic storage management (ASM) with EMC storage for managing data in SAN.  ? Successfully implemented 10g RAC on nodes for high availability.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  ? Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  ? Installed 12c database  ? Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  ? Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  ? Experience with oracle E-Business Suite 11i and R12.2 , it is an integrated set of business applications my experience involve administered , monitored plan, developed and deployed E-Business using tools like OEM AND DEPLOYMENT MANAGER    ? Worked with statements like DELETE and UPDATE statements and also like insert of data into the datable.  ? Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  ? Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  ? Worked on UNIX environments.  ? Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system  ? Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of environments, Oracle OLTP.  ? Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.    ? Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/9i, Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator MOTOROLA - Sunnyvale, CA May 2013 to March 2015 Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  ? Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  ? Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  ? E-BUSINESS SUITE  ? Experience with oracle E-Business Suite 11i and R12.2 , it is an integrated set of business applications my experience involve administered , plan, INSTALLED developed deployed and TESTIND E-Business using tools like OEM AND DEPLOYMENT MANAGER , CLUSTERCONTROL  ? Experience with development life cycle, planning ,system analysis, designing, development, testing, implementation ,  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  ? Installation of 2 node and 3 node RAC, Migrating of database to RAC database. Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  ? Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  ? Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  ? Worked on converting bigfile to small file tablespace conversion for very large data (included 2T of data)  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Restoration of Data for users in the event of requirement or system crash.  ? Written SQL scripts to monitor tablespace and extent growth.  ? Performance tuning which includes creating indexes, analyze, explain plan, optimizer hints. Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  ? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system  ? Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    ? Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Junior Database Administrator 3M Companies Inc - Dallas, TX May 2003 to 2012 Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on platform.  ? Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  ? Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 10g R2.  ? Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  ? Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  ? Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  ? Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  ? Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  ? Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  ? Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  ? Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  ? Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  ? Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0.    ? Technical Summary    ? Operating Systems:  ? HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000    ? RDBMS:  ? Oracle 10g, 11g    ? Languages:  ? SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL    ? Tools:  ? TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp    ? Database Utilities:  ? SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import    ? Education    ? ORACLE CERTIFIED ASSOCIATE USA  ? Education Education BACHELORS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF DSCHANG Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, SQL, DBA, Sql Server, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp  Database Utilities:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import