Senior Database Administrator/ Lead DBA and Developer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Lead DBA and Developer Senior Database Administrator/ Lead DBA and Developer Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN Work Experience Senior Database Administrator/ Lead DBA and Developer ABRA Auto Body & Glass August 2013 to Present • Lead full cycle development of a new data structure for the company and conversion of data from SQL Server 2000-2005 into SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2016 system.  • Created and maintained an efficient solution to deliver data output to clients using SSAS and SSRS services.  • Created/maintained/supported SSAS cubes for Finance department  • Implemented data Mirroring to insure an uninterrupted service for company's most critical needs.  • Wrote a wide variety of stored procedures and views to maintain and improve the way data is presented to users (for instance: created datasets for reports; Excel, PDF files for FTP services; Xml files for Web services, and so on).  • Created an efficient way to maintain and store data in the data warehouse and assisted with maintaining existing and creating new reports.  • Created and supported Maintenance plans to ensure data integrity.  • Created an efficient way to load data into data warehouse using SQL Replication service. Continually reviewed and analyzed data loaded into the data warehouse for accuracy and provided ETL solutions for enhancing data accuracy and data processing performance.  • Designed, tested, and deployed SSIS packages for wide variety of ETL solutions, database maintenance automations, refreshing cubes data and other needs.    • Continually implement performance tuning by checking system backups, databases configuration settings, error logs, reviewing job history, making sure there is enough disk space. Reviewing and updating indexes, query performance. Always making sure that newest service packs are installed.  • Identifying and partitioning largest tables in database to improve query performance and for loading data quicker from OLTP to OLAP system.  • Implemented and maintained database security which included creating and maintaining users and roles and also assigning privileges. Working with network administrators on establishing security protocol.  • Created and tested disaster recovery plan for the warehouse and related databases. Ensured that this plan is up to date by performing a periodic review and maintains metrics on uptime and system availability for each database and related system.  • Maintained and improved existing and created new automated data links from various data sources to load data  into warehouse.  • Provided on-going support for data warehouse staff and other employees in relation to existing reports. Served as technical resource for inquiries directed from IT technical support staff.  • Complied with all company's rules, regulations, policies and procedures  • Performed other projects/tasks, as requested by the Company DBA and Developer Children's Home Society and Family Services August 2000 to June 2013 • Modeled new data structure to support company needs.  • Lead full cycle development of a new data structure for the company and conversion of data from Rbase into SQL server system.  • Created an efficient way to maintain and store data in the data warehouse and assisted with maintaining existing reports.  • Continually reviewed and analyzed data loaded into the data warehouse for accuracy and provide ETL solutions for enhancing data accuracy and data processing performance.  • Continually implement performance tuning by checking system backups, databases configuration settings, error logs, reviewing job history, making sure there is enough disk space. Reviewing and updating indexes, query performance. Always making sure that newest service packs are installed.  • Identifying and partitioning largest tables in database to improve query performance and for loading data quicker from OLTP to OLAP system.  • Installed, configured and upgraded SQL server software and related products. Evaluated server features and other related products such as Great Plains and Razor Edge.  • Implemented and maintained database security which included creating and maintaining users and roles and also assigning privileges. Working with network administrators on establishing security protocol.  • Analyzed, designed and provided specifications to automate new strategic reports implementations and/or consolidation/standardizing of existing reports  • Created disaster recovery plan for the warehouse and related databases. Ensured that this plan is up to date by performing a periodic review and maintains metrics on uptime and system availability for each database and related system.  • Analyzed, designed, provided data mapping documentation (links) and provide data specifications for integrating new and/or updating data within the data warehouse  Maintained and improved existing and created new automated data links from various data sources to load data into warehouse.  • Provided on-going support for data warehouse staff and other employees in relation to existing reports. Served as technical resource for inquiries directed from IT technical support staff.  • Complied with all company's rules, regulations, policies and procedures  • Performed other projects/tasks, as requested by the Company    Compuware Corporation (Clients: Best Buy, Blue Cross & Blue Shields, MN Senior Database Developer - Consultant Department of Transportation October 1998 to August 2000 • Modeled, Analyzed and designed data tracking tool as part of Best Buy e-commerce project. Analyzed old and created & tested new database for Traffic program for Minnesota Department of Transportation. Created and implemented conversion procedure to retrieve data from UNIX box into Oracle database for MN Department of Transportation.  • Oversaw the scheduling of processes which support the database loads of above projects and provided the necessary reports to meet business needs  • Ensured that each database system and related software is operating properly and meets the company processing requirements. Worked to minimize database downtime, monitored and tuned the performance of each database.  • Ensured disaster recovery plan for the warehouse and related databases are up to date by performing a periodic review and maintained metrics on uptime and system availability for each database and related system.  • Created database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers etc. Maintained referential integrity, domain integrity and column integrity by using the available options such as constraints. Identified columns for Primary Keys in all the tables at the design time and created them.  • Worked with business users to understand analytical requirements. Provided training and support  • Designed reports from verity of sources to meet staff needs for information  • Tested variety of database systems for Y2K compliance Database Analyst Retek Information Systems, Inc 1997 to 1998 • Analyzed, modeled and designed warehousing systems for business, HR & Accounting applications  • Participated in supporting and integration of internal data stores other and campaign operations as well as participating in data mining and other functions supporting data analytics and consumer insights.  • Developed vendor and client exports that meet provided specifications. Performed quality checks on reports and exports to ensure exceptional quality of data. Monitored job and transfer queues to ensure they are functioning as expected. Provided business users the data required for metrics and analysis.  • Interacted with users to review existing and new business requirements in compliance with company operations. Prepared and presented analytical reports on monthly basis. Participated in discussions involving the new application creation and wrote the data requirements for database functionality for the applications. Database Developer - Consultant Infoscan 1996 to 1997 Client: Caterpillar)  • Developed a new application using Visual Basic.  Participated in Designing and developing of new database system and migrated data from numerous Excel spread sheets and Access database into new SQL Server box.  • Created and optimized current queries, including writing new T-SQL script  • Converted business requirements to application and data structure design. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Kennedy Western University