Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Irving, TX ? An experienced Cloud / Database architect with more than 12 years of hands on experience in core Database Technologies (Oracle RAC, Datagaurd, Golden Gate).  ? Working as a CITI CLOUD AWS Architect and Oracle-DBA.  ? Handling Data migration On-premises to AWS Cloud.  ? Design and Implementation of DBaaS strategy - Database as a Service.  ? Working with Infrastructure Automation team of CITI to Design and Build DBaaS ( Database as a Service) Model.  ? Extensive experience on Single Click Oracle Environment provisioning using Python, Terraform, Oracle OCI/API's.  ? Worked NoSQL Oracle.  ? Currently working for CITI Bank US as a Database architect managing more than 500 PROD database.  ? Golden Gate Installation and Configuration in Oracle 12C R2.  ? Database Migrated Using Golden Gate (On-premises to Cloud).  ? 100% ITIL Process.  ? Expertise in Oracle DB architecture, oracle database administration, Database design,  ? Expertise in allocating system storage and planning for future storage requirement.  ? Creating primary database structure (Tablesapce) and objects (tables, views and indexes).  ? Patching, Upgradation.  ? Data guard configuration  ? RAC Installation and Configuration.  ? Datacenter Migration RAC to Non-RAC, RAC to RAC with DATAGAURD.  ? Migration cross platform window to Unix DB.  ? Worked in Exadata databases.  ? Good knowledge on golden gate technologies and excellent troubleshooting skills.  ? Backing and restoring the database.  ? Managing more than 500 databases with a consumed size more than TB.  ? RMAN backup and Recovery.  ? Cloning the database.  ? Planning for application (SQL) and Performance Tuning using Statspack, AWR, and Explain plan.  ? Develop/write PL-SQL procedure, function, Triggers, Package.  ? Experienced in tuning of ERP jobs, time, and CPU consuming SQL queries.  ? Resolving connectivity problems with Oracle database.  ? Good command over Utilities like Export, Import. Work Experience Database Administrator January 2018 to Present Prod, Pre_prod & Dev) ) and CITI CLOUD DBA For 10g, 11g,12C.  Environment Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server 5, 4(RHEL AS5), IBM AIX, Solaris.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C.  Domain Banking.    Role and Responsibilities:  ? Design and Implementation of DBaaS strategy - Database as a Service on Cloud and On-Prem data center.  ? Working with Infrastructure Automation team of Citi to Design and Build DBaaS Model.  ? Developing, Testing and Implementing REST API's using Python for Infrastructure Automation.  ? Closely working with the CITI DevOps central team to integrate DBaaS solution.  ? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C database build and Configuration.  ? Working as a CITI CLOUD AWS and Oracle-DBA.  ? Extensive experience on Single Click Oracle Instance provisioning model.  ? Data migration On-premises to AWS Cloud.  ? Support CR for Prod /Pre_ prod.  ? Migrate to Cloud database.  ? Working NoSQL Oracle.  ? MongoDB.  ? Oracle Database designing, creation and configuration.  ? Understand the business and requirements based on discussions with Client.  ? Based on documentation and discussions, designing the Database.  ? Datacenter Migration RAC to Non-RAC,RAC to RAC with DATAGAURD.  ? Golden Gate Installation and Configuration in Oracle 12C R2 Uni-direction and Bi-directional.  ? Migration cross platform window to Unix Oracle DB.  ? Developing Database Backup/Recovery Architecture for production Database  ? Creation of associated database objects including tables, indexes, views, etc.  ? 4+4 RAC setup with Datagaurd 11g, 12C.  ? Up gradation.  ? Datagaurd configuration.  ? Refresh the database using Expdp/Impdp.  ? Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  ? Managing all Daily Database Maintenance Issues.  ? Responsible for total back-end configuration for these projects.  ? Oracle Software Installation/Oracle upgrades on client side.  ? RMAN backup configuration and recovery for Route to Live.  ? Cloning the database.  ? Resolving connectivity problems with Oracle database.  ? Tuning Sql Statements.  ? Provide performance tuning solution to app team.  ? Troubleshooting and Problem Solving.  ? Setting up TNS connectivity between client workstation & Oracle Server. Oracle DBA WIPRO Technologies April 2013 to Present IBM India, as an Oracle DBA from May 2011 to April 2013.  CapGemini India, as an Oracle DBA from August 2009 to May 2011.  Firstline InfoTech, India as an Associate Consultant (DBA) from Oct 2006 to Aug 2009 Database Administrator April 2013 to December 2017 Prod, Pre_prod, Test & Dev) ) For 10g, 11g,12C.  Environment Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server 5, 4(RHEL AS5), IBM AIX, Solaris.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C.  Domain Banking.    Role and Responsibilities:  ? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C database build and Configuration.  ? Support CR for Prod /Pre_prod.  ? Oracle Database designing, creation and configuration.  ? Understand the business and requirements based on discussions with Client.  ? Based on documentation and discussions, designing the Database.  ? Datacenter Migration RAC to Non-RAC,RAC to RAC with DATAGAURD.  ? Golden Gate Installation and Configuration in Oracle 12C R2 Uni-direction and Bi-directional.  ? Migration cross platform window to Unix Oracle DB.  ? Developing Database Backup/Recovery Architecture for production Database  ? Creation of associated database objects including tables, indexes, views, etc.  ? 4+4 RAC setup with Datagaurd 11g, 12C.  ? Upgradation.  ? Datagaurd configuration.  ? Refresh the database using Expdp/Impdp.  ? Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  ? Managing all Daily Database Maintenance Issues.  ? Responsible for total back-end configuration for these projects.  ? Oracle Software Installation/Oracle upgrades on client side.  ? RMAN backup configuration and recovery for Route to Live.  ? Cloning the database.  ? Resolving connectivity problems with Oracle database.  ? Tuning Sql Statements.  ? Provide performance tuning solution to app team.  ? Troubleshooting and Problem Solving.  ? Setting up TNS connectivity between client workstation & Oracle Server. Database Administrator (Prod,Test & Dev) IBM May 2011 to April 2013 Environment Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server 5, 4(RHEL AS5), IBM AIX, Solaris.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g.  Domain Finance, Telecom.    Role and Responsibilities:  ? Support Prod and Dev,Test.  ? Oracle Database designing, creation and configuration.  ? Understand the business and requirements based on discussions with Client.  ? Based on documentation and discussions, designing the Database.  ? Developing Database Backup/Recovery Architecture for production Database  ? Creation of associated database objects including tables, indexes, views, etc.  ? Develop/write PL-SQL procedure, function, Triggers, Package.  ? Creating & adding data files to table spaces.  ? Creating Users and Granting Privileges.  ? Up gradation 9i, 10g to 11g R2.  ? Patching.  ? Golden Gate Setup 10g, 11g Uni-direction and Bi-directional.  ? Refresh the database using Expdp/Impdp.  ? Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  ? Troubleshot golden gate.  ? Managing all Daily Database Maintenance Issues.  ? Responsible for total back-end configuration for these projects.  ? Oracle Software Installation/Oracle upgrades on client side.  ? RMAN backup configuration.  ? Rman DB Cloning the database. CHIEF-STE UK, Coke US Capgemini August 2009 to May 2011 Role Database Administrator (Prod & Dev).  Environment Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server 5, 4(RHEL AS5), IBM AIX, Solaris.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g.  Domain Banking, Finance, Retail.    Role and Responsibilities:  ? RAC Installation and Configuration.  ? Data gaud setup.  ? Worked as an Oracle Core and Apps -DBA.  ? Oracle Database designing, creation and configuration.  ? Understand the business and requirements based on discussions with Client.  ? Based on documentation and discussions, designing the Database.  ? Developing Database Backup/Recovery Architecture for production Database  ? Creation of associated database objects including tables, indexes, views, etc.  ? Creating & adding data files to table spaces.  ? Creating Users and Granting Privileges.  ? Worked in Exadata(X3,X4 Machines).  ? Managing all Daily Database Maintenance Issues.  ? Responsible for total back-end configuration for these projects.  ? Oracle Software Installation/Oracle upgrades on client side.  ? RMAN backup configuration.  ? Cloning the database.  ? Worked as an Sql Server- DBA  ? Resolving connectivity problems with Oracle database.  ? Tuning Sql Statements.  ? Setting up TNS connectivity between client workstation & Oracle Server.  ? Monitored and troubleshoot for Coke Applications.  ? Member of interview panel. Associate Consultant (DBA) Firstline InfoTech - IN October 2006 to August 2009 Oracle Developer and Associate Database Administrator (Prod, Pre-Prod, Dev & Test) Firstline InfoTech - Pune, Maharashtra October 2006 to August 2009 Projects Vodafone India, MetLife Insurance Mubai, Pune.  Role Oracle Developer and Associate Database Administrator (Prod, Pre-Prod, Dev & Test).  Environment Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server 5, 4(RHEL AS5), IBM AIX, Solaris.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g.  Domain Telecom, Finance.  Duration Oct2006- Aug2009    Role and Responsibilities:  ? Understand the business and requirements based on discussions with Client.  ? Creating Users and Granting Privileges.  ? Writing Function, Stored procedure, Trigger, Body packages.  ? Managing all Daily Database Maintenance Issues.  ? Responsible for total back-end configuration for these projects.  ? Based on documentation and discussions, designing the Database.  ? RMAN backup.  ? Resolving connectivity problems with Oracle database.  ? Supported Application development team. Education B.E in Electronics and communication Engineering MIT Skills Oracle, Replication, Sql, Aix, Hp ux, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Ux, Rdbms, Pls, Associate Additional Information Technical Skills:    RDBMS Oracle 9i,10g,11g,12C,Citi CLOUD DBA  Programming languages SQL Developer,PLs/SQL,  Operating Systems Windows/2003, Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advanced Server (RHEL AS 4) and (RHEL AS 5) Solaris, AIX, HP UX  Replication Tool Cloud Golden Gate AWS Solutions Architect-Associate,