Applications Developer Applications Developer Database Administrator/Developer Sterling, VA Detail oriented IT professional with over 29 years of broad range software development experience looking for a remote opportunity. The last 23 years specialized in public safety software development, implementation and support. Skilled in all phases of agile software development lifecycle from requirements gathering to post-installation support. Has performed as a technical team leader, development manager, and product manager. Comfortable interfacing directly with the user community and support of live critical systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applications Developer Northrop Grumman October 1996 to Present • Deploying software/ database releases and patches to customer testing, training and production systems.  • Convert MIS reports from a thick client C#/Crystal Reports application to a web-based Tableau solution. Implemented the use of Tableau dashboards and geographic visualizations to support public safety dispatch operation centers.  • Develop bug resolutions and new features for GIS systems. These systems include Automated Vehicle Route  Recommendation (AVRR) written in C#, Geographic Data Information Tools (GDITools) written in C++ and Perl  • Develop interfaces, bug resolutions, and new features for our two public safety Records Management System (RMS). The  two platforms for the RMS' were Oracle Forms/Reports, and Visual Basic 6.0. Trainer Northrop Grumman October 1996 to Present Trainer  • Conducted on-demand training sessions with our Chicago customer related to our Tableau MIS solution. This customer's  internal development staff used this training to understand how to modify Tableau workbooks and create new workbooks.  • Walk customers through new releases. Show the user community new features, bug resolutions, and enhancements to their  system in preparation of their internal site testing of the new release Product Manager Northrop Grumman October 1996 to Present RMS Product Manager  • Responsible for developing and planning the functional direction of the RMS product using the Oracle Forms/Reports  platform. This RMS supported public safety Police, Fire, EMS, and Jail users. The system included asset, inventory, personnel, and training functionality.  • Managed a team of 12 developers  • Created development, testing, and implementation schedules and managed those schedules against fixed-price budgets Database Administrator/Developer Northrop Grumman 1996 to Present Database Administrator/Developer  Support customer's production Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) systems through our 24/7/365 help desk. This support  includes; production databases being down/unavailable, impacts of poorly performing SQL statements on CAD application  response time, spike event (4th of July, New Year's Eve) monitoring.  • Support development and testing Oracle database activities. Create, upgrade, and maintain databases as needed. Develop  and peer review scripts for new and/or modified objects. Analyze and make suggested modifications to address application  performance issues found during development or testing.  • Develop utilities with C#/Windows Forms to install our CAD system's database from scratch and load a customer's legacy  CAD's data into our CAD's Oracle database.  • Develop database objects (tables, package, synonyms, views, and triggers) to support an application level real-time replication  of CAD data into Management Information System (MIS) database. Education B.S. in Mechanical Engineering University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA 1987 Skills Oracle RDBMS (10+ years), Visual Basic, Visual Studio - C# (10+ years), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Tableau (2 years), SQL Server (10+ years), Oracle Forms/Reports (10+ years)