Online English Teacher Online English Teacher Danville, CA Analytical and detail-oriented, with experience in coordinating, planning, and supporting  daily operational functions. Offering expertise in delivering office and Administrative  support by applying strong organizational, technical, communication, and customer service  skills. An outstanding communicator and team leader with strong interpersonal skills.  Seeking to thrive in a demanding, deadline-driven environment. Work Experience Online English Teacher Beijing, CN January 2018 to Present China  • Instruct English language skills to students in China via an online platform.  • Classroom settings optimized for a one-to-one set up.  • Build effective classroom management skills.  • Utilize TPR (Total Physical Response) and props to assist with teaching student. Customer Support Services Self-Employed January 2017 to Present • Classroom settings optimized for a one-to-one set up.  • Monitor messages via our support portal to promptly assist, solve, or support members  through a question or problem (We use Help Scout as our support portal)  • Build effective classroom management skills.  • Utilize TPR (Total Physical Response) and props to assist with teaching student. Customer Service Associate Jumpin' Giraffe - San Bruno, CA April 2018 to December 2018 • Utilized exceptional communication to connect with customers, assess needs and present solutions.  • Exhibited exceptional customer service at all times, including addressing customer  inquiries and ensuring resolution.  • Entered orders into an Shopify/BookIt computer database system.  • Responded resourcefully to customer requests and concerns. Database Administrator EZE CASTLE SOFTWARE - San Francisco, CA April 2000 to January 2003 Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers  and analysts to make changes.  • Test programs or databases, correct errors and make necessary modifications.  • Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database.  • Approve, schedule, plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new products and improvements to computer systems such as the installation of new databases.  • Select and enter codes to monitor database performance and to create production  database. Database Administrator PRUDENTIAL CALIFORNIA REALTY - Walnut Creek, CA July 1998 to March 2000 • Test programs or databases, correct errors and make necessary modifications.  • Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers  and analysts to make changes.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine  project scope and limitations.  • Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database.  • Approve, schedule, plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new products and.  • improvements to computer systems such as the installation of new databases.  • Select and enter codes to monitor database performance and to create production  database. Help Desk Technician PRUDENTIAL CALIFORNIA REALTY - Walnut Creek, CA 1996 to 1998 • Provided excellent customer service through communication and interpersonal skills.  • Planned, implemented, and tested software and hardware.  • Exercised creativity and flexibility to respond quickly and positively to shifting demands, tight deadlines and simultaneous handling of multiple detailed tasks.  • Maintained composure and efficiency in the high-pressure IT environment.  • Developed efficient and effective customer service solutions to diverse and complex  business problems. Help Desk Lead NRT - San Ramon, CA January 1995 to January 1997 • Confer with staff, users, and management to establish requirements for new systems or modifications.  • Refer major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial  actions taken, or installation activities.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve  problems.  • Purchase all hardware and software systems for employees and users.  • Managed vendor relationships.  • Supervised help desk specialists. Education Bachelor B.A University of Hawaii - Honolulu, HI June 1993 Skills Database administration, Database, Time management, Client relations, Detail oriented, Writing skills Additional Information Skills    • Organizing materials • Customer-service oriented  • Top notch grammar/writing skills • Detail oriented  • Active listening • Technological instruction  • Effective time management • Database administration  • [Language] fluency • Customer/Client relations