Senior Production DBA-Tech Lead Senior Production DBA-Tech Lead Senior Production DBA-Tech Lead - PJM LLC Norristown, PA Work Experience Senior Production DBA-Tech Lead PJM LLC 2013 to Present • Leading Oracle 12c upgrade project  • Completed leading the project of upgrading more than 180 in-scope mission critical databases to Oracle version 11.2.0.4, including standalone, HA and RAC with data guard on IBM/Aix servers.  • Generated upgrade procedures and documentation.  • Managed actual implementation plan for 6 staff DBA.  • Published weekly communication for implementation  • Provided lead tech support for various projects and day to day issue resolution  • System and Engineering review board member for new IT related projects.  • Oracle Certified Professional for database 12c.  • SA certified CSM.  • Liaison to Oracle sales and tech support/  • Help with performance tuning and triage utilizing OEM, ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQLT, Trace Analyzer, OS Watcher, TFA and Scripts.  • Perform POC for different technologies like Flash storage, Aix to Linux conversion, etc.  • Publish white papers for new features and leading tech strategies for future implementation.  • Fix and implement dba shell scripts, PL/SQL package for monitoring.  • Generate standard operational procedures as needed for Upgrade, Patching, Disaster Recoveries etc. Senior Production DBA PJM LLC 2001 to 2013 • Installed ORACLE10gR2 with RAC, ASM, DATA Guard for high availability.  • Utilized Golden Gate for data replication.  • Oracle 11g RAC installation and acfs configuration.  • Configured disk based backup utilizing Oracle RMAN.  • Performed Quarterly DR recovery.  • Utilized Quest spotlight for RAC and toad suite to monitor DB performance  • Responsible for primary data warehouse, data mart and Sagent ETL tool repository databases.  • Managed large partitioned databases on IBM AIX and Windows 2000 platforms.  • Responsible for databases whose total size is over 20 TB.  • Ensured databases adhere to corporate standards and policies including database auditing to SAS70 requirements.  • Worked with developers and change management team to ensure smooth life cycle progress from development through testing and production implementation.  • Installed Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g and 11g software.  • Installed and configured Oracle 9iEM/10g Grid Control on IBM/Aix for database monitoring.  • Upgrades from 8.1.7.4 to 9.2.0.7,9i to 10g and 10g to 11R2.  • Maintained currency with periodic Oracle Critical Patches.  • Migrated backup from BMC obacktrack to Oracle RMAN based backup.  • Participated and documented procedures for Disaster Recovery using both BMC obacktrack and Oracle RMAN.  • Used Sybase Power Designer for database data modeling.  • Performed production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  • Worked with external vendors to support their applications.  • Configured and supported oracle RAC and data guard for high availability.  • Support MS SQL server 2005 and 2008. Database Administrator Reuters(VFSC) 2000 to 2001 System DBA:  • Installing oracle server, creating database, applying patches, applying version upgrade and supporting monthly weekend outages.  • Setting up backup & recovery, setting up and monitoring standby db's.  • Setting up and monitoring replication and fail-over.  • Install and setting up oracle databases in OPS environment.  • Performance tuning, re-build indices, recompile invalid objects.  • Maintaining and monitoring data loading.    Application DBA:  • Writing stored procedures and functions, debugging stored procedures, writing perl and unix scripts for loading data from third parties, setting up java and jre for data loading through xml.  • Writing scripts for generating reports, setting up cron jobs for different tasks. Troubleshooting performance. Database Specialist Wyeth 2000 to 2000 - 2000  • Installed Solaris 2.6, 2.7. 8 and Oracle 8i server on Solaris and NT  • Set up kernel parameters on Solaris for Oracle installation  • Created an operational database for Data automation.  • Migrated Oracle 8.0 to Oracle 8i via exp/imp.  • Implemented parallel search servers with distributed databases by using Java, JDBC and Java RMI (Client/server development)  • Developed a meta search engine by using Apache, CGI, HTML and Java Scripts (Web development). Education MS Computer Science in Computer Science Villanova University 1999