DOJ, Contractor DOJ, Contractor DOJ, Contractor - JMD/Justice Communication Service (JCS) Ashburn, VA Work Experience DOJ, Contractor JMD/Justice Communication Service (JCS) July 2018 to Present • Senior-level Communications and Subject level expert with both operational and design engineering responsibilities in a Windows Infrastructure environment.  • Work closely with both IT and business partners to design and implement SharePoint solutions supporting business needs as well as upgrades.  • Prepared the Implementation plan for On Premise SharePoint 2013 production migration from CJIS to CEF-DC locations. Perform root cause analysis, incident management, and communication with service team members.  • Implemented and fully tested database replication for SharePoint from CJIS to CEF-DC location using SQL Server 2012 Always on High Availability Groups. Performed planned manual failover using Windows Server Failover Clustering (WSFC) in the UAT environment. Worked with the Network and SharePoint development teams to verify SharePoint sites connections and functionalities, Firewall checks, VIP and DNS configurations.  • Provide technical mentoring to other team members and actively participate in SharePoint Online/Office 365 Hybrid architecture reviews/strategic development activities. Plan service applications, site collections, customizations and solutions; Plan security, networking services to migrate from SharePoint On-Premise to SharePoint Online.  • Work with our Government clients to understand and manage project delivery expectations.  • Work with Microsoft Engineering team to install /configure Metalogix and AzCopy migration tools on our environment. Work with our Exchange Engineering /Networking teams to resolve connection issues from our DOJ GCC cloud tenant to the Microsoft Azure government tenant.  • Work with SharePoint teams / site owners to understand and resolve all the migration issues.  • Attend daily Migration meetings with key DOJ Management, Microsoft and SharePoint Engineering teams to discuss ongoing migration issues, procedures and project delivery dates during the migration process. Senior SharePoint Analyst Freddie Mac - McLean, VA January 2016 to June 2016 • As part of Center of Excellence team (CoE), worked with the third party technical migration team, Freddie Mac management as well as division site owners to implement sound migration of SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013. Provide expertise and training to ensure the implementation adds the most value to the division.  • Attended daily standup meeting with technical and management teams to update them with the latest migration and conversion issues.  • Provide guidance and input into the overall division taxonomy of SharePoint sites and provide recommendations on the ideal structure. Ensure the proposed structure is in alignment with corporate standards and practices.  • Work with site owners and the corporate SharePoint Center of Excellence on how to overcome common conversion issues from SharePoint 2010 to 2013.  • Provide expertise during testing efforts to assist site owners and users to resolve SharePoint issues. Consultant LMI - McLean, VA September 2011 to June 2015 • Responsible for all aspects of LMI's client-focused SharePoint development and production environments, including requirements gathering, design, architecture, availability, performance, monitoring, and security of the SharePoint 2007 and 2010 farm environments. Provide extranet solutions to external LMI clients by managing and troubleshooting all form based authentication websites. Created and customized sub sites, Team sites, search scopes, excel services, web parts based on client needs. Implemented Document Management using features such as site columns, content types, key terms, versioning, workflows, etc. Configured Form based authentications, User Security, Web applications, SQL Server content databases, Service applications. In depth knowledge of IIS server, Application Pools, AAMP, Ports and SSL certificates when configuring the web applications. Planned and implemented complete project migration of existing SharePoint 2007 collaboration sites to SharePoint 2010 and SharePoint 2013ms sites using database attach upgrade method. Developed the SOP and all required technical documentation for the complete SharePoint migration process.  • Provide ongoing support to LMI's internal Software Development team, Health Systems team and external CMS CCIIO clients, using the Atlassian Jira Issue Tracking, Bamboo, Fisheye and Confluence collaboration systems. Configure, design and maintain all Jira and Confluence projects by developing custom Jira forms, workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes based on requirements from Agile Development team and Health Systems team. Provide technical assistance during JIRA /Confluence installation, upgrades and integration.  • Provide direct consulting support to the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO) at CMS (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services). Provide support to Plan Management's IT Coordinator in coordinating the development of business requirements for the PM IT system. Working with the Office of Technology Services at CMS to troubleshoot technical issues on behalf of PM and PM contractors (Accenture, Booz Allen, QSSI, IMPAQ, etc). Provide SME knowledge regarding the IT systems to PM CCIIO staff. Attend meetings to develop SME knowledge on IT systems and, supporting the delivery of 2-3 daily reports to the IT Coordinator CCIIO Management regarding LMI's data extracts and data analysis. Attend weekly meetings with various stakeholders regarding data changes and defect findings, and sprint meetings with LMI Systems Developers regarding all changes to the LMI FFM Analyzer application. Senior Consultant Deloitte Services - Arlington, VA May 2009 to May 2011 • As a key member of the Federal Capture Infrastructure organization, was responsible for the creation, taxonomy, and ongoing maintenance of SharePoint project sites located on the Deloitte Chicago SLTC domain and on the SharePoint Early Adopter Platform (EAP):  • Applied best practices for optimal SharePoint architecture and provided ongoing training to proposal teams.  • Maintained project support requests for SharePoint sites located on the EAP, tracking and resolving SharePoint requests and user account issues forwarded by proposal teams.  • Developed training plans to train new users on SharePoint's collaborative features and kept all technical and procedural documentation up-to-date on the SharePoint site.  • Gathered and documented requirements from proposal team members to configure the optimal sites for proposal collaboration.  • Created various SharePoint action item lists to track internal administrative user access forms and employee tasks status reporting tools. Also created and maintained various meeting workspace sites, site security permissions, site definitions, and templates by establishing managed taxonomies and content types across all SharePoint portals.  • Developed a solution for the Federal RTrak team's manual reporting process by creating a set of custom macros using Visual Basic. Received an Applause Award for significantly increasing the efficiency of the reporting process and reducing the possibility of user errors.  • Evaluated potential technology products against functional and technical requirements, and identified best solution to improve the efficiency of business processes and procedures. Implemented a document management and business intelligence solution using SharePoint 2010 Excel services and Performance Point. Develop top key metrics for dashboards for optimal decision making. Senior Technology Consultant BearingPoint - McLean, VA June 2008 to May 2009 • Managed intranet domain for BearingPoint's Federal Capture Infrastructure organization. Was responsible for all aspects of support, including new SharePoint site development, Active Directory support, and user permissions on a domain created using SharePoint servers coupled to SQL Server databases. Assisted the BearingPoint-to-Deloitte migration team by setting up a SharePoint collaboration area tailored to the team's needs:  • Developed several SQL Server Integration Services packages to extract data from SQL Server into Excel reports. Set up database maintenance plans to schedule database backups and to clean up unused space and archive transaction logs.  • Administered Web Applications, site collections and user groups, and privileges related to security.  • Used SharePoint Designer to customize web pages, workflows, and CSS files to create a custom-branded project site.  • Built and maintained several Public Services Capture Portal Global web pages connected to the Inside BearingPoint intranet website.  • Built and supported the BearingPoint-to-Deloitte migration team's program management office, which included setting up private areas for both teams and facilitating transfer of documents to a specific migration area.  • Developed .NET web application that generated ad hoc reports for all Deal Review data. The user-friendly application generated customized reports based on detailed management requirements.  • Developed several Opportunity Deal Review input forms using Microsoft InfoPath and published as content types on the Deloitte Net Portal site. The complex forms helped account teams prepare to meet with Deloitte leaders for federal opportunities that exceeded $3 million per year. The highly complex forms required data sharing among forms. Senior Database Administrator Fannie Mae - Reston, VA June 2007 to May 2008 • Supported critical customer solutions application in a warm standby replication environment with VCS architecture, and worked closely with the application teams to resolve database issues occurring in the development, test, user acceptance test, and production environments. Assisted the systems administration team with sizing storage area network (SAN) devices. Worked closely with the Autosys/Backup teams to resolve any issues regarding database backups and other database monitoring jobs. Tracked database activities daily using Remedy change request and service online request systems.  • Participated in several server consolidation projects. Upgraded several production and nonproduction servers from Replication Server version 12.5 to version 15.0.  • Provided technical recommendations relating to configuring memory, data cache, locks, CPU engines, and index management. Database Administrator Office of Finance - Reston, VA April 2004 to May 2007 • Supported more than 15 production applications in a three-tier Sybase Replication environment and Microsoft SQL Server environment. Worked with developers and their system requirements to ensure the best possible database changes, while balancing performance, security, and standards:  • Utilized the Erwin data modeling tool to generate all database changes and test the changes in all three development environments.  • Verified scheduled jobs for database backups, DBCC checks, database space checks, and index rebuild checks.  • Upgraded all production servers from Sybase 12.5.1 to 12.5.3. Rebuilt all production servers on newly created SAN disks. Resolved Sybase bugs.  • Managed user account requests submitted by the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks to grant appropriate application access and resolve application permission issues.  • Monitored production performance using Quotium production client tool. Configured scripts to monitor database locks, blocks, and long-running queries.  • Executed production failover testing twice a year to keep up-to-date with current failover documentation.  • Resolved production issues such as long-running queries, poor indexing, and database blocking. Worked with developers to tune the stored procedures and trigger codes.  • Developed implementation plan for configuration of High Availability (HA) solution for production environments. Updated failover documentation to include the new HA configuration.  • Led implementation and configuration of Sybase LDAP authentication module to support reduced sign-on strategy. Updated security procedures to include the new LDAP authentication process. Systems Engineer Verizon - Silver Spring, MD September 1999 to November 2003 • Database administrator for a production database team supporting all of Verizon's mission-critical databases. Provided 24/7 database support for many applications running on various OS platforms interfacing with Oracle, Sybase using Replication, and Microsoft SQL Server:  • Provided database expertise in the pre- and post-installation of Oracle on Solaris 2.5 platforms for all the new applications. The certification process incorporated the physical layout of the database to comply with Oracle's Flexible Architecture, database sizing (table, table space, and data files), and backup and recovery planning.  • Assisted UNIX administration team with tuning the database servers for CPU, memory settings, disk I/O, and network load to ensure maximum availability of the systems. Worked closely with the team to familiarize it with Volume Manager during the failover/failback process using HA Veritas Cluster.  • Reviewed, modified, and executed database administration steps on task plans during production deployments. During the production releases, assisted users and developers with connectivity issues, SQL performance, and tuning of stored procedures and indexes.  • Worked closely with engineering, vendors, and application teams to solve issues and analyze the root causes of the database failures such as stack traces due to signal 11 errors.  • Installed, configured, and loaded Oracle 8i, Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase 11 and 12, and Replication Server. Technical Analyst EDS - Landover, MD February 1997 to September 1999 • Assisted with software development for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Earth Observing System Data Information System-Core Systems project.  • Designed and developed a software license tracking system using Visual Basic.  • Designed and developed a user-friendly Access database with data entry, search capabilities, and reports for data analysis. Implemented and tested various UNIX scripts for installation and operations for the database management system and related functionality using Perl Awk.  • Successfully completed an intensive system engineering development program, including courses in C programming, Visual Basic, and SQL. Education Bachelors of Chemical Engineering in Chemical Engineering City College of NY