Maintenance Data Analyst Maintenance Data Analyst Maintenance Data Analyst - M1 Support Services Abilene, TX Work Experience Maintenance Data Analyst M1 Support Services - Nellis AFB, NV 2010 to Present • Responsible for researching, collecting, and analyzing aircraft status and maintenance data documentation using pivot tables, charts, formulas and visual basic.  • Compile maintenance metrics daily, monthly and yearly for various reports.  • Create reports and presentations daily, weekly and monthly for senior leadership.  • Used statistical techniques in interpreting data, identifying and isolating trends and significant deviations using several statistical tests such as Kendall's S Test, T Test for Outliers, Correlation and several others to improve mission capability.  • Attend daily, weekly and monthly briefings to stay ahead of trending data. Business Analyst / Assortment Planner Mulberry Neckwear - Las Vegas, NV 2006 to 2010 • Communicate with business managers and analyze neckwear sales to coordinate orders to department stores such as Macy's, Lord & Taylor, Gottschalk's and several specialty stores.  • Created reports and spreadsheets to give management a look at the health of our business.  • Created several macros in Visual Basic to cut workload that has saved several hours per week.  • Allocated over 100,000+ units of ties to several accounts. Ensuring the stores had the right amount of ties on hand without over saturating the store. Data Analyst / Database Administrator / Programmer IDC - Las Vegas, NV 2005 to 2006 • Establish, maintain, and close databases for client fundraising.  • Daily use of Visual Basic and SQL programming to add functionality to client databases.  • Create and Program special tools that cut workload by 50%.  • Provide statistical analysis as required for both Account Executives and clients.  • Run Mid campaign and Final Reports to ensure clients fundraising expectations are met and to their expectations.  • Initiate research projects to update the accuracy of client data. Maintenance Data Analyst / Database Administrator United States Air Force - Joint Base Lewis McChord, WA 2001 to 2005 • Using SQL and Visual Basic created and implemented over 6 databases for senior leadership, managers and their employees which cut data extraction by 80 %.  • Routinely updated and troubleshot databases to ensure working as designed. Oversaw the accuracy of the data for over 500,000 + records.  • Responsible for researching, collecting, and analyzing aircraft status and maintenance data documentation using pivot tables, charts, formulas and visual basic in Microsoft Excel and Access to accomplish.  • Produced Monarch model used to extract data from G081 and Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) that cut data manipulation by 50 %.  • Completed various special requests and special studies in an effective and timely manner. Designed a comprehensive daily tracking sheet to analyze the status of HH-60 Functional Check Flights which was utilized for the employment of a contracted Functional Check Flight team. Education Military Technical School in Maintenance Data Systems Analysis 2001 to 2005 Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/k-ioqjua63ia-sef Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Advanced user in Microsoft Access, Excel, and Powerpoint to include VBA programming.  • Experience with programming in SQL, Microsoft Visual Basic, Powershell, Python and Regular Expressions.  • Proficient in Monarch, Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office Professional.  • Currently Possess Secret Clearance.  • 12 Years' experience working with ALIS, IMDS and G081 government databases.