Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - ATOS Syntel Inc Nashville, TN • Extensively worked on SQL Server 2008/R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016/2017 servers.  • Leadership: Team Lead- Coordinate migration/upgrades and train SQL server offshore team.  • Worked on SQL Server Migration/upgrade from 2008 R2 to 2014/2016/2017  • Data Migration with import export utilities and scripting.  • Proficiency in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/ Server connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, DMVs and DMFs.  • Installation/Configuration Standalone and cluster servers  • Troubleshooting Database/Server issues.  • High Availability: Cluster, AlwaysOn, Mirroring, Replication, LogShipping  • Automation of task  • Disaster Recovery, Backup/Restore, Patching, Maintenance of SQL Server using Maintenance wizard  • T-SQL programming such as (stored procedure, function and triggers),  • SSIS: Import and export packages and upgrade SSIS packages.  • SSAS: Installation of SSAS and configure and troubleshoot, migration.  • SSRS: Installation of SSRS and configure and troubleshoot, migration.  • Worked on Azure database and Amazon Web Services.  • Implementation of ITIL concepts (Incident, Change, Problem).  • Trace, User Management and Security.  • 24/7 On-Call support  • Coordinate with Developers.  • Excellent communication skill and good team player Work Experience Team Lead ATOS Syntel Inc - Nashville, TN August 2018 to Present Nashville TN Aug 2018 to till date  SQL Server 20188/R2 End of Service f or Hospital Corporation of America (HCA) - Nashville TN  Performed SQL Server Database administrator on client site at HCA supporting 1100+ SQL Servers and accomplishing 100% server availability. Worked on Incidents, Change and Problems. Performed migration/upgrade from SQL Server 2008/R2 to 2014/2016/2017.    Responsibilities  • Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration.: Managing Production, Dev and QA databases  • Leadership: Team Lead- Coordinate work and training with offshore  • Installation and Configuration: Installation of SQL Server of versions (2008, 2008 R2, 2012 2014) on Standalone.  • Migration - Migration from 2008/R2 to 2014/2016 servers.  • Implementation of Patches/Hotfixes.  • Configuration of Server and Databases as per user requests.  • Users access management and Security: Creating Logins and providing the access to the server and databases. Granting Access and revoking access of users.  • Maintenance Jobs: Adding Maintenance jobs and making sure they are successfully completing as per their schedule.  • Disaster Recovery Plan: Performing Backup and restore as per request. Making sure the High Availability Technologies and running and operational.  • Troubleshoot Databases issues: Troubleshooting all the databases and SQL Server issues  • Change/Release deployment: Implementing Change and release tickets.  • Performance Tuning and Optimization: Work with team on improving performance ETL jobs and SQL Queries. Assist developer for best practices of Query writing etc.  • SSIS Packages: Deployment of SSIS packages and troubleshooting.  • Automation: Work with team on Automation with T-SQL and PowerShell scripting.  • Space Management: Optimize the space of the drives by Shrinking and release the spaces.  • 24/7 On-Call Support  • Followed ITIL Process (Incident, Change, Work Order(Service Catalog) with Service Central tool.  • Worked Always On and Azure.  • SSAS troubleshooting    • Key Achievements: Migrated hospital servers notably Meditech (CereCore), Midas, Capsule and Tri-Star servers successfully. Configured Always On, Mirroring and Replications, Automation of Tasks, Syntel Private Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2015 to August 2018 Pune India Dec 2015 to Aug 2018  Project: Hospital Corporation of America (HCA)  Performed SQL Server Database Administrator at offshore for HCA supporting 1000+ SQL Servers.    Responsibilities  • Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration.: Managing Production and QA databases  • Installation and Configuration: Installation of SQL Server of versions (2008, 2008 R2, 2012 2014) on Standalone and Cluster Environments. Installation of Patches/Hotfixes. Configuration of Server and Databases as per user requests.  • Users access management and Security: Creating Logins and providing the access to the server and databases. Granting Access and revoking access of users.  • Maintenance Jobs: Adding Maintenance jobs and making sure they are successfully completing as per their schedule.  • Disaster Recovery Plan: Performing Backup and restore as per request. Making sure the High Availability Technologies and running and operational.  • Troubleshoot Databases issues: Troubleshooting all the databases and SQL Server issues.  • Creation and maintenance plans.  • Change/Release deployment: Implementing Change and release tickets. Using Remedy tool.  • Performance Tuning and Optimization: Work with team on improving performance ETL jobs and SQL Queries. Assist developer for best practices of Query writing etc.  • SSIS Packages: Deployment of SSIS packages and troubleshooting  • Automation: Work with team on Automation with T-SQL and PowerShell scripting.  • Space Management: Optimize the space of the drives by Shrinking and release the spaces    • Key Achievements: Large scale installation and Patching. Incident troubleshooting, Deploying Change, Backup/ Restores. SSIS packages migration. Saama Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 to December 2015 Project: Vivaki- Publicis Groupe    Performed SQL Server Database Administrator at offshore for client Vivaki- publicis groupe supporting its 300+ servers, plus working with AWS infra-structure team to coordinate with data delivery. Troubleshooting incidents and performing change. Working closely on big-data processing using tools such as Kognitio and Google Big Query. Troubleshooting SSAS issues. AWS (Instance, Volume and Machine creation), S3 bucket.    Responsibilities:  • Monitoring SQL Agent jobs run on time and complete successfully.  • Create jobs, Delete jobs, and update jobs for ETLs.  • Capacity planning and estimation  • Disaster recovery planning: scheduling backups, restoring backup, point in time recovery.  • Creating and Managing Maintenance task  • Managing security of the Server logins and users, orphan logins and users.  • Managing logs/Data file,  • High availability: Managing Log shipping, troubleshooting. Managing Mirroring servers.  • Exposure to SSIS and SSAS 2012.  • Taking backup and restoring SSAS databases.  • Making sure the SLA is delivered.  • Installation of SQL Server 2008, installation for Service packs, Database Engine, SSIS and SSAS.  • Maintaining indexes and statistics.  • Use SQL Server Profiler, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization.  • Resolving Blocking and locking issues.  • Performance issues  • Resolving miscellaneous issues with SQL Server 2008 R2/2012.  • Working on AWS (Creating Instances, create volumes and attaching to servers)    Key Achievements: SSAS and Data Delivery, Worked on AWS tools for data processing. Incident troubleshooting, Linux. SQL Server Database Administrator, Troubleshooting Qasar Elag Drug Company - Riyadh, SA May 2009 to April 2011 database issues, writing store procedure, function and triggers, maintained jobs    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Creation/mapping of logins, users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Creation of Database mails and Operators.  • Index creation and maintenance.  • Implemented and maintained Database Mirroring on SQL Server 2008.(Configuration, Administration)  • Monitoring SQL Server Performance and Activity by using SQL Profiler and Windows performance Monitor.  • Involved in developing Stored Procedures, triggers for Application. Junior SQL Server Database Administrator, Installation, configuration, and maintenance Nanded, Maharashtra May 2008 to April 2009 of jobs    Responsibilities:  • Partly involved in Database designing.  • Installed, configured and upgraded MS SQL Server  • Assisted for development and design the GUI with Active X Controls like MS Flex Grid, List View, Tree View. Etc.  • Used Crystal Report 8.0 for Reports.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions for Application.  • Supported the Application Development. Oxford English Medium School - Nanded, Maharashtra July 2005 to April 2008 Nanded, India July 2005 to April 2008  • Worked as Assist. Teacher for High School.  • Responsible for lecturing computer Languages C and VB 6.0  • Responsible for demonstrating usage of computers in the general life.  • Responsible for maintaining Lab.  • Troubleshoot Hardware and Network problems.  • Installation of Windows XPs.