Chapter 13 Trustee Chapter 13 Trustee Chapter 13 Trustee - Kathy A. Dockery Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chapter 13 Trustee Kathy A. Dockery - Los Angeles, CA July 2010 to Present Applications Developer  Description:  • Installation, configuration, maintenance, and support of all office workstations, printers, and all other hardware. I also support all software application installations, configuration, and desktop support. I do network administration, SQL database administration, phone system support, website data content management, IT inventory control and applications programming/support.    Responsibilities:  Application Developer  • Responsible for all project lifecycle phases, from specifications and coding through deployment, testing, debugging, documentation, and maintenance. Including but not limited to application forms and controls, macros and modules using VBA in Microsoft Office Suites.  • Modify applications to suit new requirements for users and based on errors that would occur from time to time.  • Involved with testing and debugging applications before deploying applications into a production environment.  • Create tables in Microsoft Access and SQL Server to store data related to an application.  • Create queries in Microsoft Access and SQL Server to display data from tables for user to view in an orderly fashion.  • Develop and maintain Crystal Reports for reporting purposes.  • Develop Batch files for usage in applications.    Network Administration  • Responsible for the installation, configuration, maintenance, and support of LAN and WIFI networks in office  • Installing and supporting office network switches to connect devices to the offices network.  • In charge of the management of user network accounts in regards to adding/removing, and the configuration of user settings via Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server  • Setting up Group Policies to streamline user network configuration  • Troubleshooting network address issues and connectivity of user workstations, phones, and printers.  • Setting up and troubleshooting user desktop computers.  • Setting up and troubleshooting network printers.    Database Administration  • Responsible for the creation and maintenance of our application back end database on the SQL server and Microsoft Access.  • Setting up user access to the new database; configure the security settings for the user to modify the data stored on the database.  • Creating complex queries to present data to be used in our office applications.  • Creating functions and stored procedures to retrieve and update data quicker and more efficiently.  • Setting up backup processes for SQL databases.  • Migrating data back and forth from Access databases into our SQL database    Phone System Support  • I was responsible for setting up user phone accounts, extensions and voice mail. I had to assign network phones to each user, connect the phones to the network, and then ensure that the phone functioned properly.  • Maintain the directory database of user names and extension numbers to keep in compliance with software licenses  • Training users how to access and use the system's features. Jr. Programmer/ Database Administrator Xcel Data Systems - Bakersfield, CA May 2009 to November 2009 Description:  Key roles included but not limited to development, administration, updates, and perform maintenance testing & debugging on new and legacy versions of the XPawn pawn shop software system, as well as local databases. I performed these tasks using MS Access, SQL, VB, & VBA.    Responsibilities:  • Created, updated & repaired tables, queries, reports, modules, & stored procedures in the software's database backend.  • Created, updated & repaired end user forms for the company's application based on user requests.  • Create, & support creation of required reports in response to business user needs.  • Ensured that storage, archiving, backup and recovery procedures were functioning correctly.  • Design, test and document multiple system interfaces and personalized systems for clients based on requests.  • Monitor database system details within the database, including stored procedures and execution time, and implement efficiency improvements.  • Performed import & export of data files crossing over multiple file types including, but not limited to txt, pdf, xls, & dbf.  • Encoded & Decoded Jpeg & Gif files into text & XML format for file export and uploading by ways of VBA programming. Jr. Application Developer Celluphone - Los Angeles, CA October 2007 to December 2007 Description:  Develop, update, and perform maintenance testing on new and legacy systems, as well as Websites and local databases. I performed these tasks using VB, ASP.NET from Microsoft Visual Studio 2005. I developed and updated database tables, queries, and stored procedures using SQL Server 2K/2K5.    Responsibilities:  • Develop, update, and perform maintenance on cell phone invoicing system via VB6, and VB.NET by developing new code or manipulating programs stored in Visual Source Safe databases.  • Perform updates, testing, and maintenance on corporate web site using ASP.NET.  • Participate in company meetings to gather requirements and user input for new product and systems updates and requirements.  • Create, update, administer, and maintain SQL 2K/2K5 database applications, including creating and updating queries, tables, forms, stored procedures.  • Update Crystal Reports for invoicing program when applicable. Database Developer/ Administrator WNC First Insurance Services - Pasadena, CA September 2006 to October 2007 Description:  Develop, update, and run weekly and monthly reports and distribute them via email. This position includes maintenance of MS Access databases; maintenance includes updating forms, queries, tables, reports and macros. Use Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 to develop user interfaces with databases and web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Runs weekly and monthly MS Excel reports from an automated online and SQL systems.  • Maintains report distribution lists and distributes insurance claims, aggregate, and financial transaction, reports via email.  • Create and maintain MS Access and SQL database applications, including creating and updating queries, tables, forms, reports and macros.  • Downloading weekly insurance files from online policy tracking systems for the use of multiple databases.  • Use of SQL Server for database backups and file export to Access databases with DTS packages. Education High school or equivalent Skills VBA (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages  VBA, VB.NET, SQL  Database  SQL Server 2000-2012, MySQL, MS Access 97-2016    Networking  Windows Server 2003-2012 R2, Exchange Server, Active Directory, TCP/IP    Applications (Software)  MS Office Suite, Crystal Reports, Shoretel Communicator, Shoretel Shoreware Director, Adobe Acrobat    Hardware  Installing and Configuring Operating Systems, Software packages, Hard disk drives, Network Servers, Routers, Switches, Graphics cards, RAM cards, and External I/O devices (phones, printers, scanners, fax, copiers)