Oracle Production DBA Oracle Production DBA Oracle DBA Irving, TX • Oracle Certified Professional (OCP: 9i, 10 & 11g) Database Administrator.  • 12 years of IT experience as Database Production and Application Support, Data and system Analyst.  • Comprehensive knowledge in Database Architecture, Design & Implementation -Physical and logical.  • Good understanding and Implementation experience in Data Guard, GG, RAC and Oracle Grid environment.  • Large high volume site support (OLTP & DSS) experience on transactional 24 x7 systems (Production & Appl. Support)  • Efficient in Database Performance monitoring, Diagnostic and tuning, Backup and Recovery, Upgrade, Patching and Managing users and security.  • Production support capable of managing incidents - reactive and proactive in terms of preventive maintenance and knowledgeable in terms of risk management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Production DBA Concord (Innovation2U) - Chicago, IL January 2017 to October 2018 * Provided new installations, configuration, patch fixes, and upgrades of oracle database software: - I have achieved success in planning and upgrading the older oracle releases from 10g to 12c on very large databases.  * Promoted code changes to production and test environments to fix data issues and deployed new functionalities.  * Enhanced data access performance through partitioning, replicating objects and building indexes. - I monitored as well as troubleshoot database performance on memory utilization, slow running query, and from alerts logs. I resolved locks and wait events, load balancing and other performance derogation events that results from users, system, network and or job scheduling events.  * Participated in a 24/7 hours on-call rotation. - I investigate and resolved database and application issues raised from monitoring events, operation support and user calls at any time.  * Supported data migration activities, providing data cleaning activities, fresh database environment for initial load and testing and resolving issues arising during migration. Oracle Database/Application Support DBA HCL America - Houston, TX February 2016 to September 2016 * Performed daily DBA administrative tasks such as creating and managing users, physical and logical storage (file system and ASM), proper backup and recovery availability, and including ongoing projects or tasks assigned.  * Configured and troubleshoot oracle golden gates issues.  * Monitored and resolved application issues by ensuring that database are available and running on high performance in production and staging (QA).  * Planned and managed change control deployments, working with developers to test, approve and move codes (Liquibase XML) in oracle and Sql Server environments for updates, new functionalities and fixes.  * Cloned and refresh databases, including data archive with security features (encryption). - I Supported core business end of month activities including Disaster Recovery drills, data refreshes and index rebuild. National Data Warehouse/ Database Administrator TM FLOYD AND COMPANY - Dallas, TX December 2014 to 2016 * Continually ensured upkeep of NDW application server hosting, Application (Informatica) and Database (Oracle and SQL Server) for production and FIT environments.  * Produced innovative remedial solutions to correct security risk findings and troubleshot performance on applications for MicroStrategy and Oracle database.  * Supported ETL data workflow process building high-performance data integration solutions, including extraction, transformation, and load (ETL) packages for data warehouse.  * Configured LDAP proxy servers, updated SSL certificates, monitored NGD Dashboard for application and infrastructure performance issues, and deployed codes and applications in Oracle and MS SQL databases. Application Engineer/DBA BELLSOFT, ALCON LAB - Atlanta, GA May 2013 to 2014 * Supported data center move and data migration from Unix to Linux platform. I was part of a team instrumental in planning and implementing a successful Cyber Vision data center migration, transporting large data across platform (AIX to Linux) and integrating replication to improve performance and access during the move.  * Provided technical support on issues involving database, O/S, and Oracle-supported applications, including Tibco Administration on Apache Tomcat, Hawk, EMS, portal builder, and business connect.  * Utilized SQL Performance Advisory packages to improve database performance, proactively tuning database. Patched Oracle software. Developed and approved technical SOP documentation on supported systems. System Analyst Powered by GlobeSet - Dallas, TX June 2008 to 2012 * Supported business clients to launch or integrate GlobeSet reconciliation software - I managed new and existing accounts from product demonstrations, to installation and trainer hand-over (Oracle, SQLSever, Unix and Windows platforms). I also ensured complete customer satisfaction for each GlobeSet account assigned.  * Provided various offsite consulting services to clients, including upgrade evaluations, troubleshooting, and performance enhancement recommendations (Reconnect software).  * Performed version upgrade and migration tasks from older to new releases and service packs.  * Document discovered issues, new release technical errors and bugs for followed up by the development team. Jr. Oracle Database Administrator CashAmerica - Fort Worth, TX 2006 to 2008 • Create database - planed database layout, storage requirement and estimate growth. Configured network environment and connections necessary to enable secured remote da connection.  • Performed backup and recovery (full and incomplete recovery) including logical backup.  • Created DDL and DML necessary to build database schema objects, including snapshot. Create user schemes, roles and enforce database security. Education Master of Public Administration in Policy Analysis and Computer Security John Jay College - New York, NY 2010 Skills CACHE, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, OLTP, ORACLE, Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Database, Sql Database, RAC, Rman, Sql Dba Additional Information Technical Skills  Database Admin: ORACLE 9i/10g/11g/12c and MSSQL Sever 2012  Database: Oracle RDBMS (OLTP & Data Warehouse), CACHE, Microsoft SQLSEVER 2012, Access  OS/Server: Unix-AIX, Solaris, HP, Linux (Red Hat), VMWare, Window, Apache web server, LDAP  High Availability: Real Application Cluster (RAC), Data Guard, Oracle Golden Gate, AWS  Tools/Utility: Oracle OEM- Grid and Cloud Control, ASM, ACFS2, RMAN, AWR/ADDM. Statspack, Liquibase XML,  Citrix, Quest (Toad, Spotlight), SQL Server Mgmt. Tools (SSMS, SSIS, BIDS), Visual Basic.  Application: TIBCO, RAC, ATG, Lawson, Artiva, HEAT, Remedy, SAP, MS Office, ILIEN, OC, ERP  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, SHELL Script, Perl  General: Analytical, strong verbal and written communication skills and a team player.