Senior IT Specialist Senior IT Specialist Senior IT Specialist - Delmock Technologies Inc Manassas, VA To provide database administration and development support for traditional applications and or Business Intelligence solutions at the enterprise level. Work Experience Senior IT Specialist Delmock Technologies Inc June 2016 to Present Project: U.S. Internal Revenue Service, SQL Server Database Support    • SQL Server Database Administration Support for over 170 projects and over 1,000 SQL Server instances across the production, test, and development environments.  • Provided hands on training and mentoring to junior level DBAs.  • Respond to all Priority 1 and 2 level events related to SQL Server issues in production.  • Assisted with the creation of disaster failover instructions & testing using log shipping for a CyberSecurity database project which hosts DR solutions for all IRS systems.  • Support fifteen DBAs with technical SQL and security related questions to Internal Revenue Manual 10.8.21 & FISMA compliance with SQL Server configurations.  • Worked with CyberSecurity to develop and test an enterprise level SQL Audit collection system.  • Developed criteria for new projects to use a shared database resource environment.  • Supporting migration efforts from SQL 2000 \ 2005 \ 2008 to SQL Server 2014.  • Designed and developed actionable reports which monitor the status of the production environment and are distributed to project DBAs. Lead SQL Server DBA Learning Tree International January 2015 to June 2015 • Supported 80 instances of SQL Server versions SQL 2000, 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, & 2014 across the development \ test and production environments.  • Assisted with the upgrade of production environment to SQL Server 2014.  • Performance tuning and monitoring support (24 * 7)  • SSIS package development and support.  • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) support.  • Worked directly with several project development teams providing best practices for optimized SQL queries.  • Daily monitoring database server checks. Senior Database Administrator Applied Computer Technology Inc December 2007 to November 2014 Project: U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Database Management Support Wintel    • Microsoft SQL Server database administration support infrastructure for the development, test and production environments.  • Oracle 11.2 database administration support on the Wintel platform.  • Developed the NetBackup client guidelines for SQL Server as the IRS Enterprise backup solution.  • Assisted Cyber Security with the testing and evaluation of several scan tools used for SQL Server compliance and vulnerability.  • Developed internal application designed to test SQL Server 2005 / 2008 configurations for compliance with IRS database standards.  • Developed standard database auditing procedures and database hardening scripts for all SQL Server implementations.  • Supported over one fifty projects technically in the areas of backup and recovery, disaster recovery, database mirroring, replication, configuration compliance, partitioning, linked servers, database hardening, and performance tuning.  • Developed a SQL Server 2008 database mirroring installation and monitoring guideline for the enterprise for disaster recovery solutions.  • Implemented disaster recovery and high availability solutions for various projects using database mirroring, log shipping, transactional replication depending upon requirements.  • Worked with vendors and IRS application development rolling out database application software into a secured database environment using a structured approach between development, test, and production.  • Developed IRS standards for all SQL Server 2008 Installations SOP which was placed on the CML.  • Help develop an internal database performance monitoring system using PowerShell scripting, SQL Server Reporting Service, Central Management Server and Visual Studio for the test and production environments.  • Database upgrades and migration from SQL Server 2000\2005 to 2008.  • SQL Server hot fixes, patching and service pack upgrades.  • Technical lead supporting and mentoring 15 other Wintel DBAs. Senior Database Administrator Be Home Wise Inc June 2005 to December 2007 Project: Primary responsibilities include managing the production SQL Server 2000 database and Analysis Server for a Real Estate Eleads Management application.    • Manage the production and development SQL 2000 database and Analysis servers.  • Developed all Executive reporting including the Monthly Hot Sheet Reports automatically generated in HTML format directly from the database routine.  • Transact SQL Stored Procedure development and performance tuning.  • Developed a traditional dimension model for the OLAP portion of the application.  • Developed the Extract Transform and Load (ETL) code to load the new OLAP model.  • Tuned the SQL Server Analysis Server to optimize performance reducing the total time to extract load and process cubes in the OLAP model from 24 hours to 90 minutes.  • Gathered and documented requirements for an internal accounts receivable \ accounts payable model.  • Data modeling (OLTP) of the account receivable model and stored procedure development generating monthly invoices to clients and payable to sales distributors. The automated process added 60K annually in revenue. Senior Database Administrator AT&T Government Solutions September 2003 to June 2005 Project: Assistant Secretary of the Army Financial Manager and Comptroller. Primary responsibility is acting senior database administrator for the IRMIS Portal and DAQSDB.    • Managed 4 production Microsoft SQL Server databases.  • Migrated databases to upgraded server platforms.  • Migrated 3 user defined Manpower databases to a separate server.  • Data modeling for a redesign of the Military Personnel, Army (MPA) database.  • Developed migration plans from SQL Server 7.0 to 2000.  • Installation and testing of SQL Server 2000 Reporting Services. Project Manager/Senior Database Administrator Veridian October 1999 to September 2003 Project: Assistant Secretary of the Army Financial Manager and Comptroller. Primary responsibilities includes project management, acting as a technical lead \ architect for data warehouse development, and database administration support of two production servers hosting 15 custom databases each with over 3,000 users and several development vendors.  • Microsoft SQL Sever 7.0 database administration.  • Developed and integrated data marts using Microsoft OLAP services.  • Developed ETL using Microsoft DTS capabilities.  • Developed DTS packages to process OLAP cubes  • Project Manager of a team of data warehouse developers.  • Linked several external sources to the data warehouse including Oracle.    Project: Headquarter Dept of the Army, Program Analysis & Evaluation Directorate. Primary responsibility included database engineer for PPBES Enterprise System and project manager for Veridian's share of the contract.    • Database Administrator  • Project Manager for three main task  • Developed Prototype Data Marts via Microsoft Analysis Server  • Technical Lead for financial manpower costing tool (MANDAY) for the Guard and Reserve. Senior Applications Consultant The Arlington Group September 1998 to September 1999 Projects: Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Franey, Parr & Associates. Primary responsibilities included requirement analysis gathering and data migration. Responsibilities included:  • Developed a custom data migration tool using Visual Basic 6.0 used to propagate data from a Web based collection system into a Fellowship Management System.  • Data Modeling using the ERwin case tool.  • Requirements gathering for an archival database with SQL Server 7.0 and Data Warehouse project using Microsoft OLAP services. Senior Project Manager ABLAZE Business Systems, Inc October 1996 to September 1998 Projects: National Association of College and University Business Officers, College of American Pathologists, League of Minnesota Cities, and the Grocer Manufacturer Association. Primary responsibility as a lead implementer deploying a SQL Server 6.5 proprietary based Association Management Enterprise System. Responsibilities included:  • Managed a group of developers and implementers.  • Analyzed client business processes and implementing them into base software with as little customization as possible.  • Developed custom stored procedures and views for reporting. Crystal 6.0  • Data Conversion.  • Developed Appendix attachments for final contracts.  • Installation of SQL Server 6.5 and ABLAZE software.  • Software training and client requirements gathering. Senior Consultant Alphatech Corporation August 1995 to October 1996 Project: Department of State, Diplomatic Security. Finished developing several Oracle Forms 4.5 client server applications, which included integrating Oracle Reports 2.5 within the forms. These applications included an agent tracking system for the United Nations 50 year anniversary and a system for the Overseas Advisory Council providing travel and crime information to government agencies and well as corporations doing business abroad. Other activities included:    • Developed the Field Office Case Tracking System, (FOCATS) in Oracle Forms 4.5 and Oracle Reports 2.5 for Windows 95 or NT with an Oracle 7.1 database. This system  was migrated from a Wang VS COBOL application to an Oracle database running on a Windows NT server.  • Developed two prototypes of Overseas Advisory Council Bulletin Board using Delphi 2.0 and ReportSmith 3.0 used on a Windows NT or 95 platforms. The second prototype was developed using Delphi version 1.0 for Windows 3.1. Consultant Information Management Consultants, Inc April 1994 to August 1995 Project: Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, Budget Review Division. Developed six client server systems, including President Clinton's 10-year federal budget deficit reduction program, using Visual Basic 3.0 as the front end. The database was DB2 using a Gupta gateway to connect with an IBM 3090 mainframe and Gupta server. Four of these applications were merged into the same source code and can be executed independently by modifying the associated ini file.    • Used rapid application development techniques to download budget data into the MAX DSS Data Entry systems. These Scorekeeping and Investment applications were the first of their kind in providing add, delete, and update capabilities of mainframe data in a Microsoft Windows environment    Project: Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics and Evaluation and Research.  Designed and developed the Compliance Surveillance System for the Office of Compliance. The system is designed to the track the safety of the National Blood Supply. Several subsystems have been developed using SQL Forms 3.0 and now are in the process of being converted into Client Server Applications using SQL Forms 4.5 and the rest of Oracle CDE2 Developer 2000 tools. The database is Oracle 7.0 residing on a VAX 6620.    • Designed and developed the Error and Accident subsystem in SQL Forms 3.0. Now in the process of converting to SQL Forms 4.5. Programmer/Analyst Washington Consulting Group February 1993 to April 1994 Project: The Weekly Petroleum Status Report System (WPSRS) for the Department of Energy, Energy Information Administration. This system was redesigned from an IBM 3090 mainframe platform to a local area network using Clipper 5.01.  • Coded many of the system administrative functions and common procedures including system security, weekly and monthly database conversion procedures  • Developed the graphics module of the system using a Clipper third party library. The users had the ability to manipulate the graphs on-line prior to creating postscript files to be used in the publication. Viar, Programmer/Management Analyst Dyncorp February 1992 to February 1993 Project: Environmental Protection Agency, Emergency Planning Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA) Targeting System (ETS) for the Office of Compliance Monitoring in the Office of Pesticides and Toxic Substances.    • Designed the IBM 3090 mainframe portion of the system to include additional EPA databases to expand the scope the system and enhance current network to mainframe batch processes.  • Converted the PC ETS system modules to a Novell network application taking advantage of Clipper 5.01 Object Oriented Classes.  • Designed and developed the ETS change control software in Clipper 5.01. Consultant Information Management Consultants, Inc November 1989 to February 1992 Project: National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), Medical Examiner Reporting Sub-System (MERS). MERS is an on-line, interactive PC system designed to provide medical examiner offices with an automated method of capturing and reporting drug and alcohol data to the Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).    • Participated in requirements definition phase by group meetings with Medical Examiners and developed a prototype to refine requirements.  • Wrote portions of the Functional System Design and User Manual.  • Coded the original system in dBASE III+ and later converted to Clipper Summer 87.    Project: Defense Communications Agency (DCA), Counter-Drug Telecommunications Integration Office (CDTIO). The CDTIO serves as the principle entity to implement the Department of Defense (DoD) funded portion of the 1989 Drug Enforcement Telecommunications Implementation Plan (DETIP). The primary objective was tracking $60 million in procurement, distributed to over 30 Federal Law Enforcement Agencies.    • Developed a prototype using Dan Bricklins Demo Software.  • Developed a graphics interface using Harvard Graphics.  • Coded a DOS batch file to integrate several Clipper executable files along with Harvard Graphics and Lotus 123. The system integrated all software packages into one application.  • Coded the original system in dBASE III+ and converted it to Clipper Summer 87 to run on the DCA 3COM network. Electronic Data Systems, Inc August 1988 to July 1989 Project: U.S. Navy, Inventory Control Point (ICP). The ICP contract was a $365 million dollar 22 year facilities management contract to build an integrated system to track parts for Naval ships and aircraft on IBM mainframes.    • Developed software using dBASE III+ to track usage and productivity savings for the Video Teleconferencing Center. Programmer Vitro Corporation January 1987 to August 1988 Project: Naval Sea Systems Command Standard Missile Program. This contract involved tracking components of three types of standard missiles, Aegis, Tartar, and Terrier including extended range versions.  • Processed funding documents for the financial office using SuperCalc 2. Education B.B.A. in Business Management University of Oklahoma Bachelor's College of Business Administration