IT Consultant (Contract) IT Consultant (Contract) Information Technology Manager Eagan, MN Information Technology Manager with extensive experience managing teams supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle Enterprise and Microsoft SQL Server environments. Proficient in database technologies including Oracle and MS SQL Server on multiple UNIX and Windows platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant (Contract) DJock and Associates - Eagan, MN 2015 to Present Provide information technology consultation on databases, operating systems, data analysis and security, environment structure, code review, application evaluation, as well as staff training and mentoring. Lead Database Administrator City of Saint Paul - Saint Paul, MN 2013 to 2015 Functional Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Led a team of Oracle and SQL Server Database Administrators responsible for City database instances.  Created comprehensive documentation of DBA activities and tasks.  Developed and implemented staff training plans, including an internal growth program to bring less experienced staff up to a qualified DBA skill set.    Technical Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Administered production Oracle Databases (10g-11gR2) and SQL Server 2008R2.  Managed Lawson database environments refreshing test databases from production databases in close coordination with ERP staff.  Optimized database and application performance.  Implemented and monitored auditing procedures and scripts.  Created and tuned SQL, PL/SQL, shell scripts and Windows scripts  Reviewed backups and recovery processes, created scripts that captured and moved backups to SAN based backups for offsite storage. Database Manager Velocity Technology Solutions - Minneapolis, MN 2012 to 2013 Functional Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Managed a team of US based Oracle, SQL Server and DB2 Database Administrators responsible for over 175 database instances.  Developed project plans and led implementation of version upgrades, hardware migrations, and Oracle 12g OEM Cloud Control.  Created on-call schedules and assigned coverage for projects.  Wrote and delivered staff reviews.    Technical Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Administered production Oracle Enterprise Edition RAC Databases (10g-11gR2) and SQL Server 2008R2.  Managed Lawson database environments refreshing test databases from production databases in close coordination with ERP staff.  Developed project plans for implementation of Oracle Cloud Control.  Installed and integrated systems from new clients into the existing architecture.  Migrated Oracle 10g databases to 11g databases.  Identified activities and tasks that could be streamlined or eliminated through automation. Manager of Database Administration Unisys Corporation - Eagan, MN 2008 to 2011 Functional Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Managed a team of US and offshore based Oracle and SQL Server Database Administrators.  Consulted with clients and support staff to align expectations and meet IS09000, ISO20000 and ISO20001 requirements.  Monitored staff compliance for best practices as determined by IT Service Management (ITSM) standards using the BMC Remedy platform. Provided support of incidents, change requests service requests and root cause analysis.  Instituted comprehensive security policies that met technical and regulatory requirements of client, Sarbanes-Oxley, federal, state and local government auditors.    Technical Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Administered production Oracle Enterprise Edition Databases (8i - 10g).  Developed project plans for implementation of Oracle Grid Control and RMAN.  Managed databases with Oracle Financials ERP data.  Integrated systems from new clients into the existing architecture. Senior Manager of Database Administration Inc/Eschelon Telecom, Inc - Minneapolis, MN 2000 to 2008 Functional Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Managed a US based team of Database Administrators, UNIX Administrators, Application Developers, Architects, Business Analysts and Report Developers.  Created a comprehensive security policy that met the technical requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley regulations.  Assisted with the development of the Information Technology portion of the corporate disaster recovery plan.    Technical Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Administered Oracle Enterprise Edition databases (v8.1.7-v10.2) and Microsoft SQL Server Databases (v7 - v2000). Education Bachelor of Arts University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN Mini-Masters of Information Technology in Education University of Saint Thomas - Saint Paul, MN Skills DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, ETL, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Rman, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses Oracle Masters of Database Administration Present Oracle Education - Bloomington, MN  Complete DBA track through Oracle Eduction Additional Information American Brain Tumor Association Voluteer Event Planning Committee Member 2017 - Present    City of Eagan Election Judge 2018 - Present