data guard data guard Oracle DBA / Migration Engineer Troy, MI • Infrastructure Oracle database architect with 15+ yeas of experience handling complex multi terabyte of databases and specializing on migrating on premisies databases to public cloud using Amazon Web Services. I hold the following AWS certifications.    ? AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional Level  ? AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate Level - Certificate AWS-ASA-14455  ? AWS Certified Sysops Administrator - Associate Level - Certificate AWS-ASOA 4786  ? AWS Certified Developer - Associate Level - Certificate AWS-ADEV 8472  • I had worked in the technology position to design, architect, create processes / solutions, documentation for applications, on database infrastructure. Leverage commercial and open software solutions to support both immediate business needs and develop clear and concise roadmaps aligned with strategic plans.  • My skills were developed through infrastructure and data management in technical and service management roles, working for clients in Europe, USA and APAC  • Looking for a challenging career in Oracle Database Administrator, Oracle Exadata, Real Application Clusters (RAC), High Availability (HA) - Data Guard, Golden Gate, Performance Tuning, Standby Database, Backup and Recovery, AWS services including EC2, RDS, DMS, Cloud Watch, SNS, Snapshot, S3, Read Replica, Snowball, VPC  • Have knowledge on Snowflake, Greenplumb, NoSQL databases such as Mongo DB, Dynamo DB databases. Work Experience data guard Populus Group Inc - Troy, MI January 2019 to Present Troy, MI  Project Description: Providing Sustain support (24X7) and migration of databases from standalone systems into Exadata systems.  Clients: Ally Bank, Detroit, MI - Role: Oracle Database Migration Engineer  Responsibilities:  • Migrated and upgraded of 100+ oracle databases from standalone application databases into Exadata systems as part of server consolidation.  • Provided sustain support (24X7) for the migrated databases.  • Migrated database using different migration techniques - datapump, golden gate, rman backup, data guard.  • Configured active data guard and setup data guard broker.  • Configured and setup golden gate 12c.  • Performed and restored backups from tapes using RMAN via OEM12c and OEM13c.  • Reviewed and applied oracle quarterly CPU/PSU patches, bundled patches uing Opatch utilities.  • Performed and adressed SQL tuning issues.  • Implemented deletion of tracefiles and purging of listener, alert logs.  • Configured databases for monitoring in OEM13c as per environement.  • Implemented code fixes, data fixes as part of team in 24X7 sustain support.  • Fixed and maintained security baseline controls and prepared audit reports as part of production enviroment in complaince with SOX.  • Performed PRC (Production Rediness Check) as per the client standards for rolling out databases into production environemnt. Database Migration Engineer to AWS Cloud Capgemini Technology India Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2012 to December 2018 Chennai, India  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for multiple clients and had worked out of multiple countries during this period for engagements.  Clients: Standard Chartered Bank, Chennai, India - Role: Oracle Database Administrator  Federal Conduct Authority, London, UK - Role: Database Migration Engineer to AWS Cloud  AIA Insurance, Hyderabad, India - Role: Oracle Database Architect  Responsibilities as AWS Cloud Migration Engineer:  • Supported production environment for SDCA applications and acted as backup Infrastructure Manager for SDCA project.  • Designed and build cloud based Relational databases, Data Warehouses and Multidimensional Databases on AWS public cloud using Redshift, Dynamo DB and Aurora DB.  • Provided database support for oracle and MYSQL databases using RDS and • Migrated database by CDC using DMS services.  • Migrated data into Redshift Clusters by using copy command from S3 storage.  • Provided dimensional data model for generating reports and analytics.  • Defined data architecture requirements as per user specification.  • Checked the quality of data by using python scripts.  • Determined the gaps between requirements and functionalities and defined workable solution.  • Shipped data using snowball services.  • Configured of TDE for oracle data at rest.  • Monitored alerts using Cloudwatch.  • Provisioned EC2 for setting up of databases using General Purpose SSD.  • Backuped database using snapshot.  • Replication of database using Multi AZ and Read Replicas  • Wrote scripts using AWS Command Line    Responsibilities as an Oracle Database Administrator and Architect:  • Audited database instance using AWR reports.  • Performed SQL performance and Tuning using tkprof and sqlt.  • Implemented data purge/archive criteria activities.  • Migrated LOBS from basicfile to securefile format.  • Partitioned tables of size more than 400gb by analyzing the application code and discussion with app team.  • Monitored database/subsystem performance issues.  • Advised developers on writing effective PL/SQL codes.  • Reviewed performance, maintenance and utilities associated with each structure (i.e., REORGS, LOAD, UNLOADS)  • Experience with DB migration plans from single instance (11g R2) to 2 NODE RAC (12c R1) on EXADATA using RMAN and Goldengate  • Experience with GoldenGate CDC between OLTP and ODS database instance.  • Supported Sev1 and Sev2 application outage calls and share the RCA with the team.  • Supported 4 node RAC on Exadata  • Setup, configuration and installation of the RAC environment and ASM  • Involved in tuning SQL queries with development team  • Worked with Oracle support for critical application issue SR's  • Worked on partitioning of large tables  • Planned and Implemented regular backup and recovery using RMAN  • Upgraded the existing 10g (10.2.0.4) databases single instance to oracle 11g R2 (11.2.0.3) single instance on RHEL 5.6 OS  • Migrated the existing file system to use ASM 11g using RMAN tool  • Installed the 11g R2 software of grid home (Clusterware Software) and oracle home (Oracle RAC Software) on separate homes using separate OS users.  • Converted the existing single instance on Oracle 11g into an Oracle 11g R2 RAC by using rconfig utility by modifying the ConvertToRAC_AdminManaged.xml  • Manually backed up the voting disk to the ASM disk group when needed.  • Backed up the 11g R2 RAC database using RMAN through the 2 available instances, a full backup plus archivelogs on the first weekend of the month following the monthly batch run and a level 1 backup every weekend by enabling the changed block tracking method of RMAN directly to the tape on media server  • Cloned development databases from production instances using the RMAN active duplication method. This is done monthly once on the weekends right after the monthly backup of production environment.  • Monitored the database instance using BMC Patrol (3.9.0.0) monitoring tool. In future, the project is planning to migrate the monitoring of the RAC instances to OEM 11g tool.  • Used svrctl, crsctl, oifcfg for managing the RAC instances and database management and grid related administrations.  • Implemeted oracle applications codes for the batch process through proper version control tools and adapted the change management process of validating the codes in the lower environments such as dev, sit and uat.  • Recommended setting up a DR environment using 11g datagaurd so that reporting environment can be pointed to the standy by database in open read only mode and reports are available to end users 24X7 even during batch run in the primary there by log apply will be stopped to the stand by during the batch run in primary. Currently management is pursuing this recommendation of setup and working on the budget to allocate it in the future. Hands-On Management role to own overall DB access and performance Future Focus India Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2010 to July 2012 Chennai, India  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for Scope International Pvt Ltd, Chennai, India  Clients: Scope International Pvt Ltd, Chennai, India. - Role: Senior Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Hands-On Management role to own overall DB access and performance.  • Conducted Performance Review audit of Oracle Database for PMI applications.  • Generated AWR reports from database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries during batch runs on the slow performance jobs.  • Analyzed PL/SQL codes by generating sql trace on the jobs and recommended appropriate gather stats to be run on the staging tables.  • Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to PL/SQL batch jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes and partition tables to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Minimized the space related errors in Oracle Databases by conducting month review and thus addressing the space issues proactively.  • Provided tuning recommendations to reorg tables and indexes.  • Created a purge script to remove more than three year old data  • Scheduled a regular monthly backup process with RMAN to make the minimum level effort on refreshing the lower lever environments such as dev/uat/system test.  • Moved the current oracle file system to ASM to improve the better performance of the entire database.  • Pinned the frequently used PL/SQL packages in the shared pool.  • Cached the looks up tables in the keep pool of the buffer cache.  • Implemented EMC-VFCache of size 1TB at the server level to improve the read performance of the frequently used trend reports.  • Performaed root cause analysis on failures. Lantern Systems Inc - Atlanta, GA December 2007 to June 2009 Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for ATT, Atlanta, GA  Clients: ATT, Atlanta, GA - Role: Senior Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Upgraded oracle databases from 9.2.0.7 to 10.2.0.4 on IBM Aix operating systems from a 32bit to 64bit RDBMS on a multi-master replication secenario.  • Upgraded the SQLBacktrack from 3.0 to 5.6 as a part of the Oracle upgrade.  • Monitored and Tuned SQL scripts developed by developers of the part of the new releases.  • Planned and implemented backup strategies using BMC SQLBacktrack tool.  • Designed, Planned and Tested as part of the proof of concept of the Oracle Golden Gate product to improve the data-sync between the distributed databases on the development servers to revamp and convert the existing oracle multi-maser replication using the oracle 10.2.0.4 new features.  • Document migration procedures and test results  • Develop database administration tools/utilities/operation procedures. Lantern Enterprises Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2004 to December 2007 Bengaluru, India  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for ATT, Atlanta, GA  Clients: ATT, Bengaluru, India - Role: Senior Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Installed, Created and Maintained databases with appropriate initialization parameters and database structures (i.e., datafiles, rollback segments, tablespaces, etc.) on SAN in disaster recovery environment.  • Assisted in developing purge/archive criteria and procedures for historical application data  • Monitored and tuned memory usage for Oracle databases  • Implemented, maintained, and tested backup & recovery strategies  • Managed physical database resources  • Implemented and review appropriate security guidelines/mechanisms  • Granted authority to Local DBAs as necessary.  • Insured appropriate users/authority are in place  • Reviewed and monitored system and instance resources to insure continous database operations (i.e., database storage, memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention) Lancesoft Inc - Atlanta, GA September 2003 to September 2003 Clients: ATT, Atlanta, GA - Role: Senior Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Installed, Created and Maintained databases on EMC shared storage in HA environment on two node cluster in active/active mode using Sun Cluster 3.0  • Reviewed, analyzed, and modified programming systems including debugging and tuning programs using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Analyzed software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  • Consulted with hardware engineers and other engineering staff to evaluate interfaces between hardware, software, and operational and performance requirements of overall systems.  • Supported the production databases by 24X7 on call schedule.  • Backed up, refreshed and cloned databases on regular basis using BMC - SQL Backtrack 3.4 tool.  • Supported and maintained development, test and training databases.  • Worked with the project team to determine acceptable range for test results and performance.  • Participated in the specification and development of required test data and test environments using BMC-SQL  • Participated in project team efforts for issue detection and resoultion. Performance Tuning DBA Oracle Corporation - Redwood Shores, CA February 2001 to September 2002 Redwood Shores, CA  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for multiple clients.  Clients: ATT, Orlando, FL - Role: Performance Tuning DBA  GE Medicals, Milwaukee, WI - Role: Performance Tuning DBA  Responsibilities:  • Monitored the database for two days and identified the heavy contention of library cache latch. These latches are held by user sessions while processing SQL statements  • Downsized shared pool, allowing the space management functions to be more efficient when new statements need space in the pool  • Modified selected init.ora parameters know to affect library cache latching  • Flushed the shared pool on an as-needed basis to remove one time execution statements and associated fragmentation  • Provided assistance for PL/SQL coding technique to introduce bind variables using the execute immediate syntax  • Installed the OEM tool.  • Used and tested Veritas NetBackup along with RMAN for all the mission critical databases.  • Used statspack tool to analyze the database.  • Identified the factor for time consuming on the DSL order placement screen and applied the application patches using AD Utilities  • Opened tar with Oracle support and worked closely with them to resolve the problem.  • Identified the bad SQL's and tuned them for performance  • Monitored databases and identified performance bottlenecks and fixed them  • Wrote Kron shell scripts to monitor the databases  • Fine tuned the OS kernel parameters for optimum performance on the test instances  • Involved in testing and developing data cleanup and performance issues  • Wrote several packages for data clean up and data purge as data integrity team lead  • Identified and tuned resource intensive SQL statements  • Rewrote many customized packages and procedures using PL/SQL  • Identified core performance issues for delivery to the applications manufacture  • Analyzed and Partitioned tables and indexes  • Resolved the dead lock issue generated by post back process  • Modified the init.ora parameters.  • Wrote database monitoring scripts using PERL Senior Database Administrator Waltech Inc - Orlando, FL December 1998 to February 2001 Malboro, MA  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for multiple clients.  Clients: Omaha Public Power District, Fort Calhoun, NE - Role: Oracle Database Administrator  ATT, Orlando, FL - Role: Senior Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Created Database Links (DB-Links) to communicate between databases ( Database Replication) and also created snapshots  • Involved in planning and sizing the database objects like Tables, Indexes and Datafiles  • Created controlled and monitored user access to the database  • Populated the Oracle Database Tables from Flat files using SQL* Loader  • Monitored and optimized the performance of the database  • Studied and analyzed the path of SQL statements using explain plan traces.  • Created indexes and clusters based on the explain plan traces  • Managed network for the client-server environment  • Used Toad and OEM tools to monitor the database  • Wrote Korn shell scripts to monitor the database.  • Wrote Korn shell scripts and automated the jobs using Cron.  • Tuned SQL and PL/SQL codes  • Implemented new logic in existing screens to improve performance  • Debugged existing functions and procedures and added new features of Oracle 8.0 to improve performance  • Created in creating tables with required constraints, views and indexes  • Created and modified PL/SQL scripts needed for routine database check.  • Created stored procedures and database triggers  • Created UNIX scripts for automatic startup and shutdown of database.  • Exported and Imported the database using export and import utilities Database Administrator Agni Information Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 1996 to December 1998 Chennai, India  Project Description: This is a consulting engagement and had worked for multiple clients  Clients: Shashayee Paper Mills, Erode, India - Role: Database Administrator  TVS, Chennai, India - Role: Database Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Created Database Links (DB-Links) to communicate between databases ( Database Replication) and also created snapshots  • Involved in planning and sizing the database objects like Tables, Indexes and Datafiles  • Created controlled and monitored user access to the database  • Populated the Oracle Database Tables from Flat files using SQL* Loader  • Monitored and optimized the performance of the database  • Studied and analyzed the path of SQL statements using explain plan traces.  • Created indexes and clusters based on the explain plan traces  • Managed network for the client-server environment  • Used Toad and OEM tools to monitor the database  • Wrote Korn shell scripts to monitor the database.  • Wrote Korn shell scripts and automated the jobs using Cron.  • Tuned SQL and PL/SQL codes Education Bachelors in Engineering Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), OEM (10+ years) Additional Information Skills Profile  Technical  Operating System UNIX (Red Hat Linux 6.2, AIX v5.1, HP-UX, Sun OS 2.6/5.6, Solaris 7), Window .1/95/98/NT/2000/XP and Novell Netware 3.x/4.x  Database Oracle 7.X/8.X/8i/9i/10g/11g/12C  Hardware  Digital Alpha 4100 & Alpha 2100, Sun Microsystems E4500 / 450 / Ultra5 / E10K, Compaq Proliant, IBM PC & Compatibles/IBM AIX Servers/Dell Power Edge Servers, Exadata - V2/X2/X5/X6/X7    Database Tools  Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 12c/13c), RMAN, Export, Import, SQL Loader, Tkprof, SQL Navigator, Embarcadero DBArtisian and RapidSQL 6.0.1, Veritas, TOAD 7.0, RAC, Golden Gate, Data Guard    AWS Services EC2, RDS, DMS, Redshift, Dynamo DB, Aurora, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, AWS CLI Commands, S3 storage, SNS, Snapshot, VPC    Functional    Management and Leadership Skills  Project Management, Strategic/Tactical Planning, Business Analysis and Development, Budgeting/Forecasting, and New Product Development    Training & Development  Attended AWS Certified Solution Architect - Associate training in Dec 2015.  Have experience in taking interviews on Oracle SQL and PL/SQL, Oracle DBA.