SQL Developer/Data Analyst SQL Developer/Data Analyst SQL Developer/Data Analyst - Leman USA Oak Creek, WI • Over 8+ years of experience as SQL Developer with specialized skills in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and creating SQL statements using stored procedures for reports and extracts.  • Excellent T-SQL Developer skills.  • Has experience with SQL Server versions 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012.  • Proficient in writing complex SQL queries.  • SQL Server Integration Services - Visual Studio Project (ETL, Automation Processes, etc) Work Experience SQL Developer/Data Analyst Leman USA - Milwaukee, WI 2018 to Present LEMAN helps customers all over the world with their transport and logistics needs. Regardless of the size of the job, our aim is always the same: to compose a solution that best serves the interests of the customer in terms of time and price. This requires experience, flexibility and creativity.  • Performing ETL processing of various client order, invoice, order shipment data into and exported with TCM94 ERP database using various file formats such as XML, CSV, TXT, etc.  • Maintenance and creation of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports to be disseminated by key management and customer service staff.  • Creating database maintenance tasks for optimal database processes as well as removal of archival logs in order to save on space on the server.  • Provide support to Customer Service representatives with order electronic load issues, order processes, reporting of any manual and automated processes.  • Work exclusively with an ERP system called TCM94, a WMS system called eWarehouse and a shipping program called Process Shipper to either pull various data schemas from any of the corresponding databases or work with the underlining application processes.  • SQL Server 2008 R2 databases that support the ERP and WMS systems 10+ various databases that either compile the data from the support systems and/or created to provide key entry for billing and invoicing.  • Assist with some Help Desk processes by starting/stopping services, routers and various other IT assistance with user issues.  • Support SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS) existing processes that imports CSV files and create the flat file for import into TCM to create orders.  • Created an incoming order system that pulls the files from an SFTP site, import XML to a table then shred the XML orders to import data into SQL tables and create the flat file for import into TCM94. As part of this project there was a need to create the export of the order with shipment information in XML format that was created using SQL XML format and posted to same SFTP site.  • Started working with company created file movement processing similar to BizTalk using C# backend programming called DocumentFlow. Created "flows" in the program to convert various file formats to XML to be loaded into other data systems. Junior Database Administrator Milliman Intelliscript - Brookfield, WI February 2018 to July 2018 Milliman Intelliscript specializes in risk management solutions for the insurance industry. We combine industry-leading data and expertise with dedicated customer service to bring our clients innovative solutions.  • Assist Senior Database Administrator with various database issues, such as data integrity, connectivity, reliability and problem resolution  • Perform and administer security access requests for 4 different servers in 3 different environments  • Documentation of current processes and new processes  • Monitor MSSQL database alerts and data bottlenecks  • Perform ad-hoc backups of databases as well as detaching and archiving unused databases  • Creation of databases and tables for end users for various research projects  • Perform query optimization and query throughput  • Identify problems with orders, investigate any issues and resolve the order to client satisfaction.  • Follow change management process for deployments in QA, Test and Production  • Design processes to aid in automation of repeatable processes using SQL Server Integrated Services SQL Server Analyst Independent Care - Milwaukee, WI March 2014 to February 2018 The mission of iCare is to secure the wellness of persons with complex medical and behavioral conditions, respecting their dignity and the values of caring stakeholders. iCare is the national leader for advanced managed care programs that serve people with complex health and social needs.  • Developed technical designs, detailed interaction diagrams, component models, physical data models, and deployment models using the technical design specifications in multiple iterations of the software development lifecycle by improving several State & Federal load processes using SSIS.  • Experience with Project Management working with many departments & personnel when DHS required changes to the HIPAA 820 process and Incident Reporting process among other projects including internal SSIS process changes and server moves.  • On a regular basis have conducted system analysis, data modeling, logical and physical database design, database optimization, load strategy design and implementation, security and change management on various systems including the Encounter reconciliation of both CMS & DHS data models, new payment process from DHS using Biztalk & database/table creation.  • Experience with resolving technical issues in development and support phases of project by using technical problem solving techniques.  • Constructed several reviews and support documents and procedures, coordinated the transition of support from development teams to support teams and ensured the project phase transition is seamless to end users  • Extensive knowledge of data mapping and data modeling processes  • Excellent analytical skills with conceptual and tangible ideas along with attention to detail.  • Able to work on multiple, concurrent projects in a dynamic environment  • Excellent management skills with the ability to plan, organize, and orchestrate activities such as joint application development and review sessions  • Able to identify and manage risks and issues when problems or questions arise. SQL Systems Analyst/Junior Database Administrator Scas Management - Milwaukee, WI 2018 to 2018 2018  Scas Management is an HMO based Claims Processing company in the Milwaukee area working with Trilogy Health Care. We have more than just history here - we are involved, invested, and committed to serving you. We believe bigger is not always better and are proud to be locally owned & operated serving BadgerCare Plus members in Wisconsin  • Performing data loads of various State Medical data and reporting data to be disseminated by key management staff.  • Creating automation of repetitive processes such as file transfers, Provider reports. Other insurance loads, Medical Data export for Reinsurance using SSIS and Network Automate.  • Providing support for various data entry and quality checks to ensure data accuracy.  • Create SQL statements using stored procedures for reports and data extracts.  • Installation of new upgraded version of SQL Server from 2008 to 2012 and upgrade of SSIS from 2008 to 2010.  • Creation of reports for Providers and State per request outlining required specifications from said parties.  • Have performed backup of database via Maintenance Process and have performed restore when upgrade was finished.  • Created comparison of Provider reports to those already in the database to determine required changes to provider network data.  • Created Claim Edit process prior to weekly check run to correct claim submission. Information Analyst III DentaQuest - Mequon, WI July 2013 to February 2014 DentaQuest is driven by our mission to improve the oral health of all, to achieve a nation free of dental disease. A nation where no child suffers from the pain of tooth decay. Where adults keep all their teeth for their entire lives. Where every person has access to quality dental care.  • Process data requests monthly for over 30 clients ranging from Dental Encounters, Provider extracts, Claim Detail Extracts, invoice/claim detail files, other requests, etc.  • Manage client data reconciliation efforts and custom data extract deliverables for several clients with proprietary specifications as well as using HIPAA Specification documents such as 997, 835, etc.  • Perform detailed data mining and analysis upon request per client, most requests are resubmissions of rejected claims or a compilation of year-long claim file data extracts.  • Setup and provide customer service for new EDI processes and new clients with support given to existing clients regarding new requests or issues with current data processing.  • Created and processed several BA file specification documents for new and existing clients with specific requirements requested by the client. Create data mapping documents using current database schema to the client file/report specifications for the requested extracts the documents will be by developers to design.  • Communicate regularly with external and internal clients on topics including:  ? Negotiation and expectation management  ? Data and system discrepancy reconciliation  ? Custom data extract requirement definition and delivery  ? Operational data delivery of invoice/claim detail files, encounter files, provider files, membership files, and other requests.  • Experience with many types of HIPAA EDI formats and tools such as:  ? Hands on experience with HIPAA EDI transaction formats including: 837, 835, 277, 997, 999, 834  ? Familiarity with appropriate handling of PHI data  ? Experience with ETL framework standards, including error processing, data reconciliation and validation  • SSIS - MS Visual Studio experience with creation and update of packages with testing in a staging and a production environment.  • A program used extensively is the Visual Studio Source Control "changeset" system for the existing packages and for newly created packages.  • Performed Invoice stored procedure project on several packages/SQL task for the new upgrade of the Windward database.  • Develop several ETL packages including eligibility, claim, encounter, provider extracts for existing as well as new clients. SQL Database Administration Analyst Cardinal Stritch University - Milwaukee, WI January 2013 to June 2013 A four colleges offer more than 60 fields of study at both undergraduate and graduate levels, and in a variety of innovative class formats.  • Supported over 14 SQL Servers with over 45 different databases including Web Application data and Web Content, Student information & demographics, Employee payroll, Financial Aid, Room Reservation for the Academic & Employee requests.  • Documented all of the SQL services with pertinent information regarding Window Server, Database version, Maintenance Plans, Linked Servers, Jobs, Databases per instance, etc.  • Created Maintenance Plans and necessary Jobs for all SQL Servers for each server per database with Database Backup & Cleanup of old backups, Transaction Logs Backup & Cleanup of old backups, Check Database, Update Statistics, Cleanup of History.  • Worked with Vsphere Virtual Machine Software with over 100+ servers other than the SQL Servers I maintained. Project was to document the other Virtual Machine production servers as to their use to determine which could be repurposed to other servers either via disk space and memory allocation.  • Created Databases and SQL Server Instances for various projects using Vsphere MSI selection process for the installation software.  • Lead 2 upgrades one entailing the move from a physical server to a Virtual Server with a database upgrade and version software upgrade on web server. The other project was also a database upgrade as well as installing the software program on 6 Windows Servers and 10+ personal computers for users. Both projects required a project plan to be created in order to put into overall project process within the Information Systems department.  • Created the Business Requirement document for the projects with the steps performed and changes done and any other pertinent information.  • Troubleshooting different SQL errors by perusing the SQL server error logs, Dynamic Views, etc. Due to various issues was able to identify memory, cpu pressure and disk issues on several servers with the solution of adding the necessary components to fix these issues.  • Assisted Help Desk Level 2 regarding job failures, web page issues, batching process, logins, permission, etc.  • Researched and created a SQL Server monitoring process by creating a database that compiled all SQL servers on the network for various reports using SQL Server Reporting Service this process captured data such as monitoring jobs (backups, etc), server health, SQL Server logins and access, fixed drive space, server performance using Dynamic Views, stored procedures, Extended Events. The process was automated by creating packages with SQL Server Integrated Services to run every 15 minutes as a job.  • Performed numerous backup and restore processes for upgrades and maintenance.  • Created documentation on the servers to have a consistent process for database creation, data and log locations on the server as well as locations for the system databases across all of the SQL Servers.  • Lead automation process for 2 requests one with the Student score process by pulling data and importing it into a production database, the other request was for employee payroll automation due to changes in ACH file requirement to the Stritch Bank. Developer - Jr DBA Abri Health Plan/Molina Health Plan - Milwaukee, WI March 2008 to January 2013 As a locally owned and managed Medicaid HMO in West Allis, Wisconsin, Abri Health Plan is dedicated to providing quality care to members receiving BadgerCare Plus Medicaid and SSI.  • Assist and backup to the DBA with data loads, data updates, test database creation and backup, downloading files from State website for data import.  • Create SQL statements using stored procedures for reports and data extracts.  • Network Administrator backup with network issues and PC issues.  • Create reports with SQL stored procedures using Sybase InfoMaker 9.0 report software.  • Build SSIS package procedures and systems as well as creating SQL Job Scheduler to have process run at particular timeframe.  • Create temporary tables for the use of evaluating data and ease of reporting processes.  • Create Transact SQL functions/process using the SQL Server Reporting Services for auditing load/import file processes.  • Access database creation, maintenance and updates to existing Access databases using various compact and repair programs.  • Assist and backup Corporate Website informational updates using backend user interface.  • SQL table creation for use in reporting with outside information and process requested reports.  • Provide analysis of data presented in reports and assist with interpretation as requested.  • Develop, format and produce standard and ad hoc data and reports required by outside providers, employer groups, IPAs or other external relationships. Types of reports include financial, utilization, trending, benefit analysis and others.  • Design and implement the use of queries and other applications and processes to support encounter and other reporting in a support capacity to the EDI/Systems Analyst as well as to support the submission of HEDIS and other performance data required.  • Develop, format and produce standard and ad hoc data and reports required by various contracts, internal departments, or individuals. Types of reports include financial, quality management, production monitoring, compliance monitoring and others. Education BA in Business Management Alverno College - Milwaukee, WI Database Management Milwaukee Area Technical College - Milwaukee, WI Skills Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql, Sybase, Visual studio, Analysis services, Biztalk, Biztalk server, C#, Exchange, Git, Html, Ms project, Perl, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Sql server integration services, T-SQL, Ssis, ETL, Sql Database, TSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS/Environments:  Windows 9x, NT, 2000/03, XP, Vista, and 7, 10, MS Exchange, MS-DOS, Unix (AIX, Solaris), MS TFS, MS Server/Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Windows Server 2003 & 2008, Windows    Hardware: PCs/Servers & components (NIC, RAM, etc.), Wireless, HP Printers, scanners and other peripherals, Biztalk server  Languages: Transact - SQL, COBOL, HTML, Unix & Perl Scripting, Configuration files (control files, Java XMLS), XML, some C# within SSIS  Networking: LAN, Ethernet, Tree Topology, Remote Access, WAN, Terminal Servers, modems, routers, switches, Protocols, TCP/IP  Software:  SQL Server Management (SQL Server 2005, 2008 r2, SSMS - SQL Server Management Studio 2008, 2012, Analysis Services, Performance Tools, SSRS - Reporting Services, SSIS - SQL Server Integration Services, Visual Studio 2005, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2017, Microsoft TFS Ticketing System, MS Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, FrontPage, Outlook & Office 365(proficiency Advanced), MS Project, MS Visio, Crystal Reports, Harvest 7.0, Sybase, Discus, SharePoint, Sybase InfoMaker 9.0, 10, 11, some IIS - Internet Information Services, WS_FTP, 837 Viewer, Visual Studio Source Control System, Biztalk, Inovalon(Hedis Measure software), ProAm(Hedis measure reporting), MS Source Safe, TruCare Case Management software, Bi xPress, Git Source Code, TCM94, eWarehouse, DDX, Process Shipper    Additional Technologies: Adobe Acrobat Approval, Innoculan, Adware, Spybot, Heat Logging & Alert