Mobile Device Manager Mobile Device Manager Mobile Device Manager - New York City Department of Design & Construction Woodside, NY Professional IT Support Manager with over 20 years experienced background in Hardware/Software, Network, Web Design, Cloud Solutions Technology, Wireless Devices and Database Support for large-scale New York City Agency Local Government. Proven track record of effectively supporting large-scale user groups in a Mac and PC environment. Successfully generated high customer satisfaction rating and able to resolve IT issues efficiently. Work Experience Mobile Device Manager New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY 2012 to Present • Exporting CSV data files from AirWatch MDM and importing into SQL server for data manipulation.  • Working with SQL management Studio to create and modified various tables.  • Designing forms with their desire functionalities for easy access of Mobile Device records.  • Running various queries based on different Data criteria's.  • Designing reports for print of records based on device Make, Model, Unit and various other data criteria.  • Open troubleshooting tickets using TrackIt ticketing system and assign tickets to technicians on different departments.  • Log call resolution tickets into TrackIt ticketing system.  • Implement and enforce agency mobile device policies and procedures.  • Monitor AirWatch implementation, Policy configuration with messaging platforms, Microsoft Exchange and Office 365.  • Set-up Exchange ActiveSync mail, calendar and contacts on Windows, Apple, and Android mobile devices.  • Work in conjunction with the NYC Department of Information Technology (DoITT) Share Point Administrator, and ITS Infrastructure Engineering Team to configure and deploy OneDrive cloud solutions for the agency.  • Remote Troubleshoot client access to email, Internet, and VPN access.  • Implement new technologies to maintain and improve the existing mobile device infrastructure. Provide technical support for Microsoft Windows 8 and Microsoft Surface Pro devices, configure local, admin accounts and deliver security policies, compliance rules and restrictions  • Monitor Microsoft and other critical security software patches and updates.  • Conduct research to test and recommend various apps needed for the agency.  • Collaborate with various internal departments for distribution and facilitate user training. System Administrator New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY 2002 to 2012 • Responsible for working with multiple teams to remotely deliver upgrades, updates, patches, and deployment of new applications.  • Provide high level of IT support for Executive Managers of different IT divisions.  • Manage and deliver technical support for 1000 Plus users.  • Built Computer images and rolled out using Symantec Ghost MDT 2012.  • Installed and configure MS Windows OS MS Office Suite.  • Assembled, maintain, and troubleshoot PC hardware components.  • Investigated and resolved hardware, software, network, and peripheral problems. Network Administrator Junior New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY 2000 to 2002 • Investigated and resolved reported hardware, software, network, laptops and peripheral problems.  • Supported INTEL Server running on Windows platform.  • Added, deleted and maintained user accounts in Windows Active Directory platform.  • Setup and configured laptops to log-in remotely for personnel traveling abroad.  • Provided network support for workstations, printers and other network-enabled devices. Database Administrator New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY 1998 to 2000 • Database administrator of Contract Data System (CDS), an existing application in Microsoft Access environment.  • Worked as Project Management Database development and determine project scope and limitations.  • Recommends solutions by defining database physical structure and functional capabilities, database security, data back-up, and recovery specifications.  • Reviewed project requests describing database user needs to estimate time and cost requirements.  • Assisted the Business Analysis and Quality Assurance Units in collecting, analyzing, and reporting agency performance.  • Planned, coordinated and implemented security measures to safeguard information  • Developed data model describing data elements and how they are used by following procedures and using template or computer software.  • Prepared data analysis to support decisions to modify automated systems and manual procedures to improve performance and productivity. Web Master New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY February 1999 to November 1999 • Helped managing the DDC agency Intranet.  • Designed with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Created web pages using Homesite and Dreamweaver.  • Modified logos, banners and Gif graphics for various Webpages.  • Updated new jobs postings in word and PDF formats and transferred them to DDC Intranet.  • Experience with graphics design in Adobe Photoshop for web graphics, and photograph cleanup. Administrative Assistant New York City Department of Design & Construction - Long Island, NY 1997 to 1999 • Served as direct liaison between the Management Information System and the Contract Unit.  • Served as troubleshooting technician for all computer terminals in the Unit.  • Implemented new data entry concepts to improve the procurement cycle.  • Created and updated computer databases as needed.  • Assisted Engineers and Chief of Contracts from pre-award to registration of contracts. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center - New York, NY 2006 to 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Systems in Computer Systems New York City Technical College, City University of New York 2006 Associates Degree in Network System Administrator in Network System Administrator LaGuardia Community College, City University of New York December 2002 Skills Microsoft access, Ms access, Sql, Android, Android studio, Exchange, Html, Ms project, Vba, Visio, Xml, Cisco, Tcp/ip, Ios, Ipad, Iphone, Appletalk, Tcp, Vmware, Css, Scrum Master, Scrum Master Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Microsoft Technology Associate, Cloud Fundamentals October 2017 to Present Focus on technical skills related to supporting cloud users, troubleshooting common Office 365 and Office 2016 issues, administering Office 365 and Intune, and managing antispam and antimalware protection.  MCSA September 2017 to Present Prove you have the expertise to configure, manage, and maintain a Windows 10 enterprise system. MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional August 2017 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) certification validates IT professional and developer technical expertise through rigorous, industry-proven, and industry-recognized exams Scrum Master February 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILLS     Operating Systems:  MS Windows /XP/Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Windows 2008 and 20012R2 Server.  Apple Mac OS X Tiger, Leopard, Snow Leopard, Marvins, Android, iOS, BlackBerry.    Software:  SQL Management Studio, MS Access 365, AirWatch, Android Studio 2.2,  MS Project, Visio 2016, Microsoft Exchange Server 2012R2, Microsoft Office 2016, Microsoft Access  MacAfee Antivirus, Track It, VMware Virtual Systems, Evault, SharePoint, VBA, SQL, XML, HTML, CSS.    Hardware: Surface Pro 3, Apple iPad, iPhone, MacBook Pro, iMac, Android, Blackberry,  Cisco Routers/Switches, Intel based HP, Dell computers and servers, scanners, printers, TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, Ethernet and AppleTalk, wired and wireless routers, Airport, print servers, switches, and hubs.    Language: Bi-lingual Spanish