System Engineer System Engineer System Engineer- EagleForce Associate Inc. Herndon, VA • 5+ years of experience as Information Technology; proficient in system virtualization, network infrastructures, high availability, AWS  • Proficient in various client and server operating environments such as: Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 10, Windows Server 2008 & 2012 in physical or virtual environment in VMWare ESXi 6, vSphere and Hyper-V  • Familiar with Linux operating systems: CentOS 6.7,Ubuntu,and RedHat  • Extensive experience in SQL Server Database Administration: Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2014 with proficiency in SQL Server Replication, DB migration, Backup/Recovery, Log shipping, mirroring/Always-On Availability, disaster recovery and planning, manage security groups and, etc.  • Troubleshooting and resolving technical issues in an expedited manner; troubleshoot performance issues, fine-tuning system and databases to improve performance and high availability  • Strong communication skills: verbal and written skills with excellent ability to grasp technical requirements and write effective documentation, process and procedures  • Experienced in enterprise level architecture, working in data center environments, setting up virtual private network and remote backup solutions using Symantec Backup Exec  • Experienced in Network Topologies: TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP, SNMP, SMTP  • Experienced in various tools, including not limited to: backup utilities, Quality Center (HP's QC), Microsoft System Center 2012 R2, SQL LiteSpeed 4.5, ME Change Request, MS Visio, SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Engineer EagleForce Associates INC - Herndon, VA April 2016 to Present -Perform all systems administration duties, including configuration and maintenance of network services such as Web servers,DHCP, DNS, SFTP on both Windows and Linux-based environments.  -Executed software and hardware upgrades as needed or scheduled  -Setup new SSL VPN service and installed and configured client applications  -Installed and maintained servers and workstations including adding/removing users and permissions through Active Directory  -Configured firewalls (SonicWall) and created IPSec/VPNs  -Repaired hardware/software issues with both Windows  -Managed Windows 7, 10, Server 2008 R2, 2012 and 2012 R2. Troubleshoot network, routing and connectivity issues across various platforms.  -Maintained HIPAA compliance on in-house data center and AWS.  -Construct and implemented Migration of in-house data center to new location from A-Z (creating procedure and policies for turning off server and starting, moving the server, uncable and cabling servers/switches/routers, reconfigure IP's, Internet connectivity and much more)  -Configure and maintain AWS VPN connection with clients. Database Administrator/System Engineer AmericaTech, Inc June 2014 to April 2016 • Responsible for installation, configuration and maintenance of corporate Data Center and Security Tier Management to include high availability and backup solutions  • Recover databases from backup, implement Point-In-Time Recovery solutions, design and implement Security policy for SQL Servers, rebuilding and monitoring indices at regular intervals to ensure max performance, implementing snapshot isolation and DDL triggers, using Dynamic Management Views (DMV), performance dashboards, mirroring/Always-On Availability, database snapshots and tracking performance counters  • Experienced in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA)  • Enforce Database Security by managing user privileges and efficient resource management by assigning profiles to users  • Troubleshoot and fine-tune operating systems and databases for high performance and high availability  • Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2008 R2 in Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition  • Monitoring SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and database dead locks/constraints  • Installed, configured and administered an eight-node Active/Passive cluster of Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 Enterprise Edition  • Responding and resolving issues raised by end-users and proactively perform day to day system/ database administration. Assistance Supervisor Antech Diagnostic November 2004 to May 2010 • Ensured staff met TATs for specimen processing and shipment under high work volumes.  • Maintained compliance with all Quality Control protocols and Standard Operating Procedures, including documentation for all tests performed in accordance with CLIA or SAMSA standards and regulations.  • Investigated and resolved test discrepancies and any other client concerns regarding urinalysis.  • Developed and mentored staff through the use of department meetings and training sessions, as well as one-on-one supervision and coaching.  • Identified and addressed employee relations issues and concerns.  • Managed payroll costs through effective scheduling and monitoring of staffing levels and overtime hours.  • Provided general management of laboratory, including monitoring and ordering inventory, conducting preventative maintenance and minor equipment repairs, and maintaining the facility.    Lab Technician, Department of Serology and Parasitology  • Collected and sorted specimens, scanned onto loads, prepared stains, and interpreted slides,  • Accurately ran tests including but not limited to ELISA, PCR, Blood Grouping, Microscopy, FELV, and FIV on specimens while meeting all production goals and following established procedures.  • Conducted and documented quality assurance procedures as outlined in department protocols.  • Logged missing specimens and finding missing specimens for tests as required.  • Operated and calibrated standard laboratory and testing equipment. Education M.D. in Medicine Medical University of Sailesia 2003 Bachelor in Science in Phycology Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY 1999 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, DNS, AWS, Linux Certifications/Licenses MCSA December 2014 MCP December 2014