Technical Manager ( Database) Technical Manager (<span class="hl">Database</span>) Technical Manager ( Database) - Dow Jones / News Technology Services Technical Manager ( Database) - Dow Jones / News Corp. / News Technology Services,  Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) - 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g DBA.  ITIL - Intermediate Certification - Continual Service Improvement.    ? Technical Manager ( Database) - Dow Jones / News Corp. / News Technology Services - Current.    I am currently working as the India Manager of the Database team for Dow Jones / News Corporation (NC), U.S.A. with News Technology Services (NTS). NTS is a wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation set up in 2017 to handle all Infrastructure Delivery for subsidiaries of News Corp. I was part of the leadership team involved in setting up this delivery center for Dow Jones and built the DBA team from scratch. We are a team of 120 people handling all infra areas - a major portion of which is Database Technical delivery. I lead a 20 member team in Bengaluru plus 10 DBA's in Princeton, NJ with whom I work with collaboratively. My team does all service delivery including Incident, Change and Work Order activities. We are also heavily involved in working with the application teams in the US to perform Engineering projects like new installations and transformation to the Cloud initiatives.    NC's Database footprint includes Oracle, MS-SQL, DB2, Informix, MySQL, Aurora and Mongo DB. Databases are hosted both in On-Premise hardware as well as Cloud/AWS.    I am an Oracle Certified Professional with an extensive technical background in roles starting as DBA and progressing on to an Architect role, Team Lead and Management. I have broad international experience with working in Middle East and with leading companies like TCS and Saudi Telecom Company. In my Current role, my work involves working with teams in Dow Jones, New York Post and North America Marketing which are all subsidiaries of News Corporation, U.S.A. I also consult with other NC subsidiaries like News UK, News Australia, Harper Collins and Realtor.    I am ITIL Certified in Continual Service Improvement.    Of late, my core delivery area is to transform NC's traditional Database estate which includes Oracle & MS-SQL to be migrated to the Cloud. Dow Jones is a leader in adopting to the Cloud and over the past 18 months, we have moved a significant footprint to AWS both on EC2 and RDS technologies. Moreover, we are migrating highly expensive Oracle Databases to MySQL/Aurora on AWS. We are also evaluating the transformation of our Data Warehouse on DB2 to Redshift on AWS.    In the very first year of Operations of NTS, I was awarded the "Leader of the Year' award for building up a world class DBA team from scratch and delivering exemplary Database services to many News Corp. companies.    Current Roles & Responsibilities Highlights:    1. Set up the NTS India delivery center & build a new Database team from scratch for multiple business units of News Corporation, U.S.A of which the major player is Dow Jones.  2. Management - Technical & People in a multi-disciplinary, multi-national environment with business operations in U.S.A, Europe and Australia.  3. Database transformation to Cloud Technologies.  4. Technical Management of projects and BAU activities delivered 24 x 7 across the globe including Americas, Europe & Australia.  5. Team Management functions which includes creating resource rosters, Weekend coverage allocation, DBA evaluations, 360 degree feedback from stakeholders and Business Units in the US.  6. Continual Service improvement - Collect data on all metrics in service delivery and identify blockers and plan to mitigate them.  7. Experience of working with senior leadership roles in Dow Jones including CxO, CIO, VP infrastructure and technology leads worldwide. Work Experience Technical Manager ( Database) Dow Jones / News Technology Services July 2017 to Present New Technology Services maintains and operates all infrastructure operations for Dow Jones - USA, News Corp - Australia and News Corp - UK. We are an affiliate of News Corp and are in the process of owning all technology operations and management for companies owned by News Corp, U.S.A.    I am leading the Technology and Human Capital Management for the Database team. DB assets number 2000 and include Oracle, MS-SQL Server, Informix, DB2 and MySQL (on-premises and Cloud based). We are into transitioning our database infrastructure to Cloud - AWS and transforming traditional SQL DB assets like Oracle and MS-SQL Server to Cloud based DB's like Aurora, Mongo DB, Redshift etc.    ? Senior Consultant / Lead - Database Administration - Elite Computer Solutions - (09 August 2015 to 09 August 2016)  Client - Collaboration Services Department @ Saudi Telecom Company    Collaboration Services department of Saudi Telecom Company is responsible for all internal Company use applications and databases including Employee portals, Data Stores, ticketing systems, Document storage silos and applications and Messaging platforms. We host around 40 databases in RAC Configuration / Single configuration instances.    I am responsible for database design & architecture, rolling out new databases for applications and leading the DBA team which handles every day DBA activities. I personally handle complex performance tuning engagements, data migrations, upgrades etc.    I also train and lead junior members of the infrastructure team, liaise with vendors in evaluating new products / applications as it related to the database portions of the implementation. Module Leader Tata Consultancy Services July 2012 to July 2015 BCCS (Billing and Customer Care Systems) Operations @ Saudi Telecom Company - (03 July 2012 to 31 July 2015).    Saudi Telecommunications Company is the major provider of basic telephony, GSM and internet services in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Data Center in Riyadh hosts most of STC's server infrastructure which includes Database servers, Application Servers, Network and Infrastructure Management platforms and security databases.    As the Lead DBA for the Billing and Customer Care systems, my team is responsible for operational efficacy of STC's CRM and billing platforms on a 24 x 7 basis from 3 locations. We are responsible for resolving all database related issues, 24 x 7 performance monitoring of 15 enterprise critical databases. Other regular activities include database patching and upgrades, data migration, database sync-up's, backup monitoring, structural change coordination and deployment of monthly CRM releases on production platforms after testing. The DBA team is also responsible for maintenance of all development, testing and preproduction systems.    My responsibilities include managing and mentoring the DBA team to achieve enterprise wide database SLA's and KPI's as decided with the client - Saudi Telecom Company.    1. Monthly Release deployment for CRM and Billing applications.  2. Database monitoring in all environments which includes Development, PSIQT, SSIQT, Pre Production and Production.  3. Performance monitoring and tuning.  4. Database patching and upgrades in alignment with release cycles.  5. Major activities database archival.  6. Storage monitoring and interface with EMC group to obtain and provision database storage.  7. Security implementations and reviews which includes user reviews.  8. Data extraction for external stakeholders.  9. Interface with Oracle support and Rimini Street Support to log issue cases and follow up till completion. Versatile Solutions October 2008 to July 2012 Consultant Oracle Technologies October 2004 to July 2012 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Duroob Technologies November 2007 to September 2008 Lead DBA Atheeb Intergraph October 2004 to October 2007 01-October 2004 to 31-October 2007.    My responsibilities primarily include consulting on Oracle Production Database Administration activities for the Technical Support group of STC Data Center hosting 200 servers and 40 databases. These include conducting system acceptances, designing, implementing and testing all production procedures and liaise with Oracle on all critical issues. In addition to this, I am the Lead DBA for the EAI (Enterprise Architecture Integration) database which is the main Integration platform for STC. As a Senior Oracle DBA I have also managed the EDI (Enterprise Data Integration) platform (System name ODS - Operational Data Store) which holds 15 TB of current enterprise-wide business data.    The available platforms are mostly HP-UX based HP servers and Solaris based Sun Fire Servers. Databases include Oracle 8 / 8i / 9i and 10G RDBMS and Oracle Application Servers. Applications include:    1. EAI (Enterprise Application Infrastructure) - A database running Web Methods Application server and which serves as the Integration Server to bridge the enterprise systems with customer facing applications.  2. ODS / EIS - Operational Data Store / Enterprise Information System which is a 15 TB Data Warehouse serving all Business Intelligence and Data Mining requirements of STC.  3. CRS (Customer Recovery System) - A 350 GB database which tracks customer payment status and activation / deactivation of services.  4. ISM (International Settlement System) - A 200 GB database which handles worldwide cross-charging and billing settlements for roaming facilities etc.  5. More than 40 databases running Oracle Financials and Applications, CRM systems, Network Engineering systems, Fraud Management and Revenue Assurance applications.    Responsibilities:  1. Primary DBA for EAI-Enterprise Architecture Integration systems.  2. Environment - 3 x 2 nodes Real Application Cluster for Production.  3. Consultant on all critical production issues on all Oracle databases of the Technical Support Group of STC.  4. RMAN installation and maintenance. Interfacing with SAN / Legato team to solve backup issues.  5. Backup and Recovery implementation and monitoring.  6. Pre-Production SQL testing and tuning to adhere to set up SLA's with data consumers.  7. Logical and Physical data structure design, partitioning design, index creation and monitoring.  8. Design of External tables, load to stage tables and sort/load production tables.  9. Statistics / Histogram generation for data objects.  10. Implementation of CDC (Change Data Capture) and Materialized Views for data propagation.  11. Creating and setting up of events and alerts in OEM for space monitoring and warning.  12. Data Mirror Design - Real time replication of data between AS400/DB2 billing /customer management system and ODS which involves mapping and data transformation routines, creation of DM jobs and monitoring latencies.  13. Available on 24/7 on-call support.  14. Maintain a parallel development / testing environment for pre-production activities. Database Administrator -Telecom Projects Atheeb Intergraph March 2002 to September 2004 Client - Saudi Telecommunications Company, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.    Intergraph Saudi Arabia Ltd. (subsidiary of Intergraph Corporation based in Huntsville, Alabama, U.S.A.) manages more than US$ 150 Million worth of projects at Saudi Telecommunications Company, which is the sole provider of basic/mobile telephony, and Internet Services in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Applications include Outside Plant (OSP), Inside Plant (ISP) design solutions and Document/Workflow solutions. All solutions are built on Oracle databases.    The Outside Plant design solution provided by Intergraph in 1996 was migrated to a database-centric solution where all telecom assets including the geography of the country are mapped on to an Oracle Database. Responsibilities included:    1. Installation, Administration of required Oracle databases.  2. Installation of patches and fixes.  3. Migration of Oracle 8i to Oracle 9i databases on which the new OSP solution (GCOMMS) works.  4. High level Database Design / Mapping of telecom functionality.  5. Designing required structures to interface the Oracle based Intergraph's OSP solution with a third party "Strategic Work Order and Tracking (SWAT) and "Planning and Forecasting" (INTEC, U.S.A.)  6. Conversion and customization of Oracle code to localize the OSP solution.    7. Data Conversion, cleanup and migration to the new Oracle 9i based solution.  8. Testing and tuning of the newly migrated databases.  9. All other regular Database administration activities. Oracle Database Administrator Design Cards June 2001 to March 2002 Atheeb Intergraph / Client - Saudi Telecommunications Company - Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.    Responsibilities:  As an on-site DBA at STC, functions and responsibilities include:    1. Management and Administration of Oracle 8i, 8 and 7.3.4 databases.  2. Proactive monitoring of databases for performance and effective tuning knowledge.  3. Installation and up gradation of Oracle Server and Tools as per OFA procedures.  4. Installation and creation of databases.  5. Design & Plan Database structures, storage and resources including current and future requirements.    6. Monitor and Modify database structures and objects.  7. Ensure high availability of Oracle.  8. Maintain database security.  9. Network Administration - Implement Oracle Net8 Networking implementations.  10. Implementing effective Backup and Recovery solutions. Consultant Database Administrator Design Cards - BH June 2001 to March 2002 Bahrain.    1. In charge of installation / design and implementation of database solutions and backup/recovery plans for Batelco.  2. Periodic review of Operational Guidelines for the DBA team.  3. Quarterly review of Capacity forecasting and requirement estimation.  4. Database tuning and performance monitoring.  5. Providing remote support and assistance to junior on site DBA's in their regular DBA activities. Project Manager / DBA Atheeb Intergraph January 2001 to June 2001 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.    Ministry of Communications - Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is the sole Government agency managing the entire network of roads and bridges in the Kingdom. Intergraph was awarded a project to build a customized Drawing/Document management solution to archive and make available online around 500,000 drawings and maps.    As part of this project, I was responsible for designing a SQL Server database and managing a programming team who designed an archival/retrieval/print solution using Visual Basic. In-charge of testing, implementation and acceptance of solution at MOC. Database Administrator Atheeb Intergraph Saudi Arabia Ltd July 1999 to December 2000 Clients:  1. Ministry of Municipal and Rural affairs (KSA)  2. Ministry of Petroleum (KSA)  3. King Abdul Aziz City for Science and Technology (KSA)    As part of on-going projects of Intergraph in Government organizations in Saudi Arabia, I was responsible for the design / installation / setting up of operational procedures for Oracle products at various ministries. Responsibilities included:    1. Installation of Oracle products at site following recommended OFA (Oracle Flexible Architecture) procedures.  2. Designing and implementing effective Backup and Recovery solutions.  3. Recovery and Trouble shooting of Database problems at all Intergraph project sites.  4. Proactive / Reactive performance Tuning. Technical Consultant Web Infotech (P) Ltd. - Subsidiary of Web Interfaces Inc - Kharagpur, Bangalore, IN October 1998 to July 1999 program includes a SAP R/3 project on basis of which certification is done by IIT Kharagpur. Fully conversant with:    • Reporting  • Interactive reporting.  • SAP scripts  • Data Integration - Batch Data Communications  • Dialog programming - Interfaces to custom data repositories. Project Proposal Engineer Intergraph Saudi Arabia Ltd June 1995 to August 1998 Team member of the Project Sales / Value Added Services division, which undertook software implementation and customizing projects for blue chip oil companies in Saudi Arabia. Responsibilities included laying out and coordinating project specifications with clients/development team, implementation of graphics solutions, hardware/software configuration, conducting feasibility studies, conceptual design and sizing of databases.    Projects Handled:  1. PTIMS - Pipeline Technical Information and Management Systems for Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia. This project was responsible for capturing and management of oil pipelines related technical data of the Abqaiq refinery.    Software used included Microstation (3D-design software, Oracle7.3 and Developer 2000). This project provided Aramco with a convenient interface to all their pipeline data and provided better management of technical documents for their day-to-day activities.    Team Size 7.  Project value - US $ 4 Million over a 5-year time frame.    2. Document Management system for SHARQ, Saudi Arabia. This project involved implementing a complete document management system for the Engineering Divisions of Saudi Arabian Fertilizers (SHARQ). Solution implemented was Intergraph's DM2 document management solution with Oracle as the back end database. Activities included Scanning, Conversion and capture of text, drawings and engineering specification documents.    Team Size 5.  Project value - US $ 2 Million - 1-year project. Proposal / Marketing Engineer-Solution Sales Intergraph Saudi Arabia Ltd June 1993 to June 1995 Responsibilities:  • Implementation of strategic sales plans to ensure that the targeted sales forecasts are met every year.  • Sales and Product Marketing of Intergraph's entire Hardware and Software solution range.  • Market Analysis for developing new application areas.  • Coordination with Aramco's MIS, Engineering, Exploration and purchasing departments to determine requirements, recommend solutions and manage accounts effectively.  • All presale marketing and sales support activities which include sizing, recommendation and pricing of Hardware sales to Aramco - the worlds biggest oil company and SABIC companies in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia.  • Marketing of Geographic Information systems, Imaging, Document Management, Image processing, Plant Design and plotting solutions.  • Configuration of client/server systems, Networking and system software for Aramco.    Achievements:  • 80% increase in sales turnover of oil and Gas Sales division of Intergraph SA Ltd.  • 40% increase in customer base by development of new business opportunities.  • Sales and Product Marketing of Intergraph's entire Hardware and Software solution range.  • Market Analysis for developing new application areas. Senior Sales Executive Rolta India Ltd February 1992 to May 1993 India (Distributor of Intergraph Corporation in India)    Responsibilities:  • Sales of Intergraph Servers and workstations.  • Sales of Industry specific GIS, PDS and document imaging solutions.  • Responsibility for achieving pre-set sales targets every financial year.  • Handling a team of two junior sales executives in their assigned accounts.  • Project sales and coordination.  • Market development and research for new product feasibility, analyzing market potential and launch of product. Associate Marketing Executive OMC Computers India Ltd August 1989 to January 1992 Distributor of Silicon Graphics in India)    Responsibilities:  • Sales of PC's and Silicon Graphics workstations in South India.  • Responsibility for achieving pre-set sales targets every financial year.  • Market development including cold calling and account management.  • Organizing sales shows, direct mail campaigns and other promotional activities. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering P.S.G. College of Technology 1989 Additional Information IT Skills:    Platforms: Sun Solaris 8/9/10, HP-UX 11.0, Windows (2003 AS), Linux (Redhat  7/8/AS 3/4).  RDBMS: Oracle (Versions 7 / 8.x / 8i / 9i /10g / 11g) - Grid Infrastructure / Real Application Clusters.  Tools: Grid Control, RMAN, Data Guard, STATSPACK, Oracle Enterprise Manager,  Export/Import etc.  ETL Tools: Data Mirror, Data Stage  Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, ABAP/4, Developer 2000 and Visual Basic.  ERP Solutions: SAP R/3 - ABAP/4 Development Workbench - Trained  DWH: Informatica.  Applications: Oracle Applications Server.