AWS Cloud Architect AWS Cloud Architect AWS Cloud Architect - Northrop Grumman San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Cloud Architect Northrop Grumman - San Diego, CA 2009 to Present Architect Cloud environments per customer's requirements to include AWS VPCs, AppStream 2.0, Load Balancers, Firewalls, NAT instances/NAT Gateways, route tables, DoD/DISA compliant environment, and other services as needed.    • Design Proof of Concept AWS architecture to meet high availability and security parameters on GovCloud and Commercial accounts using Agile methodology.  • Design and deploy AppStream 2.0 images and clients per customer requirements.  • Configure VPCs, Instances, Security Groups, Load Balancers, Simple AD, AMI import, S3 and other resources for the project.  • Configure user authentication solutions such as CAC enabled OpenVPN instances, Redhat's IdM servers, CAC enabled PuTTY as well as CAC enabled SSH on Mac OS.  • Create SingleSignOn (SSO) based on SAML to AWS console using Identity Providers such as OKTA.  • Secure AWS Console by applying DISA guidelines and best practices. Secure S3 buckets using the same guidelines and enable AWS Cloud Watch and AWS Log Trail for the projects. Create IAM roles and other rules to ensure the least privilege concept on the AWS Console.  • Configure and deploy Information Assurance services such as DISA's HBSS ePO and its components such McAfee Agent/McAfee Virus Scan/ HIPS, Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS), Implement Patch Management solution, and Elastic Logstash and Kibana (ELK) Stack to perform systems' audits on AWS resources used in the project to meet accreditation requirements and also create a secure AWS Cloud based network.  • Create CloudFormation templates for AWS resources deployment automation, automate AMI image backup and nightly snapshots of the instances.  • Process automation such as Patch Management using Ansible and Rundeck.  • Firewall with opening necessary ports and documenting the changes.  • Configure and implement automated serverless/CloudWatch backup strategies by creating EBS snapshots  • Extensive experience with Linux and Windows operating systems including deployment, maintaining and troubleshooting.  • Apply STIGs to all systems and verify hardening settings on Redhat instances using SCAP, Redhat's OpenSCAP, or in house developed BASH scripts.  • Create, deploy and manage Windows Group Policies (GPOs), Security Groups, NACLs, and VPC peering for various VPCs in the project.  • Create, modify and disable user accounts, user accounts/groups such as sudoers in IdM/IPA server and assign or revoke permissions.  • Develop and monitor policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources.  • Maintain all systems' documentations such as licenses, network diagrams, network IP scopes, user account forms and trainings, and security procedures and policies.  • Provide educational assistance to customers so they may become self-sufficient on basic computing needs.  • Create an online survey system for Executive Support team serving 300 executives using PHP and MYSQL.  • Create and maintain all SSP documentation with the new hardware/software installs or removals  • Perform vulnerability assessments of new and existing classified environments.  • Developed and enforced systems security policy covering instances/machines and networks as part of Systems Security Manager duties.  • Perform security configuration on all instances/servers according to FEDRAMP/RMF guidelines and verify the systems' settings using SCAP and STIG viewer. Review weekly security audits on Windows and Linux systems using Splunk and other audit reduction tools.  • Verify the user account expiration dates are maintained and departed user's account have been disabled.  • Work closely with the AWS reps and other vendors and conduct meetings onsite or off site for trianing and advise. Lead Network/SQL Database Analyst QualityBuilt - San Diego, CA 2005 to 2009 Provide guidance during install and troubleshooting on over 35 servers as well as other network resources to include VoIP and CRM.  • Continuously analyze servers' behavior through logs to ensure optimal performance of the systems.  • Manage production and test databases (SQL 2008).  • Investigate and correct the anomalies in the data and perform restore or attach from backup db.  • Analyze and troubleshoot issues related to CRM database and data flow to company's website and reports. Network administrator Digirad Corp - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2005 Manage network servers/resources and active directory. Configure, install, and test windows computer systems and servers for a lab.  • Assist with setting up exchange and database servers  • Implement new Avaya VoIP system to replace old analog phone system.  • Assist with IT portion of implementing ISO 9000 procedure and audits throughout the company. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA Skills Mysql, Sql, Php, Swift, Visio, Linux, Iis, Sharepoint, Xcode, Vm, Ms office Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: MS Windows (7,10,2016R2,2012R2), Linux RHEL (6,7)/CentOS/Ubuntu    Software: MS Office including Visio (network topology drawings), SharePoint, InfoPath, SCAP, SQL and MYSQL, PHP, VB Script, Apple XCode Swift, IIS, VM (vSphere and vCenter), AWS Cloud, Admin helpful tools, Collaboration tools such as GitHub, Slack, RingCentral, and Skype.