Lead Data Architect Lead Data Architect Lead Data Architect - MGM Resorts International Las Vegas, NV • 4 years of leadership and management experience  • 23 years of database architecture, development and business intelligence experience  • Cloud Services: Microsoft Azure (IaaS / PaaS), Amazon AWS, Snowflake, Databricks, Azure Data Warehouse G2, Azure SQL Database, Cosmos DB, Redshift, ADLS, ADF v2, Stream Analytics, Event Hubs, Service Bus, Application Insights, App Services, Log Analytics  • Databases: SQL Server 2017 (6.0 – 2017), MySQL 8, Teradata, DynamoDB, Cloudera, Hortonworks, ElasticSearch 6.4, Polybase, SAP, Availability Groups, Clustering and distributed databases  • Languages: T-SQL, C#, Python, Scala, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, .NET, MDX, R, DAX, PHP, ASP.Net, CSS, HTML, Perl, VB  • Operating Systems: Windows Server 2019, Windows 10, CentOS, Debian, RHEL, Linux, OS X  • Applications: Visual Studio 2019, DevOps, GitHub/GitLab/Git, VSTS, Power BI, Tableau, SqlDBM, Microsoft R, SQL Server Profiler, Erwin, ER Studio, MS Office 2016, MS Visio 2016, Pivot Tables / Power Pivot, Crystal Reports, MS Project, MS BackOffice, Adobe CC, IIS, Networking (LAN/WAN), BCP, SVN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Data Architect MGM Resorts International - Las Vegas, NV December 2018 to Present • Principal architect for the Enterprise Data Hub which is an cloud-based centralized data repository for all of MGM's data. This will drive ERP, analytics, sales, marketing, finance and other internal systems such as HR. Will also provide data to 3rd parties such as Adobe, Amperity and Reltio.  • Managed a team of data architects and engineers including hiring, platform direction and vision, prioritizations of tasks, and technical leadership.  • Implemented a new Snowflake data warehouse solution to drive enterprise analytics, finance modernization and ERP. Created a new import process to move data efficiently into the warehouse using Azure external stage, ADF v2 and Databricks. Data Warehouse Lead QuoteWizard - Seattle, WA June 2015 to November 2018 • Managed a BI team of engineers including all proritiziation of work, job responsibilities, conducted all interviews, performance reviews and team building events.  • Technical lead responsibilities including departmental vision, business ownership, code reviews and deployments.  • Data architect for the migration of our entire platform from Rackspace to Azure Paas / IaaS. Migration of unstructured data to Data Lake. Integration with Azure DW Gen2 and SQL Polybase.  • Architected and developed a new EDW for analytics and reporting needs. Built on Azure Data Warehouse Gen 2, Azure Data Factory and Power BI as the front-end. Additional analytics tools included Azure ML, Spotfire and ad-hoc queries.  • Created integrations for all acquisitions including a clicks platform in Denver and a call center in Sacramento.  • Designed and developed ETL/ELT for all 3rd party integrations including USBank, Elevon, Gravity, Salesforce, Google Analytics, Google AdWords, DyanamoDB, MediaAlpha, HubSpot, StrongView, QuinStreet, InContact and many others.  • Automated monthly billing and created processes for our largest corporate clients. Automated credit card transaction imports, reconciliation and reporting.  • Business Owner on all projects. Collaborated with executive management and business owners to gather business requirements and create customized solutions for each team and department. Sr. Developer Exsilio Solutions - Redmond, WA November 2014 to February 2015 • Created Transformational Leading Indicators (TLI) to aggregate Microsoft worldwide sales data (MSSales) using user-specified metrics. Strict attention to detail for published data, sql coding standards, performance and tuning.  • Managed executive clients and development teams to collect and define specifications, drive development efforts, and maintain data integrity.  • Created custom ETLs using SSIS to pull data from internal Microsoft databases and BI systems into BMX.  • Architected and developed full historical changes for all fact and dimensional data using SCDs. Sr. Database Developer Expedia - Bellevue, WA April 2014 to September 2014 • Developed complex stored procedures and ETLs for Expedia's Customer Marketing Services. Generated bulk mail files for ExactTarget and supporting data for millions of Expedia subscribers worldwide.  • Designed and developed a framework for current and future ETLs using SSIS. Utilized multi-threaded loads, full & incremental load, in-memory transforms, multiple physical partitions, custom and SSIS logging, xml configs.  • Managed SQL jobs, index management, performance tuning and optimization.  • Provided detailed architectural strategy for migrating current SQL 2008R2 databases to SQL 2014. Sr. Database Administrator RealNetworks - Seattle, WA September 2010 to November 2011 • Engineered and administered the MySQL backend databases for Gamehouse.com as its social gaming platform for all games on the site.  • Architected a financial transaction system for virtual currencies & entitlements to support currencies across multiple games and platforms, including facebook credits, in game coins, lives and livegamer accounts.  • Scaled out the platform from 18m users to over 400m users running on Amazon RDS and MySQL 5.1 and 5.5 with an uptime of over 99.9999%. This includes upgrades and scale up/out solutions as the business grew.  • Developed PHP scripts for db admin tools and automating existing administrative tasks.  • Carefully monitored systems 24x7 and responded to custom alarms. Provided support for all related services. Sr. Database Developer Coinstar - Bellevue, WA October 2009 to January 2010 • Designed and developed a database to support the management of all RedBox kiosks nationwide. This includes financial transactions, geo location, inventory management and user profiling.  • Architected and developed data feeds in SSIS for regional and international data. Sr. Database Developer MySpace - Seattle, WA July 2007 to June 2009 • Developed and deployed new features and feature enhancements to core data components to support MySpace.com. Included Messaging, MySpace Music, Application Communication Channels and user profile management. Deployments were made to a live production environment hosting over 135m page views/month and 85m active unique users.  • Engineered logical and physical database design. Included schema design, version management using TFS and production release scripts  • Created asynchronous messaging and queue processing using Service Broker and Service Dispatcher. Designed and managed data feeds in SSIS for the production ETL process. Sr. Database Developer PB Telecom - Seattle, WA January 2007 to June 2007 • Architected a MSSQL 2005 and Analysis Services 2005 data warehouse solution to support a new application offering based upon ASP.NET, C#, and AJAX technologies.  • Designed and developed an ETL process using Integration Services to import customer data into the new schema.  • Engineered logical and physical database design. Included schema design, version management and flexible build scripts.  • Developed complex stored procedures to facilitate the UI and .Net code components, including web search functionality. Sr. Database Developer, Microsoft Managed Solutions Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA January 2006 to July 2006 • Architected a MSSQL 2005 and Analysis Services 2005 data warehouse solution for MSIT XIT MMS (Microsoft Managed Solutions) as the primary data source for worldwide metric performance reporting.  • Designed and developed an automated ETL process using Integration Services to migrate data from the transactional database into the data warehouse.  • Engineered logical and physical database design for Technical Compliance Manager (TCM). Included schema design, version management and build scripts. Developed complex stored procedures to facilitate the UI and .Net code components. Database Engineer 180Solutions - Bellevue, WA August 2004 to July 2005 • Architected the internal global data warehouse to meet the reporting needs for the business intelligence group and provided the backbone for all company financial and web traffic reporting.  • Designed and developed the ETLs to populate the GDW using SQL Server Yukon Integration Services. Included designing complex data flows using aggregations, lookups, and various other SSIS transforms. Worked with the MSSQL Product team to report beta related issues and testing the 64-bit IS product on Intel and Opteron hardware architecture. Database Development Lead The Dual Group - Ballard, WA October 2003 to April 2004 • Managed all aspects of database design and development for internal applications and client projects.  • Developed complex stored procedures to implement an object-oriented data access layer. Included dynamic-sql, custom transaction logging, rollback functionality, undo functionality, and performance optimizations using Profiler.  • Developed data access layer objects in C# to allow database connectivity from ASP.Net, C#, and FlashMX. Utilized XML, XSLT, and .Net Web Services. Database Developer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA March 2003 to August 2003 US-CIT Reporting  • Developed complex stored procedures utilizing remote procedures, linked servers, explicit transactions, dynamic sql, and error logging. Query optimization using estimated execution plan tool. Debugged problematic queries using SQL Profiler.  • Utilized Erwin and Enterprise Manager's modeling tools to design and model databases 1500+ user objects (tables/views). Used logical and physical data models to help write stored procedures and modify database objects based on complex business rules.  • Created a production data extract to push data, on a schedule, to various users outside of the Microsoft firewall. Included complex stored procedures, linked servers, remote procedures, explicit transactions, and dynamic sql. Job was scheduled to run on expected interval, for full or delta feeds. Database Administrator, US-MSN Subscription Services Ops Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA July 2002 to December 2002 • Installation of all application and services components to multiple environments, including production, pre-production, integration, development, and test. Administered and supported log-shipping, replication, data warehouses, performance monitoring, Administered BigIP for failover SQL clusters.  • Played a key-role on a large operations team for the MSN8 application Launch. Included installation of all SQL Server and Component bits including 10 applications and 600 servers. Acted as primary contact for changes to code in production for MSN. Software Development Engineer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA January 2002 to May 2002 in Test, US-WDM-Windows Media Internet Service  • Administered a SQL Server backend of 20 machines for the Windows Media Metadata internet service test team. Included managing database content, backup and restore, user permissions, DTS Packages, replication jobs. Installed Win2k Server, SQL Server 2000, updates, and security fixes onto the test environment servers (Compaq, Dell, Network Engine). Configured RAID disk subsystems and NT physical and common logical drive configurations in the test environment.  • Created automation scripts in WinNT Shell and PERL for backup, restore, and file system operations. Created SQL Stored procedures, TSQL queries, and created database schema (tables, indexes, views, etc) for bug fixes and adhoc updates in the production/development/test environments. Created VB6 tools for the command console, and automation of SQL Server environments using the SQLDMO object model. Database Engineer, US-OpsIT OEM Systems Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA April 2001 to August 2001 • Developed database solutions for the Xbox tracking system, an enterprise level b2b transactional database supporting over 1 million transactions annually.  • Managed replication topologies and created automated scripts using transactional replication in multiple environments for development, test, system test, functional test, and production.  • Created SQL code using a script-based method for easy deployment into multiple environments. All files were versioned in VSS and deployed with code drops and labels. Created and modified tables, views, stored procedures, triggers based upon complex business rule requirements. Used system tables to find existing data/schema before implementing changes. Database Engineer Mediapassage.com - Seattle, WA October 2000 to April 2001 • Architected data warehouse solution for reporting using DTS, Replication, OLAP, SQL 7.0sp1 and client-side pivot tables for end-user client access.  • Implemented a server task monitoring system, which provided statistics for servers and databases on the local domain, such as uptime, database sizes, and scheduled job (agent and replication) run times. This data was then used for reporting purposes and automated notifications of failed jobs. Applications Developer, US-Corporate Security Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA August 2000 to October 2000 • Developed an internal Microsoft website using ASP, HTML, SQL, Access, and VB/ADO. Created detailed project visio diagrams for planning and integration of requested site features, including integration of SQL2000, XML, IIS5, and COM+.  • Managed project deadlines in MS Project and set milestones for tracking progress throughout the project. Delivered on all project milestones on-time. Gathered customer requirements and expectations for product documentation and scheduling. Database Developer Corbis Corporation - Bellevue, WA September 1999 to August 2000 • Engineered and implemented a financial and web traffic data warehouse. Designed data replication strategies as well as OLAP cube analysis of data. Created an internal web site to deliver and organize the information in the warehouse using ASP, ADODB, Stored Procedures, DHTML table reports, and PivotTable reports. Tested a failover cluster under Windows 2000 Advanced Server and SQL 7.0 sp2.  • Created database schemas and stored procedures for the live consumer licensing web site as well as ASP pages which connected to the database to retrieve/update information. Sustained previous front-end and back-end code by performance tuning and building for greater scalability. Developed a digital dashboard interface to the data warehouse which delivered dynamic content to individual users and groups based upon business need. Database Developer, US-Sales & Marketing Payroll Systems Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA September 1997 to September 1999 • Engineered database schemas and structures for internal sales force automation applications utilizing Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 and Windows 2000 Advanced Server.  • Scheduled DTS packages and scripted SQL code to deliver an integrated solution for data feeds, backups, and optimizations. Developed 3-tiered end-user utilities and administrative tools with Office2000, COM Technologies, Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, ActiveX Components, and ASP (FrontPage2000 and Visual InterDev 6.0). Integrated systems with SAP and proprietary database systems. Developed stored procedures, triggers, indexes and system software for optimized performance.  • Key communicator nationally with top-level management to drive the Microsoft sales program. Included spearheading data integrity and business-rule to data issues.  • Implemented OLAP data warehouse for end-user reporting tools.  • Managed 15 million dollars of internal budget.  • Conceptualized business needs and prioritized development. Architected top-level design models prior to technical development. Applications Developer Online Interactive - Seattle, WA August 1996 to September 1997 • Developed end-user automation applications for product installation and deployment on the Internet of over 6000 ESD products. Encrypted applications for secure purchases. Packaged using WISE.  • Developed T-SQL queries for automated updates of customer and billing systems. Education Computer Science Bellevue Community College - Bellevue, WA Visual Communications and Technology Shoreline Community College - Shoreline, WA Additional Information • 4 years of leadership and management experience  • 23 years of database architecture, development and business intelligence experience  • Cloud Services: Microsoft Azure (IaaS / PaaS), Amazon AWS, Snowflake, Databricks, Azure Data Warehouse G2, Azure SQL Database, Cosmos DB, Redshift, ADLS, ADF v2, Stream Analytics, Event Hubs, Service Bus, Application Insights, App Services, Log Analytics  • Databases: SQL Server 2017 (6.0 - 2017), MySQL 8, Teradata, DynamoDB, Cloudera, Hortonworks, ElasticSearch 6.4, Polybase, SAP, Availability Groups, Clustering and distributed databases  • Languages: T-SQL, C#, Python, Scala, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, .NET, MDX, R, DAX, PHP, ASP.Net, CSS, HTML, Perl, VB  • Operating Systems: Windows Server 2019, Windows 10, CentOS, Debian, RHEL, Linux, OS X  • Applications: Visual Studio 2019, DevOps, GitHub/GitLab/Git, VSTS, Power BI, Tableau, SqlDBM, Microsoft R, SQL Server Profiler, Erwin, ER Studio, MS Office 2016, MS Visio 2016, Pivot Tables / Power Pivot, Crystal Reports, MS Project, MS BackOffice, Adobe CC, IIS, Networking (LAN/WAN), BCP, SVN