Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator Phoenixville, PA Experienced SQL Server and Oracle Database Administrator with 20 years of Information Technology experience. Background supporting both military and private sector organizations across diverse industries. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Bentley Systems, Incorporated - Exton, PA February 2019 to August 2019 Database Administrator supporting over 300 SQL Server instances across the Azure Cloud and OnPremise Instances supporting Bentley Systems Infrastructure software.  • Created and supported Microsoft Azure SQL Server(PAAS), SQL Server on Virtual Machines(IAAS), SQL Managed Instance(PAAS), and Azure SQL Data Warehouse(PAAS)  • Supported Azure Active Directory, Virtual Networks, Data Factory deployments, Security, Resource Group Management, worked with different Subscriptions in Azure, trained in Azure Monitoring  • Maintained Backup, Restores, and Recovery using Azure Storage Blobs.  • Monitored and tuned database resources using blocking and wait events.  • Performed and automated SQL Server version 2008-2017 upgrades and patch installs.  • Maintained High Avaialbility using SQL Server Clustering, AlwaysOn, and Mirroring.  • Performance Monitoring and Troubleshooting Issues in both Azure and OnPremise databases.  • Ticket management, change control process, and support of users and developers.  • Proficient inTuning T-SQL queries to improve the database performance and availability. Senior Database Consultant Contegix LLC - Wyomissing, PA June 2016 to January 2019 Consultant to PJM Interconnection LLC, Valley Forge, PA. Supported over 20 production instances, 250 databases, 125 applications, and multiple development, test, and QA environments. Provides ongoing support for Data Warehouse, applications, ETL, and development across multiple platforms. Performs functions such as:  • Monitored and tuned database resources and activities for SQL Server databases.  • Performed and automated SQL Server version 2008-2017 upgrades and patch installs.  • Maintained High Avaialbility using SQL Server Clustering and AlwaysOn.  • Backup, Restores, Recovery, and Database Maintenance.  • Performance Monitoring and Troubleshooting Issues.  • Designed, developed, and maintained relational databases.  • Develop SSRS reports and configure SSRS subscriptions per specifications provided by clients.  • Developed SSIS packages as needed for database administration and ETL extraction.  • Proficient inTuning T-SQL queries to improve the database performance and availability.  • Work with SSAS with the Microsoft's Project Server. Senior Database Administrator Aspect Consulting, Inc - King of Prussia, PA 2011 to 2015 Provides ongoing support for multiple clients (Amerigas, Booz and Co, Sonepar, Endo Pharmaceuticals, Emergent Biosolutions) as a remote Oracle and SQL server DBA. Supports all activities related to the administration of computerized databases. Performs all duties such as:  • Installations and Upgrades, and Consolidation Efforts.  • SQL Server 2005-2012 Cluster and AlwaysOn Installation and Management.  • Oracle 9i-11g Cluster, Data Guard, Golden Gate, RMAN, AWR, & AMS.  • Database File Size Management and Disk Space Sizing.  • Backup, Restores, Recovery, and Database Maintenance.  • Performance Monitoring and Troubleshooting Issues.  • Worked with Netezza, Postgress, AIX, and Linux Ubuntu and Red Hat. SQL Server Database Administrator Regent Systems Inc - Philadelphia, PA 2009 to 2011 - Infrastructure    • The Common Food Management System (CFMS) is an application that will support the entire supply chain management for all food services for all United States Armed Forces. My duties include supporting all SQL Server 2005/2008 databases and responsible for the development, infrastructure, scalability, deployment, and security.  • Maintain 8 separate SQL Server environments working with military data centers and local environments. Responsible for all SQL Server hardware, software, storage management, and network requirements for each site.  • Handle security for all the SQL Server databases following the Department of Defense Security Implementation Guidelines. The Guidelines are over 335 security requirements for SQL Server and I work closely with government Information Assurance to ensure all requirements are met.  • Responsible for SQL Server installations, back-ups, restorations, high availability using Microsoft clustering, disaster recovery operations, performance, SQL Server Agent jobs, and space management.  • Trouble-shoot issues daily working with a team of 20 .Net and Java developers. Work on such issues as Microsoft Distributive Transaction Coordinator and hung transactions, Microsoft XA Java Drivers, Windows Active Directory, SQL queries, data issues, logins/users, permissions, Windows 2003 Server, locks, indexing, C2 auditing, SQL Profiler tracing, connectivity issues, clustering issues, firewalls, ports, network issues, log file shipping, data architecture, and SQL Server Express on developer's local machines.  • Use change management to maintain environments remain in sync using ClearCase. Use SQL Server Delta Tools to ensure objects between environments match. Handle deployments to each environment. SQL Server DBA/Information Technology Architect/Oracle DBA IBM Corporation - West Chester, PA 2007 to 2009 • Worked with IBM supply chain management department for over 2 years working as the main integrator for the Common Food Management before the Defense Logistics Agency took over and I remained with the project as a contractor.  • Maintained over 30 instances of SQL Server and handled all changes, back-ups, troubleshooting, & clustering.  • Designed and implemented reporting server & disaster recovery environment using log file shipping and hardware storage shadow copies.  • Helped design the original database architecture for CFMS, which was projected to grow to over 120 TB in size within 5 years. Worked on scalability of the SQL Server databases and worked on plans to scale-out and scale-up with hardware solutions. Looked at use of partitioning, archiving, parallelism, SQL Server configurations, hardware solutions, and storage management planning.  • Used change management to handle changes throughout the system, work with Java and .Net developers on issues with the databases, and handle high security settings to enable deployment on military installations.  • Used to SSIS to extract data from various databases, transform it, and load to central database.  • Traveled to primary and secondary military installations to deploy the original set-up and configuration.  • Oracle 10g Database Administration for the Supply Management for the Coast Guard's Click Commerce Application, which provided all parts to the Coast Guard.  • Installed Oracle 10g, set-up configuration, patched, upgrades, added additional government security settings, managed all the hardware with the data center, did back-ups and restores using RMAN, and maintained and supported the database 24x7.  • Work with the Application Click Commerce to install the application on the database and learned how to operate the application that used Corba Servers, J2EE, and WebLogic. Primary lead for implementing Performance & Capacity Group 2002 to 2006 2002 - 2006  • Responsible for daily support, troubleshooting, analyzing, and problem solving of performance and infrastructure issues.  • Areas of support include: Oracle & SQL Server databases, Windows 2003 & Unix Platforms, Oracle Portal and Microsoft's SharePoint Portal. Application groups: Oracle ERP, Seibel, Peoplesoft, and Data Warehouse.  • Responsible for advanced testing and implementing set standards for Unisys architecture and support performance & capacity, including ongoing tuning requirements.  • Successfully supported migration of Oracle ERP to Windows 2003, working closely with Oracle Corporation, implementing one of the very first VLD to Windows 2003.  • Built Data Transformation Service (DTS) packages for extracting data, modifications, and loading.  • Primary lead for implementing SQL Server as back-end data storage to Microsoft Sharepoint Portal, which was Unisys' primary portal gateway. Application & Architecture Analyst UNISYS CORPORATION - Blue Bell, PA 1999 to 2006 DBA 1999 to 2001 • DBA on Unisys' Product Reference Library BOL which contained all Unisys products, services, pricing, & life cycles. The Reference Library had between 15 - 17 million dollars a day running through it.  • Lead DBA on the BOL team working with 8 PL/SQL developers and managed the database servers through our data center in Eagan, Minnesota.  • Lead on the System-end managing the Unix System and all of its Unix Scripting, scheduler, and background processes on the server end.  • Built tools using Unix Scripting, SQL, HTML, and ASP pages to monitor the database and the performance  • Team Lead through 2 Oracle migrations from 7.3 to 8.0.6 and then to 8.1.7.2. Primary responsibility was to lead the team through research on the migration, code fixes, testing, and then implementation to production. Education MIS PENN STATE, State College 1999 Certificate in Accounting MECRYHURST COLLEGE - Erie, PA 1995 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Psychology PENN STATE, State College 1993 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Cognos, Unix, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Aix, Linux, Asp, Sharepoint portal, Websphere, Clearcase, Clearquest, Visual studio, C++, Html, Scripting Additional Information • Worked with PJM Interconnection's operation as a consultant on the high-voltage electric grid and wholesale electricity market for 13 states.  • Supported Defense Logistics Agency handling SQL Server databases for the Supply Chain Management of the Food Management System for the Unites States Armed Services with an Information Technology Clearance of 1.  • While working for IBM, worked with Oracle and SQL Server databases for the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard.  • In support of Unisys Business Enterprise platforms, was a member of Unisys Advanced Resolution team, in-charge of performance & capacity for SQL Server and Oracle supporting Unisys' core business systems.  • Oracle database development for business solutions at Unisys providing analysis and design, programming, quality assurance/testing, implementation, technical support and deployment in a client-server environment.  • Process development skills including Oracle/SQL Server architecture, ETL (extraction, transformation, and load), and database tuning from project concept to rollout.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  • OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS: Windows 2008/2012/2016/2019, Unix, AIX, and Linux  • TOOLS: SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Visual Studio, Oracle Enterprise Manager, MS Azure Data Factory Office Suite, Idera Tools, Quest Tools, SentryOne  • LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Scripting, ASP, HTML, C++, VB 5/6, PowerShell, XML  • DATABASES: SQL Server 2000 to 2017 (2016 MS Certified), Oracle 9i-12c  • CLOUD: Microsoft Azure  • FAMILIAR WITH: Business Objects, Cognos, Oracle applications, Oracle Portal, SharePoint Portal, Websphere Tools, Rational ClearCase and ClearQuest