GM GM GM Work Experience GM Nameplate Incorporated - Seattle, WA 2016 to 2018 Position: Senior Programmer Analyst  Focused on business application programming for the Pick jBase database system. Worked with various technologies to interact with the company's intranet systems and other contemporary mediums. Direct support and success in systems design and troubleshooting for Customer Service, Procurement, and Quality Assurance departments in an innovative and global manufacturing company setting. Assisted with major system upgrades. Principal SanMar Corporation - Issaquah, WA 2004 to 2016 position: Senior Software Developer  Mastery of applications systems, data, and internal/external interfaces, including e-commerce. Trusted reliable IT consultant to all points of the business. 'Go-to' person for providing documentation for complex systems. Collaborated design and administered Pick/SQL Server data propagation and schema. Accurate project estimates and exceptional turn-around in an aggressive-schedule working environment. Regularly relied upon in other IT roles including: Quality Assurance, Project Management, Business Analysis, and direct customer interfacing. Reliable and respected department liaison for crisis mitigation and resolving project and customer conflicts. Independently developed electronic reporting transmission systems, with portability to other mediums. Saving the company significant time and money by enabling remote system resourcing and posturing for a global economy.    Support position: Configuration Manager  Pioneered technologies, standards of procedure, and definitions for the Configuration Manager position. Concurrently worked in this position with 'SubVersion' and 'git' source code change management systems. Fostered software development life cycle for multiple developers on multiple systems and projects across disparate development and production environments. Instrumental in system impact analysis for large projects insuring system quality and data integrity. Invented utilities to enable application lifecycle management. PCI compliant. MIS Programmer PhotoWorks, Incorporated - Seattle, WA 2002 to 2004 Served database programming needs for enterprise and e-commerce systems. Designed, coded, and maintained user authentication and CRM database and interface. Automated distributed Marketing campaigns and subsequent sales data correlation and analysis. Assisted Customer Service by resolving customer archive/account issues. Worked with Production, Accounting, Marketing, Web Design, Quality Assurance, and Order Processing teams to meet and exceed their needs. Provided definitive documentation and modeling techniques for software system proposals. Database Administrator McGraw-Hill New Media - Bothell, WA 1996 to 2001 Analysis, design, and website database programming for the company's e-commerce engine. Created linkages between e-commerce data warehouses and legacy database systems. Principal in analysis, development, and maintenance for the digital on-line catalog. Designed and implemented the first user interfaces for the enterprise website system. Contention resolution between e-commerce and distributed file systems. System Administration for several database systems across different operating systems. Diverse data warehousing and synchronization techniques for website interfaces. Deployed inter-company reporting and paperless document distribution systems.    Previous position: Senior Programmer Analyst  Authority for developing, coding, and maintaining applications for Order Entry, Production, Customer Service, Accounting, Sales, Marketing and Inventory systems. Empowered users to achieve their own system processing needs. Member of the Y2K task force delivering flawless systems upgrades for the new millennium. Intensive database programming; Unix shell scripting and procedure automation; Data transfer using various protocol; Custom reporting for executive decision-making; Creating and maintaining automated mailing lists; Designing inventory planning systems based on purchasing patterns and market data. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Seattle Pacific University - Seattle, WA Associate of Science in Computer Service Technology North Seattle College - Seattle, WA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/davidarasim