Job Seeker Kapolei, HI Perform the role of a SharePoint Admin by providing quality and rapid response to user/manager requests. My  expertise includes managing a SharePoint infrastructure, conducting network maintenance using PowerShell,  troubleshooting hardware and software errors, installing security protocol, configuring IT assets and resolving  complex user/Windows problems. Work Experience University of Hawaii West Oahu August 2016 to Present System Admin/Desktop Support Technician County of San Diego Sheriff's Department October 2014 to August 2016 • Provided support for over 500 network clients, 50 Servers, 25 printers, 22 projectors and all state of the art VTC and Telepresence video conferencing equipment.  • Loaded multiple servers with Windows Server 2003, 2008, created raid configurations, added roles.  • Assisted in building an entire infrastructure from the ground up at a new facility in San Diego. This  included 7 network Servers, 30 user systems, 50 student systems, printers, copiers, telephones, Routers, Firewalls, Switches, etc. This project was estimated at a net worth of over 1.5 million  dollars.  • Directly supported all faculty (Made up primarily of retired law enforcement officers), and students  with IT issues.  • Implemented 802.1x (Eapol) port authentication, with a success rate of 100%. This provided  complete port security and reduced unauthorized access to the network.  • Developed a single image with the Universal Imaging Utility, to replace the existing 20 incomplete  varied preexisting ones.  • Frequently created and pushed images with Symantec Ghost.  • These sites have over 50 servers, 40 users, and 150 IT assets.  • Supported all VTC (Video Conferencing) sessions, between DAU and other DOD and civilian  agencies.  • Conducted weekly setup for the Sherriff officer training classes. Each class had specific software  requirements  • Managed all shared drives, maintained file structure integrity.  • Performed all backups using Symantec Backup Exec vers. 12.  • Entrusted with the responsibility of researching and the ordering of all IT assets.  • Resolved over 600 trouble calls. Sharepoint/Workflow/SQL Database Administrator United States Air Force October 1994 to September 2014 In-depth knowledge and experience administering and managing Microsoft SharePoint 2010 & 2013  enterprise environments  • 3 years Farm Administration experience with SharePoint 2007-2013, monitor and troubleshoot  problem with SharePoint, IIS, Windows Services, thorough understanding of these concepts:  Collaboration, Portals, Enterprise Search, Enterprise Content Management, Business Process and Forms/SharePoint templates (site templates, list templates, master page customization)  • Knowledgeable in MS SQL (SP connectivity to SQL, basic SQL troubleshooting, administration of MS Sharepoint 2007 & 2010, Active Directory, MIIS, HTML and JavaScript )/Windows  Server/Linux OS  • Enforced and maintained networked computers ensuring they met Department of Defense (DOD), Defense Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency, Air Force Weather Agency and Air Force  security requirements.  • Above-basic level of understanding of Windows Server (general administration, Internet Information  Services, Windows PowerShell, Active Directory and its relationship to SharePoint), SQL Server, networking (IP, DNS, load balancing, availability, scalability)  • Integrated Dynamic Host Addressing; eliminated configuration errors, and improved remote  management.  • Directed team of 11 skilled technicians to deploy and create solution packages of InfoPath forms, Lists, Web Parts. Diligently managed 450 software applications and 10,000 license agreements -  averted $45M in potential fines.  • Validated security posturing of 1.2K IT assets - in line with DISA directives - eradicated system  vulnerabilities Education University of Hawaii West Oahu December 2019 Associates of Science in Aeronautical Engineer Community College of the Air Force June 2004 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Management National University