Sales Associate Sales Associate Sales Associate - H&M, Westfarms Mall Hartford, CT Work Experience Sales Associate H&M, Westfarms Mall - Farmington, CT August 2018 to Present • Maintain the sales floor organized and presentable.  • Distribute, arrange, and rearrange the merchandise throughout the store as needed. Stock Associate/Brand Representative Hollister Co, Westfarms Mall - Farmington, CT August 2016 to August 2018 • Maintain the stock room organized in order to ease the process of locating and distributing of clothes.  • Operate the register and perform transactions. Database Administrator Intern International Summer Programs of YMCA - Madrid, ES June 2018 to July 2018 Spain.  • Updated documents and records of incoming and outgoing campers  and counselors who had been with YMCA España programs.  • Expanded the existing database of clients by creating new entries.  • Digitized paperwork from the previous 5 years and integrated all  archived data into a new database. International Intern Information Technologies Division of BanReservas - Santo Domingo, DO June 2014 to August 2014 Dominican  Republic.  • Created new data tables to contain details for new clients.  • Maintained databases containing information on over 500 existing  clients.  • Provided extra help to facilitate other available jobs. Education Bachelors of Science degree in Computer Engineering Technology Central Connecticut State University - New Britain, CT Skills R2, CISCO, JAVA, PYTHON, WINDOWS SERVER 2012 Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pk-05eyoylx981ox Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qwjbrgz6py1kb8qv Verbal Communication — Proficient July 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/57dmjnwttkz1pvoj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  • Technical Skills: Microsoft Office Suite, Windows OS (XP, Vista, 7, 8,  8.1), Windows Server 2012 R2, CISCO Network set-up  • Programming Languages: Python, Java  • Languages Spoken: English ( Native ), Spanish ( Native ), Japanese  (Novice)