NOC Technician NOC Technician IT Help Desk Santa Monica, CA Results-driven Network Administrator with some experience in back-end programming, MS databases  and development/maintenance of complex and critical systems.  Offering vast knowledge of network and troubleshoot desktop, server and Internet levels.    Technical help desk experience CISCO Routing and VoIP  PBX Telecom Structured query language (SQL)  Strong analytical skills DHTML, IT Infrastructure,  Local remoter systems support Microsoft, Servers, Switches, Systems  Patch management Implementation, Systems Integration, TCP/IP,  Proficiency in TCP/IP protocols Technical Documentation, Technical  Excellent problem solving skills Support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Technician Colo Exchange - Las Vegas, NV January 2019 to May 2019 Server configuration and Maintenance of the Data center.  Give support to the customers with remote hands. IT Help Desk Crimson It - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to June 2017 Help multiple clients with their computer problems by phone that will include Windows Hardware and software, updates. Office questions and troubleshooting, Administration of Exchange and Office for multiple clients and managing phone systems.  Installing and maintaining devices on multiple environments and locations. sole database administrator Network Enhanced Technologies - Los Angeles, CA March 2002 to March 2002 MIS  Los Angeles, CA  Troubleshot and resolved internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues. Identified  product problems and strengths and collected data on the customer experience. Hired and trained 6 new  software developers. Managed the 7-person local IT team, allocating resources to ongoing projects and enforcing deadlines. Added user accounts, troubleshot issues with users and monitored usage on the  printing management system. Collaborated with the global team to resolve IT support cases. Assisted in the monitoring and reporting on website traffic and performance. Served as sole database administrator for  MS SQL. Created HTML email templates and newsletters for e-mail marketing campaigns. Completed A/B testing and set up FTP and SFTP procedures to transfer multiple forms of artwork files within the organization and large amount of Data transfer. Served as operating system expert, providing technical support for entire organization. Computer Lab Technical Support for Students of Economy Ministry of Education January 2000 to January 2001 Guatemala C.A.  Install and maintain the network. Help students and teachers on the use of the computers and network and their own devices. Maintain the Computer lab on optimal condition Installing Printers and installing service  packs. Network Administrator and Technical Support Ministry of Education January 1999 to January 2001 Guatemala C.A.  Install and maintain the network (Internet and Intranet of the ministry) . Installing Computer networks for Schools. Implement the Y2K patching for the networks. Installing Printers and tape backups. Configure the Exchange 5.0 for email and dialup connections. Education English American School 1985 Skills Tech Support, Desktop Support, Cisco, Computer Repair, Help Desk, Information Technology, Network Support Additional Information Technical Skills  Skills Experience Total Years Last Used  Windows Systems Since 1995 22