SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Bank of America Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Bank of America - Newark, DE January 2019 to Present ·        Writing and Improving SQL Server and T-SQL queries  ·        Responsible for providing SQL Server problem resolution and 24x7 production support and server outages.  ·        Created necessary T-SQL scripts, stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes.  ·        Wrote complex SQL queries using various joins, unions and functions for report purpose  ·        Worked with Installation, configuring and maintaining SQL failover clustering for production environments.  ·        On-call troubleshooting for SQL Server service outages.  ·        Backed up master & system databases and restoring them when necessary.  ·        Extracting data using SQL from multiple databases to acquire statistical and financial data  ·        Collaborated with strategy Analytics, Strategy Control, and Initiative Execution teams for development, design, and execution of strategies for Collections Services department.  ·        Performed complex analysis and modeling for multiple products with the goal of maximizing profit and minimizing risk  ·        Wrote SQL's to implement report specific queries in reporting.  ·        • Identifying and executing process improvements, hands-on in various technologies such as Oracle, and Business Objects  ·        Wrote VBA/Python to create automation for ETL process  ·        Manually modified the SQL in Report Studio to tune and/or to write complicated reports SQL Server Database Administrator Zenith Bank Nigeria December 2015 to December 2017 ·     Worked with team to create, administered and maintained SQL Server Database on production, Test and Staging for various groups and ensured the availability of database Servers.  ·     Create ODBC connection  ·     Wrote complex SQL queries using various joins, unions and functions for report purpose  ·     Worked with team to develop SSIS packages to import and export data from existing systems to upgraded system  ·     Responsible for installing, configuring, and maintaining as per supported LOB applications.  ·     Tested newly built servers for performance impact with DB load simulators.  ·     Operated and oversaw database and log backups and restoration, planning backup strategies and scheduling.  ·     Created checklists for proper/unattended install of SQL Server, applied service packs and security fix.  ·     Interacted with Business Analyst, SMEs, and other Data Architects to understand Business needs and functionality for various project solutions  ·     ADO DAO objects to connect Oracle SQL Server databases  ·     Worked with the Business users to understand what reports were critical, non-critical and not needed. Jr SQL Server Dba/developer Oasis Medspa Nigeria September 2015 to November 2015 ·     Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2000 om Window NT OS  ·     Implementing Backups and Restoring when necessary  ·     Create ODBC connection  ·     Used SQL profiler to monitor the server performance, debug T-SQL and slow running queries.  ·     Extensively Developed SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.  ·     Maintained Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job steps and Schedules.  ·     Automated Importing of data to Access and SQL Server from flat files and Excel spread sheets Data Reporting Analyst Nepal Oil & Gas Nigeria September 2014 to July 2015 ·     Tracked calculation of daily dispatched trucks using Microsoft Excel and generated receipts for customer payment.  ·     Developed Tableau workbooks to perform year over year, quarter over quarter, YTD, QTD and MTD type of analysis  ·     Analyzed large datasets for the distribution of PMS (Premium Motor Spirit) and DPK (Dual purpose Kerosene)  ·     Created Excel based Analysis and reports using VLOOKUP, Pivot tables and complex excel formulas •  ·     Prepared Excel spreadsheets for loading of product PMS (Premium Motor Spirit) and DPK (Dual Purpose Kerosene).  ·     Prepared daily report of the company and totalizers reading of the product meter.  ·     Analyzed with Power Pivot and KPI to summarize the calculation of Total distribution of products   ·     Provided operations support for Dispatch Office.  ·     Optimized data collection procedures and generated reports on a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis   ·     Created Pivot Tables to view summarized Spread Sheet Data  ·     Created Data entry Forms using VBA INTERNSHIP Jide Taiwo & Co Estate Surveyors and Valuers Nigeria May 2012 to November 2012 ·     Created an MS Access database to collect data systems in order to provide lists, status reports and management overview reports   ·     Created BI reports in pivot charts, graph and other visualization format to Analyze trends  ·      Created Dynamic Charts/Graphs in MS Excel and MS Access using VBA  ·     Maintained system databases, e.g. rent rolls and tenant files, in MS Office.  ·     Imported data from pre-existing text files and excel spreadsheets • Generated the necessary BI reports and information to litigate tax appeals for properties  ·     Processed property's annual Income and expense statement requests from Municipals across the country  ·     Assisted in revising legal lease contracts and create letters and memos to tenants.. Education MBA in Finance Thomas Jefferson University - Philadelphia, PA May 2020 Bachelor's in management in management Federal University of Technology Akure 2014 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, SAS, TABLEAU, T-SQL, DISASTER RECOVERY, PYTHON, VISIO, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE, SPSS, STATISTICS, BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, MYSQL, DBA, Sql Dba