Behavioral Health Counselor Behavioral Health Counselor Spring Valley, NY Strong critical thinking and math skills. Ability to manage time and multiple tasks. Strong communication and customer service skills. Skilled IT major seeking internship or job opportunity to gain valuable database experience and continue to develop professional skill sets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Behavioral Health Counselor montifiore hospital - Nyack, NY September 2018 to Present ·        Assist in treatment planning   ·        Work one-to-one with patients   ·        Deescalating situations   ·        Record patient behavior   ·        Provide a safe and supportive environment for patients   ·        Assisting in daily activities  Behavioral Health Counselor Westchester Medical Center - Valhalla, NY June 2018 to September 2018 ·        Assist in treatment planning   ·        Work one-to-one with patients   ·        Deescalating situations   ·        Record patient behavior   ·        Provide a safe and supportive environment for patients   ·        Assisting in daily activities   ·        Record vital signs  ·        Record fingerstick readings  Residential Counselor YAI/ RCALD - Nanuet, NY May 2016 to September 2018 • Documents daily medicine administration and receipts  • Assists individuals with daily routines such as food shopping, community outings, decision making Patient Transport Westchester Medical Center - Valhalla, NY May 2018 to June 2018 Directing patients from point A to B   Transporting Medical equipment   Transport Specimen  Transport Patients Physical Therapy Aide MOTION PT Group - West Nyack, NY August 2017 to December 2017 Assist physical therapist  Demonstrate excerise to patients  Maintain office floor  Assist medical receptionist  Booking appointments   Scanning and shredding all paper work   Managing patient flow Database Administrator Intern YAI - New York, NY March 2017 to June 2017 • Provide basic help desk duties(pc support, security scan, retrieving loss info etc)  • Create patient intake database   • Manage company database   • Provide weekly maintenance to company servers  • Present Weekly tasks in front of groups Account Executive Perfect Limousine - Montvale, NJ August 2015 to April 2016 • Assisted in providing information on company vehicle fleet, creating reservations, creating accounts for new and current clients.  • Strictly utilized a board and network system to ensure that all drivers are on track and on schedule for their current and later rides for the day.  • Performed preventative maintenance and repairs; operated in computer/tablet and telephone equipment.  • Replaced defective electronic components, including compressor operation, lighting and sound, pneumatics, mac valves, cylinders and boards to prep party bus, limousines, and transit vans for clients. Camp Counselor/Front Desk Assistant Town of Ramapo - Suffern, NY • Assisted parents with all matters concerning their children.  • Supervised 10-15 children, grades 2-5.  • Created recreational activities for children to stimulate development.  • Entered employee attendance into database. Education BS in Information Technology Monroe College - New Rochelle, NY June 2017 Skills ACCESS (2 years), EXCEL (2 years), MS OFFICE (2 years), NETWORKING (2 years), POWERPOINT (2 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  Languages: C++  Networking: Cisco I, Cisco II  Software: MS Office (Access, Excel, Word, PowerPoint)  Operating Systems: Windows 7 and 8