Technical Writer Technical Writer Cepheid, Technical Writer - SOPs Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Technical Writer Cepheid - Sunnyvale, CA 2019 to Present • Wrote standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the Manufacturing Execution System (MES) software introduced to manufacturing. The SOPs covered work instructions for the products being manufactured.  • Edited current SOPs to add information about the MES software introduced to manufacturing. Program and Database Coordinator Peninsula Family Service - Redwood City, CA 2017 to 2019 70 Strong was a new initiative focusing on improving the health and wellness of older adults in the Sequoia Healthcare District.  • Established processes to track required tasks and write SOPs for this new department.  • Updated website using WordPress, increasing resources from 150 to over 500 and events by 50%.  • Wrote documents for distribution to the public for advertising.  • Generated weekly and monthly reports from the Social Solutions database. Project Coordinator Linear Technology - Milpitas, CA 2017 to 2017 Supported tasks in Production Control including tracking sales and shipments of products. Project Coordinator/Editor, Los Gatos Boston Scientific - San Jose, CA 2016 to 2016 • Wrote SAP work instructions and standard operating procedures to meet corporate requirements for the Purchasing Department.  • Compiled purchasing contract data into MS Excel database to clarify parameters to eliminate conflicts with similar corporate contracts.  • Edited engineering documentation to eliminate errors and maintain correct templates to meet FDA requirements. Sales Administrator Teledyne Microwave - Mountain View, CA 2015 to 2015 Supported the sales department by processing sales orders, inputting changes and updates, entering data into MAPICS and Industrios software programs, and sending confirmations to customers, to maintain auditing requirements. Project Coordinator Cobham - San Jose, CA 2015 to 2015 • Facilitated expansion of stockroom by 30% to allow QA personnel to work in a common area.  • Set up sales meeting with outside vendors.  • Updated, edited, and reformatted operating procedures for purchasing.  • Designed and implemented spreadsheets for hundreds of manufacturing test reports to meet internal audit requirement. Project Coordinator Cobham - Sunnyvale, CA 2014 to 2014 • Tracked ongoing training of 1500 physicians to ICD-10 diagnostic codes using spreadsheets; determined project's progress; sent weekly updates to directors; liaised with IT, facilities, catering, and support staff for in-person training sessions.  • Created new template for the Risk Adjustment Factors (RAF) auditing department policy and procedures and brochures for distribution to physicians; edited the brochures for accuracy.  • Wrote user guide for internal RAF audit software program. Otolaryngology/Urology, Administrative Assistant Stanford University - Stanford, CA 2013 to 2013 • Supported seven principle investigators and seven labs.  • Used Oracle Financials to purchase supplies, complete journal transfers, pay POs, reimburse doctors and staff, validate complex travel card transactions, and verify transactions for department purchasing cards. Project Coordinator/Technical Writer Netgear - San Jose, CA 2012 to 2013 • Designed and implemented spreadsheets to track documentation, product engineering changes, translations, multi-country SKUs for 80 products in the retail business unit, resolve conflicts, and avoid delays.  • Wrote task-oriented documentation for new products and revised documentation for updated products. Administrative Asst Stanford University - Stanford, CA 2012 to 2012 • Used Oracle Financials to process invoices, create and extend blanket purchase orders, transfer funds, and order supplies for different departments.  • Edited internal purchasing and accounting procedures.  • Designed and implemented spreadsheets to track departmental expenditures. Technical Writer Dell Force10 - San Jose, CA 2010 to 2012 Wrote quick start guides for routers and switches.  • EventRadar, LLC, Sunnyvale, CA - Edited API and business plan; added topics to the database; contributor to the design team for an app design for the Apple iPhone.  Previous experience available on request. Education BA in Economics University of California - Davis, CA BA in International Relations University of California - Davis, CA Skills Database, Oracle, SAP, XML, Command line interface, Data collection, Data management, Customer support, Technical support, Wireless, Ethernet, MS Office, Firewall, Usability, Epic, Unix, Framemaker, Technical Writing, Writing, SOPs, Visio Links http://linkedin.com/in/LinaPeruzzi Additional Information Communication Skills  • Writing and editing  ? Technical documents (including quick start guides, user guides, installation guides, administration guides, Command Line Interface [CLI] guides, error message guides), release notes, online help, datasheets, and standard operating procedures (SOPs).  ? Advanced computer skills: FrameMaker, MS Office, RoboHelp, WebWorks Publisher, XML (Vasont and XMetal), WinCVS, UNIX CLI, Oracle Financials, SAP, Agile, EPIC, and WordPress.  • Extensive product knowledge (including gigabit Ethernet and wireless): hubs, routers, switches, software sniffer (running on 10-gigabit networks), firewall, enterprise software, storage software, and protocols.  • Manage key collaborative projects with various global subject matter experts (SMEs) to gather and analyze technical data. Lead communication between global engineering, marketing, sales, technical support, QA, and customers to review documentation and exchange technical information.  • Created, implemented, and managed usability test lab, resulting in reduced calls to customer support.  Organizational Skills  • Establish performance criteria based on data collection and analysis.  • Detail-oriented.    Data Management  • Plan, design, and implement each stage of a process and complete the project.  • Track progress of data in database, generating monthly reports.  • Monitor and hold stakeholders to schedules.  • Perform internet research for informed decision-making.  • Create and maintain schedules.  • Track monthly project expenditures.