Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Information Technology Associate | Technical Consultant | Project Coordinator | Business, System & Data Analyst. San Bernardino, CA Results-driven professional offering a progressive, three-year career in Information Technology. Perform a variety of recurring, well-defined tasks requiring occasional innovative problem-solving within guidelines and a scope that may encompass one or more units, functions or processes in the Business Technology Management, Client Services and System Support Engineer. Repeated success directing IT projects from inception to execution, strategically allocating resources and delegating tasks to achieve on-time delivery. Manage technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root causes and prevent recurrence.Provided solutions to operations issues for users of Microsoft Windows 7-10 and IOS, Software including Microsoft Office 365, windows servers, AWS cloud EC2 and different IT services management platforms including Enterprise ITSM and Cherwell. Used remotely access technologies to provide IT Support via phone, email, live chat, System Center Configuration Manager, ConnectWise, Skype, TeamViewer and web teleconference with end users. Experienced working with software development team on reported errors and bugs on newly released software and assisted in deployment of release fixes. Documented all transactions and support interactions in system for future reference and addition to knowledge base. Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers while working to resolve complaints, problems or respond to questions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Consultant MCBRC Corporation - Riverside, CA February 2016 to Present • Documented all transactions and support interactions in system for future reference and addition to knowledge base.  • Maintained hardware and software with new installations, Configurations, repairs and patches.  • Resolved malfunctions with systems and programs through troubleshooting.  • Gathered, defined and implemented system requirements and Specifications.  • Administered and guided design, deployment and interface of industry-focused software applications and data systems.  • Trained and supported end-users with software, hardware and network standards and use processes.  • Analyzed network security and current infrastructure to assess areas in need of improvement and develop solutions.  • Analyzed architecture design, scoping, implementation, testing and deployment needs to define project requirements.  • Worked closely with management teams to plan, develop, coordinate and execute technical strategies aligned to client's vision, mission and purpose.  • Optimized performance and scaled software by leveraging knowledge; developed and updated controls to ensure availability of systems and databases. IT Support Technician PACIFIC HOSPICE - San Bernardino, CA February 2019 to May 2019 • Monitored tasks of employees to assess information processing and performance to gauge business functions and inefficiencies.  • Oversaw installation of software programs and hardware systems to meet business requirements.  • Resolved malfunctions with systems and programs through troubleshooting.  • Developed flowcharts and diagrams to describe and lay out logical operational steps.  • Diagnosed and troubleshooted UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  • Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services.  • Oversaw and managed operational and security requirements for numerous computers in network, related systems administration and regular maintenance.  • Established, repaired and optimized networks by installing wiring, cabling and devices.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  • Aligned office departments and increased inter-department communication and data sharing.  • Managed security operations for 40 computers in network, related systems and maintenance protocols. Network Administrator Freight Solution - Riverside, CA February 2016 to February 2019 • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Backed up company data to distributed storage centers to avoid massive data loss in event of network breach or failure.  • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services and created cloud server on AWS EC2 Instances Project Coordinator / Consultant Value Resources Pvt. Ltd - Islamabad, PK January 2018 to December 2018 • Maintained project schedules by managing timelines and making proactive adjustments.  • Built strong relationships with internal and external stakeholders and devised strategies, initiatives, and events promoting products and services.  • Coordinated presentations for customers and project members detailing project scope, progress and results, keeping all entities well-informed of milestones and goals.  • Coordinated and executed all elements of stakeholder events including logistics, budgets, venue selection, activity planning, transportation and entertainment.  • Planned and arranged meetings with external organizations and individuals, enabling all parties to meet and discuss project progress.  • Developed proposals for clients outlining project scope and timeline.  • Participated in development meetings for high-value customers and business operations updates. Assistant Manager IT National Logistics Cell (NLC) - Islamabad, Pakistan February 2018 to November 2018 • Source additional resources and staff to meet timeline demands.  • Managed and motivated project teams to promote collaboration and keep members on-task and productive.  • Investigated and corrected or escalated project problems.  • Created full-fledged implementation plans, accounting for ROI, cost-benefit and other analyses.  • Gathered requirements, defined scopes, allocated resources and established schedules meeting or exceeding project demands. Web Designer/Developer Genetic Concepts - Lahore, Pakistan January 2017 to January 2018 • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in fast-paced environment.  • Used programming capabilities C# and java in PHP, SQL, J Query and angular.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  • Converted mockups into HTML, Javascript, AJAX and JSON.  • Utilized such technologies as ASP.NET, MVC, HTML5, JavaScript and SQL Server 2012 to develop new applications.  • Oversaw troubleshooting of technical issues to solve problems within reasonable timeframe. Fulfillment Associate Amazon - Sanbernardino , California USA May 2016 to June 2017 • Quickly and carefully unloaded incoming trucks and properly staged inventory for processing.  • Operated frequency scanners to track shipment progression and input data into shipping system.  • Followed procedures at all times for personal and team safety.  • Maintained tidy and clean work areas to promote optimal productivity and safety standards.  • Operated warehouse equipment and reported instances of safety code violations to management to reduce risk of accidents.  • Labeled boxes, crates and containers with accurate order information, destinations and codes to minimize shipping errors.  • Operated equipment such as pallet jacks and hand trucks to move heavy boxes.  • Strategically prepared and organized envelopes, packages, containers and pallets with correct merchandise counts. Database Administrator Intern Al-Razi Healthcare - Lahore, Pakistan July 2015 to August 2015 • Maintained data dictionary by revising and entering definitions.  • Tested programs and databases to identify issues and make necessary modifications.  • Created and implemented database designs and data models.  • Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database design.  • Developed work-flow charts and diagrams to ensure production team compliance with client deadlines.  • Performed various administrative functions, including filing paperwork, delivering mail, sorting mail, office cleaning and bookkeeping.  • Performed regular database backup.  • Managed identification, protection and use of data assets. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science COMSATS University - Islamabad September 2013 to January 2018 High school in Science, Math's & Computer Science St. Mary's Convent Higher Secondary School - Sahiwal March 1999 to August 2013 Skills Business Development, Microsoft Office 365 (5 years), Javascript, SQL, MySQL, HTML 5, C++, PHP, Asp.Net, CSS, Windows, Teamwork, Team Building, Team Management, Team Leader, Communications, Training & Development, Research, Web Development, Wordpress, Programming, Project Management, Software Development, Creativity, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Red Hat, EZCAP, Quickbooks, Medical Records, Medisoft, Allscripts, Oracle (2 years), SCCM, Database Administration, Information Technology, Management, Troubleshooting, ERP, Excel, Servers, Graphic Design, Technical Support, Business Analysis, Networking, Customer Service, security, access, AWS (1 year), Windows 7, Mac, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (Routing & switching) June 2017 to Present Cisco Certified Network Associate (Security) June 2017 to Present RHCE - Red-Hat Certified Engineer July 2017 to Present NETWORK ADMINISTATOR July 2015 to Present Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Familiar April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ekjjvpoxfebjhbuj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Able to apply customer service concepts to IT to improve user experience for clients, employees and administration. To secure a position where I can efficiently contribute my skills and abilities for the growth of the organization and build my professional career. To work in a competitive environment that effectively utilizes my analytical, interpersonal, and organizational skills to conceive and achieve solutions.  