Hadoop Administrator Hadoop <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Technology Engineer Cary, NC • Having 6+ years of experience as an Oracle, SQL server and Hadoop administrator  • Experience in Automation, Configuration management (Development, Build, Release, Configuration & change management)  • Hands on Experience in UNIX Shell scripting.  • Hands on experience in ANT scripting tool.  • Hands on experience in PERL scripting.  • Hands on experience in Batch programming.  • Experience in developing Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies and WebLogic platform.  • Hands on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (requirements analysis, design, implementation, testing and support).  • Easily adaptable to new technologies, frameworks, etc.  • Experience in working with teams spread over different geographical locations.  • Experience in interacting with clients in different locations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Hadoop Administrator Infosys January 2013 to June 2013 • Involved in Hadoop Cluster environment administration that includes adding and removing cluster nodes, cluster capacity planning, performance tuning, cluster Monitoring, Troubleshooting.  • Installation and configuration of HADOOP cluster and responsible for maintenance, cluster monitoring and Troubleshooting.  • Experience in dealing with structured, semi-structured and unstructured data in HADOOP ecosystem. Also, handled importing of various data sources, performed transformation using Hive, Pig, and loaded data into HBase.  • Hands on experience on configuring a Hadoop cluster in a professional environment and on VMWare and Amazon Web Services (AWS) using an EC2 instance.  • Experience on Commissioning, Decommissioning, Balancing, and Managing Nodes and tuning server for optimal performance of the cluster.  • Developed the Sqoop scripts in order to make the interaction between Pig and MySQL Database. Database Administrator Telstra Corporation August 2012 to January 2013 • Installation, Creation and Maintenance 20+ oracle (10g, 11g) databases for Telstra Order Management and fulfilment application.  • Implementing proactive measures in production databases by monitoring alert log and user trace files for identification and resolution of ORA-errors to maximize database availability.  • Worked with System Administrators and Backup Administrators in configuration, maintenance and monitoring of RMAN backups.  • Logical Backup of Databases using Export and Import Utility as well as using Data pump.  • Configuration & Maintenance of Oracle Data guard for data protection and disaster recovery.  • Performance-tuning services for Clients with ADDM, AWR and troubleshooting databases, expertise developing PL/SQL queries and SQL tuning.  • Maintaining the registers to document important database activities such as Server down using oracle utilities.  • Refreshing database schemas with export/import & Data pump utility  • Recognized by the current employer as the key resource in the team and appraised with SPOT award given for excellence in projects. Senior Systems Engineer British Telecom November 2008 to July 2012 • Developing and Automation of build and code delta deployment (by comparing checksum of differential files) through using ANT, Perl, Shell and JSP scripts for WBC sub-stream of BTW.  • Maintenance of all database objects like schemas, table spaces, data files, indexes and procedures.  • Worked with clients in upgrading the Clarify from SR 13.108 to SR 6.0.1.44, which enhanced more functionality and reduced bugs in application.  • Developed tool "Issue Repository" to store issues using JSP technology.  • Received appreciations from the client for the extreme support provided during the critical deliveries avoiding the blockers.'  • Involved in the development of Delta deployment tool and desktop deployment tool of all instances.  • Track the releases and ensure the code is dropped on agreed dates  • Point of contact of all configuration issues W.R.T BTW  • Build the code and deployed across Dev/Testing/Pre-prod environment  • Analysing and resolving the issues on a quick pace related to WebLogic  • Capability to debug the complicated issues which will block the testing required on the application  • Ability to provide support at critical time lines and deliveries  • Received appreciations from the client for the extreme support provided during the critical deliveries avoiding the blockers Education Bachelor's Skills Amdocs (Less than 1 year), Ant (3 years), Clarify (3 years), Perl (3 years), Weblogic (3 years), oracle (6 years), SQL server (2 years), Hadoop Administration (3 years), big data Certifications/Licenses Cloudera Certified Administrator for Apache Hadoop April 2016 Oracle Database 11G Certified Associate June 2013