Sr. Mongo Database Administrator (DBA) Sr. Mongo <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Sr. Mongo Database Administrator (DBA) - Synchrony Financial Alpharetta, GA, GA ? Over 7+ years of experience in design, administration, analysis, development and implementation stages of various databases and web applications using Ruby, Java/J2EE, JavaScript, jQ uery, Object Oriented Programming, JSP, Servlet, Web Services, ORACLE, SQL Server and My SQL.  ? Over 2+ years of experience in Mongo DB (versions 2.x, 3.0.0 and 3.0.5) installation, configuration and administration  ? Extensive experience in designing Mongo DB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  ? Focused on architecting No SQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  ? Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs.  ? Experience in Agile software development approach, a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  ? Extensive experience with JavaScript, Ruby and Python in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  ? Extensive experience in developing Map-Reduce programs and aggregation frameworks using JavaScript's.  ? Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  ? Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  ? Experience in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, maintenance of software applications and testing Client/Server and web applications.  ? Responsible for most of the view/controller changes, model/ database integration with other members of the team.  ? Proficiency in multiple databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, My SQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  ? Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products. Experience working in both Agile and Waterfall development environments.  ? Fast learner, can quickly incorporate and implement new procedures with efficiency and accuracy.  ? Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  ? Team player with excellent communication skills and ability to lead. Self-motivated individual with exemplary analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Exceptional ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews. Self-motivated worker with strong focus on business goals and end-user experience. Work Experience Sr. Mongo Database Administrator (DBA) Synchrony Financial - Alpharetta, GA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Mongo DB clusters. Creation, configuration and monitoring Shards sets.  ? Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly.  ? Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB/ Cassandra clusters. Implementing on-premise MMS monitoring and backup solution.  ? Used Mongo DB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL, MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  ? Installation of Mongo DB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS. Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance.  ? Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Experience in managing Mongo DB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Configuring high availability using geographical Mongo DB replica sets across multiple data centers.  ? Migrated Mongo database systems from No-SSL authentication to SSL authentication using certificates.  ? Migrated Mongo database from MMAPV1 storage engine to Wired Tiger storage engine.  ? Managing Mongo databases using MMS monitoring tool.  ? Performance tuning and stress-testing of No SQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different No SQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Upgraded Mongo systems to 2.2.3 and soon 2.4. Also involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  ? Developed Ruby/Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongore store.  ? Worked with capped collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements.  ? Administered multiple environments (up to 25TB), automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  ? Familiar with Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures.  ? Implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  ? Configured delayed secondaries to avoid human failures in coding and development.  ? Strong experience in analyzing chunk migrations, splitting and balancing across the cluster.  ? Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  Environment: Mongo DB, Cassandra, Ruby, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup Scheduler, Data guard, Sharding, Replication, Python, Shell scripting, Perl, PyMongo, JavaScript. Sr. Mongo Database Administrator (DBA) DaVita - Wrightsville, GA August 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  ? Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle RAC for high availability.  ? Worked extensively on monitoring 10G/11g Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  ? Maintained 10g/11g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues.  ? Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment. Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  ? Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  ? Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas. Performed Migration of databases 10g on Hp - UNIX to Oracle 11gR2 on Linux.  ? Created and monitored database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links.  ? Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  ? Wrote scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  ? Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  ? Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  ? Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo DB.  ? Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different No SQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  Environment: Oracle 11g, Mongo DB, SQL * Plus, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Oracle RAC, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP. Mongo DB Developer/ Administrator Verizon Wireless - Fairfield, AL July 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures and Functions accordance with Business Requirements for loading data into database tables.  ? Involved in Unit Testing Stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Created Materialized Views and partitioning tables for performance reasons.  ? Worked on various backend Procedures and Functions using PL/SQL.  ? Resolved performance issues and bugs within packages, forms, and reports using dbms_output, Forms debugger, explain plan.  ? Developed UNIX shell scripts to perform a nightly refresh of the test system from Production databases.  ? Coordinate with the front end design team to provide them with the necessary stored package and procedures and necessary insight into the data.  ? Involved in all phases of the SDLC for Designing & giving recommended approach to satisfy the requirements.  ? Development of C modules for activation, deactivation and modification of these plans in Clarify Front End  ? Created SQL*Loader scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables.  ? Designing Tables, Constraints, Views, and Indexes etc. in coordination with the application development team  ? Used TOAD, PL/SQL developer tools for faster application design and developments  ? Developed procedures using Dynamic SQL.  ? Developed database objects including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages, triggers and procedures to troubleshoot any database problems  ? Tuned complex Stored Procedures for faster execution and Developed database structures, according to the requirements  ? Created Materialized Views and partitioning tables for performance reasons.  ? Resolving the issues on priority basis.  ? Responsible for Analyzing and Implementing the Change Requests.  ? Involved in handling the changes in compiling scripts according to the database changes.  Environment: C, C++, UNIX shell scripting, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Toad, SQL *Plus.    Mongo DB Developer/ Administrator  JC Penney - Louisville, KY  September 20014 to June 2015    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  ? Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle RAC for high availability.  ? Worked extensively on monitoring 10G/11g Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  ? Maintained 10g/11g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues.  ? Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment. Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  ? Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  ? Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas. Performed Migration of databases 10g on Hp - UNIX to Oracle 11gR2 on Linux.  ? Created and monitored database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links.  ? Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  ? Wrote scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  ? Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  ? Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  ? Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using db ms_ stats.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo DB.  ? Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different No SQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  Environment: Oracle 11g, Mongo DB, SQL * Plus, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Oracle RAC, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP. Education Master's