Application Systems Administrator II Application Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Application Systems Administrator II - SERVICE CREDIT UNION Bedford, NH Database and Systems Administrator with extensive experience in a software development environment. Quickly provides automation solutions and support for a wide variety of industries. Work Experience Application Systems Administrator II SERVICE CREDIT UNION - Portsmouth, NH January 2019 to Present Primary DBA/developer for credit union. Responsible for automation of processes, including interaction with cloud services and data manipulation in a secure environment. Implemented database backup and monitoring solution, Jenkins CI/CD software and GitLab source code management.    • Built complete development environment with source code and automation management  • Worked with vendors to implement new solutions and automate workflows while in compliance with NCUA and all regulations  • Responsible for all database-related tasks and management  • Wrote extensive documentation and trained other employees in best practices for source code management, database setup, automation and scripting  • Wrote numerous scripts and projects in PowerShell and t-SQL  • Worked heavily with JSON, CSVs, REST APIs, and some Python, C#, batch and bash  • Worked on improvement of database management, backups, monitoring and scripting Systems Administrator SHEEHAN PHINNEY BASS & GREEN - Manchester, NH June 2018 to Present Sole Systems Administrator for 100+ employee law firm. Responsible for day-to-day administration of infrastructure, including backups, server and systems deployment, upgrading of hardware and software, as well as some network administration.    • Worked extensively to improve off-site backups and implement DR plan, integrating in-house infrastructure with cloud offerings  • Implemented security measures and assisted Security Analyst with analysis of infrastructure  • Responsible for new system imaging program using Dell ImageAssist  • Worked to virtualize infrastructure using both VMWare and Hyper-V, using best practices on both new and existing systems  • Provided planning, guidance or was solely responsible for many projects, including e-waste disposal and audit-able asset tracking, helpdesk software implementation, virtualization of servers, upgrades of various outdated software (most used by 100+ users with little downtime) and improvement of systems proactively and reactively Database Administrator KRONOS, INC - Chelmsford, MA 2012 to November 2017 Assisted development builds and troubleshot build issues in Jenkins. Set up and troubleshot databases, providing basic support and maintenance of database-related servers. Frequently assisted with software installations and troubleshooting of systems issues.  • Became sole engineer tasked with difficult database setup, often restoring, troubleshooting and maintaining over 100 databases per week - previously handled by 4-5 employees in 2 teams.  • Trained several employees in day-to-day tasks, assisting with automation of testing new software.  • Received SQL Server 2016 and Azure training. Systems Engineer TIER1NET, INC - Woburn, MA 2011 to 2012 Built and troubleshot ESXi/VM servers, performed on-site implementation of network and workstation equipment, and assisted with end-user issues (both remote and on-site). Active Directory and Exchange account creation, maintenance and troubleshooting.    • Was the primary source of information regarding *NIX issues and SQL database setup, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Provided end-to-end support for software implementations for sites, becoming the sole point of contact for projects and vendors.  • Supported companies and covered any issues that arose during daily work and in IT projects. Remote Installation Engineer TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, MUNIS Division - Falmouth, ME 2009 to 2011 Installed various ERP-related products and the back-end software needed to run them, along with fixes. Troubleshot various issues related to hardware and software configuration for servers, printers and other devices related to the products.  • Became sole installer and source of information on configuration of several difficult products, including IDS on Linux servers, work-scheduling product and web-based front-end product.  • Frequently helped clients on troubleshooting performance problems with servers and other issues outside company's responsibility, ensuring client had an overall good experience. Repair Technician PLYMOUTH STATE UNIVERSITY COMPUTER REPAIR SHOP - Plymouth, NH 2006 to 2008 Executed repair and maintenance of student, faculty and campus computers as a Dell certified technician. Built and installed various systems including custom computer / display setups, printers, and other related technologies.  • Rewrote PDFs for department order forms, automating the order process for faculty and lowering the workload for management at the repair shop. Also, planned, built and installed a new workhorse computer for shop technicians.  • Created and maintained a custom PSU BartPE CD that has been used since 2007.  • Planned and formally proposed new servers based on the college's requirements.  • Visited customers' houses on several occasions outside of work helping with installations and various software problems. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Plymouth State University - Plymouth, NH Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10, SQL, EXCHANGE, SCRIPTING, BACKUPS, DATA RECOVERY, SIEM, VLAN, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CLUSTERING, DEVOPS, FIREWALLS, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, ROUTER, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, VM, Powershell (1 year), T-Sql (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Database Administration: Oracle 10-12cR2 (Windows and Linux-based servers);  SQL 2000-2017  VM Administration: VMWare ESXi and Hyper-V, HA clustering, troubleshooting, P2V and V2V conversions  Systems Administration: Windows Server 2003-2016, Red Hat Enterprise,  scripting and automation (Windows and Linux), remote logging and security (log and event analysis, SIEM monitoring)  Network Administration: Cabling, firewalls, Cisco router configuration, VLAN setup, network configuration at small business to enterprise level  Laptop & Server Hardware: RAID, SANs, etc; imaging systems, data recovery and server maintenance, backups, repairs and troubleshooting  Enterprise Administration: Exchange 2016 and Active Directory; basic Group Policy administration, DR and basic BC planning  Development: Source code management, CI/CD implementation, adoption of DevOps principles, creation of development environment, workflow automation through packages and custom solutions