Data Architect II Data Architect II Data Architect II - Moffitt Cancer Center Tampa, FL Work Experience Data Architect II Moffitt Cancer Center - Tampa, FL 2011 to Present Manage and maintain the Oracle and SQL Server data warehouses to ensure the data is accurate and current. Create production quality processes and code to ensure long-term stability of data acquisition and management. Analyze and profile data to determine necessary processes and resources to accomplish project goal. Design and create optimal data warehouse and data mart schemas, tables, indexes, and constraints. Perform unit, integration, and regression testing on code to ensure proper working order prior to delivering product to QA for formal testing. Provide any needed performance tuning on production code when needed. Maintain and optimize existing database objects and processes. Utilize Informatica, Microsoft SSIS, Control-M, Oracle SQL Developer, and TOAD to facilitate data management and migration. Ensuring SLAs for operational data acquisition and deliveries are met. Verify scheduled ETL jobs completed successfully and correct if necessary. Compile and disseminate key statistical and management relative data for multiple departments as support for crucial business decisions. Provide 24x7 on-call support for production jobs and issues.  • Developed, tested, and version controlled physical database changes (DDL) for all Moffitt application system databases  • Represented Moffitt Data Architecture team at Change Control Board meetings  • Designed and implemented data transaction replication solutions to replace legacy Microsoft SSIS projects to move and transform data from multiple source systems to a central Oracle data warehouse using Informatica PowerCenter.  • Designed and implemented data transaction replication solutions to import, archive, and transform data from the Cerner Patient and Financial System to a central Oracle data warehouse using Informatica PowerCenter 10. Replication solution was designed to import financial data which is new type of data for the Oracle Healthcare Analytics Data Integration (OHADI), Change Healthcare's Performance Manager, Hayes Management's MDAudit, Premier Inc.'s Merit Based Incentive Program, and Vizient's Transforming Clinical Patient Information (TCPI).  • Designed and implemented data duplication and transformation solutions for Oracle Healthcare Analytics Data Integration (OHADI) using Informatica PowerCenter and Microsoft SSIS  • Analyzed and improved existing data migration and transformation processes using Informatica PowerCenter and Toad Client software  • Worked with subject matter experts and programmers to develop optimal data models for new projects and requirements  • Created and optimized indexes and queries to ensure maximum performance  • Contributed to the creation and standardization of ETL processes and database object creation  • Provided guidance and assistance for data architecture and modeling to members within the Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence team  • Provided guidance and assistance to Business Intelligence team with optimal data modeling to fully leverage Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) functionality  • Creating ad-hoc SQL scripts to facilitate quick data transformation and migration Data Warehouse Architect PSCU Financial Services - Saint Petersburg, FL 2007 to 2011 Manage, maintain, and design data warehouse to ensure the data is accurate and current. Utilize CA Erwin to design data warehouse. Utilize Business Objects Enterprise Data Integrator and TOAD to facilitate data management and migration. Review peer SQL scripts to ensure validity and compliance to current naming conventions. Review and redesign existing Oracle tables when needed to comply with naming conventions or provide new data. Extract XML document data to store in an Oracle Data Warehouse. Verify scheduled Data Integrator jobs and correct if necessary. Compile and disseminate key statistical and management relative data for multiple departments as support for crucial business decisions.  • Altered existing Data Integrator jobs to reduce data migration time by 50% or more and include error handling  • Created multiple automated Data Integrator jobs for daily data management  • Created stored Oracle procedures for automatic data management  • Created necessary SQL scripts to create new tables or update current tables to meet new requirements  • Assisted in creation of current naming schema Database Administrator ELECTRONIC DATA INCORPORATED - Saint Petersburg, FL 2006 to 2007 Improve asset management, inventory, procurement and other related disciplines. Implement best maintenance practices, configuration and customization with IBM/MRO's software MAXIMO, BEA WebLogic, Oracle, SQL Server 2000 and PL/SQL Developer. Provide support and analysis of some of the largest Biotechnology companies in the world, large airports and organizations in various other asset intensive industries.  • Migrated large Oracle 9i databases to Oracle 10g  • Developed stored SQL scripts for creation of MAXIMO data environments  • Developed documentation for data migration from old environment to new environment.  • Generated asset reports customized to situation-specific needs  • Developed VBA code to facilitate data migration and normalization  • Assisted in asset cataloging, data organization and normalization Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL August 2002 Bachelor of Arts in English in English University of Florida - Gainesville, FL August 1996 Skills DATABASE, DATABASE SYSTEMS, MS ACCESS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER