Technical Architect/Big Data Technical Architect/Big Data Technical Architect/Big Data - HCL America Apex, NC Work Experience Technical Architect/Big Data HCL America - Raleigh, NC July 2019 to Present • Primary Technical Advisor for migrating Data from legacy SQL Server to PostgreSQL Data Warehouse with Advanced Analysis Capabilities  • Architected a Big Data Solution using Hadoop and Spark SQL to handle analytical dashboard needs.  • Installed, configured, wrote test protocols for Analysis, Data Storage and Workflow Software.  • Wrote SQL, Alteryx scripts for QA of data transferred to new schema with pgAdminIII/4, RazorSQL, DBBeaver  • Administered Tableau Server kept in off-site as well as desktop setup  • Alteryx Consultant for Daily Sales and Historical Sales Dashboards.  • Authored Best Practices Documents for use of new Data Warehouse Data Scientist/Scala Developer Hays, Inc - Morrisville, NC September 2018 to November 2018 • Stood up and administered SparkScala/mlib/R cluster using Hadoop as big data storage.  • Main contact for Analytics and Data Management and cleanup and optimization of legacy and production systems with MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.  • System Adminstrator on Mac, Ubuntu and Windows Server for configuration and troubleshooting on ETL and analytics projects.  • Stood up PostgreSQL, Pentaho, Kettle, JasperServer and Knowage environment for Analytics POC  • Performed Data Mining and created active dashboards for legacy and active data analysis.  • Mentored junior DBA in advanced MySQL, Pentaho and SQL Server connection, performance tuning and datawarehouse creation. Data Manager/ IT Analyst MetLife, Inc - Cary, NC March 2018 to September 2018 • Responsible for data environment including SQL Server, Neteeza and Hadoop with Spark/Scala, administration, support.  • Sued Spark/R/mlib to support LOB audits for the Internal Audit Center of Excellence Data Analytics team.  • Main ETL facilitator and adviser for Internal Audit including flat file, data feeds and linked servers.  • Administrator for Tableau Server, Power BI and Alteryx, including support and deployment  • Responsible data acquisition and analytics, in support of the Internal Audit Division  • Liaison between all lines of business and company division that would need to be audited.  • Presenter to Senior leadership for the status and future direction of Analytics in Cary, NC  • R used in Internal Audits to spot fraud and outliers using cluster analysis and forest libraries, included in keras and TensorFlow Big Data Scala Developer CREDIT - SUISSE - Research Triangle Park, NC March 2017 to February 2018 • SME for SQL Server and db2 10.1 - 10.5  • Installed, configured Hadoop with Spark/Scala to support Fixed Income section of business.  • Level 4 -5 Support for Financial COTS and Application Developer Scripts  • Reviewer and Controller of Change Management Content and Approver of Environment alterations in production.  • Storage Optimization and Environment Adviser Sr. System Analyst IBM November 2016 to March 2017 supv. Doug Humphries)  • Level 3 Support for db2/SQL Server.  • Architected new database model implementations and wrote TSQL, BASH and Perl applications for database automation  • Established and maintained POC installation of HortonWorks Spark/mlib  • ETL Process Coordinator, Administrator and Troubleshooter, using stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • R used to support analytics with linear and quadratic regression, as well as ggplot Database Architect/Data Analytics Cenduit, LLC January 2015 to September 2016 Sr.  • Led SQL Server and DB2 Data Architecture for the storage and archiving of current and past clinical research data and materials.  • Primary contact for performance tuning issues including hardware, OS SQL engine and query tuningdb2 systems running on Windows Server, AIX and RHEL, Mac OSX, Query Tuning, Performance Tuning, System Architecture, Security Compliance to HIPPA.  • Technical Lead on Spark Scala on Apache Hadoop Architecture.  • Used R to mine data during migration for inequities in Insurance claims. Senior/Professional Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation March 2013 to August 2015 • Designated Subject Matter Expert for SQL Server and MySQL, through the IBM Global Technology Services  • Lead Data and System Architect for Chrysler and Toyota accounts  • Data Analyst for DB2/Oracle/SQL Server based ticketing,backup reports and data migration.  • Responsible for Knowledge Transfer, including training, to on and offshore personnel for IBM and Chrysler Chief Technology Consultant Pb2Au - New York, NY July 2010 to November 2014 • Main technology adviser for startup Intellectual IP consulting firm implementation of legacy and new applications to support CRM, Patent Search, FDA Regulatory and NIH grants  • Responsible for reviewing aspects of technology consultation for novel and patent-able hardware and software inventions to determine their viability for funding and marketing.  • Designed, implemented and maintained back-end database instances needed for novel and open source application packages  • MySQL and PostgreSQL database designer based on php form data collection from clients and consultants  • Web designer and Webmaster for all Company websites Conversion Consultant Revenue Solutions Inc November 2012 to March 2013 • Responsible for determining data to be transferred from legacy to new Oracle based Data Warehouse environment for NCDOR, based upon agreed upon Business Rules by coding new solutions.  • ETL Process Coordinator, writing PL/SQL packages and scripts to transform and load data  • Data Analyst and Quality Auditor  • PL/SQL debugger and coder for stored procedures, triggers and functions. Sr. Database Administrator RGI Informatics - Cornwallville, NY March 2011 to June 2012 • Established software and database modelling, architectdure and migration of data  • Ran ad-hoc queries and maintains depository of reports, using LAMP stack  • Holds Public Trust Clearance with Veterans Administration.  • Proprietairy analytics engine validated with used of R, mostly for regression and predictive analytics. Database Administrator Research Triangle Institute - Raleigh, NC August 2010 to March 2011 • Sole DBA in corporate-wide Systems Analysis Group  • Supported diverse application usages with database analysis, modelling and building in the areas of Sociology, Science, Mathematics and Statistics  • Managed data sharing between different environments and coordinated new database schema and specialized database platform services  • Wrote Ad-Hoc T-SQL, SQL, BASH and Perl queries for customers.  • Assisted with database ETL processes to feed SAS and SPSS statistical analysis to various third party vendor applications. Systems Administrator College Foundation, Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2010 to June 2010 • Primary support for programmers in a .NET based environment.  • Performing Ad-Hoc SQL queries for customers using SSRS, SSAS and Visual Studio.  • IIS Administration of external and internal websites, including building, deployment of new code, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Database Architecture duties, including diagramming in Visio, Reverse Engineering, comparisons, using RedGate software tools, between various environments and normalizing data.  • Importing large batches of data to various environments from text, Excel and Access and other database sources into SQL Server databases.    Statistical Data Analytics Consultant Ateb, Inc / DISYS, Inc. Raleigh, NC  • Providing advice to System and Database Architecture efforts to optimize storage of company data PostgreSQL environment.  • Design of database tables, file structure, DDL and DML packages of production data to be fed to statistical group for further analysis and data mining..  • Assisting Statistical and Clinical programmers with analysis of requested data.  • Writing Ad-Hoc SQL queries to retrieve requested data from IVR, Outbound Calling and reports databases for CEO and VPs.  • Wrote R code to query databases, retrieve and package data for statistical analysis  • Authored iReports for internal business customers, and submitting to web administration application for scheduling and established offline databases for reporting purposes. Database Administrator LimeLeap Solutions - Washington, DC April 2008 to June 2009 • Sole System, Database and application architect for non-profit technology hosting company Instance  • Designing of database tables, indexes, stored procedures and triggers.  • SQL Query Tuning  • DTS Package Troubleshooting  • Hardware and Software Evaluation and Recommendations to Development Director for improving performance of OLTP, Reporting and Data Warehouses. Oracle DBA Autonomic Resources - Cary, NC September 2008 to December 2008 • Oracle 9i and 10g DBA responsible for account creation, security, tuning, database cloning, and environment refreshes for Wake County Public School Systems main datacenter.  • Administrator of Jasper Server and iReports generation.  • Created Database Monitoring schemas and installed software for all Oracle instances.  • Oracle Application set-up, Administrator on Solaris 9, 10 and AIX, and Microsoft Server. Senior Database Administrator Peopleclick Inc - Raleigh, NC July 2007 to August 2008 • Database architect, implementer and policy establishment and documentation for LINUX based Sugar CRM in Microsoft Environment  • Performance tuning for SQL Server and MySQL instances and databases  • Designing customized table structure in MySQL for Sugar CRM deployment and then porting structures and data to SQL Server instances and databases  • Lead DBA Support for Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence Groups.  • OLAP Cube Troubleshooting, Construction and Configuration. Data Systems Administrator CarQuest Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2005 to July 2007 • Sole DBA for all instances and servers using MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, and Oracle  • Database platform performance tuning, Replication, Mirroring and Log Shipping primary architect  • Database architect, implementer and policy establishment and documentation for new software initiatives  • Custom database and instance design of MySQL and DB2  • BASH, Perl, and PHP Scripting Web Server Administration of all corporate environments Research Associate Becton Dickinson Technologies - Research Triangle Park, NC October 2003 to December 2005 • R used as primary analysis tool for flow cytometry data of up to 7 dimensions.  • Head of the Biotherapy core flow cytometry facility.  • Cytometry duties include method development, user training, education, instrument set-up, troubleshooting, data analysis and data interpretation.  • Expert operator of all instruments in a facility that includes FACSArray, FACSCalibur, FACSAria, FACSDiVa, FACSVantage and FACScan.  • Bioinformatics group liaison, with duties including DBA, software development consultant and statistical modeling of data.  • Automation specialist on the Zymark ELISA automated workstation - involved in method development and creation. Project Manager StemCo Biomedical, Inc - Durham, NC October 2000 to September 2003 • Head of StemCo Biomedical instrumentation facility and operations.  • Responsible for design, implementation and supervising of projects involving clinical and research, cytometry, and fluorescent microscopy, and novel cytometry methods in a lab that includes an Olympus BX51 Zeiss LS500 confocal, FACSAria, FACSDiVa, 2 FACSCAliburs and a Coulter XL MCL.  • My duties within that scope include including SOP generation, group leadership, and scientific and regulatory consulting, instrument optimization and troubleshooting.  • Lead agent for commercial and research collaborations involving novel instrumentation and IT, including microfluidics and MEMS. Responsible for the design, implementation, and administration of a combined Windows 2000/Macintosh 100Mbit, Cat5e, 20 workstations and 2 server network.  • Co-founder and President of the Clinical Graft Engineering Society and primary organizer and spokesperson for society meetings and organizational liaisons. Analyst Duke University Medical Center - Durham, NC August 1999 to October 2000 • Responsible for the flow cytometry assay development aspect of Phase I clinical trials involving DC primed Cytotoxic T-Cell tumor killing.  • Primarily, this encompasses developing novel methods for clinical readout and isolating and quantifying circulating metastatic cells, and conducting QA tests of all cells used in trials.  • Also, fluorescence microscopy with an Olympus BX51  • Primary resource for IS/IT projects, including group LAN maintenance, DBA, group web page author, hardware and software purchasing and data archiving. Research Analyst University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, NC December 1997 to August 1999 • Involved in a tissue-engineering project designed to create a bioartificial liver assist device and to develop novel gene therapies using hepatic progenitor populations.  • Primarily responsible for operating Cytomation's MoFlo MLS Cell Sorter equipped with three lasers, eight fluorescence detectors and motorized cell deposition unit.  • Also, consultant and flow cytometry instructor for the Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease.  • Other duties include IS/IT Projects Manager, and Webmaster. Flow Cytometry Specialist Astra Arcus AB - Sodertalje, SE January 1997 to December 1997 • Manager of the flow cytometry facility for Astra Arcus AB. Mainly involved in operating FACSVantage /TSO cell sorter with two lasers and three wavelengths, seven active detectors and ACDU.  • Responsible for maintenance of FACSort and Leica Confocal Microscope system.  • Secondary duties include Information Systems/Information Technology Administrator and Webmaster for the Neuroimmunology section. Served as main contact for editing internal and external reports for English grammar and content. Research Technician II Duke University Medical Center - Durham, NC December 1992 to January 1997 • Flow Cytometrist in the Cancer Center's Core Flow Cytometry Facility.  • Involvement extended to many departments throughout Duke University, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Research Triangle Park. Duties included performing routine cytometric analyses and cell sorting, consultations with investigators on research and clinical cytometry projects and techniques,  • LAN administrator and Webmaster, user training, purchasing and financial projects involving a shared resource facility. Product Manager Air Quality Research - Research Triangle Park, NC August 1991 to December 1992 • Director of marketing and sales for formaldehyde and toluene passive dosimeters.  • General manager of all operational functions, which included production, sample analysis, quality control, customer relations and technical support. Education Biology DUKE UNIVERSITY - Durham, NC B.Sc. in Mathematics in Computer Science NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL UNIVERSITY - Durham, NC Skills Linux, Sql Server, SQL Certifications/Licenses Artificial Intelligence Present