Membership Manager (Temporary) Membership Manager (Temporary) Clinton, MD Database and administrative support professional experienced in fast-paced non-profit environments demanding strong organizational, technical, and interpersonal skills. Ethical, trustworthy, and discreet; committed to superior customer service. Confident and poised in interactions with individuals at all levels. Resourceful and detail-oriented in completing projects; able to multi-task effectively. Capabilities include:    ?Accounts Payable/Receivable  ?Telephone Reception  ?General Accounting  ?Research and Investigation  ?Problem Solving  ?Computer Operations  ?Customer Service and Relations  ?Filing and Data Archiving  ?Word Processing and Typing  ?Office Equipment Operation  ?Oral and Written Expertise  ? Database Applications Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Membership Manager (Temporary) Transportation Intermediaries Association - Alexandria, VA February 2019 to May 2019 • Directed the membership application and renewal process in accordance with established policies, goals, and objectives.   • Executed, processed, collected renewal billing and processed all applicants under the standards established by the Membership Review Board.   • Reviewed a set percentage of members each year under the standards established by the Membership  • Review Board, Strategic Plan and annual audit/census.  • Managed the new member on-boarding processes and the Associations iMIS (v.20+ and RiSE) database.  • Maintained database integrity in a clean, consistent, and standardized format.   • Maintained email accuracy with Member primary contacts at 99%.   • Developed and maintained standardized reports and queries, including management of all internal and external TIA lists.   • Successfully integrated external third-party software applications that interface with iMIS/RiSE and managed relationships with IT vendors.   • Managed the database financial component features such as batch control, reconciliation, refunds, etc.   • Distributed weekly/monthly/quarterly membership uploads.   • Actively participated with external and local iMIS user groups.   • Developed and maintained up-to-date Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ensure consistent data entry practices.   • Responsible to transmit database information to support the production of the Annual Membership Directory with external publishing organization.   • Full responsibility to managed, coordinated and executed production of hard copy membership Directory.   • Maintained standardized and ad hoc Membership data and statistical reports for board of director's meeting reporting, and as needed. Junior Database Administrator American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy - Alexandria, VA September 2017 to February 2019 • Maintained data integrity in the production database and performed data clean-up as necessary.  • Ensured the databases reflects the needs of users, the organization and enhances the member experience.   • Documented design and configuration of the database.   • Documented all iMIS and/or database related processes and installed/tested new iMIS modules.   • Reconfigured existing iMIS modules as needed.   • Developed and maintained backup solution and disaster recovery plan.   • Ensured seamless integration of the database with the IASP website and other third-party tools.   • Identified and recommended viable solutions for all reported iMIS and third-party related software issues.   • Developed a database implementation plan for all future upgrades and maintenance windows.   • Collaborated closely with Information Systems and web managers, external database and web development support providers, stakeholders and staff.   • Worked with the Information Systems Manager and Web Manager on all projects that involve the integration between the websites, the web content management system, and the community to determine the correct data needed to be transferred and archived via Tradewinds or iDashboards.   • Developed and test use cases for all new data and web related projects in Dev environment.   • Served as a trainer to all staff with the express goal of increasing staff capacity on technical issues on these systems and to expand their working knowledge of technical solutions for business systems.  Database Specialist National Apartment Association - Arlington, VA May 2010 to August 2017 • Entered and managed member, subscriber, prospect and non-member records, including handling address corrections, affiliate roster linking, adding and dropping members and increase data integrity in Nimble Salesforce.   • Trained staff in all aspects of Nimble Salesforce database, provided internal and external output, and coordinated with departments to minimize manual processes being performed.    • Managed Business Publication Audits (BPA) filing with the counts of our non-qualified and qualified members of our magazine distribution.   • Troubleshooted database records to identify and rectify issues including minor and major errors, omissions, duplicate records and invalid email addresses in DemandTools.    • Received, processed, and imported Student Housing and Education Conference information into Nimble Salesforce.   • Worked with staff to generate reports for marketing, affiliate and committee member queries, and corrected errors in the financial records processing.   • Trained and managed four (4) Coordinators as well as assisted with each annual reviews.  • Created, processed, updated, and imported our Affiliates’ rosters.    • Assisted Manager of Information Technology with staff hardware, software, and technology questions as well as troubleshooting.    • Created new tables and troubleshoot in Microsoft SQL as needed.   • Primary contact for answering inquiries from Association Executives, Affiliate Presidents, Affiliate Staff, Members, Non-members, and/or Volunteer leaders on a daily basis.   • Assisted with TaskCentre projects and other necessary duties as required.   Database Accounting Administrative Assistant Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy - Alexandria, VA November 2008 to March 2010 • Processed new applications and renewed memberships, expense reports, receipts, bank deposits runs, and credit card charges.    • Maintained subscriber records and provided statistical data on circulation figures.    • Managed general accounting functions; handled Accounts Receivable and Payable.    • Provided telephone support; investigated and reconciled differences for over 3,500 members.    • Ran invoices, roster, and other reports in Crystal Reports.    • Mail merged letters and labels for in potential members (marketing), invoices, new member packets (etc.) via postal mail.    • Coordinated the processing of fulfillment orders and member/customer requests and queries received via phone, fax, email, and mail.    • Processed and distributed dues and subscription invoices with due date follow-ups. Education Associate in Architectural Drafting Maryland Drafting Institute - Langley Park, MD September 1998 to September 1999 High school in General Majors Central Senior High School - Capitol Heights, MD September 1994 to June 1998 Skills accounting (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), Audits (Less than 1 year), Excel (10+ years), filing (10+ years), Management (5 years) Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS & TRAINING:    Windows Office Suite: Office 365, Microsoft Word, Access, Excel, SQLServer, PowerPoint, Outlook and Publisher; SalesForce (Nimble), DemandTools, iMIS10, 15, and 20.2, Intelligent Query Architect (IQA), Crystal and SSRS Reports, TaskCentre, Tradewinds, iDashboard, PowerBi, Slack, Informz, Business Publication Audits (BPA), Internet, Intranet, Apple Applications (MAC), FileMaker, Lobbying Disclosure Electronic Filing System, ATS Excel Importer, Peachtree, Quickbooks, Adobe Photoshop, AutoCAD, Communication Skills, Management, Accounting, Meetings/Events, and Research