Database Administrator,Oracle , SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>,Oracle , SQL Server Database Administrator,Oracle , SQL Server - DVG Interactive Mendham, NJ • Knowledge of Linux/UNIX/HP/Solaris operating systems  • Knowledge of Oracle and SQL application software installation and configuration  • 10+years experience in healthcare Electronic Medical Record (Epic, Cerner, All-script and McKesson)  • implementation consultant and End User Support.  • with Oracle Database/SQL Administration and application administration.  • General Oracle Database Administration.  • Experience in Setting up Always ON  • Administration of SQL Server Replication  • Experience with Encryption  • Knowledge in AWS cloud solutions  • Experience in maintaining and supporting database applications and database server  • Experience working in UNIX or Linux environment  • Experience with database backup, restore and recovery using RMAN  • Motivation to receive internal training and mentoring in Database Administration  • Knowledge of Oracle Data Guard and RAC, ASM, OEM, HPSM, GOLDEN GATE.  • Oracle Streams replication knowledge  • Strong working knowledge of Microsoft Office, HL7 interfaces, SDLC, MDI, FSI, Visio  • Data Extract, Transformation and Load experience.  • Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g & 9i,  • SQL Developer, PL/SQL TOAD, SSRS, SSAS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator,Oracle , SQL Server DVG Interactive - Mendham, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provide DBA 7x24 Support to production teams and perform routine DBA activities for  • Oracle/SQL database instances.  • Strong experience in mentoring team members and writing documentation.  • Great working knowledge installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Orac  • MS SQL Server software.  • Experience in Clustering (Active/Active, Active/Passive).  • Experience in Setting up Always ON availability groups.  • Experience in Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication.  • Control user privileges and closing production support tickets with client satisfaction  • timely manner.  • Monitor database activity and file usage, and ensures necessary resources are present.  • Determine data to collect and analyzes information as appropriate.  • Investigate and resolve technical database issues of significance.  • Utilize third party performance tuning tools to analyze and determine d  • performances.  • Characteristic, informational needs and elements, data flow, storage requirements, data  • output and reporting capabilities for complex databases.  • Backup/Restore, Troubleshooting databases for performance tuning.  • Read and understand T-SQL.  • Designed, building, installing, configuring and supporting Database servers  • Installed, maintained and patched the MS-SQL software; created, moved, upgraded, and  • deleted databases.  • Implemented backup and recovery processes; performed routine maintenance on  • databases; monitored and tuned databases using Performance Monitor,  • SQL Server Profiler and Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and Dynamic Management  • Functions (DMF).  • Experience in using Resource Governor for resource control.  • Implemented and maintained security rules and security audits; maintained state of audit  • readiness; problem resolution.  • Experienced in using MS SQL Reporting Service (SSRS) and MS SQL Server Analysis  • Services (SSAS).  • Deployed and maintained SQL clustering environment  • Experience using Master Data Management (MDM) for data management, data control, data  • linage.  • Monitored database system details within the database, including stored procedures and  • execution time.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions.  • Experience in installing, configuring and supporting DATAGUARD and GOLDGATE.  • Performance tuning experience, specializing in database and instance tuning and SQL  • optimization.  • Experience with SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2010 R2/2008 installation, Migration,  • configuration.  • Managed 4 node Oracle 11g Real Application Clusters (RAC) databases with ASM Storage.  • Participated in problem resolution and system enhancements.  • Capacity analysis of Oracle Databases and the Data warehouse.  • Analyze database performance, review Oracle performance reports and provide tuning  • Recommendations.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Documented the database environments and architectures.  • Provided user management assistance.  • Documented and maintain standards for database infrastructure, monitoring,  • maintenance, and security.  • Review storage growth trends and plan future storage requirements for the databases.  • Monitored space usage and adjust database as needed.  • Monitoring Oracle trends for hardware usage and user load using OEM.  • Monitored backup operations, resolve backup issues, and schedule manual backups as  • needed.  • Ensuring SOX compliance and satisfying audit requirements.  • Core Engineering support, Creating RAC database and configuration RMAN Backups  • Ensuring Database deployment P2P process is successful.  • Implementing Oracle patch upgrades.  • Implementing and Configuring OEM to meet GM Standard. Oracle Database Administrator Boeing - Troy, MI September 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Provide DBA 7x24 Support to production teams and perform routine DBA activities for Oracle/SQL database instances.  • Managed 4 node Oracle 11g Real Application Clusters (RAC) databases with ASM Storage.  • Participated in problem resolution and system enhancements.  • Worked closely with ETL Developers, Application analysts, Database programmers and web developers.  • Capacity analysis of Oracle Databases and the Data warehouse.  • Analyze database performance, review Oracle performance reports and provide tuning Recommendations.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Documented the database environments and architectures.  • Experience in using Resource Governor for resource control.  • Provided user management assistance.  • Documented and maintain standards for database infrastructure, monitoring, maintenance, and security.  • Review storage growth trends and plan future storage requirements for the databases.  • Monitored space usage and adjust database as needed.  • Monitored Scheduled backup operations using AUTOSYS, resolve backup issues, and schedule manual backups as needed Remote Technical Support Specialist SupportSpace - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Provide 7x24 remote GeekSquad level hardware, software Support to best buy customers..  • Install, configure, troubleshoot and resolve hardware device issues for the customer  • Troubleshoot and resolve customer software issues.  • Provide timely, and first call response to customers technical issues.  • Provide accurate and updated information on incident assigned to service desk Database Administrator,Oracle , SQL Server Dish Network - Spartanburg, SC February 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provide DBA 7x24 Support to production teams and perform routine DBA activities for Oracle/SQL database instances.  • Designed, building, installing, configuring and supporting Database servers  • Installed, maintained and patched the MS-SQL software; created, moved, upgraded, and deleted databases; implemented backup and recovery processes; performed routine maintenance on databases; monitored and tuned databases using Performance Monitor, SQL Server Profiler and Dynamic Management Views; implemented and maintained security rules and security audits; maintained state of audit readiness; problem resolution.  • Deployed and maintained SQL clustering environment  • Monitored database system details within the database, including stored procedures and execution time  • Monitored, optimize and requested allocation physical data storage for database systems  • Planned and coordinated data migration between systems  • Experience in using Resource Governor for resource control.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Expertise in designing databases and capacity planning.  • Experience with rebuilding the indexes and statistics update at regular intervals for better performance.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  • Develop and document standards and guidelines  • Read and understand T-SQL.  • Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers and analysts to make changes.  • Maintains strong relationships with all lines of business and business units, through customer focused service delivery.  • Executes developer' installation scripts to create tables, indexes, stored procedures and load initial data, including upgrades after DBA review and approval.  • Assist Senior DBA in maintaining documentation and coding standards, lessons learned, best practices, and quality improvement documentation.  • Demonstrated experience with Oracle tools including 3rd party integration products Support Engineer Dish Network - Spartanburg, SC July 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • create and maintain company system environment(s) with emphasis on uptime, reliability, scalability and performance.  • Provided support in areas, but not limited to PC/Server hardware, data networks, telephony, software applications.  • First touch resolution, trouble ticket dispatching and resolution follow -up.  • Hardware, software, and server support utilizing remote tools to resolve trouble or gather additional information.  • Domain user and computer account administration through active directory.  • Manage multiple support tools simultaneously.  • Perform entry to 1st level support of computer hardware.  • Install software, hardware and peripheral components such as monitors, keyboards, printers, network interface cards and disk drives on user's premises. Perform PC Adds/Moves/Changes.  • Responsible for learning and mastering system administration duties. Including, but not limited to, installation, monitoring, backup and recovery and tuning.  • Provide updates, status, and completion information according to published procedures. Enters and completes problem ticket information via the approved tracking system. Logs all repairs and services performed.  • Responsible for updating, maintaining and verifying inventory record for all IT hardware and systems for assigned sites according to IT guidelines. National General Insurance - Winston-Salem, NC August 2008 to June 2010 Winston-Salem,NC Aug 2008 to Jun 2010  SoftwareTester 1.    Responsibilities:  • Ensures production and quality standards are met by verifying that the inbound and outbound RA information related to the receiver is correct.  • Verifies warranty validity and charges related to Customer replacement outbound.  • Verifies accuracy of information collected by performing a Functional test on digital satellite; viewing information collected, to ensure proper codes were used.  • Distributed results to supervisor and management.  • Ensure that all equipment and surrounding areas are neat, clean and well organized.  • Bring all parts shortages, equipment, procedural and personnel problems to the attention of managements.  • Keep necessary written or computerized logs and records as requested.  • Issue out smartcard and ensure all the smartcards issued correspond with daily production goal. Keep all inventory of smartcard used daily.  • Run a daily report of production goal. Education Bachelor's Skills disaster recovery (2 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), security (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (3 years)