System and Database Administrator System and <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System and Database Administrator West Islip, NY A seasoned IT professional seeking an opportunity to work across a broad range of technologies in the system administration/network support arena and liaises across multiple areas of the business. Responsible for the installation, administration and maintenance of client desktop/server/SQL infrastructure and network resources. A key focus on delivering successful outcomes through customer engagement and problem resolution while fostering trusting client relationships. Work Experience System and Database Administrator MTA CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION - New York, NY 2015 to 2018 • Primary support for two site locations administering infrastructure to ensure uninterrupted availability of Windows and SQL servers and local area network.  • Assisted Network and System Team Leads with the management and administration of hosted servers, network equipment, databases and storage systems.  • Served as an escalation point for all end user support in desktop computing, client applications, software installations, printers and mobile devices.  • Performed daily system monitoring including reviewing of system logs to verify optimal resources and confirmed daily backup operations.  • Work within established configuration and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to front and backend infrastructure.  • Provided technical documentation on system related projects including disaster recovery procedures.  • Supported Active Directory, Group Policy Administration, and user support for VPN. Database Engineer QBE Insurance North America - New York, NY July 2011 to March 2015 • Ensured and supported high availability for multiple Microsoft SQL Clustered environments and database instances which included system resource monitoring, system audit logs, and disaster recovery.  • A key focus on daily operations of SQL multi-instance environments by actively monitoring overall server health and identified and corrected performance issues related to I/O throughput, memory bottlenecks, blocking and deadlocking.  • Established and maintained SQL Server backup and recovery processes of all managed databases utilizing Idera SQLSafe toolset which allowed high compression rates reducing recovery time.    • Received recognition and testimonials from Senior Management for customer-centric dedication and work ethic for a successful integration of a new line of business by migrating the environments successfully under a tight deadline. System Administrator QBE Insurance North America - New York, NY June 2008 to June 2011 • Responsible for the operation and maintenance for hosted servers running on VM ESXi and Hyper-V operating platforms.  • Administration of Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, GPO and login script creation for Line of Business users.  • Worked with Network Ops Team in performing routine network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hotfixes, security configurations and health checks.  • Monitored Symantec Enterprise Antivirus infrastructure and ensured that versions and signatures remain updated on client machines.  • Performed configurations in user/application permissions and documented system modifications.  • Ensured the stability, integrity, and efficient operation of the in-house information systems for our General Agency Citrix terminal servers and databases that support core organization functions.  • Administered the restore/backup process for tape libraries and ensured tapes are archived off-site to storage provider. PC Desktop Administrator/IT Operations QBE Insurance North America - New York, NY May 2001 to May 2008 • Key resource in administering all operational support, F/X exchange rates, corporate financial closings, and reporting for QBE's core financial system SICS/Procede.  • Installed, configured, maintained, and troubleshot associated end user workstation hardware/software and networking peripheral equipment.  • Responsible for domain account setups, security permissions, telecom/ voicemail management systems, and training for the organization's end user community.  • Participated in the development, testing, and roll out in the organizations desktop SOE implementation. Investment Accounting Analyst TIAA-CREF INC - New York, NY 1999 to 2001 • Analyzed departmental business requirements for operational unit and documented data workflow for mainframe and related satellite systems.  • Created test conditions and executed test scripts for control testing of new enhancements to current internal systems.  • Developed test matrices to track testing progress and support production implementations through the testing process for new modifications and modules. Systems Accountant MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER - New York, NY 1996 to 1999 - DST Systems Support  • Responsible for creating and maintaining bonds, equities, government, and various securities in Portfolio Accounting System.  • Provided guidance to the Fund Accounting staff in the processing of data and the resolution of issues related to coupon interest, security pricing, and cash settlement of trades. Education Bachelor's Degree in Accounting Information Systems in CompTIA PACE UNIVERSITY - New York, NY Skills MS SQL SERVER 2012, SQL SERVER 2012, SQL, Windows Server 2012/2016