Inventory Database Coordinator Inventory <span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator Inventory Database Coordinator Coon Rapids, MN Work Experience Inventory Database Coordinator Brock White Company - Saint Paul, MN 2017 to 2019 Pricing Department)  • Designed and developed SQL queries to extract data from ERP system and upload new data into ERP system  • Created reports and charts in excel using VLOOKUP's, pivot tables, IF statements and many more advance excel formulas and features.  • Worked with epaCUBE to create a multilevel customer pricing architecture to increase profitability and margins.  • Worked with Branch Managers and Salespeople to create branch stock lists to maintain appropriate inventory levels to support sales and grow new business.  • Used Power BI to create inventory and sales dashboards for executive level reporting.  • These duties were in addition to those below. Product File Administrator Brock White Company - Saint Paul, MN 2006 to 2017 Purchasing Department)  • Analyze sales, inventory and purchasing trends and submit reports for management review and implementation.  • Maintain cost/price accuracy, stock qty order/reorder points and insure data integrity for over 20,000 product records.  • Create ad hoc reports for management on company functions along with daily and monthly purchasing/inventory/sales reports.  • Created new items for twenty company branches across Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, South Dakota and Canada. Inventory Clerk Vomela Specialty Company - Saint Paul, MN 2003 to 2006 • Created advance MS Access databases that contain inventory information concerning artwork for production jobs, which increased overall efficiency and prevented production delays.  • Minimized operational costs while providing necessary raw materials through strategic inventory control.  • Led several large kitting and installation projects for Target Co. that helped them establish a persuasive visual presence, which led to the awarding of many additional projects.  • Provide extensive technical and logistical support to sales staff to help provide customers with the most advantageous products. Self Employed Self Employed - Coon Rapids, MN 2002 to 2003 Computer Systems Consultant  • Established this consulting and technical support business to help provide for the full functionality of clients' computer and communication systems. Education Associate of Applied Sciences in Information Management in Applied Sciences NEI College of Technology - Columbia Heights, MN 2001 Skills ERP, MS ACCESS, PROGRESS, PROGRESS SOFTWARE, SQL, POWER BI, HYPERION, EXCEL, MS EXCEL, MS WORD, WORD, BI, Microsoft Office, access, MS Office Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/09t6kxn652r-zgph Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/loxkqzh7rp-c2fym Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q79c5o7iplpcoraa Research — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/snrqmkqdz28yek9p Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nm5azneuwp-hhqxd Basic Computer Skills: PC — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d1afs3m3vy1gwxom Email — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nb2pvkne-7bwtx1m Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2-ci1hej5ragmcx7 Attention to Detail — Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/csjtjpirjivlisfh English Communication Skills: Typing — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1sn-taf392zvonsk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Dedicated and well-rounded operations professional with exceptional communication and customer service skills. Proven history of strategically scheduling projects to achieve maximum levels of efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated ability to control inventory thru branch stock list reviews and setup of correct ordering controls. Possesses extensive computer background with experience in the following operational competencies:    Report Generation  Data Extracting/Uploading  Database Oversight  Expenditure Reduction  Hyperion SQL Query Building  Relationship Building  Strategic Pricing  Troubleshooting  Inventory Management    Software Expertise    • MS Word  • MS Excel  • MS Access  • Clarity Software  • Power BI  • Progress Software  • SX Enterprises ERP system  • Hyperion (SQL) Intelligence Software