Pharmacy Benefits Group Oracle Developer/ETL Support Pharmacy Benefits Group Oracle Developer/ETL Support Pharmacy Benefits Group Oracle Developer/ETL Support - KAISER PERMANENTE Scottsdale, AZ Work Experience Pharmacy Benefits Group Oracle Developer/ETL Support KAISER PERMANENTE August 2018 to Present • Member of Pharmacy Database I.T. Support Group.  • Implemented ETL for Prescription Drug Event - Acumen  • Worked on Pharmacy Benefits Manager projects for Optum RX and Medimpact  • Followed Procedure for safeguarding PHI information.  • Imported Drug GSN code, Physician Prescriber NPI and Pharmacy NPI information to various database objects  • Help import Urgent Care drug information and Commercial Medimpact data.  • Facilitated Information from Health Connect to other databases.  • Worked with subject matter expert in scoping requirements.  • Developed ETL Processes for importing Data onto Oracle Databases for reporting purposes.  • Designed and implemented Oracle External Table/Data Loader imports of CSV Files.  • Created Staging, Temporary and Destination Tables per project requirements.  • Collaborated with Team Members for Decision Support analyzing, tracking and managing reporting data  • Trained on various prerequisites for Medical Reporting purposes.  • Participated in group sessions for code programming best practices.  • Attended meetings to communicate recommendations to project sponsors, clients, and stakeholders.  • Researched code differences between MS SQL Server and Oracle/PL SQL  • Researched various ETL implementations in Oracle.  • Conferred with Team members on ETL scripting and development environments for importing Data onto Oracle.  • Analyzed various scripting, validation, normalization and data cleansing processes per project requirements.    MICROSOFT CONTRACTOR  PowerSchool Microsoft Azure Conversion Project Member of the Microsoft Learning Team June 2016 to August 2018 supporting Powerschool as a Contractor.  • The project combined Powerschool's K12 Unified Classroom Solution to Microsoft's Cloud and Productivity Suite.  • Worked with Learning Management Project Managers, Technical Team Leads and for deliverables.  • Configured Mysql NDB Cluster Manager, Data and SQL Nodes on Azure VM boxes.  • Configured Mysql Master Master and Master Slave replication.  • Worked on Mysql Master High Availability Failover configuration.  • Worked with Linux Security Consultant on SSH configuration between Manager and Node VM Boxes.  • Tested Mysql MHA ssh and replication scripts on various Servers.  • Configured Redhat Linux 7 firewall, SeLinux and tcp functionality.  • Configured Centos 7 and 6.10 test environments.  • Troubleshot Centos 6.10 Image clone problems.  • Installed and Tested various Mysql Installations from Repository and RPM files.  • Tested Mysql Db Replication and researched Global Variable settings on Production environments.  • Attended Daily Microsoft Status Update Meetings and Powerschool Technical Group Sessions.  • Researched on Azure Site Recovery Management Suite. Member of Epic Cogito/Caboodle Core KAISER PERMANENTE January 2015 to June 2016 Datawarehouse Team at Kaiser Permanente  • Supported Caboodle Implementation in Colorado and Northern California  • Help support Daily ETL and Error logs from Caboodle Console for Colorado.  • Worked with Caboole DBAs in consulting with Epic Support for Clarity ETL issues.  • Participated in Meetings with Epic Clarity Oracle support.  • Researched on Epic Chronicles, Clarity and Caboodle data flow.  • Associated with various groups and meetings involving TeraData to Exadata Clarity Migration.  • Started Proof of Concept Development of Enterprise Data Warehouse for Epic Caboodle.  • Joined in Data Modeling, Analysis and Consolidation of Regional data for Patient, Encounter and Provider information.  • Collaborated on preliminary data modeling, data mapping and Analyst of Pharmacy and Non-Epic information to Caboodle.  • Designed various SSIS Packages for Custom imports from Clarity to Epic Caboodle  • Worked on IBM Rational Tool for Document management such as Business and User Functionality and Use Cases.  • Performed Business Specification imports from various data sources to IBM Rational/Jazz.  • Attended various meeting with PDW and other Datawarehouse Teams in Kaiser  • Coordinated with Caboodle Technical Team Leads and Developers for various projects and daily support efforts.  • Trained in Caboodle Installation and Upgrade  • Attended Skype meetings of Business Intelligence Tool SlicerDicer. Data Analyst Contractor PUBLIC STORAGE/WORKSTATE August 2014 to January 2015 • Met with Workstate Ohio Remote development Team for the preliminary requirements of the new Datawarehouse  • Worked with Data Architect in Glendale, CA to confer with Application Business Rules and various components of the Projects.  • Worked with Data Modeler to provide SQL Analysis on Table relations and group subject matters based on Fact and Dimension modeling.  • Provided counts on hundreds of millions of row on Trasactional Tables for data analysis.  • Worked with other Datawarehouse Team support for Business rule requirements, JD Edwards data extract processes and deep dive conferences on various aggregated tables.  • Provided Data mapping documents from Erwin Data Models to the ETL group.  • Worked with various Sprint groups in various Software Life Cycle development processes.  • Mentored junior level developers in Datawarehouse Dimensional Modeling, sql scripts, system tables, etc.  • Worked on Visual Studio Online Project Management to start user stories, active sprints, setting work alloted periods, status updates and provided Wiki information.  • Collaborated with Quality Assurance Team lead on Defect Management, Error detection and various QA processes to determine problem areas. Mysql Contractor HALLMARK LABS February 2013 to August 2014 • Documented ETL process from OLTP to staging in Amazon Web Services EC2 EBC and finally to Redshift.  • Tracked data flow of compressed file and into 4 way split PSV.gz prior to upload into S3 data Bit Buckets.  • Monitored cron jobs for OLTP backups and OLAP restore of various Production host, staging and development servers.  • Traced process flow of s3cmd commands to S3 and copy commands of specific database tables to Redshift.  • Researched on binlog and Mysql Replication Master-Master, Master-Slave  • Configured Putty SSH private and public keys for connecting to Amazon Web Services.  • Researched on Mysql Slow running queries and log monitoring.  • Researched on Backup and Restore process of numerous Amazon Web Hosted Servers.  • Met with the Business Intelligence group and researched on Talend staging tables. Database Administrator NOSSAMAN LLP June 2011 to February 2013 • Supported Aderant Expert Billing Legal Accounting.  • Redesigned Import process for 'Client, Matter and Narrative' data into Accounting Application.  • Worked with consultants in importing Disbursement data through 'Generic Importer'.  • Designed SSIS packages from various clients and vendor into Aderant.  • Worked with Team Lead in Database migration for 'Intap' and 'Wallbuilder' Applications.  • Tested Expenses and Invoice Imaging Imports using 'Expert Image'.  • Coordinated 'Chrome River Accounting' Downloads for Aderant Integration.  • Configured VMWare Virtual Servers for SQL Integration Development Environments.  • Helped Sharepoint Admin in maintaining Logs, Crawlspace, and Search Databases for inhouse Intranet.  • Discussed Legal 'Time Billing' and Accounting Integration with various groups.  • Configured and supported 'Always On Availability Groups and Databases'.  • Researched on Amazon Web Services Elastic Computer (EC2), S3 storage and Elastic Map Reduce (EMR).  • Researched on ETL applications with Cloud connectivity such as Talend, CloverETL, SnapLogic  and Amazon Data Pipeline.  • Researched on Filezilla, Linux secured copy and Amazon REST API for transferring information to Amazon S3  • Research on Microsoft Azure and Azure Data Pipeline. MS SQL Server/Mysql Administrator 3M February 2010 to June 2011 • Managed and Tuned manufacturing databases to acceptable levels.  • Configured Development and Staging Database Environments.  • Setup tempdb spanning with multi file size monitoring and shrinking for various environments.  • Supported Sharepoint Document Management Environments, fixing blob storage issues.  • Supported Kronos Time Keeping Administrator in managing and maintaining various database environments such as month-end-tasks, Java version updates, Application Testing and migration projects.  • Wrote Powershell commands to monitor various servers  • Worked with Developers in troubleshooting problems with Legacy Application with MS SQL Backend  • Implemented Transaction Level Isolation on Database to prevent Application from having deadlock issues.  • Tested SQL Server Extended events in 2008 and 2012 environments for Performance Tuning.  • Worked with Network Administrators in recovering Mysql Databases Instances  • Performed projects for HRIS to reverse engineer Mysql Applications.  • Used Toad Data Modeling tool to reinforce business rule and data searches for certain projects  • Trained I.T. staff on Database Administration and Development best practices.  • Coordinated with .Net developers for Application Enhancements and Backend Database interaction.  • Managed SQL account migration projects for Ceradyne as defined by 3M corporate.  • Configured Master Slave and Active Passive Replication on development servers.  • Configured Mysql multi node Cluster enviroments.  • Scanned Logs for Mysql Slow Running Queries.  • Installed and configured Docker for Microservices and various controlled development environments.  • Tested Python TkInter functions, SQLAlchemy, cvs and json files to and from Mysql. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON - Edison, CA January 2009 to February 2010 • Migrated various Sybase Databases into MS SQL Server Development Environments as part of the Decommission process  • Researched databases with various Developers and support personnel for numerous applications designed more than 15 years back.  • Worked with various SCE clients to convert ETL processes and improve data validation and quality issues.  • Rewrote Sybase Databases into MS SQL Server syntax which includes data type migration/conversions, triggers, auditing tables,stored procedures, supplemental tables for recompiling/migrating objects and completing staging table routines  • Created SSIS packages in SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2012 environments  • Created SSIS Transformations and validation employing multiple passes to staging tables for data quality.  • Worked on projects with Senior Sybase DBA in reverse engineering Databases and Applications via Embarcadero DBArtisan/Erwin Data Modeler  • Worked with Data Architect in researching Legacy Applications and Support Engineers.  • Teamed with Unix AIX Engineers and SQL Server Virtual Server Engineers in preparing Sybase to MS SQL Server test environments.  • Collaborated with Capacity Planning Team members to research various processes.  • Attended meetings with various members in the Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, Sybase and Management groups for projects due dates  • Prepared Server/ Database Disk Space and Resource estimates and requirements for management.  • Ran Hive SQL on Hadoop HDFS data for Aggregation.  • Explored Spark Resilient Distributed DataSets  • Explored Dataframes in Spark, Python Pandas and Math R.  • Imported 27 million rows into Dataframe for Analytics.  • Converted/RegisteredTempTable from Dataframes into Hive Tables  • Applied Spark SQL Queries on Hive Tables  • Tested Spark Notebook, Apache Jupyter, and Ipython Notebook environments for Data Visualization. Database Developer, Loan Servicing Group BANK OF AMERICA September 2008 to January 2009 • Worked with various Developers on Batch upload script prior to CRDE implementation, with logic on Home Affordable Modification Program, Non HAMP and mailers.  • Participated in WebEx daily group meetings with various teams for Database Datamodel training on Post Decision Application implementation  • Supported 'Do not call' databases.  • Designed Production Destination table for 'Escalated Decision' loans.  • Trained under the 'Loan Service Group' to flow daily 'Cancel Loan Action' and 'Rules Override' accounts.  • Created SSIS package to import consolidated Daily Decisioned 'Pending Review' loans.  • Implemented and helped other team members apply Data quality processes on SSIS package for flowed data that does conform to specification.  • Coordinated with various design groups for conversion process and successful uploads.  • Completed Web Training on various Bank Mandated courses pertaining to Security, Protection, Disaster Recovery, Customer Relation, Home Affordable Loan Program and Loan Underwriting process Dot Net Database Developer DNTG August 2007 to September 2008 • Communication Server Programmer using Visual Studio 2012 C# .Net  • Supported main client Ria Financial services.  • Worked on project coordinating payment information reports on Money Transfer to South American banks and Payment/Receiving Agents.  • Tested Web Services Payment Transaction provider on development environmentProgrammed Web Parts on Sharepoint 2005 Application Server  • Revised automated tasks to utilized new functionality/methods.  • Coordinated with Department head on code reviews and Source Code Management utilizing SVN.  • Worked with other developers and Project Managers on Tasks status updates.  • Used C# base class and inherited classes to design programs that run automated task for client reports, file exports and uploads.  • Developed tasks and Sales reports that interact with automated Communication Server for secured ftp and emailed reportsSupported Automated Server on Encryption and Secured Connectivity Dot Net Database and Business Intelligence Developer SD&A Teleservices Los Angeles Call Center May 2006 to August 2007 • Supported Call Center Campaign Configuration.  • Wrote numerous reports for campaign status, averages, threads, Gift Pledge, Billing and End-Of-Campaign Summary Report  • Supported Automated reporting databases for daily caller reports  • Supported 'Do not call' databases.  • Programmed Web Parts on Sharepoint 2005 Application Server  • Created Sharepoint Intranet WebSites for Environmental and Polical Campaigns  • Worked with other Developers and Contractors on .Net projects  • Configured Payment Gateways to 'Sage' and 'Cybersource'.  • Worked on Payment Credit Card (PCI) Compliance Projects  • Supported Automated Server on Encryption and Secured Connectivity SQL DBA and Datawarehouse Developer Creative Channel Services January 2005 to May 2006 • Designed data models, physical schemas for database entities.  • Used SSIS packages for data integration; Implemented indexing to optimize transactional and reporting performance.  • Created SQL scripts for baseline, test data seeding, pre- and post- deployment SQL scripts for database roll outs and automated DB unit tests for stored procedures and functions.  • Produced technical design documents for the schema and stored procedure specifications.  • Wrote stored procedures, ad hoc SQL queries, views, and triggers. Optimize existing schemas through normalization and denormalization techniques.  • Optimized existing stored procedures by refactoring T-SQL code.  • Reviewed SQL code generated by application developers and auto-generated by middle-tier OR frameworks.  • Troubleshot production, real-time performance and concurrency issues.  • Participated in code walk-throughs as needed to ensure quality.  • Delivered software on time and to specification, with minimal supervision SQL DBA/Datawarehouse Developer Sega Entertainment/Gameworks - Glendale, CA April 2004 to January 2005 • Worked with Upper Management, Business Development, and Information Technology Infrastructure Departments on Project Planning.  • Gather requirements for projects, design new tables or column additions and stored procedures.  • Document meta data, business rules and changes to data model.  • Create scripts and stored procedures to repeated maintenance tasks and application revisions.  • Maintained Integration Services and DTS Packages for Data warehouse Extracts and remote site additions, and data cleansing.  • Implemented Transformations remapping, staging table validation and data quality processes prior to destination table inserts.  • Tune database on job runs and performance issues.  • Reviewed data import process into Microsoft Great Plains Accounting application via C# as part of month end closing process.  • Researched Reporting Server data export to excel or PDF format via C#  • Supported OLAP cubes and reviewed MDX queries  • Develop software changes and test on development environments prior to production application.  • Monitor server resource requirements by measuring table and indexes sizes ever 6 months  • Lead projects life cycle, involved user feedback in product design and agile methodology  • Gave status reports to projects members and adhere development time to project schedules  • Establishes database standards, and procedures that will optimize database architectures  • Gathered requirements, designed data extracts, manipulation and delivered data to users via reporting services  • Responsible for developing, implementing, and maintaining data warehouse containing corporate performance and operational information Systems Analyst/ Database Developer NYK Logistics - Torrance, CA August 2002 to April 2004 • Supported the PUMA Manhattan Warehouse Management Systems database 24x7 complimenting the Operations Analyst on projects and DTS extracts and Archiving process.  • Assisted the team in maintaining the 'TARGET' Trans Load System CrossDocking Database  • Supported PUMA E commerce Department with .Net developers in maintaining Web Application.  • Provided support on the WHERENET Yard Management Truck and Trailer Parking application  • Maintained Warehouse Problem Management application written in C# Asp.Net  • Worked with development team for a C# Asp.Net application to display Logistic information of products (picked, packed and shipped) via web page and large LCD screen.  • Tuned the Electronic Data Interchange Gentran database disk space performance  • Attended group meetings on Gentran EDI Data Quality issues, metrics and various tasks to improve data cleansing.  • Applied Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes on projects and tasks  • Performed numerous Business Intelligence (BI) processes for various departmental requirements  • Configured 'IVIS' Badge printing application interface to other company Databases  • Tracked Production database Application disk space usage for the Storage Area Network Migration  • Supported the 'Productivity Reports' combining Warehouse Management and Etime employee labor data  • Applied Data Quality and Validation processes on ETL data going onto the Productivity Reports  • Created datamart for Daily Domestic and Monthly Overtime Hours Crystal reports for upper management  • Worked with Analyst to create data extracts from Informix to MS SQL databases for JVC and AMC  • Maintained Etime 'Temporary Agency' labor extract and Crystal report 'labor hours' data refresh process  Coordinated Database migration and Replication reconfiguration for the Storage Area Network Database Administrator Dermalogica, Inc - Torrance, CA May 2000 to August 2002 • Administered and tuned Microsoft SQL Databases for Manufacturing, Finance, Distribution, Vertex Taxing, IDIRegistrar classes, Reporting and Datawarehousing  • Maintained and modified logical and physical design of the datawarehouse  • Created various 'Data Transformation' packages for (E)xtracting, (T)ransforming, (L)oading, and refreshing sales, address, product and financial information in the datawarehouse.  • Participated in manufacturing application conversions from PowerCerv to JDE Edwards  • Created and maintained dimension and fact tables based on the ERP application.  • Created databases, target and staging tables, stored procedures, massaged and merged data to import datawarehouse information from different sources.  • Created and populated summary tables, aggregate and lookup tables for the datawarehouse  • Edited stored procedure, maintained views and triggers as required by the datawarehouse and reports.  • Implemented Information Resource Management principles and Information Quality Techniques  • Worked with developers in tuning the datawarehouse 'refresh' and increasing performance  • Interviewed end-users for business requirements, new data marts and modifying the datawarehouse  • Managed Database replication to offsite web-hosted database  • Redesigned and managed Domestic, Canadian, British and Salon Services accounts for web referral  • Performed monthly vertex taxing database rates and geocodes updates  • Setup servers and databases for Cognos reporting migration.  • Created web-based crystal reports for various departments and upper management.  • Wrote reports on Forecasting, Inventory management, sales, product category, ranking, etc.  • Performed sales reporting reconciliation and troubleshoot datawarehousing issues  • Supported in administering Citrix and Intranet to provide remote user access to web reports.  • Worked with Web Administrator and developers for implementing 'outlook' and web portal information entries to the datawarehouse Database Administrator DirecTV September 1998 to May 2000 Sybase Database Administrator for Los Angeles Broadcast Center    • Supported Powerbuilder programmers for table structure and stored procedures creation  • Assisted in HP AUX unix administration  • Managed Database Data Model with Senior DBA in supporting Los Angeles and Colorado.  • Imported datas from other departments into main database  • Paticipated in application development for Satellite broadcast channel addition, programming outages and new programming promotions. Education University of California - Los Angeles, CA Introduction to Artificial Intelligence UCLA B.S. in Electronics and Communication University of the East Skills ADAPTIVE SERVER, DATABASE, DB2, INFORMIX, MS ACCESS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, SQL, SYBASE, CMS, DATA INTEGRATION, HADOOP, DATAWAREHOUSING, AJAX, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET Certifications/Licenses HVAC Additional Information SKILLS    Database Platforms and spreadsheet programs  Microsoft SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, 2005, 2000, 7.0 and 6.5. Oracle 12.x, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL and DB2. MS Access, Lotus 123, Microsoft Excel, MS Sharepoint server. Sybase Adaptive server 6.X and 7.X. Informix 5.X.  Amazon Web Services Redshift, Aurora    Enterprise Application:  PowerCerv Distribution and Financial, Peoplesoft - JDE Edwards Oneworld, ADP Etime, Manhattan WMS Scales, TLS, ILS, Softpoint, Truckmate, MAS 90, HealthConnect Epic Chronicles, Clarity, Cogito/Caboodle 15/16.  Microsoft Great Plains, Siemens CPSEE, Sage and Cybersource Payment Gateways, SugarCRM and Drupal Workflow, Kronos Workforce Central, Aderant Expert Billing, Expert Image, Chrome River    Programming, scripting and Web Languages:  Microsoft and Sybase SQL, Pascal, C, XML, SOAP, WSDL, CSS, XHTML, Snobol, HTML, .NET C#, C++, VB and ASP.net , Perl, Java. PHP, Python, Smarty, Ajax, Flash. Zend, Symfony and CakePHP, Agile MVC, Drupal CMS. Visual Studio 2010, Team Foundation Server (TFS) 2010. Open Source CRM Tools, Visual Studio Online.    Report writing and Datawarehousing tools:  Crystal reports, Cognos Transformer and Power Play, Sybase Power Designer data modeler, Embarcadero data modeler and Rapid SQL. MS Integration Services SSIS DTS, Analysis SSAS, Reporting Services SSRS  Pentaho Data Integration and Analytics, Python CSV toolkit, SQLAlchemy.  Hadoop, Hive, Spark Notebook, Apache Jupyter, Ipython Notebook    Network and Client Operating Systems:  Novell Intranetware, Unix Solaris, Appletalk, MS Windows Server 2003, 2000, 98, 95, Windows NT, Sequent Dynix/Ptx, Sun Openwindows 3.0, Citrix Terminal Server, Sunview, SCO Unix, HP AUX, Ubuntu, Lubuntu, CentOS. VirtualBox, VMWare. Amazon Web Services EC2, S3, EMR, Route 53