Application Support and Services Manager Application Support and Services Manager Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Support and Services Manager Telecomunicaciones MOVILNET - Caracas, Venezuela October 2012 to November 2015 • Responsible for the operation and management of all activities relating to the applications support function for the entire company. Direct responsibility for 10 employees; focused on problem resolution, system stability an ongoing system enhancement.   • Participated in new projects providing support to study the technical feasibility for the integration of new required and/or planned solutions.  • Planning, coordinating, controlling processes to integrate and implement technology solutions to improve the services platform.  • Coordinating activities for optimizing processes through monitoring, analyzing in generating preventive alarms in the services platform.  • Solving specific and massive faults to the services platform in production environments within web applications.  • Updating root cause analysis reports to support in solving the main problems in any studied cases.  • Collaborated with the areas of database, application servers, systems development, operating systems, infrastructure and networking, to ensure systems stability was maintain throughout the process. Storage and Backup Manager Telecomunicaciones MOVILNET - Caracas,Venezuela September 2010 to October 2012 • Responsible for the implementation, integration and delivering of solutions for storage and backup. Direct responsibility for 5 employees focused on all aspects of the storage and backup functions.  • Evaluated and acquired new technology platforms and solutions that could be integrated within the systems architecture while seeking the best solution at the lowest possible cost.  • Ensured business continuity throughout the integration and implementation of new technology solutions to build and/or improve the service platforms.   • Monitored the platform to generate preventive alerts to protect the operations at risk throughout the backup and normal operations process.  • Creating and enforcing backup retention policies through the implementation of a focused approach which protects information throughout the retrival process within high-risk operating platforms. This included managing space allocations in order to maximize resources while enabling future growth of the storage platform.   • Managed the software update process and coordinated the maintenance of robots and tape systems including replacing parts with the direct support from the provider while insuring system availability. Database Administrator Specialist Telecomunicaciones MOVILNET - Caracas, Venezuela July 2001 to October 2010 • Responsible for the design, management and support of the Oracle database within the production and development environment.  • Worked as a support resource for entire Database Analyst group; investigated requests from DBA group and served as resource for all trouble tickets and service requests.  • Troubleshooted Oracle connectivity problems.  • Monitored jobs and implemented automatic alert notification when the database was down or present threshold exceeded.   • Created objects like tables, views, indexes, etc. for minimizing down times while ensuring the daily backup.   • Exported database, archived logged to disk and tape.   • Set up and maintained backup procedures for database, using RMAN/ Export; maintained and optimized backup procedure for database, using RMAN/Export.  • Created database users, roles, managed permissions and enabled auditing for database security.  • Created capacity planning and architecture definition according to the operation of the database.  • Managed grid control tool for administration; Stats Pack and AWR as support to generate improvements.  • Assisted with the successful testing of a disaster/recovery focused on 100% of the billing platform and conducted in the USA in coordination with SunGard company. Database Administrator / Consultant Telecomunicaciones MOVILNET /Sicca - Caracas, Venezuela February 1998 to July 2001 • Developed, implemented and maintained database standars for database design, security, administration, backup, capacity planning and architecture, for cluster and single database.  • Monitored the attention and solution points of external and internal audit. Established corrective action, identified and implemented solutions while providing documentation about specific problems.   • Implemented security policies relating to user authentication.  • Managed the processes relating to: space allocation, user creation, assigning privileges while executing and implementing diagnostic statistics, and changes according to the plan defined in the report.   • Monitored, implemented, tuned and standardized backup and recovery of database. Education MBA in Administrative Management Universidad Central de Venezuela - Caracas, Venezuela September 2003 to September 2008 Bachelor in Computer Science Universidad Nueva Esparta - Caracas, Venezuela September 1994 to September 1997 Skills Oracle database administration (10+ years), Negotiating with external vendor partners (3 years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL V3 Foundation Examination December 2009 to Present ITIL Intermediate: Planing, Protection & Optimization November 2009 to Present