Database Administrator, Contractor <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Contractor Washington, DC Work Experience Database Administrator, Contractor ActioNet, Inc. November 2018 to Present Working as a Contractor with the Administrative Offices of the U.S. Courts as a SQL Server DBA/Developer. Responsible for SQL Server development, testing and staging environments of 4 major .Net applications. Develop stored procedures, functions, views and performance tune existing procedures and functions. Develop ETLs and scheduled jobs to update reporting databases. Developed ETL to import data from Informix into SQL Server data warehouse. Work with developers to troubleshoot data access issues, to improve efficiency of queries. Data warehouse, database and table design. Database Administrator May 2017 to August 2018 HUD, HUDOIG  Managed 50 SQL Servers. Responsibilities include backup and restore; scheduled jobs, troubleshooting, performance tuning, security, mirroring, always on failover, updates,  patches, and working with staff on database issues. Setup database mail to send automatic  emails for job failure notification. Create custom queries to support user requirements.  Databases analysis relating to front end application issues. Also create queries, stored  procedures and functions to support SSRS reports. Created plans for upgrading servers to SQL Server 2017. Database Developer American College of Cardiology June 2016 to April 2017 Responsible for all aspects of 2 data warehouses based on MS SQL Server. Responsibilities included  ETLs to import XML data, database modification to support .NET program modification, creation  and updates to stored procedures and functions. Troubleshooting included resolving failure of scheduled jobs and support for SAT and UAT testing. Used RedGate tools for data analysis and  management SQL Server, Consultant, NeighborWorks February 2016 to June 2016 Creating reports with SSRS. Used Visual Studio MIS to create stored procedures, views and functions to support reporting data sets. Use SSAS and SSIS to create ETLs to import data from data  warehouse. SQL SSRS Report Expert/Consultant Peace Corps OCIO November 2014 to January 2016 Using SQL Server Management Studio, TFS, XML and Visual Studio in an Agile development  environment. Documenting database, including use of T-SQL and stored procedures to create  extended properties. Creating custom data sets, queries, views, stored procedures, functions and reports. Creating training documentation and conducting training sessions. Initial 6-month contract  extended an additional 6-months. Program Analyst Department of Veterans Affairs, VBA, PA&I August 2013 to August 2014 Tasked with analyzing and documenting database in Oracle EDW schemas. Use Informatica to trace  ETL mapping of objects, and OBIEE to determine how those objects were being used to create  reports. Conduct data analysis and document data anomalies and make recommendations for work- arounds. Create ad hoc reports using SQL and Toad for Oracle. Analysis of reports created by  others for accuracy and consistency with prior reports. Responsible for creating automated processes  for recurring reports with SAS Enterprise ad OBIEE. Located and corrected logical program and data anomalies that had been responsible for erroneous reports being produced for three years.  Identified "unknown" entities in reporting and decreased "unknowns" in reporting and increased  reporting accuracy and timeliness by 95%. Eliminated reporting backlog. Created ad hoc reports for senior management and Congress. Participated in EDW redesign. Used Agile/Scrum methodologies. Consultant November 2012 to August 2013 Consulting with HUD, Real Estate Assessment Group's PIC Reporting Group. Fulfilled ad hoc  reporting request utilizing SQL, ETL/DTS/SSIS and PL/SQL against Oracle and SQL data bases.  Miscellaneous consulting with clients including installation of new Windows server for Kenwood  Animal Clinic. Contact information provided upon request. Management Information Specialist Department of Housing and Urban Development - Washington, DC June 2009 to September 2012 2  Began as a temporary VBA/Access programmer, retained as an MIS Consultant, subsequently hired as GS-14, handling a variety of IT and database management duties. Lead and coordinate several  multiple technical projects, including requirements definition, system development, system support,  infrastructure, security, ETL and communications. Analyze NOFA to diagram programming require- ments. Create relational tables, queries, forms, reports and modules using VBA and Access to  automate the ARRA grant competition process, which enabled HUD to award $4 billion in grants in a record 3 months. Received commendation from HUD Secretary for my efforts. Provide leader-  ship for program support, coordinating with other organizations, agents, vendors, and associated  contractors. This includes project team leadership, instructing team members on VBA coding, planning, coordinating among project members, and documentation development. Took initiative to  set up a SharePoint site and to publish application to give access to Field Offices, demonstrating my  sophisticated technical expertise and communication skill working with representatives of HUD, various technical and project specialists. Utilize ODBC to link to MS SQL Server and Oracle tables  on multiple servers and platforms and query database tables. Determine the impact of changes to existing systems or supporting infrastructure. Use analytical skills to uncover data anomalies and  coordinate with CIO and contractor to correct programming and data errors. Lead and coordinate the selection and application of appropriate problem solving methods and techniques; provide advice on  work methods, practices and procedures, and assist project teams or individual members in identifying the para-meters of a viable solution. Identify data inconsistencies and potential data entry  errors and create programming routines to "scrub" those inconsistencies and errors from the data.  Develop project plans; set priorities and deadlines for completion of work and assign work to project  team members based on priorities and deadlines. Establish and maintain an effective working  relationship with high-level personnel both within and outside HUD to coordinate, review, and implement new system initiatives and resolve complex problems. Create reports used by HUD  Secretary's Office and the Vice President of the USA to report on ARRA accomplishments. Compile  ARRA grant energy usage reports from RAMPS data for Capitol Fund and ONAP grants. Prepare  documentation in support of PPM process for new applications including Statement of Work, Business Requirements Document and flow charts. Created user documentation. Lean Six Sigma  team member. Owner Small Business Data Solutions, LLC - Washington, DC November 2002 to June 2009 Owned and operated a computer consulting business targeted at small business and home users.  Services included including requirements definition, system development, system support, infrastructure design, security, and communications. Contracted with Service Employees  International Union (SEIU) to create Access database to support reporting requirements for Presidential election activities to comply with Federal Election Commission (FEC) laws. Directed  staff to define reporting needs, analyzed existing data contained in Excel files and defined database  requirements. Work included project team leadership, planning, coordinating among project  members, and documentation development; also involved the demonstration of sophisticated  technical expertise and communication skill working with representatives of many agencies and companies, various technical and project specialists. Developed project plans; set priorities and  deadlines for completion of work; and assigned work to project team members based on priorities and deadlines. Provided advice on work methods, practices and procedures, and assisted project  teams and individual members in identifying the parameters of a viable solution. Architected custom    3  database; wrote queries, created forms and custom reports based on user input to support FEC  requirements. Determined the impact of changes to existing systems or supporting infrastructure.  Populated Access tables by importing data from Excel files. Created "pick tables" for select States  and corresponding Congressional Districts by querying SQL database. Wrote VBA application to support user data entry and designed custom reports to include soliciting user input for exporting  data to Excel files. Documented database using Visio. Converted dBase IV and dBase III flat files to Access tables, performed requirements analysis and design of relational database for data entry  consistency. ETL/DTS to import data. Worked with client on existing SQL 2005 database to modify  reports and support stored procedures. Defined data needs for new reports, created new storage  procedures for query requirements for new reports. Used SSRS to create custom reports and to publish reports to SharePoint. Updated documentation to incorporate database changes and additions for various other clients. Senior Programmer/DBA/Systems Analyst Charles E. Smith Realty Companies - Arlington, VA January 1989 to February 2002 Responsibilities included the operation of mission critical programs and platforms. Led and coordinated multiple technology projects, including requirements definition, system development,  documentation, system support, infrastructure, security, and communications. Provided leadership  for program support to include coordinating with other organizations, agents, vendors, and associated contractors. Served as DBA for all SQL Servers. Upgraded SQL servers from 6.0 to 6.5  to 7.0 to 2000. Developed SQL Server backup and maintenance plans. Responsibilities included all  phases of SQL server operation, including hardware and software maintenance, ETL, server security, server optimization and patching. Managed Kronos Timekeeping System including migration to  AS/400 platform. Served as project lead: did requirements analysis, developed project plan, oversaw  allocation of resources and time lines. Automated Kronos, HR and Payroll integration.    ODS/LIS Project: this was a mission critical custom application which utilized SQL Server for back  end processing. Worked with the developer on SQL Server issues: debugging and refining stored  procedures and triggers, ETLs, indices, stored procedures and views. Implemented user access and security on the SQL server. This was a 6-year run-away project when I was tasked with managing it;  I brought it under control and to a successful completion in 6 months.    Served as project manager for Intranet design, development and consultant selection process.  Supervised design and implementation team and consultants. Conducted requirements analysis, designed and developed corporate intranet site using DreamWeaver, HTML and Java Script.  Conducted requirements analysis and designed backend SQL database to support Intranet. Worked  with HR Department to design queries to populate SQL server tables for Corporate Directory and utilize SQL reporting tools to publish directory to the Intranet. Education BS degree University of Maryland - College Park, MD Skills Data analysis, Database, Database design, Sql Server, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba, Ssis