Job Seeker Work Experience STAYWELL CORP July 2018 to February 2019 Primary Responsibilities include:  Upgraded 15 Oracle databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.2.0.1 and migrated to AWS. Databases were next backed up and uploaded to S3 storage using AWS CLI utility. Databases were RESTORED in AWS as STANDBY databases to support migration timeline. Created a STANDBY databases for each Production server from external source into AWS and placed in sync which allowed SWITCH-OVER to mitigate Production down over to AWS. Once migrated, wrote shell script for nightly backups and implemented in crontab.  • Maintain operating Oracle databases running on Amazon Cloud EC2-instances  • Install and patch oracle software on Linux and Windows operating systems  • Create oracle databases and tablespaces and monitor tablespace growth and assign enough space for the tablespaces  • Understand and implement Maximum Availability Architecture for oracle databases  • Monitor and Tune the performance of oracle databases  • Oracle user creation, maintenance and auditing of their actions  • Exporting and Importing the databases/schemas using datapump  • Write shell Unix and windows scripts to automate routine database activities  • Data masking of PII data  • Install and patch Oracle Enterprise Manger and management agents  • Monitoring the databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager  • Managing oracle databases on Linux and Windows operating systems  • Implementing oracle best practices  • Implementing Transparent Data Encryption  • Implementing Oracle data guard  • Document Standard Operating Procedures of various database activities  • Supporting applications running on Webmethods, Websphere, Weblogic  • Support development team in deploying scripts to various environments  • Schedule jobs in cron  • Establish User equivalence between servers  • Capable of providing solutions to a variety of problems that may arise in an expeditious, efficient, and timely manner. Support Engineer/ Database Administrator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) April 2017 to July 2018 04/2017- 07/2018  Primary Responsibilities include:  Support Engineer/ Database Administrator/  Support DOT/FAA users that included assistance with activities associated with the installation, setup, configuration, and utilization of Oracle products. Specific Services may include support with one or more of the following activities:  Installing & configuring Oracle clusterware & Database Software (Troubleshooting using cluvfy & handling common issues that arise during integration of the whole - bugs, network issues, configuration files issues, OCR issue,  deinstallation & cleanup of clusterware) Testing and benchmarked the application prior to going into production to determine its effects on GES and GCS with special focus on load testing for interconnect traffic.  Worked with customer for different RAC related issue such as:    • Hangcheck timer, split brain, RAC recovery, ASM,  • Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances.  • Used Cluster Verification Utility (CVU) to confirm installation at all phases.  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction.  • Upgrade of 10g R2 RAC to 11g R2 RAC  • Add or Remove Node from RAC as required. Cloud Solutions Engineer/ Database Administrator ELLUCIAN Inc April 2016 to March 2017 Installed, configured, upgraded, patched and maintained technology stacks and applied Security Best Practices to debug issues. Coordinate physical and logical changes to enterprise databases, enterprise middleware components, and Tomcat. ERP experience in supporting RDBMS, middleware. Analytical and Technical Problem-Solving Skills; Willingness to Engage in Process. Additional duties included implementation and configuration of application components within Banner XE Technologies. Support database and WebLogic vulnerabilities quarterly patching. Vetted Ellucian technology stack such as confirming version and of DB, WebLogic, Tomcat, and JAVA in preparation of AWS migration. Upgraded ODS as required, Migrated databases from local environment to AWS. Due to DB size, 2-6TB, used AWS Snowball where we were provided a local device to store STANDALONE databases which was shipped to AWS database center and made available by AWS engineers. Platform was Linux 6. Downloaded AWS CLI to upload DB database backups to S3 then download to target AWS server. Oracle Database Administrator Navigant Corporation - Chicago, IL October 2011 to April 2016 30 S Wacker Drive    Primary Responsibilities include:  Supported  Created RAC Oracle 11g database to support repository for JPMorgan Chase Bank to demonstrate compliance with all federal, state and local mortgage regulations. Installed and configured Oracle Weblogic and Oracle APEX as frontend application, wrote shell scripts and automated daily ITL loads to support incoming feeds from JBMorgan. Customer was able to VALIDATE or REJECT daily load via front-end interface before approving. We were able to successfully remove the bank from their consent order with the Office of Currency Controller. Worked with Data security and disaster recovery team to maintain high availability.    Configured SSL for WebLogic installation and https to support APEX 424 deployment.  PL/SQL development to support OID interface  Supported developers with coding and access issues.  Installed and Configured new RAC installation on Linux Red hat 6.  Ability to work cohesively in a team and with different functional groups and clients  Used RMAN to restore from previous backup due to data corruption issue.  Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC)  Implemented nightly backups using Oracle Enterprise Manager (Grid)  Very strong capabilities troubleshooting database issues  Configured Oracle 11g Data Guard database.  Could not use DUPLICATION command to create Standby due to 15TB size.  Used RMAN to RESTORE/RECOVER Primary to Standby server.  Configured Transport service to bi-directional log file movement.  Tuned archive log switching by increasing size.  Used Maximum Performance (asynchronous)  Setup DGMGRL to use SHOW CONFIGURATION command to Monitor. Oracle Database Administrator University of Mary Washington - Fredericksburg, VA May 2011 to October 2011 22401  1301 College Ave    ? Primary Responsibilities include:  Upgraded all databases from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.2 using Banner application using Oracle  recommended best practices.  Upgraded ebusiness R11.5 to R12 using best practices on Linux 5.  Applied Oracle Advanced Security using Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) using Oracle Wallet.  Applied current CPU/PSU patch  Installed and configured Oracle OEM Grid on Linux Red hat  Install Oracle APEX and configured with WebLogic  Upgraded Oracle Forms from 10.1.2.3 to 11.1.0.4 using WebLogic.  Utilized Oracle Grid Control OEM to monitor and manage Oracle and Unix targets  Monitor Alert Logs, Backups, Oracle Objects and File Server Space.  Performed RMAN Database Backup & Recovery  Install, upgrade & maintain Oracle 10g RDBMS on Unix & Windows  Installed and configured WebLogic 3.2 on Solaris  Tuned databases accordingly using SQL Tuning Advisor  Utilized UNDO advisory to best size of UNDO based off recent database activity  Used SPA (SQL Performance Analyzer) to anticipate changes to sql before upgrade or parameter change. Oracle Database Administrator IRS Treasury Department - New Carrollton, MD January 2004 to April 2011 20706  5000 Elin Road    ? Primary Responsibilities include:    Supported financial systems feeding into (Electronic Fraud Detection System) EFDS database. This was a highly visible database that brought in millions of revenue. Monitored daily data loads, tuned if more value could be added. Database size was in TB.  ? Experience with Oracle 11g on Solaris/Linux servers  SQL tuning and PL/SQL scripting  Assisted with Database Design/Physical & Logical Modeling  Setup partition tables to improve performance and maintenance.  Wrote shell scripts in Solaris to perform daily maintenance such as monitoring file system storage, running nightly batch jobs, checking backup status and refreshing data.  Experienced with OEM  ? Lead in database architecture design and implementation for numerous IRS projects such as EFDS which is  ? a major system designed to detect tax fraud.  ? Deployed Oracle APEX using Webtier 11.1.0.2 HTTP listener and configured SSL  ? Supported Oracle Business Intelligent Forms and Report for installations and deployments.  ? Created the physical database and storage structures, such as tablespaces, associated with Data mart  ? Created schema objects, such as tables, triggers, partitions and indexes defined in the design step  ? Worked with developers on programming interface to database. Identified best data access method to gain best performance. Assist in development of methodology for ongoing assessment of data performance.  ? Designed and implemented data extraction, data load, database synchronization routines and functions including modifications to existing procedures. Assisted in specification and implementation of tables, views, indexes, integrity, security, and business rules using DDL, DCL, DML, and PL/SQL functions, procedures, and packages.  ? Developed and modified stored procedures, triggers, and batch job scripts that automate the backend processing of transaction in an OLTP environment.  ? Maintained and corrected batch and automation jobs using Windows, database, and OEM schedulers.  ? Performed and managed database schema changes. Oracle Database Administrator Deloitte Consulting - McLean, VA May 2002 to December 2004 22101  7900 Tysons One Place    Responsible for supporting 9i Oracle databases. Working under a tight deadline as part of development team. Performed data modeling, recommended and implemented performance-tuning strategies, developed and maintained database schema, objects and data dictionary. Implemented disaster recovery procedures, and performed backups/restores, and data recovery. Ensured that system performance is robust. Applied analytical techniques when developing procedures to resolve system problems.  Configured RMAN with Catalog. Install catalog as required. Registered target database with RMAN on Solaris.  Wrote scripts to perform COLD/HOT backups. Worked with NetBackup engineer to link RMAN with NetBackup apps.  Installed 9i for production database configuration  Installed and managed Oracle Designer2000 repository and assisted with modeling the TSA enterprise model.  Configured Oracle RAC formally OPS to support the Oracle Apps 10i CRM application.  Migrated legacy data from various systems into Oracle 11i Teleservices application. Wrote PL/SQL programs using Oracle's 11i APIs as interface to migrate data. Working knowledge of CLOB and BLOB data type conversion, Dynamite SQL, various packages  DBMS_DDL and Autonomous Transactions. Principal Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Corporation - Reston, VA October 1998 to November 2002 20190  1910 Oracle Way    BANK OF AMERICA  Oracle 7.3, 805, 8i Unix Solaris, OEM, Oracle Financials  PRIORITY: Configuring and Tuning    Responsibilities:  Rewrote customer's data load programs, written in Pro*C by Earnest & Young, in PL/SQL in Solaris UNIX. Customer desired better performance and more modularity in code design. Increased performance by 30% by redesigning load algorithms and modularizing code at BOA.    Increased size of SYSTEM tablespace to support packages and triggers. Set size at 200MB  Created GL user with own TEMPORARY tablespace to support heavy transaction usage.  Setup batch routine to periodically truncate interim tables to avoid space usage problems.  Identified procedure/package usage and PINNED to memory for better performance.  Worked with Sysadmin to setup CONCURRENT MANAGER to 3 as background process  Sized SGA to 150MB also increase SHARED_POOL_SIZE. Block size was increased to 4K.  Worked with users to identify the heaviest usage tables proactively accommodate for growth.    NAVY DEFENSE  Oracle 7.2, 805 ER/win, NT, Unix, OEM  PRIORITY: Installation and Configuration    Responsibilities:  Installed and configured 805 on UNIX and NT platform. Supported customer with daily DBA tasks. Modified SQL*Loader program to accommodate new data requirements in an Oracle 805 database. Have extensive working knowledge of Oracle Web servers and Oracle 8i.  Worked on disaster recovery plan team to support client needs and concerns.  Supported parallel server implementation which involved designing and tuning.  Trained junior DBA. Also trained users on using ER/WIN data modeling tool. Education Cleveland Institute of Technology - Independence, OH May 1985 EDUCATION Kent State University - Kent, OH March 1984 Skills database (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Solaris (10+ years), Sql (10+ years) Additional Information • Charles Young is an Oracle DBA currently studying for his 11g Certification. He comes with 17 years' experience working with 7/8i/9i/10g/11g DBA/System Architect who has experience in the Oracle Grid Control, Oracle 11g Rel2 database server, Real Application Cluster (RAC), Real Application Testing (RAT) FAILOVER, CLUSTERING, DSS Data Warehouse and OLTP DBA, Data Modeling, OBIEE (Forms and Reports) Data Mining, Data Migration (Extraction, Transformation, Loading - ETL), Oracle Application Server 9-10g, IBM WebSphere, Oracle E-Business Suite 11i CRM,ER/WIN data modeling, PL/SQL, ProC, SQL Developer, Oracle Designer 2000, Oracle Workbench Migration tool and Oracle Advanced Security database encryption, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)    • Charles Young is an accomplished Information Systems consultant who studied Computer Science and Business Development at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio and has been employed in numerous industries gaining a good solid understanding of many business processes and markets. For example, Charles has over 20 years' experience in information technology. He has worked in Banking, Health Care, Government, Engineering Process control, Network Communications, Accounting systems, Web Application deployment, a major newspaper, Oracle corporation as a principle consultant, Bank of America, IRS, State Department, Allen Bradley (Rockwell), Deloitte Consulting, EDS and KEANE as a lead project manager and many other businesses with an I/T infrastructure. His skills encompass, Software development, B2C & B2B E-Commerce, Networking, Disaster Recovery, Data warehousing Database Administration    • His objectives as a Team Lead / System Architect include technological innovation, exploration of technological advantages and application of advanced technology to fulfill the project contractual requirements and deliverables.    Database Skills: 11g SQL Performance Analyzer, SQL Tuning Advisor SQL Access Advisor, 11g Database Reply, Cost Base Tuning, Database Upgrade, Data Modeling, Data Mining, Data Migration, Extraction, Transformation, Loading (ETL), OEM tuning pack, explain plan, SQL Analyze, Index Tuning, Oracle Expert, Partitioning, Parallel Query SQL Developer, Toad Spotlight, STATSPACK, Log Miner, RMAN  Database Server: Oracle 12c,11g/10g/9i/8i/7  Operating System: Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Wintel, Windows 2008, VMS, UNIX Solaris 10, Oracle VMware  Process: System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Build Management, change Management,  Symmetric Remote Data Facility (SRDF), Configuration  Management (CM), Version Control, technical support (24x7), PVCS, and CVS  Architecture: VMWARE, Network topology, Firewall, System Architecture, System Capacity planning, VPN, AWS S3 services    NAT, system administration, network administration, hardware specification and procurement, UML  Database Tools: Erwin, Toad, Benthic, Oracle Grid Control, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server