Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Berwyn, IL Oracle Database Professional looking for opportunities in the Chicagoland area Work Experience Database Administrator Aetna - Downers Grove, IL November 2008 to June 2019 • Primary DBA support for over 80 Oracle databases of varying sizes and configurations, experienced supporting home- grown and third-party installations. Supported high availability databases utilizing GoldenGate, RAC, and Dataguard. On call and indirect support of over 400 Oracle databases.  • Managed Oracle software installation on UNIX, Linux, and Windows platforms; PSU/SPU quarterly patching; Oracle version upgrade projects.  • Expertly administered all areas of Oracle database management: space and memory; backup and recovery using RMAN, Veritas Netbackup, and shells scripts; security, users, roles, and privileges; job scheduling; proactive monitoring via OEM, Foglight, nagios, and shell scripts; SQL optimizing and performance tuning.  • Collaborated with developers in the design, data modeling, coding, and testing of new and existing Oracle databases.  • Experience migrating Ingres databases to Oracle. Experience with proof of concept for Oracle Exadata and IBM Netezza and implementation of IBM Netezza to replace existing Oracle data warehouse databases.  • Began supporting MySQL and Postgres databases within the last year and did provisioning work with SQL Server as part of a database build team. Attended training on MongoDB. Associate Database Administrator Aetna - Downers Grove, IL October 2007 to November 2008 • Represented database administration in a cross-team tactical response group; troubleshooting issues that arose in production, running emergency database work requests to correct these issues, and escalating issues as needed.  • Worked on the implementation of the Guardium database auditing product, and handled auditing for the majority of in-scope production Oracle databases.  • Conducted regular database restore/recovery tests as scheduled, approximately once per month. Senior Data Security Administrator Aetna - Downers Grove, IL August 2006 to October 2007 • Assisted with project management and supervisory tasks, interviewed and made hiring decisions for the team. Data Security Administrator Aetna - Downers Grove, IL November 2000 to August 2006 • Developed an in house java-based web application, designed to replace paper forms with an automated request system used company wide.  • Created and maintained internal administrative tools including: SQL scripts for auditing user access, online documentation repository search and team homepage, data within the automated request systems.  • Established internal policies and maintained up-to-date procedures. Lead trainer for the Security Admin team.  • Transitioned Active Directory account administration to the Security Admin team, working with multiple teams to consolidate the procedures for AD account creation.  • Audited user access across multiple applications and host systems to ensure user access met all security policies.  • Administered user access across the majority of company host systems, databases, and applications. Education None in Chemical Engineering Rose Hulman Institute of Technology - Terre Haute, IN 1998 to 2000 None College of DuPage - Lombard, IL 1999 Diploma Fort Dorchester High School - North Charleston, SC 1998 Skills Oracle DBA (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), MySQL (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year), SQL Server (1 year), DBA (10+ years)