Principal Sr. Database Architect Principal Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Principal Sr. Database Architect - Baltimore Police Department Ellicott City, MD * Certified Oracle Database 10g, 11g and 12c RAC administrator with over fifteen years of experience in the information technology industry. Possesses extensive hands on experience in Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC), Cluster ware, Cluster Ready Services (CRS), and Microsoft SQL Server on both Microsoft and UNIX based platforms.  • Have worked and supported both Development and Production database environments with extensive experience utilizing the System Development Life Cycle SDLC.  • Plan, construct and maintain databases for data storage manipulation and retrieval and database security.  • Diagnose and resolve problems in response to customer reported incidents.  • Installation, Configuration and administration of Oracle software and its components.  • An in-depth understanding of the architecture of oracle including RAC, CRS and ASM.  • Backup and Recovery using RMAN, Export data pump, cold backup technologies.  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning of databases and front end applications.  • Data Guard Implementation and administration and VLDB administration and maintenance.  • Has extensive experience administering Oracle Golden Gate technology  • DB2 Administration  • Has performed extensive research, Training and Development in the IT industry and have trained and mentored several junior team members to be successful and skilled professionals.  • Highly motivated professional, quick learner, skilled communicator and a team player/leader.  • Result oriented, analytical and self-driven professional seasoned with years of working in a dual role of design/architecture and production support.  • Peoplesoft Campus  • ODA    HARDWARE/SOFTWARE  Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g and 11g and 12C Oracle Enterprise Manager (Oracle Expert, Tuning and Diagnostics Pack), Oracle Internet Directory(OID), DELL Open manager Essentials, SQL Server 2008,2012 and 2000, Unix Shell Scripting (Korn shell ). Erwin3.5.2, Toad, spotlight on Oracle (Quest), RMAN, UNIX, Sunsparc Solaris version 2.6, 2.7 and 8 (64 - bit), Sun Solaris 9-10, Sun Ultra Sparc E 4500, HP 9000, HP-UX 10.2, 11.0, HP Tru 64, HP OpenVMS, Linux Red Hart, Legato, VERITAS, Netback up, Windows NT 4.0, Novell 4.1, Windows 2000, XP, AIX 5.3, Power 7 and Oracle 12C Cloud Control, Linux RHEL 7.Jira Work Experience Principal Sr. Database Architect Baltimore Police Department April 2016 to Present As the senior Database architect with the police department, I have evaluated the entire technology stack and came up with recommendations that included new infrastructure and integration of the various systems. This comprehensive analysis of the systems resulted in net savings to the department by consolidating the entire technology stack and developing an analytical layer of data for reporting purposes, rather than having each unit doing their own reporting.  • Setup database appliance (ODA X5-2) on Linux platform  • Upgraded 11.2.0.3 databases to 12c  • Migrated large Oracle databases with size of about 3.1T from the legacy system over to Oracle Database Appliance 5x-2- ODA (Oracle Engineered System)  • Setup RMAN JOBS to run on the new system  • Integrated jobs from Lotus databases over to Oracle databases with the use of sql loader  • Worked with Code America to set up Use of Force system to track Officers in the field  • Applied critical patches on ODA  • Presided over weekly team meetings to identify problem areas and discuss improvements to satisfy the client.  • Interface with client (BPD) to understand their requirements and implement solutions.  • Implemented Fined grained access control to suppress expunged records from the Database  • Implemented tablespace encryption to protect sensitive data  • Troubleshoot problems with jobs  • Tune sql statements with issues  • Worked with Baltimore City IT Department to upgrade the databases that support the peopleSoft Campus application for Baltimore city Community college  • Identified issues with PLSQL PROCEDURES and Recommend fixes  • Participate in agency meetings to define strategic approach for a new Technology stack.  • Plan resources to anticipate future growths  • Ensure the smooth functioning of Oracle databases in a 24/7 environment.  • Designed and configured 3 node Real Application Clusters (RAC systems) for production and a 2 node RAC for Development and Testing environments  • Migrated 11G and db2 databases from the legacy systems at Inner harbor datacenter over to the new infrastructure at the tierpoint data center.  • Upgraded 11g databases to 12c  • Created container databases in ODA  • Converted non pdb databases and plugged then into the containers.  • Functioned as the Linux system admin by installing, setting up and configuring ASM storage devices.  • Migrated the IAPro database to Oracle Cloud Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Department of Justice - Office of Justice Programs (OJP) February 2015 to March 2016 • As a Sr. DBA with the Justice Department, I took part in technical meetings for the upgrade of Oracle RAC databases to 12C including the middle tier components.  • Lead and mentored a team of 4 DBA's  • Developed scripts to identify vulnerabilities in the databases and applied fixes (Hardening).  • Mined logs using Oracle's Log miner tool to identify culprit users responsible for deleting data within the database.  • Set up an in house sand box and simulated the upgrade of Oracle 11Gr2 to 12C.  • Created container databases (cdb's), converted and plugged in pdb production databases in preparation for production upgrade  • Monitor and add disks to disk groups as needed to mitigate space outages  • Used Serena Business Mash up tool to retrieve and implement Data Change Requests to correct code in production databases.  • Setup monitoring bash scripts for space outages and RMAN backup alerts  • Mined archived logs to identify culprit users responsible for deleting data  • Migrated and upgraded the sunflower RAC database from 10g to 11g  • Upgraded Sunflower application from version 4.5 to 5.0 and applied patches 50000001,50000002,50000006 respectively  • Converted Character Set to UTF8  • Migration of database files from local file system to ASM  • Training and mentoring of junior team members on RAC concepts and database administration methodologies.  • Configure Linux Rhel 7 for 12c (version 12.1.0.2) databases in preparation for future migration to Linux platform  • Defined a multilevel Data Access control system on OJP's Grant Management System with the use of Oracle Label Security to provide access to data on a need to know basis.  • Implemented encryption at tablespace level  • Implemented Data Masking on prod when used for refresh of development environment  • Install Grid Infrastructure 12c and configure it for RAC and Oracle Restart Environments  • Create Multitenant databases and plug in pdb's  • Upgrade Oracle 11.2.0.3 databases to 12c (version 12.0.1.2) in production test environment  • Apply GI PSU 12.0.1.2.4 to 12c databases.  • Convert non pluggable databases to pluggable databases and plug them into a container database on a remote host.  • Set up Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 13c for management of the production and Test Environments  • Worked with Oracle Public Cloud Engineers to migrate CBIF database to the Oracle Cloud  • Setup Golden gate one way replication of RMS database to replicate data over to the MOIT system.  • Configured Grid Infrastructure 18C to host the IAPRO Database environment.  • Used ASM FILTER DRIVE to create ASM devices.  • Scrum Master for the SDLC of the Iapro system. Sr. Oracle Database Engineer Government of the District of Columbia June 2013 to January 2015 Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO)  Department: ECIS- Enterprise Cloud and Infrastructure Services June 2013 - Jan 2015.    Sr. Oracle Database Engineer  OCTO is the centralized IT Grid that provides Cloud and Infrastructure services to all District of Columbia Agencies IT operations.  • I participated in meetings for capacity planning and the design of the enterprise system.  • Worked on the migration of the Public Works Departments IT environment into the OCTO GRID.  • Set up of the RAC environment from Development to Production that is currently serving as the DC Exchange insurance system called DC ACCESS SYSTEM (DCAS) and also stood up server for Disaster Recovery at ODC1 Data Center. Configured Oracle Cloud Enterprise Manager 12c to manage DCHBX installation & database, application at one of the data centers.  • Prepared documentation and a plan of action (including time lines) and setting up the new environment.  • Migrated the PeopleSoft Campus app to new infrastructure on Exadata  • Upgraded PeopleSoft Campus Application  • Upgraded Databases that support the PeopleSoft Campus application    • Stood up a 12C Cloud Control system for OCTO new infrastructure.  • Built an entirely new OCTO RAC Infrastructure at ODC1 Data Center and migrated all RAC databases from the Legacy Infrastructure to the new Environment, to support PeopleSoft applications.  • Upgraded PeopleSoft applications.  • Built a new 11g RAC environment at ODC3 Data Center and created standby databases.  • Configured the new DELL R710 Servers in to open manager essentials for hardware monitoring.  • Migrated 9i, 10g and 11g RAC databases over to a new Linux 6.5  • Carried out yearly Disaster Recovery exercises by switching over to standby databases and testing application connections and switching back to the primary environments.  • Provided day to day support on over 600 MS SQL databases  • Migrated MS SQL databases from a cluster to VMware's.  • Refreshed MS SQL databases with back up data from production databases.  • Worked with Oracle Corporation to set up ¼ rack Exadata system to support the PeopleSoft Campus application.  • Managed the peopleSoft application on Oracle Exadata on a day to day basis,  • Apllied Bundle patches on Exadata system (X6)    General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT) Development Effort and Consolidation Contract (DECC) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) June 2011 to June 2013 Sr. Principal Analyst - Lead Database Adminstrator  Coming on board GDIT and working on the DECC project, I led the effort of upgrading all stand-alone, CRS and RAC databases from 10.2.0.3 to 11gR2 and applied all quarterly CPU patches. Led the effort of designing, installing, and supporting new 11gR2 Oracle RAC databases and related functionality for the new enterprise architecture for CMS, ensuring the highest possible performance, availability, and hardening the databases to ensure security and at the same time maintaining the legacy applications for CMS:    • Installed and configured Oracle 11g Grid control  • Upgraded RAC databases from 10.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.2 and patched to 11.2.0.3  • Used 11g Oracle grid control to diagnose and fix performance issues  • Migrated RAC databases from VERITAS SFRAC storage system to ASM  • Configured new services for use in accessing RAC databases  • Cloned Verification & Validation (V&V) stand-alone databases to Dev and configured them into RAC databases  • Familiarity with the HIGLAS system.  • Worked with Database Developers to tune stored PL/SQL CODES  • Upgraded CRS 10g to 11g Grid Infrastructure including all RAC databases.  • Created and managed RAC services.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Software on UNIX and Windows Servers.  • Created from scripts, export dumps and cloned Oracle databases for development and test projects from production as needed for use by developers for new projects.  • Performed database Refreshes to update data from production to the Development and test environments using Recovery Manger (RMAN) and cold copies.  • Implemented Oracle Advance Security techniques to protect database integrity by masking data, hardening the databases.  • Deploying enterprise user security techniques to minimize and eliminate security threats by implementing password verification functions and encryption.  • Performed daily administration functions, including database management, monitoring, performance tuning, backup & recovery and also general troubleshooting on multiple UNIX platforms and Windows Servers.  • Planned and implemented Oracle CPU patches as required / recommended by Oracle.  • Maintained database backup and recovery infrastructure and performed backup tasks using RMAN Senior Database Administrator - CareFirst Blue Cross BlueShield Columbia Data Center CareFirst Blue Cross BlueShield, Columbia Data center MD May 2009 to June 2011 May 2009 to June 2011  Senior Database Administrator - CareFirst Blue Cross BlueShield Columbia Data Center is a highly dynamic 24x7 Data Center that provides IT Technical and Operational Support to CareFirst Business needs. Supported over 30 databases across different projects and worked most weekends to support new deployments for HIPPA implementation:    • Upgraded all environments from 10.2.0.2 to 10.2.0.5. All development databases are single nodes and all Tech Test and Production databases are Real application Clusters (RAC)  • Worked with UNIX system administration to configure new AIX Power 7 server requirements for the installation and creation of Oracle version 11.2.0.1. RAC Databases.  • Worked with developers, data architects through the entire process of SDLC to develop, test and deploy new critical CareFirst initiatives.  • Provided day to day support for databases assigned to me.  • Reorganizing and restructuring of existing Databases to meet the OFA standards and for optimizing the performance.  • Created database objects Tables paces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links  • Refreshed Test environments with data from production and masked data for security.  • Resizing, relocating and duplexing redo logs to either reduce log switching or eliminate contention  • Scheduled daily exports of critical schemas in development stages  • Used OEM and explain plans to diagnose and tune problem statements.  • Installed and configured Oracle 10 and 11g Enterprise Manager (OEM) on UNIX  • Resizing, cloning, moving, Partitioning and stripping table spaces, Tables, Indexes and rollback/undo segments as needed.  • Set up monitoring scripts for alerts for space outages, alert log errors etc.  • Configured and set up BMC Sqlbacktrack scripts for backup of newly created databases.  • Upgraded sqlbacktrack tool from 7.1 to 7.3.  • Super administrator of BMC Enterprise Policy Manager  • Exceeded established IT Operation Service Level Agreements for system availability and IT Operation services for all established SLA's.  • Implemented Advance Compression techniques in Operational Data Store (ODS), Warehouse environment.  • Planned and successfully executed commercial Disaster Recovery (DR) on all tier A databases from an offsite location. Lead Senior Database Administrator/Data Architect Berean Technology - Silver Spring, MD July 2002 to May 2009 Principal Leader.    Berean's Technology hosting facility in Silver Spring is a 24 x 7 data center that provides database services for multitudes and diversified companies. Always on call by phone, providing database administrative and application monitoring, performance tuning, backup and recovery and other database related issues. Managing over 60 databases (Oracle and some SQL Server instances) on Sun Solaris (UNIX) and NT/2000 platforms, with sizes ranging from 20M to about 1/2 terabyte including the following:    • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database.  • Oracle RAC & ASM installation configuration and administration on AIX 5.3 and LINUX Red Hat 4.3  • Installation and configuration maintenance of oracle 10g (RAC) in Development, Test and Production environments.  • Documented and trained junior DBAs on the Architecture, administration, concepts and troubleshooting techniques of Oracle 10g RAC and ASM.  • Played a supervisory/Lead role on all Database related tasks on the project.  • Install and configure Oracle 9i and 10g on both Windows and UNIX platforms using OFA.  • Create and configure Oracle Databases using Oracle Database Configuration Assistant or manually by using Oracle Database Dictionary, Table spaces, Indexes, Clusters, Tables, Constraints and Systems security using scripts such as CATALOG.SQL, CATPROC.SQL, CATAUDIT.SQL and the organization and easy identification of database files using the OFA database configuration method.  • Set up, configuration and troubleshooting of SQL*Net files  • Install and configure Oracle 9i and 10 Enterprise Manager (OEM) on UNIX and Windows NT platform.  • Supported Programmers in the development, deployment and tuning of PL/SQL CODES, Stored Procedures and triggers.  • Creating database objects Table spaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links.  • Reorganizing and restructuring of existing Databases to meet the OFA standards and for optimizing the performance.  • Resizing, relocating and duplexing redo logs to either reduce log switching or eliminate contention.  • Resizing, cloning, moving, Partitioning and stripping table spaces, Tables, Indexes and rollback/undo segments as the case might be.  • Analyzing Tables, Indexes and Clusters against chained and migrated rows and providing solutions.  • Primary Oracle DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases (all 10g, single instances as well as RAC) all running on IBM AIX 5.2 & 5.3. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in operational data store & operational data warehouse ODS & EDW environments).  • Data migrating using Import/Export and import/export data pump, SQL*Loader either interactively or batch mode.  • Set up and configure block change tracking used with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  • Standby/Failover Administration.  • Configure and administer standby databases(data guard),  • Experience with Oracle virtual private databases, partitioning, and replication.  • Configure Flashback recovery area for database, table flashback as needed.  • Make use of the Automatic Work load Repository and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor,  • Experience working with versioning tool rational suite clear-case  • Use SQL tuning advisor to run top sql statements for tuning,  • Use SQL access advisor to gather statistics on tables for tuning as needed.  • Providing performance tuning activities to improve performance of the Oracle database. Tune database through initialization parameter, SQL statement, and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Trouble shooting, restructuring, tuning, and tracking database load, fragmentation, contention, and overall performance for optimal performance of the existing database.  • Conducting load balancing procedures to reduce I/O and contention.  • Monitored database growth, created objects, administered users and tuned expensive SQL statements using EXPLAIN PLAN and SQL TUNING ADISOR.  • Identified space-bound objects including reviewing of CPU contention, memory, network or disk resources.  • Upgrade existing databases by applying Patches, Oracle Diagnostics and Tuning Packs to various versions of Oracle.  • Analyze data growth trends for capacity and resource planning.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures including export/import, migration utility.  • Reorganize databases: Defragmenting, turning Archive on/off, rebuilding and/or relocating indexes, and rollback/undo segments, etc.  • Supported Banner applications using Oracle database 10g as the repository.  • Monitoring/managing database space utilization and growth, table space usage and extents, to include allocating and planning disc storage, modifying database structure.  • Designed, tested and implemented backup and recovery solutions including automated daily hot backups and cold backups depending on criticality of the Database. Established backup and recovery procedures and maintenance including hot and cold backups to support point-in-time recovery of the database which includes (Using RMAN and shell scripts.  • Documented the infrastructure of existing and new databases using Erwin 3.5.2 to generate ER diagrams.  • Responsible for overall strategic planning & redesign of databases: Requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Test and Implementation through the phases of System Development Life Cycle.  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.  • As Database Technical Lead, trained and mentored junior team members on the project and communicated to the project manager's techniques to set client expectations regarding the efforts necessary to achieve change.  • Worked with application developers to address and clarify data requirements to resolve technical and functional issues.  • Enforced corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management.  • Security implementation through basic and advance security techniques like applying recent patches and upgrades, appropriate user grants, permissions and profile management. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Commerce one, Inc - Laurel, MD May 2000 to June 2002 • Installation and configuration of Oracle Software on UNIX and Windows Servers.  • Created from scripts, export dumps and cloned Oracle databases for development and test projects from production as needed for use by developers for new projects.  • Performed database Refreshes to update data from production to the Development and test environments.  • Plan software release changes and upgrades and implemented across development, test and production environments.  • Participated in Change Control meetings and reviews and suggestions to database changes.  • Performed daily administration functions, including database management, monitoring, performance tuning, backup & recovery and also general troubleshooting on multiple UNIX platforms and Windows Servers.  • Database technical support and guidance to application and project teams.  • Plan and implement Oracle CPU patches as required / recommended by Oracle.  • Maintain database backup and recovery infrastructure and perform backup tasks using RMAN.  • Monitor, troubleshoot and tuned Oracle databases for optimal performance.  • Performed database Upgrades from Oracle 8i, 9i databases on Unix and Windows Platforms  • Planned for growth of database objects for annual budget capacity planning.  • Implemented database moves from Unix server to Server as requested Education BS in Computer Science June 2009