Senior Database Lead Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Lead Consultant Senior Database Lead Consultant - Houston Independent School District Kansas City, MO ? Extensive knowledge with SQL Server versions SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 and Azure SQL Database  ? Experience in leading database technical team in daily support activities and project deliverables  ? Implementation of disaster recovery(DR)/ high availability(HA) strategies within SQL Server in accordance with  ? Recovery Point Objective (RPO)/ Recovery Time Objective (RTO) meeting Service Level Agreements  ? Planning and designing SQL Server database servers  ? Architect database servers including capacity planning, benchmarking and base lining  ? Security implementations within SQL Server meeting applicable standards and policies  ? Expert troubleshooting and maintenance of VLDBs  ? Solid team work and negotiation skills with IT management and developers    Microsoft Certifications    ? Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert (MCSE): Data Management and Analytics  ? Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA): SQL Server 2012/2014  ? Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Lead Consultant Houston Independent School District - Houston, TX November 2016 to Present Architect SQL Server Databases on-premise and Azure SQL Database  ? Design databases in Azure SQL Database  ? Upgrade SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2016  ? Provide database HA/DR solutions  ? Monitor VLDB databases for performance analysis and improvements  ? Automate database and data upload routines and operational tasks  ? Collaborate with solution and enterprise architects for process delivery, problem resolution  ? Provide best practices for database configuration, security, encryption, partitioning, database backups  ? Migrated SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2012 to Azure SQL Database  ? Database point of contact for business and vendor discussions Senior Database Consultant Energy Transfer - Houston, TX May 2016 to November 2016 Assist setting up SQL monitoring and alerts using Dell Foglight and Microsoft SCOM for Corporate SQL Server DBA  Team  ? Create and maintain high availability and disaster recovery solutions - Failover Clustering, Always On High  ? Availability groups, Replication, Log shipping and Database mirroring  ? Create and maintain database backups using Dell Litespeed  ? Improve performance of SQL Servers by analyzing key database performance metrics using Dell Foglight  ? Support SQL Server databases for enterprise applications  ? Work with automated database management software - DB Launch  ? Work with development teams, application and business teams to upgrade SQL versions to latest versions and associated database work  ? Proactively monitor databases for overall health of database, and took corrective actions to prevent any service interruption  ? Automate database maintenance routines and operational tasks  ? Provide database access reports for security audits Senior Database Consultant Quanta Services - Houston, TX May 2014 to May 2016 Responsible for SQL Server Architecture, Capacity Management, Performance Management & Tuning, Problem Management, Root Cause Analysis on SQL Server databases  ? Implement High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions - SQL Server failover clustering, AlwaysOn High Availability Groups, Log Shipping, Backup/Restore and Replication  ? Responsible for migration and consolidation of SQL Server databases from older versions to latest versions  ? Act as point of contact for infrastructure discussions, collaboration with solution and enterprise architects for process delivery, problem resolution (across the application), load and performance testing, and best practice implementation  ? Support project and application teams to deliver on database requirements, assist with performance tuning, identifying bottlenecks and code deployment  ? Plan and coordinate data migration between systems  ? Establish appropriate end-user database access control levels permissions and privileges  ? Proactively monitor databases for overall health of database, and took corrective actions to prevent any service interruption  ? Automate database maintenance routines and operational tasks  ? Provide database access reports for security audits  ? Provide database deployment support for Test and Production environments and 24x7 on call DBA support for  ? Production environment  ? Assist in deploying IderaSQLSafe to backup SQL Server databases  ? Deploy Idera tools - Idera Diagnostic Manager, Idera Compliance manager, Idera SQL Secure for monitoring and auditing SQL Server databases  ? Deploy and setup System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) MS SQL Server module alerts on key SQL metrics Database Technical Lead Abbott Laboratories - Temecula, CA August 2009 to May 2014 Lead SQL Server and Oracle database technical teams in daily support activities and project deliverables  ? Architect SQL server solutions and technology upgrades, and provide technical expertise related to ongoing maintenance and support of SQL Server  ? Implement and maintain high availability features of SQL Server, and managing and maintaining shared SQL Server database instances  ? Responsible to work with infrastructure, application and business units to deliver databases according to the requirements  ? Responsible for migration and consolidation of SQL Server databases from older versions to latest versions  ? Responsible to gather SQL Server information for SQL Server licensing and Capacity planning  ? Manage database backups and ensuring that Disaster Recovery and Data Retention protocols adhere to corporate policies  ? Manage security at all levels of SQL Server and specialize in Database Transparent Data Encryption  ? Responsible for database security, best practices, strategies, quality control, maintenance and metric reporting  ? Deployed and maintained SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Reporting Services and SQL Server  ? Analysis Services Database Engineer Schrill Technologies Inc - Temecula, CA September 2008 to August 2009 Responsible for SQL Server database administration  ? Managed database backups and ensured that disaster recovery and data retention protocols adhered to corporate policies.  ? Managed security at all levels of SQL Server, implements and maintained high availability features of SQL Server, and managed and maintained shared SQL Server database instances.  ? Conducted production database performance monitoring and capacity planning  ? Architected SQL server solutions and technology upgrades, and provided technical expertise related to ongoing maintenance and support of SQL Server.  ? Monitored and optimized data storage for database systems and works with development teams on data sizing.  ? Resolved Windows platform issues related to SQL Server; and utilized SQL Server Integration Services.  ? Used stored procedures, DBCC and System Stored procedures, T-SQL, Triggers and other Database Objects.  ? Responsible for performance tuning, Backup/recovery, Query Optimization, Security and disaster recovery Worked on multiple projects and platforms and converts Access databases to SQL Server databases. Database Administrator Comp Excell, Inc - Temecula, CA October 2006 to September 2008 Responsible for SQL Server database administration  ? Created and maintained SQL Clustering, replication and log shipping  ? Managed database backups and ensured that disaster recovery and data retention protocols adhered to corporate policies  ? Managed security at all levels of SQL Server, implements and maintained high availability features of SQL Server  ? Managed and maintained shared SQL Server database instances  ? Conducted production database performance monitoring and capacity planning  ? Provided technical expertise related to ongoing maintenance and support of SQL Server  ? Monitored and optimized data storage for database systems and works with development teams on data sizing  ? Resolved Windows platform issues related to SQL Server; and utilized SQL Server Integration Services  ? Used Stored procedures, DBCC and System Stored procedures, T-SQL, Triggers and other database objects  ? Was responsible for performance tuning, backup/recovery, query optimization, security and disaster recovery  ? Upgraded databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005.  ? Worked on multiple products and platforms and converted Access databases to SQL Server databases Education Masters in Production Engineering in Production Engineering RWTH Aachen University 2003 to 2006 Bachelors in Production Engineering in Production Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 1999 to 2003