IT Manager / Database Administrator IT Manager / <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager / Database Administrator - RevClaims LLC Brandon, MS Work Experience IT Manager / Database Administrator RevClaims LLC - Jackson, MS 2019 to Present Develop, implement and maintain database and computer-based information  systems for RevClaims.  Implement physical changes to databases; code and test SQL, manage production databases.  Develops BI Analytical reports for management.  Document programming methodologies and toolkit use.  Develop MS SQL databases as needed. Lead Programmer Analyst Mississippi Insurance Department - Jackson, MS 2015 to 2019 Primary role is Lead Programmer Analyst for the Agency, where I identify business  requirements and develop web applications to meet legislative requirements.  Develop Analytical Reports using Microsoft Power BI & SSRS.  Design & maintain various web applications for the Agency.  Perform minimal graphic design using Adobe suite of products  Develop Oracle & MS SQL databases needed for web applications. Senior Analyst Self Employed - Brandon, MS 2012 to 2018 Directly involved in designing complex information systems, databases, and multi- system interfaces. Assisting technical teams in application analysis, design, and  development for projects and/or project phases or sub phases and recommending  innovative technology solutions to meet Customers' business objectives. Performing  Managed Network, Server and PC services to customer base throughout the southeast  region of the United States.  Develop and implement custom WordPress solutions to meet client needs  Perform Managed Network, Server and PC services to customer base throughout the southeast region of the United States  Design and implement SSRS reporting solutions based on customer requirements Senior Systems Analyst Mississippi Baptist Health Systems - Jackson, MS 2013 to 2014 Member of the Financial application team; assigned to the Accounting business area  to interface with managers, users, and consultants for requirements gathering, feedback exchange and project/timeline driven solutions.  Manage application software selection, installation, implementation, upgrades  Develop and implement interfaces between various hospital systems  Develop Ad-Hoc SSRS reports for Accounting Managers & Staff. Lead Systems Administrator Mississippi Department of Human Services - Jackson, MS 2012 to 2013 Part of a team of System Administrators in support of MDHS network infrastructure and applications.  Configure and deploy multiple system platforms used by the agency such as Citrix, VMware, Microsoft, Cisco as well as Imaging technologies.  Supervise one System Administrator II and offered direction where needed.  Offer insight to management staff as it relates to emerging technologies in support of our Agency's direction. Sr. Systems Engineer Business Communications Inc - Ridgeland, MS 2007 to 2012 Provide Microsoft Server 2008 Maintenance & Deployment, Cisco switch & router  configuration and implementation. Perform Citrix Administration & maintenance for BCI  customer base.  Maintain ongoing support activities for BCI Managed services, customer base throughout the state of Mississippi.  Implement Citrix Xen Proof of Concept solutions for potential customers having an interest in Citrix & VMware technologies.  Consult BCI Sales staff on integration of technical solutions to meet the needs of potential  clients.  Design & Implement wireless network solutions.  Install and configure Cisco routers and switches to provide secure data transfer without sacrificing network performance. Systems Engineer American Healthtech - Jackson, MS 2000 to 2007 Design & Implement network solutions for those customers who utilize American Healthtech  smart charting software.  Develop SQL scripts for customers who desire additional functionality outside the scope of American Healthtech software.  Train and mentor new employees to become effective network implementation engineers  Create scripts to perform data cleaning to correct database inconsistencies.  Develop SQL scripts to port data from various resources, into our application.  Create custom Crystal reports incorporating SQL databases.  Help clients resolve technical issues as they relate to our product  Implement corporate network solutions over a Microsoft platform  Implement & maintain Citrix thin client solutions for customers with a large user base. Database Administrator Jackson Public School District - Jackson, MS 1997 to 2000 Perform ETL of data from legacy mainframe to MS SQL databases  Install, upgrade, tune, and monitor production MS SQL databases. Systems Engineer Electronic Data Systems - Plano, TX 1988 to 1997 Design LAN solutions for EDS customer accounts located in Jackson, MS and Detroit, MI.  Develop SLC process driven solutions to meet customer business requirements.  Support multiple Network Operating System platforms; Novell, 3Com, SUN Sparc 10 Education Bachelor's Degree in Engineering Technology in Electronics Engineering Wayne State University - Detroit, MI 1982 to 1984 Associate Degree in Electronics Engineering Technology Electronics Technology Institute - Cleveland, OH 1980 to 1982 Skills Database, Database systems, Microsoft access, Oracle, Sql, Ssrs, T-sql, Html, Javascript, Power bi, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Crystal reports, Ms-dos, Bi, DBA, Sql Server, Ssis, ETL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OPERATING SYSTEMS OTHER    MS-DOS Microsoft SSIS/SSRS  Windows 32/64 bit Systems Microsoft Power BI  Crystal Reports    DATABASE SYSTEMS PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES    Oracle 11g Microsoft CSS ASP.NET  Microsoft SQL 2008/2012 T-SQL JavaScript  Microsoft Access HTML    SERVERS    Microsoft Server 2003/2008/2012