Information Assurance Engineer Manager Information Assurance Engineer Manager Information Assurance Engineer Manager - General Dynamic Information Technology Waldorf, MD Senior Information Assurance Security Engineer proficient at providing system security support to a fast-paced, highly demanding federal agency which includes the Defense Information Security Agency (DISA). Scan software for vulnerabilities analysis using Micro Focus WebInspect and Micro Focus Fortify Static Code Analyzer (SCA). Experience with technical documentation related to NIST SP 800-53 REV 4 and Risk Management Framework (RMF), continuous monitoring, and POA&M management. Prepare and document reports including assessment-based findings, outcomes and vulnerability metrics. Work Experience Information Assurance Engineer Manager General Dynamic Information Technology - Alexandria, VA April 2016 to Present • Provide Daily and Monthly Status Report (MSR) detailing major accomplishments, ongoing activities, issues/concerns and other relevant information for the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) or other Government designated point of contact (POC) to maintain full situational awareness of the contractor's ongoing work and schedule.  • Communicate security findings, associated risks and potential remediation to developers and program management  • Act as a technical SME for all Information/Knowledge Management and Collaboration systems within the organization  • Research secure coding practices in common programming language such as Java and C++  • Create Application Security and Development (ASD) checklist that provides due diligence to ensure security standards have been made to an application.  • Generate Fortify Audit Workbench legacy reports PDF and XML  • Use open-source license tool SONARQUBE to perform health checks of source code to identify software vulnerabilities, Code Smells and Bugs.  • Track trends, centralized metrics and history of SCA scan by uploading Fortify artifacts (.fpr) into Fortify Software Security Center (SSC)  • Ability to read Java, JavaScript, Coldfusion, HTML, CSS and XML code    Fortify Code Reviewer  ? Experience with application security assessment tools such as HP Fortify Static Code Analyzer (SCA), Fortify Audit Workbench (AWB), HP Fortify Software Security Center (SSC), Micro Focus Web Inspect, and SonarQube  ? Explain software vulnerabilities to both technical and non-technical audiences  ? Work with engineers and analyst assessing DoD Information Systems against the RMF security controls IAW DoDI 8500, DoDI 8510 and NIST SP 800-53  ? Monitors Vulnerability Remediation Asset Manager (VRAM) and Host Based Security System (HBSS) for discrepancies.  ? Conduct web application security scans, analyze results for false positives, prioritize vulnerabilities and meet with developers to ensure remediation of discovered Fortify vulnerabilities of CAT I's and CAT II's in accordance to with NIST 800-53 Rev 4, DoD DISA Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG)  ? Prepare Code Review Reports (CRR) on scanned applications using the company's template and present the findings to management  ? Install and configure Fortify SCA and Fortify SSC, SonarQube, WebInspect Product Suite and MySQL database  ? Generate Fortify Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) Reports and perform DISA STIG scanned source code assessments of security controls, identify weaknesses and vulnerabilities, and track remediation activities in Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) Sr. Oracle Application Engineer ASAP Resource Group Federal LLC - Arlington, VA April 2014 to April 2016 Provided Database support to Dept. of Homeland Security (DHS) - Transportation Security Administration (TSA) by creating documents and implementing standards and/or modeling to monitor and enhance the capacity and performance of the database. Developed data import and export routines to automate data loading. Built windows, screens, and reports.  ? Performed analyses and reviewed complex applications being released into production. Developed test application code in client server environments to ensure that software conformed to build management practices.  ? Developed back-up and recovery procedures and data archive/purge procedures. Created supporting technical documentation.  ? Provided database support to eTAS Release 2.0 Kronos-Workforce Central (WFC) 6.3; upgraded following the build document. Senior Oracle/MySql Database Administrator Lexes Associates Inc - Alexandria, VA April 2012 to April 2014 Lead the database production support for the Department of Commerce National Technical Information Service (NTIS) Center. Supported JIVE databases (Core Application, Jive Engine and Analytics) and upgrades.  ? Installed and configured Oracle Metadata Repository (RCU) to support Oracle Fusion Middleware. Worked with Oracle consultants to install and configure Oracle Fusion MiddleWare Weblogic, RCU, OIM, OID, OAM, OVD, ODSM, and OES on Linux RedHat 6 OS to support DHS NextGen/myhomeland Collaboration ICAM IOC (production) and UAT environments. Installed and configured OEM 12c.  ? Installed and Configured MySQL Enterprise Monitor on the client and installed the Agent on the development server to evaluate product. Installed MySQL on Linux RedHat 6 OS.  ? Installed and configured Weblogic Admin Console and Oracle Business Intelligence. Applied patch to Weblogic using Oracle Smart Update.  ? Performed Database and SQL tuning by using various tools like AWR, EXPLAIN PLAN, and Optimizer hints.  ? Successfully migrated databases from end-of-life server. Researched and Implemented Oracle best practices for database auditing. Used OEM for managing databases.  ? Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, system, and key process, reviewing system and application logs.  ? Troubleshooted and resolved database and/or application problems encountered by end users. Successfully migrated oracle 9i and 10g databases from end-of-life servers to new oracle 11g db servers.  ? Installed, upgraded and STIG, patched development, test, and production databases from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11gR2. Created and configured database to meet developer and user requirements applying access controls.  ? Set up RMAN for database cloning, backup and recovery. Performed regular file archival and purge as necessary.  ? Lead DBA for creating STAR MySQL database, which stores metadata that allows customers to find documents. Developed and populated Thesaurus table to replace an existing process which used disparate Excel spreadsheet.  ? Used mysqldump to do table level and full database exports. Lead DBA for migrating an Oracle schema into a MySQL production database using MySQL Migration Toolkit. Software Quality Assurance/ Database Administrator Northrop Grumman - Fairfax, VA November 2008 to November 2012 Followed Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) best practices: use of Web Application Firewall to maintain awareness of cyber threats and vulnerabilities.  ? Wrote database test cases for the Software Quality Assurance Test Plan.  ? Worked with Fortify consultants to install Fortify 360 software Source Code Analyzer (SCA) in the Army Knowledge Online (AKO) Portal test environment.  ? Installed Fortify 360 SCA, Program Trace Analyzer (PTA), and Real Time Analyzer (RTA) on Windows and Linux OS. Installed and configured the Fortify 360 Server on Windows and Linux. Used 360Configuration.jar file to seed the SCA database.  ? Installed and configured Fortify RTA Console to point to a third-party database (oracle 10g) using Fortify Appdefense configuration utility.  ? Documented the Fortify 360 software installation and created a baseline by scanning the AKO Portal, Instant Messaging, and Mail and Content security code using SCA. The data gathered from baseline was put into Change Management for the Fortify consultants to train the AKO Portal Team.  ? Created, installed, and tested Secure Socket Layer (SSL) certificate on the Fortify Application Server.  ? Briefed customer management and NG staff on hardware configuration, deployment of Fortify in both NIPR and SIPR environments and result from the scanned applications. Education M.B.A. in Computer Information Systems and Science University of the District of Columbia 1990 B.S. in Computer Science Saint Augustine's College - Raleigh, NC 1987 Skills Security, Tomcat, Weblogic, Informix, Mysql, Oracle, Subversion, Micro focus, Aix, Apache, E10k, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Eclipse, Vmware, Erwin, Audit