Business Systems Analyst Business Systems Analyst Business Systems Analyst Township of Brick, NJ Work Experience Business Systems Analyst K. Hovnanian - Matawan, NJ 2018 to 2018 • Assisted end users and supporting our JDEdwards EnterpriseOne CRM Sales Application as well as the Sales 1440 application by accurately and efficiently resolving Help Desk tickets.  • Analyzed business needs and created specifications for any new system enhancements and/or changes to the exisitng business process and corresponding system modification.  • Traveled to nation-wide implementations of JDEdwards EnterpriseOne CRM application and conducted training sessions in a classroom environment for our Sales Consultants on the software.  • Supported the Sales Consultants nation-wide by visiting our communities and providing one-on-one training.  • Configured and tested our TEST, TRAINING and PROD environments in support of all CRM implementations. Business Data Analyst Systek - West Long Branch, NJ 2016 to 2018 • Performed studies and analyses of processes and existing tools; identified opportunities for improvement, and developed improvement strategies.  • Prepared study and analysis reports, improvement plans, and process user guides.  • Defined and captured relevant performance metrics for analysis and reporting purposes, and provided insight into operating performance for the purpose of making recommendations for improvements. Business Data Analyst MISTRAS - Princeton Junction, NJ 2012 to 2014 • Performed troubleshooting of all IFS application errors/issues with quick and efficient analysis and correspondence with end users world-wide through the MISTRAS help desk.  • Created new IFS users with appropriate security requirements.  • Logged tickets on IFS support site and corresponded with IFS support if necessary for ticket resolution.  • Trained and assisted end users with IFS functionality and navigation.  • Created ad-hoc SQL reports to extract data from Oracle database when requested by users.  • Ran and modified existing Crystal Reports.  • Researched IFS CRM module and lead the analysis of tool with selected end users.  • Acted as a liaison between MISTRAS and IFS (or IFS partner) - gathered requirements and communicated any requested changes and enhancements to our current IFS environment.  • Tested and documented any patches applied to both our test and production IFS environments.  • Assisted with any Oracle database environment analysis and implemented changes when necessary. Senior Database Analyst UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI - Miami, FL 2008 to 2011 • Wrote SQL code and utilized LogiXML software tool to maintain and develop reporting solutions for the University's Research Reporting System (RRS) Intranet site.  • Responded to ad hoc reporting requests from the Vice Provost for Research and other University employees in order to support the Dean's needs for ongoing planning and analysis related to all research performed at the University of Miami - extracted data from the Oracle 10g RRS database and utilized Excel to present and summarize data with pivot tables.  • Developed scripts and automated processes to load data from various data sources into our RRS Oracle database.  • Set up backup and recovery solutions for the Oracle production database and created new test database environment.  • Assisted and trained end users on the Research Reporting System on an individual basis as well as in a group classroom environment. Database Administrator TEVA - Miami, FL 2005 to 2008 • Performed upgrades of Oracle 8.1.7 and 9.2.0.4 databases to version 9.2.0.6.  • Supported PeopleSoft and JD Edwards Developers on daily basis by monitoring database performance and running requested SQL on production environments via Change Control requests.  • Installed Oracle 9.2.0 and patch to version 9.2.0.  • Created new 9i databases/cloned existing databases for new application installations.  • Recovered database backup, performed imports/exports for data restore requests.  • Created shell scripts and schedule via crontab utility to monitor JD Edwards job errors, job waits, etc. and send results to analysts.  • Created OEM jobs in order to monitor system events, analyze database tables, export/import data.  • Installed SQL Server 2000 and created new SQL Server databases upon request.  • Copied, performed backups, and recovered SQL Server databases/objects upon request.  • Managed security for both SQL Server and Oracle databases. Oracle DBA BANKUNITED - Miami, FL 2003 to 2005 • Administered seven Oracle databases including 8.1.7 and 9i on Sun Solaris 5.8, and Oracle iAS.  • Supported data warehouse developers by moving code from test to production, troubleshooting nightly load errors, and monitoring disk space.  • Performed tuning of warehouse in order to improve query performance and increase load speeds  • Installed Oracle client and configured ODBC connections for end users.  • Installed Oracle Server and/or recover Oracle databases in test environments in order to prepare for disaster recovery.  • Set up and monitored backup procedures, including both RMAN and file system backups.  • Created jobs utilizing Oracle Management Server in order to monitor system events, analyze database tables, perform backups, export/import data and reorganize database objects. Oracle DBA GLOBECAST NORTH AMERICA - Miami, FL 2001 to 2003 • Administered Oracle 8.1.7 and 9i databases (both Linux and Windows 2000) and Oracle Application Server supporting GlobeCast employees in five U.S. cities.  • Project manager for implementation of new SatConCS system to replace current Globecast booking / billing LINK system.  • Performance tuning of database - reduced downtime occurrences from daily to bi-monthly.  • Performed troubleshooting of all database/application errors by utilizing Oracle's Metalink website (creating TAR's) and utilizing my strong analytical skills.  • Created ad-hoc reports for Accounting and Booking Center departments utilizing SQL*Plus, Oracle Developer, and Excel.  • Maintained and developed Globecast's LINK application as requested by users (modifying existing PL / SQL packages and procedures with embedded HTML).  • Installed Oracle 8i and 9i to create test database environments on both Windows 2000 and RedHat Linux to prepare for disaster recovery.  • Upgraded and maintained/developed Multiview accounting system - re-wrote existing interfaces for major upgrade.  • Created reports off current SMS database (Foxpro) with Report Writer software tool. Education Master of Science in Mathematics / Management Science University of Miami - Miami, FL 1995 to 1998 Baccalaureate in Mathematics, Mathematics Montclair State University - Upper Montclair, NJ 1991 to 1995 Skills Business Intelligence, Excel, testing, access, SQL, Microsoft Office, Visio, Powerpoint, MS Office, HTML Certifications/Licenses Certified Personal Trainer May 2007 to Present National Personal Training Institute