Guardium Administrator Guardium <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IBM Guardium DATABASE SECURITY Bowie, MD • Over 15 years of IT experience with over 10 years as an and an Oracle Database Administrator and 3 years as IBM Guardium Administrator  • Database Security Architect responsible for designing, architecting Guardium infrastructure and monitoring solution.  • Installed and Configured Guardium CM, Collectors, and Aggregators  • Upgraded Guardium appliances from 10.1 through o 10.5  • Installed Guardium STAP agents on database servers to implement Database Activity Monitoring (DAM)on including Oracle, Exadata, SQL Server, Hadoop, MongoDB,  • Upgraded Guardium agents (GIM & STAP) from 10.4 through 10.5  • Coordinated the Activation of ATAP on 600 database servers where databases had network encryption enabled.  • Downloaded appliance patches (Sniffer, GPU, alerted etc.) from Fix central and applied such to all Guardium appliances enterprise-wide.  • Installed Guardium policy with associated rules appropriate for meting HIPPAA requirement for DAM.  • Coordinating the enterprise effort for data encryption using technologies such as TDE for data at rest and network encryption for data in motion.  • Experience using Shell Scripting to automate database jobs such as backups, ETL jobs using sql Loader, Materialized view refresh in Unix based environments.  • Experience using PowerShell Scripting to automate database jobs such as backups, ETL jobs using sql Loader, Materialized view refresh in windows environments.  • Configured and scheduled Guardium appliance backups (system configuration and data) to FTP sites  • Implemented Database Vulnerability assessment using Guardium and AppDetective  • Configured and scheduled collectors export to aggregators and also import by aggregators  • Configured integration with with Qrader, our SEIM tool at Carefirst Bluecross  • Coordinated database PHI classification based on HIPPAA requirements, identified PHI fields were then loaded to Guardium for use in monitoring  • Coordination amongst different stakeholder groups within the enterprise necessary to implement the database security solutions ( Database group, Infrastructure) group, Unix, cyber security, network and various application owners  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g databases.  • Proficient with application of Oracle Quarterly Security Patches ( SPU's)  • Installation, configuration and management of Tripwire for servers on database servers and application servers ( Linux, aix and solaris) Work Experience Guardium Administrator Cigna Healthcare February 2019 to Present • Identify trusted sessions sessions and load into appropriate Guardium groups  • Deploy and setup configuration for IBM Guardium to ensure collectors, aggregators, load balancers, agents (S-TAP, Guardium Installation Manager (GIM), and ATAP) and change Audit system (CAS) are properly installed.  • Develop and ensure Database Activity Monitoring policies/rules are setup in accordance with HIPAA regulation.  • Run, test and validate Guardium configuration settings and fully document technical and procedural requirements  • Develop new approaches to ensure compliance with standards and identification of security anomalies through automation and implementation of enterprise database monitoring capability.  • Implementing Guardium on various DBMS such Oracle, Sql Server, Exadata, Hadoop  • Maintaining Guardium infrastructure such patching appliances, upgrading STAP agents  • Working with application owners to develop and implement monitoring and reporting use-cases. Database Security Architect Consultant CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield February 2016 to February 2019 • Architect and infrastructure design for the deployment of Guardium Database monitoring solution for the entire enterprise (2500 databases on 2000 database servers).  • Build Guardium appliances (Central Manager, Aggregators, collectors)  • Created Data sources and implemented Database Vulnerability assessments ( VA ) using Guardium  • Coordinate with other teams to implement encryption solutions enterprise-wide on all databases. This involves implementation of encryption of data at rest ( TDE) and data in motion (network encryption) across various database management systems such as Oracle, EXADATA MS SQL server,  • Deploy and setup configuration for IBM Guardium to ensure collectors, aggregators, load balancers, agents (S-TAP, Guardium Installation Manager (GIM), and ATAP) and change Audit system (CAS) are properly installed.  • Develop and ensure Database Activity Monitoring policies/rules are setup in accordance with HIPAA regulation.  • Run, test and validate Guardium configuration settings and fully document technical and procedural requirements  • Develop new approaches to ensure compliance with standards and identification of security anomalies through automation and implementation of enterprise database monitoring capability.  • Implementing Guardium on various DBMS such Oracle, Sql Server, Exadata, Hadoop  • Maintaining Guardium infrastructure such patching appliances, upgrading STAP agents  • Working with application owners to develop and implement monitoring and reporting use-cases.  • Implemented application user translation for out of the box application such as Peoplesoft etc.  • Implemented Sensitive data and database discovery configuration  • Installed Guardium STAP agents on database servers to implement Database Activity Monitoring (DAM)on including Oracle, Exadata, SQL Server, Hadoop, MongoDB,  • Upgraded Guardium agents (GIM & STAP) from 10.4 through 10.5  • Coordinated the Activation of ATAP on 600 database servers where databases had network encryption enabled.  • Downloaded appliance patches (Sniffer, GPU, alerter etc.) from Fix central and applied such to all Guardium appliances enterprise-wide.  • Installed Guardium policy with associated rules appropriate for meting HIPAA requirement for DAM.  • Coordinating the enterprise effort for data encryption using technologies such as TDE for data at rest and network encryption for data in motion.  • Experience using Shell Scripting to automate database jobs such as backups, ETL jobs using sql Loader, Materialized view refresh in Unix based environments.  • Configured and scheduled Guardium appliance backups (system configuration and data) to FTP sites  • Configured and scheduled collectors export to aggregators and also import by aggregators  • Configured integration with with Qrader, our SEIM tool at Carefirst Bluecross  • Coordinated database PHI classification based on HIPAA requirements, identified PHI fields were then loaded to Guardium for use in monitoring  • Coordinated with the DBA team to implement Guardium data-sources which were then used to implement Entitlement reporting. Lead Oracle DBA, OASIS APPLICATIONS SUPPORT United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) June 2015 to February 2016 • Supervise and Mentor a Team of two Oracle DBA's  • Designed High availability solution involving creation of standby databases and configuring Data-guard Broker. Configured fast start failover.  • Assigned work to Team members based on the project schedule and urgency of databases fixes.  • Upgraded 10 databases from oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 in a windows server 2008R2 environment.  • Develop step by step procedures for use by junior team members for implementation of various database operations.  • Installed Enterprise Manager Cloud control and deployed agents to monitor 20 databases, servers and applications.  • Performed Backups and Recoveries of database objects (Tables, tablespaces, instances etc.) Automated Rman backups using windows batch file and windows scheduler.  • Created RMAN catalog and registered all databases into it  • Created and maintain Oracle databases on database servers including the following tasks: Implementation/Development, Configuration/Optimization, Unit Testing and integration  • Applied Oracle Critical Patches Updates (CPUs)  • Monitored disk space usage and growth, tuning the database with the assistance of the ADDM report.  • Perform database capacity planning and growth projections and Perform database security audit and maintenance  • Created, updated and maintain Oracle objects (Packages, procedures, functions, triggers etc.)  • Design, create, and maintain materialize views  • Perform database upgraded, updates and changes as needed  • Reversed Engineered Database Schemas to better understand relations and normalize database tables. Senior Oracle Database Administrator National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) February 2013 to June 2015 • Installed Oracle 12.1.0.2 on Linux and Solaris dedicated boxes and currently testing the upgrade of Oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 databases including the creation of container and pluggable databases.  • Installs, configures and manages Tripwire for servers for all our database and application servers (Aix, Linux and Solaris).  • Installed 11.2.0.4 on al servers ( 30) and upgraded databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4  • Working with databases in virtualized environments (VMware) running Linux 6.5.  • In my test environment, I Created virtual machines (oracle virtual Box) and installed Linux OS on these boxes.  • DBA supporting various production databases including data warehouse ranging in size from 100GB to 3TB (in Preprod, Dev, Training, Post Prod and Production environments) in various platforms ranging from AIX (VM's), Solaris, Linux.  • Table refreshes and schema refreshes using Datapump expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.  • Configured and deployed Tripwire and splunk on all servers as security measure to monitor changes to critical and other important database related files. Oracle Database Administrator Prince George's County Government, Maryland January 2008 to February 2013 • Managed and supported multiple 9i. Oracle 10g, 11g, (15+ Oracle) databases.  • Created and cloned Oracle Databases on ASM. Performed database cloning and re-location activities.  • Experimented with Amazon Web services ( AWS) EC2 administration and management and the creation of databases on EC2 using EBS and s3 storage.  • Maintained data integrity and created users, managed profiles, resources and password security.  • Upgraded Databases from lower version to higher version.  • Tuned SQL statement against database and its objects.  • Installed and tested new versions of Oracle database, applications, and patches.  • Created Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigned the users to groups and granted necessary privileges as required.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduled Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitored the scheduled jobs.  • Executed scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance and monitoring of the databases using OEM ( oracle enterprise manager)  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers. Oracle Junior DBA Concentra Preferred Systems - Rockville, MD January 2004 to January 2006 • Maintained production databases including Refresh into various environments.  • Upgrade and configure multiple monitoring tools (Heroix Longitude and Quest Performance Analysis)  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 9i on Solaris and linux platform.  • Creation and maintenance of database. Education MBA in FINANCE Johns Hopkins Carey School of Business - Baltimore, MD 2007 Mphil in Environmental Management Cambridge University 1999 Bsc in Resources Management University of Benin 1994 Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Present Oracle Certified Professional Present IBM Guardium Administrator Present PMP Present Security+ Present