IT & Media Specialist IT &amp; Media Specialist Henrico, VA Work Experience IT & Media Specialist City Church - Richmond, VA August 2011 to Present Brought on as sole IT and media staff for large church and grew position over several years accumulating more duties and responsibilities as department grew. Duties included:   • Managing the IT, network, data, and software needs of entire ministry including working with third party vendors, developing policies and procedures, implementing cloud based storage and backup, and researching and purchasing equipment;   • Project management for the IT and media needs of all major projects and events including church launches, conferences, large rebranding efforts, and significant policy and procedure changes.   • Creating and coordinating content for television, radio, and various social media platforms. Used Adobe Premier and After Effects when creating content.  • Overseeing multiple ministry teams consisting of over 100 volunteers and other staff members as needed.   Key Achievements:  • Overhaul of ministry network and wifi infrastructure to facilitate growing needs.  • Complete overhaul of Production Team including tripling volunteer workers, developing leadership team, creating clear processes and duties and fostering better comradery within the team.  • Created multiple new volunteer ministries including photography, social media, technology, and iChurch (live streaming) team.  • Complete overhaul and restructure of media department focusing on moving staff members to their areas of strength, reducing redundancy and waste, and creating clear job duties and expectations among staff. Directly managed all media staff during this time until restructure was done. Network & Database Administrator St. Joseph's Villa January 2005 to July 2011 Earned promotion after significant achievements in previous role. Duties included: maintaining network consisting of over 300 computers on local and satellite sites; server upkeep, upgrades, and maintenance of Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, file and web servers, SQL databases, and backup systems; managing the main client database for over a dozen separate programs which included working with program staff to determine individual needs, creating reports using Crystal Reports, and MSSQL, and maintaining data dictionaries and other documentation.  Key Achievements:  • Implementation of Harmony Client Database including designing all custom screens, merges, reports, and custom database views and stored procedures for over one dozen programs on campus over a five year period  • Implementation of campus Exchange Server  • Implementation and transition to virtual servers  • Managed implementation of gigabit fiber network Technology Services Coordinator St. Joseph's Villa July 2002 to December 2004 Brought in as sole technical support for entire organization under the Director of Technology. Job duties included: routine troubleshooting and maintenance of desktop machines, printers, and software; purchasing and vendor relations; building new servers and adding new services to the network as needed.  Key Achievements:  • Switched campus from Novell to Windows Network  • Implemented email system and gave all staff email addresses  • Implemented central file server and backup systems  • Implemented web server and corporate intranet  • Grew network from less than fifty disparate computers to over two hundred workstations and implemented workstation standardization via network policy and software install packages. Education BS in Information Technology in Information Technology Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY May 2002 Skills AFTER EFFECTS, PREMIERE, PUBLISHER, EXCEL, EXCHANGE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, CRYSTAL REPORTS, ADOBE PREMIERE, CSS, DNS, IIS, WEB DESIGN, MYSQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, SCRIPTING, WORDPRESS, MS Office, Microsoft Word, Management Additional Information SKILLS  Computer Related Skills  • Office Products (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Publisher, Outlook, Access)  • Windows Server Applications: Active Directory, DNS, DCHP, IIS, Exchange and others  • Databases: MSSQL MySQL, Crystal Reports  • Video Editing: Adobe Premiere & After Effects  • Web: CSS, JavaScript, PHP, various web design products (WordPress, Drupal, etc.)  • Innate ability to learn software and programming/scripting languages quickly and independently  Additional Skills  • Strong project management skills  • Ability to build and lead teams  • Excellent written and oral communication skills  • Ability to work independently and with little supervision