Sr Data Engineer Sr Data Engineer Sr Data Engineer - John Wiley & Sons New York, NY Career Summary  Data Engineer/Architect  A strategic leader with over 17 years' experience in Project Management, Business Analysis, Design,Development,DatabaseAdminstration,InformaticaAdministration, encompassing wide range of skill set, roles and Industry verticals  Possess unique combination of executive leadership and in-depth technical knowledge. highly effective at applying technology to streamline process. Deep business knowledge in Incentive Management, Mortgage Banking, Financial Services, Wealth Management, Card Services, Anti money Laundering, HR, Publishing and Insurance domains.  Areas of expertise span a broad range, including:    Profile    • Viewed as "Data Warehouse/ETL Architect and Informatica Expert" by multiple groups in the organization.  • Involved in design and development of ETL Architecture (worked on all versions of Informatica).  • Worked on Reporting tools Brio,Cognos,Actuate and Business Objects  • Exceptional Analysis skills with an ability to transform the needs of business users and stakeholders into functional/technical requirements and architecture.  • Experience in leading teams. Handled multiple roles including, Application Development Lead/Manager, Architect, Database administrator, Informatica Developer, Sr Business Analyst, Team Lead, Onsite coordinator, Informatica Administrator  • Experience in Conceptual, Logical and Physical data modeling, Enterprise Data Models, Enterprise ETL architecture.  • Experienced in Database Infrastructure Sizing.  • Experience in finding the best tech solutions and Providing specifications to deliver solutions.  • Experience in Database infrastructure sizing, Capacity Planning and setting up Disaster Recovery strategies.  • Adept at preparing Requirements Documentation, defining project plans,  writing system requirements specifications and delivering project/status reports.  • Proficient at Estimating tasks and Resources.  • Experience in writing Complex SQL and Performance tuning.  • Strong Experience with data management and partitioning.  • Expert in Data Analysis, Database, Data warehousing, ETL Development using Oracle/Informatica/Unix/Perl/Autosys/Control m.  • Involved in Dimensional modeling, Structured and iterative Data warehouse and application development lifecycle methodologies  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner, team player. Work Experience Sr Data Engineer John Wiley & Sons 2016 to Present • Responsible for migrating the code from on premise to cloud architecture, Worked on AWS Cloud architecture, Python, EC2, VPC, Argo, Kubernetes, S3 buckets.    • Responsible for design and development of system for automatically harvesting the total counts of activities and users per Social channel (Facebook, twitter, Weibo,news ) for all of Altmetric per day, in order to calculate market shares of articles covered and shares of attention.    • Responsible for design and development of usage analytics data mart that tracks the customer engagement on Wiley online library website. The usage web analytics gathered on the site helps the research in cross-selling and upselling subscriptions to the Institutional customers providing maximum value to customers and increasing revenue.    • Responsible for design and development of Sales Performance Management system, specialized Incentive Compensation Management system, to calculate incentives for all sales associates, managers and other associated parties in the sales channel involved.    • Design and development of future state large dataset analytics and integration of Business Intelligence applications with other systems across the enterprise.    • Build ETL Programs to Process data from Web, xml files, json files and other source files and databases with focus on handling unexpected termination and unexpected actions  • Write UNIX shell Scripts & leverage PMCMD commands to Pull data from AWS S3 buckets and Process the data into DataMart's.    • Empower productivity improvements and data sharing using Erwin for effective model management.  • Responsible for Architecture evaluation, which is a process of determining how well the current design or a portion of it satisfies the requirements derived during analysis.  • Ensure data warehouse and data mart designs efficiently support BI and end user.  • Build a scalable data warehouse integrating data from usage, SalesForce, SAP, MDM and other marketing systems to answer challenging business questions from leaders in the company.  • Work on developing and supporting technology platforms using Informatica PowerCenter, Netezza and a variety of BI tools.  • Develop coding standards, Perform Code review, Enforce Industry standards and best practices around data modeling, Database, Shell/perl scripting & ETL efforts.  • Responsible for data management, partitioning, writing Complex SQL and Performance tuning.  • Responsible for design and development of consuming large unstructured datasets.  • Responsible for Data Analysis, Design and implementation of Database, Data warehousing, Development using Netezza/Informatica/Unix/Perl/Python/Tidal.  • Responsible for creating complex stored procedures.  • Responsible for building Dimensional modeling (Star Schema) of the Data warehouse and to use Erwin to design the business process, dimensions and measured facts. Vice President-Application Developer lead Architect JPM Chase 2008 to 2016 Responsible for Data Integration Initiatives for Chase Paymentech (Boarding Team) and Mortgage banking (True comp). One Incentive Management project, which is one of critical projects for JP Morgan Chase & Co. The project involves use of specialized tools for calculation of incentives for their Home Lending, Chase Wealth Management, Card services.    • Set coding Standards, involved in implementation of Informatica best practices.  • Performed Code Reviews for ETL Code, Oracle & Unix Shell scripting.  • Successfully implemented ETL solutions using Informatica for the Complex Business logic.  • Designed and developed the complete automation for True comp system.  • Work on data warehousing using Informatica, Oracle, PL/SQL and scheduling tools (Control-M) in a Unix (Korn Shell scripts) environment.  • Strong Experience with data management and partitioning.  • Experience in Conceptual, Logical and Physical data modeling, Enterprise Data Models, Enterprise ETL architecture.  • Designed Data Flow Diagrams (DFD's), Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD's)  • Worked with designing and tuning most of the Informatica Workflows & Oracle Packages.  • Used Informatica to load the Unstructured data.  • Manage data access pattern and data consumption and partner with Risk group to ensure that right access control procedures are in place.  • Automated the Data Integration Process using shell scripting.  • Researched created, reviewed and revised requirements documents and use cases.  • Proficient in Estimating tasks, Capacity Planning.  • Skilled at performing gap analysis, risk analysis.  • Review BRD and FSD and Prepare Technical specification documents (TSD)  • Involved in training/mentoring associates in Informatica    Citigroup Application Developer IBM 2007 to 2008 I worked as Application Developer. My responsibilities included, Data modelling, Design Complex ETL solution (including loading Unstructured data) using Informatica, Tune Informatica workflows and STAR schemas to optimize load and query performance, Architecture review, create oracle objects (packages, functions, trigger, Procedure), Create shell scripts to automate the bulk load & update process, Create brio Reports.  • Develop PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions, Triggers and views for the application programming.  • Design and development of Materialized Views for the reporting  • Performance tuning of the PL/SQL code using collections, bulk collect, global temporary tables, cursors, bulk exceptions, etc.  • Worked on the Performance tuning of the SQLs and Database using Execution plan, rewrite queries, hints, indexes, table statistics, parallel query, analytical functions collections and partition pruning  • Work with the DBAs on performance issues  • Development of ETL mappings to load the Conformed Dimensions  • Worked on the enhancements of the existing reporting application.  • Worked on preparing functional specification for the project enhancements.  • Development of test cases and test plan. Prepare deployment packages for production  • Design and development of ETL specifications.  • Worked on the Informatica mappings, workflows and sessions for the data loading  • Development of Unix Shell scripts for the ETL jobs. Application Developer IBM 2006 to 2006 I worked as Application Developer. My responsibilities included, Data modelling, Design Complex ETL solution (including loading Unstructured data) using Informatica, Architecture review, perform gap analysis, Create FSD, TSD documents.  • Responsible for ETL Development    • Responsible for data management. Application Developer IBM 2003 to 2006 I worked as Application Developer. My responsibilities included, Data modelling, Design Complex ETL solution (including loading Unstructured data) using Informatica, Architecture review, create oracle objects (packages, functions, trigger, Procedure), Create JIL jobs for autosys, Upgrade Informatica to 7.1.  • Responsible for ETL development.    • Responsible for data management. Developer/ Database Administrator UNILEVER 2003 to 2003 I worked as DBA and Developer. My responsibilities included Installation of Oracle software on Sun Solaris, Windows NT/2000 servers, and creation of database, Taking Export dump backup and Hot Backup, Performance Tuning, Designed ETL solution using Informatica, Create oracle objects (packages,functions,trigger,Procedure ..).  • Responsible for leading Database administration.    • Responsible for Informatica administration. Developer/ Administrator Comcreation 2003 to 2003 I have worked as Informatica Admin and Developer. My responsibilities include, Installation of Informatica repository, Managing the repository, Design ETL solutions using Informatica, create reports using Cognos,Create oracle objects (packages,functions,trigger,Procedure ..).  • Responsible for leading Database administration.    • Responsible for Informatica administration. Developer/ Database Administrator TCS CMC 2002 to 2002 I have worked as DBA and Developer. My responsibilities included, Installation of Oracle software on Sun Solaris, Windows NT/2000 servers, and creation of database, Taking Export dump backup and Hot Backup, Performance Tuning, Designed ETL solution using Informatica.  • Responsible for leading Database administration.    • Responsible for application development.    Technical Skills  Databases AWS Snowflake, PostgreSQL, Netezza, Oracle 7.3/8/8i/9i/10g,11g, Teradata, Microsoft SQL Server, DB2, MySQL  Tools  Informatica4.7.2/5.1/6.2/7.1/8.5/8.6/9.1, Informatica B2B, SQL SSIS, Cognos, Brio 6.0, Business Objects, Abinitio, Actuate, TOAD, Microsoft DTS 7/2000, Developer 2K/6i,Oxygen XML editor, Mantas ,Syfact,Callidus, Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Visio, Project .'    Platforms Windows 2000/NT Server, Windows 95/98/XP/Vista, HP-UX, Sun Solaris, UNIX, IBM AIX, Linux  Languages Python, SQL,PL/SQL, Servlets, JSP, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting  Job Schedulers AutoSys,Control-m  Version Control MKS,VSS,PVCS,Informatica  Web/Application Server IPLANET/Web logic  Tools in JPMC ITSM,ITPAM,Peregrine, Database ARM Automation,Mydatabase.  Trained on Supervised Learning: kNN, Decision Trees,  Random Forests.  Unsupervised Learning:KMeans and Hierarchical Clustering, Dimensionality Reduction  Analysis: Probability, Statistics, Regression,Pandas, Plotting  Special Topics: NLP, Web Scraping,Tableau,IOS App development. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Bangalore Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Data management, Data science, Informatica, Database administration, Database, Perl, Python, Scripting, Sdlc, Data warehouse, Operations, Operations management, Mapping, B2b Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/shashi-kumar-pmp-89a75932 Certifications/Licenses AWS certified solutions architect - Associate General assembly Data science course certification Oracle 8i DBA for Architecture & Administration Oracle 8i DBA for Backup & Recovery Informatica certified Administration and Architecture Project Management – PMP SAFe® 4 Certified Advanced Scrum Master Additional Information Areas of Expertise    • Solution Architect  • Data Science  • AWS  • Data Architect  • Project Management  • Operations Management    • Python  • Shell/Perl Scripting  • Database Administration  • Dimensional Modelling  • SDLC  • Autosys/Controlm /Tidal    • Informatica Development/B2B  • Data Management  • Informatica Administration  • Agile & Waterfall Methodology  • Business Process mapping  • Data Warehouse  • Off shore Management