Manager, Application & Infrastructure (2018-Present) Manager, Application &amp; Infrastructure (2018-Present) IT Manager Cornish, NH Over 25 years of combined technical and management experience. Looking for a position where my management experience, flexibility, knowledge, skills, and attention to detail can assist an employer in making their technical environment more efficient and productive. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Application & Infrastructure (2018-Present) Current Employer confidential 2018 to Present • Managing and managed teams of anywhere between 8-16 technical staff including Database, System, and Application Administrators, with an eye to increasing the skill set and exposure of each staff member to the full stack of application/ database/system.    • Currently leading a project team to replace the college’s authentication service and introduce two-factor authentication to 10,000 students, faculty, and staff.    • Currently leading a project team in a joint proof-of-concept engagement with Microsoft and Oracle to validate Azure/OCI inter-connectivity and fitness for possible migration of the employer's compute and storage to those cloud vendors.    • Managed separate proof-of-concept engagements with both Microsoft and Oracle to test and verify the migration process of on-premises compute and storage to Microsoft Azure and Oracle’s Cloud Infrastruture (OCI).    • Actively led a cross-functional technical team to review and update the college’s AWS footprint and developing a plan to migrate appropriate on-premises services to AWS in an opportunistic manner.    • Composed new Infrastructure Engineer job descriptions for all of Infrastructure Services staff.    • Coordinate day-to-day management of support, upgrades, and patching for 100-200 college services. Manager, Access and Identity Management and Database Administration Current Employer confidential 2017 to 2018 • Assumed additional responsibility for the Access and Identity Management team and its associated services.    • Planned and managed the day-to-day project and support work of two developers and encouraged a devops model for work between the Identity Management and Database Administration teams.    • Embraced Agile project management methodology and implemented the methodology in multiple projects.    • Tasked with leading a cross-functional technical team to address new environment spin-up delays and creation of a tool to allow developers to spin up the environment themselves. This project included the introduction of Ansible, Terraform, and Jenkins to assist with automating the process.    • Initiated and implemented a process for presenting FTE resource consumption and availability to management. Manager, Database Administration Team Current Employer confidential 2012 to 2018 • Planned and managed the day-to-day project and support work of five database administrators.    • Successfully managed the following projects through implementation:  -Tested the institution's failover plan for migrating the critical services that the DBA team supports from the primary data center to the secondary data center.  -Migrated the institution's major Oracle infrastructure databases to new server hardware (twice).  -Upgraded the underlying Oracle cluster and storage software that supports the institution's Oracle infrastructure databases to version 11.2.0.3.  -Upgraded the institution's major Oracle infrastructure databases to version 11.2.0.3 and 12.1.0.2  -Consolidated the institution's SQL Server instances into a shared instance, bringing the number of SQL Servers instances on campus down to 70. This project resulted in a $40K decrease in licensing fees.  -Implemented consistent backup and maintenance plans for the institution's 70 SQL Server instances scattered across campus.  -Upgraded the institution's infrastructure applications including Oracle's E-Business Suite, OBIEE, WebLogic, OAM, OIM, OWB, EM, APEX, and Hyperion. Thirty-seven other institutional applications were upgraded/patched as well.    • Ensured institutional databases sustained a high level of performance, security, and availability.    • Worked with application development teams to address deployment and database related issues. Sr. Database Administrator and Database Administrator Current Employer confidential 1998 to 2012 • Managed all aspects of employer's production, test, and development databases including database creation, upgrades, patches, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery, user creation and maintenance, security, and cloning.    • Migrated employer's Oracle databases from the Sun Solaris platform to Dell Blades running Linux. This project included the installation and configuration of two seven node clusters consisting of Oracle's Clustered File System (OCFS2), Cluster Ready Services (CRS), Automatic Storage Management (ASM), and Database software. It also includes the creation and configuration of a number of multi-node RAC databases and the migration of all of the college's development databases from Solaris to the new environment.    • Upgraded employer's Oracle databases from version 7.3 -> 8.1 -> 9.2 -> 10.2 -> 11.1.    • Upgraded employer's CRS/ASM environment from version 10.2 -> 11.1 -> 11.2.    • Converted the database character set of employer's Oracle databases from WE8MS1252 to UTF8.    • Created and configured employer's Oracle Enterprise Manager environment to monitor employer's databases and application servers (9.x and 10.x).    • Implemented Standby Databases using Oracle's DataGuard product for several of employer's databases.    • Install, upgrade, and patch numerous (30+) third-party applications that support the college's administrative functions including student, financials, human resources/payroll, and alumni development.    • Provide database and development support for 30+ developers and 1000+ concurrent users.    • Responsible for managing employer's SQL Server instances including installation, upgrades, users, and performance tuning.    • Installed and configured employer's Hyperion Essbase product suite (version 9.3) which included the following components: Shared Services, Essbase Analytics, Integration Services, Administration Services, WorkSpace, Interactive Reporting, Financial Reporting, Production Reporting, WebAnalysis, and Planning/BPMA. Senior Programmer/Analyst Current Employer confidential 1998 to 1999 • Coded stored procedures to determine the median class grade and stored functions to determine the cumulative grade point average and cumulative course count for a particular student.    • Wrote Drop/Add procedure to facilitate drop/adds over the web.    • Created a web-accessible mailing label application for the college using Oracle's web toolkit.    • Developed new customized Grade Report using Oracle Reports. In addition, created and modified reports and forms as requested by clients. Sr. Software Developer Fidelity Investments, Inc - Boston, MA 1998 to 1998 • Responsible for development of customized management and end-user reporting through the use of Oracle Reports and Discoverer 3.0, for Fidelity Corporate Real Estate's (FCRE).    • Lead developer for all Oracle Projects Year 2000 analysis for FCRE.    • Primary developer for all Oracle Projects application customizations and bug fixes for FCRE. Sr. Programmer/Analyst Office Specialists, Inc - Peabody, MA 1996 to 1998 • Lead technical representative for evaluation, selection, and installation of new government (Oracle-based) accounting system (Costpoint).    • Co-managed, co-designed, and co-developed the Data Warehouse project.    • Assisted to effect closure of the Oracle A/R application upgrade.    • Researched, recommended, purchased, and implemented System Performance Tuning Software which resulted in significant system performance improvement. System Administrator BayBank Systems, Inc - Waltham, MA 1991 to 1996 • Responsibilities included process analysis, programming, testing, and implementation. In addition, performed minor database maintenance and administration (startup and shutdown, backup and recovery, space management, and access/security) as advised by vendor.    • Created, tested, and implemented end-user database interfaces, customer and management reports, and customer data files using SQL programming language and Oracle Utilities.    • Performed system management tasks for department minicomputer, local area network, and workstations including application and operating system upgrades, backups, disk and file management, system security, and system troubleshooting. Education High school or equivalent Skills DATABASE (10+ years), SQL SERVER (3 years), ORACLE (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), WEBLOGIC (5 years), LINUX (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), ITIL (3 years), VMS (6 years), Migration (5 years), Data Warehouse (3 years), Powerpoint Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) ITIL “Foundations” Certification ITIL “Release, Control, and Validation” Certification Additional Information • Participated in six month leadership program for "Frontline Leaders" with the Professional Development Academy.    • Presented at the International Oracle Users Group (IOUG) conference on “A Single Production Database Model”.