Sr. NoSQL DBA/MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin Sr. NoSQL DBA/MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin Sr. NoSQL DBA/MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin - Morgan Stanley Richardson, TX • Over 11+ years of experience in design, administration, analysis and implementation stages of various NoSQL databases like MongoDB 4.0/3.6/3.4/3.2/2.x/1.x, Greenplum, ORACLE, SQL Server, My SQL and Postgresql  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB replica sets and multi-shaded cluster.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Focused on architecting No SQL databases like Mongo and Cassandra databases.  • Designed and developed load balancing Mongo applications.  • Good experience on advanced queries, query conditionals and aggregation framework.  • Good experience on MongoDB scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MongoDB access manager) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analysis the performance of MongoDB.  • Worked on initial sync of replica set issue across different versions of Mongo.  • Extensive experience in scripting in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  • Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  • Extensive knowledge in MongoDB concepts and good knowledge in Administration.  • Experience building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, Express, MongoDB.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  • Participated in DR activity of database for every quarter.  • Well experienced in Planning Application implementation from end to end includes architecting, designing the metadata, building, loading data. Worked with Business unit, Process unit, Review process, Rules.  • Responsible for most of the view/controller changes, model/ database integration with other members of the team.  • Good knowledge on database security and implementation of auditing.  • Supported production database servers and applications that provided secure mission and critical services.  • Worked on Change Management Requests (CMR), Incident Management Requests (IMR) and Line Items.  • Ability to grasp new technologies quickly and adapt to the same.  • Experience in preparing the Technical Documents on relevant topic.  • Performed on-call technical support to minimize the impact of system disruptions. Work Experience Sr. NoSQL DBA/MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin Morgan Stanley - Richardson, TX November 2018 to Present Description: Morgan Stanley mobilizes capital to help governments, corporations, institutions and individuals around the world achieve their financial goals. For over 75 years, the firm's reputation for using innovative thinking to solve complex problems has been well earned and rarely matched.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in planning and Migrating databases to cloud AWS as well as to Azure cloud  • Experience in working and troubleshooting Very Large databases (VLDB) in OLTP Environment  • Configuring, implementing and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharding) cluster of MongoDB having TB's of data  • Designing & implementing Sharding and indexing strategies for huge data sets  • Worked on Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment  • Involved in Index Analysis and Performance Tuning  • Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set. Configured hidden members in replica set  • Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance  • Backup and restore MySQL databases. Optimizing MongoDB CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) Operations. Created disaster recovery plans  • Monitoring jobs and making sure all jobs run successfully as scheduled. Trouble Shooting the Production Issues According to the Ticket Priorities  • Prepare action plans for future software and hardware upgrades in the System in line with customer account teams  • Disaster Recovery setup and best practices, including planning, testing, failover testing. Documenting MongoDB installation, operations, security, and environments  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, and schema design  Environment: MongoDB 4.0/3.6, 3.2, Oracle 11g, SQL * Plus, RAC, RMAN, MongoDB, Sharding, TOAD, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP Sr. NoSQL DBA/MongoDBA/MongoDB Admin WellsFargo - New York, NY February 2016 to October 2018 Description: Prodigy Finance is the pioneer in community-based student finance. We crowd source funding from alumni and institutional investors to send talented international students to the world's top business schools. Through our platform, students get the funding they need, while investors earn c. 5% p.a. Since 2007, we have raised over $75M and funded more than 1600 students from 92 countries, with an exceptional repayment performance of 99.1% across the total portfolio.    Responsibilities:  • Involving with installation and maintenance of MongoDB for high availability.  • Involving in change control process and Upgraded the MongoDB 3.2 to Mongo DB 4.0 version and applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Maintaining MongoDB environment and troubleshooting issues.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas.  • Performing Migration of databases on Hp - UNIX to MongoDB 4.0 on Linux. Created and monitored database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links.  • Implementing High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  • Writing scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also, wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  • Monitoring queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  • Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  • Creating Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  • Performing CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Working on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Working on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Working on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Upgraded Mongo systems and involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Working with capped collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements.  • Administered multiple environments (up to 25TB), automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB.  • Working on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures.  • Analyzing chunk migrations, splitting and balancing across the cluster.  • Working on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.    Environment: MongoDB 3.6/3.4/3.2, SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2005, Windows 2012, 2003 Server, Visio. Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, SQLProfiler, SQL Azure Database Administrator Barnes & Noble - New York, NY May 2015 to January 2016 Description: Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS) is a Fortune 500 company and the leading retailer of content, digital media and educational products. The Company operates nearly 650 Barnes & Noble bookstores in 50 states, and one of the Web's largest e-commerce sites, BN.com (www.bn.com).    Responsibilities:  • Primary responsibilities include gathering business requirements, designing the functional and technical specifications  • Upgraded database from Oracle 10g to MongoDB 2.8/3.2. Scheduled the databases backup using Corn tab  • Monitored Day-to-Day backups, logs and recovered them as per the requirement. Involved in creation of users and grating them the required roles and privileges accordingly  • Participated in database development like creating PL/SQL Triggers, Packages, Procedures and Functions  • Involved in space management, rectification of lock problems, and managed quotas. Involved in Performance Tuning of the application using EXPLAIN PLAN, Hints and TKPROF  • Generated PL/SQL scripts to notify process failure/success  • Creating and populating table fields by migrating data from different databases  • Monitored Oracle instances, users, tables, table spaces, memory structures, and rollback segments, redo logs, archived redo logs and alerts  • Created external tables to handle huge volumes of data which is not used frequently  • Produced scripts to cleanse source data, ETL process data with business rules, and built re-usable mappings  • Check the functionalities of data in the front-end whether it is displaying properly or not  • Knowledge in Normalization, data transfer, documentation, preventive maintenance, code review, automation, stored procedures, and triggers etc.  Environment: MongoDB 3.2/2.8, Oracle 9i,10g,11g PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Windows 2000 server, UNIX, SQL LOADER, TOAD, and Windows XP Oracle DBA Covanta Energy - Morristown, NJ November 2013 to April 2015 Description:  Covanta is a world leader in providing sustainable waste and energy solutions. The Company's 45 Energy-from-Waste facilities provide communities and businesses around the world with environmentally sound solid waste disposal by using waste to generate clean, renewable energy.    Responsibilities:  • Installation and creation of 9i and 10g databases for Testing, Development and Production. Creating and Maintaining of databases.  • Creating table spaces, tables, indexes, data files etc.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users. Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and applications issues.  • Perform capacity planning required to create and maintain database environments.  • Helping to the developing team and data warehousing team.  • Prepare the documents of the process and knowledge transferring about the project to the new team members.  • Writing complex queries and procedures using SQL *plus and toad.  • Developed shell scripts and automated nightly jobs using crone to schedule the backups, exports, refresh test DB from production site and build development, testing staging DB's.  • Developing Hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures.  • Monitoring the background processes activity, setting the appropriate number of DBWR processes, changing the init.ora parameters etc.  • Creating users, allocation to appropriate table space quotas with necessary privileges and roles for all databases.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for SQL*NET connectivity.  • Monitoring table space size, resizing table space, relocating data files for better disk I/O  • Managing archive logs, DB-links, partitions.  • Monitoring Scheduled jobs of the daily activities for the performance of all the databases  • Maintain Oracle schemas and SGA region. Guiding and leading warehousing team for better performance.  • Created PL/SQL procedures (jobs) to automate maintenance tasks. Implemented Oracle high availability solution using Oracle 10g PHYSICAL STANDBY.  • Managed the PHYSICAL STANDBY including Switchover and Failover scenarios.  Environment: Oracle 9i,10g,11g PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Windows 2000 server, UNIX, SQL LOADER, TOAD, and Windows XP Oracle Database Administrator Virtusa - Dallas, TX March 2011 to October 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2. Upgraded databases from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Involved with installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC/oracle 11gRAC and Standby databases (Oracle Data Guard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading, patching and configuring the Oracle environment.  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN.  • Extensive uses of Oracle Data pump Exports/Imports utility for moving data among the servers.  • Performed large batch jobs and tuning of SQL queries and database systems.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the users.  • Partitioning and re-organization of table and indexes.  • Implemented downstream capture at the destination database using Oracle Streams.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  • Written scripts for the automation of backups and cloning's. Written PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions and Triggers.  • Used Data pump to take the logical backups of databases. Involved in designing logical and physical data models.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, SQL, PL/SQL, ASM, Sun Solaris 9, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, OEM, Explain Plan, Tkprof, SQL*LOADER DBA/ Administrator Bank of AmericaCharlotte, NC June 2008 to February 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Created script to migrate users from one environment to another.  • Improved existing storage capacity reporting to analyze and provide trend to leadership.  • Automated excel dashboard and reporting with the use ODBC connectors that saved 5 man hours every day.  • Performed POC's on NoSQL databases. Implemented NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra in Dev/Test environment.  • Perform compression and move activity and data warehouse database. Database cloning through Data Pump Import and Export. Maintain monitoring scripts to check the health of the database  Environment: Oracle 9i, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, OEM, Explain Plan, Tkprof, SQL*LOADER Education Bachelor's