Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Sprint Nextel Charlotte, NC • Over 9+ years of technical experience to manage SQL Server databases through multiple product life cycle environments, from development to mission-critical production systems.  • Experienced in configuring and maintaining database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  • Experienced in applying data modeling techniques to ensure development and implementation support efforts meet integration and performance expectations  • Independently analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end in data analysis, Database Installation, creation, configuration, maintenance, development and upgrading using MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014.  • Experienced in performance analysis, tuning, query optimization and system monitoring techniques.  • Experienced in providing weekly and monthly status reports on Compliance Analytics activities and Assist with the development and implementation of best practices relating to Compliance Analytics.  • Experience in preparing database hardening and harden database based on industry standard compliance policy.  • Good experience in database partitioning such as creating file groups, table and index partitioning.  • Experienced with Clustering, Standby Servers, Mirroring and Log Shipping for ensuring High Availability.  • Experienced in implementing Replication models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional Replication.  • Expert in creating linked servers to run distributed queries between Oracle10g and SQL Server 2012, 2008R2.  • Good Experienced in monitoring views, stored procedures and functions for better performance.  • Experienced in resolving performance issues by running DBCC commands and DMVs.  • Experienced in data modeling, design of OLTP, OLAP using normalization methods.  • Experienced in fine tuning SQL queries, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Experienced in implementing SQL Server security like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users and login, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Excellent knowledge with SQL Server Storage Structures, Index and Security Architecture.  • Experienced in creating clustered and non-clustered indexes and full text indexing for better performance.  • Experienced in database Migration, Backup, Restore and Recovery procedures.  • Experienced in taking full, differential, log and file group backups for SQL 2012, 2008R2, 2008 and 2005.  • Experienced in using System Monitor, Profiler and Database tuning advisor to resolve long running queries.  • Good Experience in Monitoring SQL Server logs and performance counters for better productivity.  • Experience in performance tuning and query optimization using database tuning adviser.  • Experienced in SQL Script development and scheduling Agent jobs in SQL 2012, 2008R2, 2008.  • Experienced in writing T-SQL code for joints, sub queries and co-related sub queries in Stored Procedures.  • Experience using Oracle database system, customer relation management (CRM), service management system (SMS) and Trouble ticketing system.  • Expert level ability to sort, mine and analyze data using Microsoft Excel, including pivot table and power BI.  • Expert level ability in Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft publication, Microsoft project and Internet Applications.  • Demonstrated ability to make use of large databases by means of analytical tools.  • Self-motivated, directed and with keen attention to detail. Excellent interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills as well as strong logical, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Experienced working with group and independent in 24/7 production environment.  • Experience in working in a team-oriented, collaborative environment and with teams spread across multiple locations across multiple time-zones. Work Experience Database Administrator Sprint Nextel - Reston, VA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved database consolidation project where 40+ standalone databases was migrated to MS SQL Server AlwaysON infrastructure.  • Involved in Database installation, creation, configuration, maintenance and development using MS SQL Server 2012.  • Created and assigned appropriate database roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Created SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Performed database maintenance, database monitoring and space management to utilize resources efficiently and to improve database performance.  • Responsible for performing object migration between all production database Servers.  • Performed SQL Server configuration for the business functions including Index & data management to determine defragmentation level whether to update statistics or rebuild and reorganize indexes.  • Worked in a SQL server operating in a very large database environment and also resolving issues related to database and tables.  • Performed database backup (full backup, differential and transactional backup) to recover database at the time of disaster.  • Created log shipping, replication and database mirror for high availability of the database in case of database failure.  • Established connectivity to databases and monitored system performance.  • Involved in configuring, patching, testing, monitoring, and supporting multiple heterogeneous database instances, maintaining the databases at current release and maintenance levels.  • Configured and setup snapshot replication from production to Development and stage environments.  • Resolved server and SQL job alert & server ping alerts for production servers.  • Created and scheduled SSIS package as per Clint requirement.  • Checked Disk space alerts on Production server and to inform Infrastructure to add more space if the disk was full.  • Worked as part of a team and provide 7×24 supports when required.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, Windows Server 2008/2012, SQL LiteSpeed, MSE, VSS and Password Updater. Database Specialist DIRECTV - New York, NY April 2014 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the process of upgrading SQL Server systems to SQL Server 2008 R2 to 2012.  • Extensively worked on tuning stored procedures and queries for optimum performance.  • Developed T-SQL Scripts with joins, subqueries and co related sub queries where required.  • Designed and Created databases, tables, views, stored procedures, Cursors and DDL & DML triggers.  • Migrated databases and maintained changes in Development, QA and Production servers.  • Performed Database Migration from flat files, Excel, MS Access and Oracle11g to SQL 2012, 2008R2.  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases and rebuilt indexes.  • Prepared and participated in implementing the SQL Server Virtualization Roadmap at Deloitte to VMware.  • Supported, administered, optimized and maintained production and development SQL Server 2012 database environments running on Windows platforms.  • Provided all levels support, including on-call support through rotational basis.  • Provided full support of SQL Server SSIS and SSRS services.  • Designed, implemented, maintained and provided full support of SQL Server clustering and mirroring.  • Provided database sizing and capacity planning.  • Controlled, monitored, and generated an access report process for user access to the database.  • Planned, prepared, and rehearsed SQL Server database recovery plans.  • Setup procedures to refresh databases environments.  • Ensured high quality of backend services though solid processes of planning, analysis, design, implementation, load testing, performance monitoring and tuning of SQL Server systems.  • Demonstrated new SQL Server-related technologies and policies to managers and senior managers.  • Researched the market constantly to find ways of reducing costs virtualization, monitoring tools etc  • Participated in all Data Management and Integration applications performance and stress tests.  • Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.  • Created logins and users as and when required with specific roles on production server.  • Created SQL alerts, Mail and linked servers for accessing data from remote servers using jobs.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, IIS, Windows Server, Performance Monitor, Backup Utility, MOM, MSE and Site Scope. MS SQL DBA SunTrust - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed and upgraded all software from SQL 2008 to 2008 r2.  • Identified and resolved the query performance using SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard.  • Created and monitored jobs on backup, recovery and other maintenance services on specific databases.  • Involved in managing backup strategy, monitoring logs, advising on hardware configurations.  • Implemented and tuned queries developed by other members, and worked with QA teams to test and verified solutions.  • Acted as the subject matter expert SME for database-related matters.  • Participated in creating and implementing Disaster Recovery and High Availability Plans Backup/restore, Clustering, Database Mirroring, Replication etc.  • Analyzed, designed, and architected the infrastructure of the migration of standalone environments to clustered and mirrored environments.  • Involved in implementing Quest Lite Speed for SQL Backup and Restore.  • Worked closely with project managers and technical project leads to develop and formalize tasks relative to database development within each project.  • Worked on Merge, Merge Join and Multicast Transformations while migrating data using SSIS.  • Worked on monitoring SSIS data flow transformations using data viewers and event handlers.  • Worked on moving data into flat files, OLEDB destinations and SQL server using SSIS packages.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008 r2, MS Office, Oracle, Windows, XML, MS Project. QA Automation Engineer SiriusXM - Washington, DC September 2010 to October 2011 360L project is an end to end business solution for the marketing system at Sirius. The solution includes organization proving data display in vehicles. Sirius must have a scalable and effective solution to all their business requirements to provide top-notch services to the customers. Retrieving and updating information between the marketing and vehicle systems to ensure that both the systems are synchronized.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the functional/business requirement documents and existing downstream/upstream systems in Enterprise Application Integration stack that is based on Tibco ESB/AXWAY service virtualization  • Interact with the BSM and agile teams to understand the functional requirements and System Architecture.  • Validating the integration scenarios with external/internal dependent systems using SOAP/REST APIs  • Setting up test data, test environment and deployment of the ESB web service applications  • Perform SOAP, Restful API testing in various environments including Dev, QA, SIT and PERF environments  • Verifying the functional correctness of the published web service endpoints and prepare DTK kit for consumers  • Automating the web services API testing using internal framework [B-Unit] & open source SOAPUI/Groovy  • Performed IDM Security testing in various environments QA, Partner Dev and SIT.  • Developed functional and integration tests for SOAP and RESTful Web Services using SoapUI  • Expertise on Testing REST API using Insomnia, postman, soap ui.  • Querying the backend systems to check if the database tables has right data using SQL  • Triaging the issues, regression testing & performance testing of the SOAP and RESTservices  • Fixing test case failures in continuous integration environment that is configured with Jenkins  • Mentoring juniors engineers and helping them resolving the issues  • Worked with high performing agile teams [2 weeks sprint] and delivered QA artefactswith high quality    Environment:Tibco, Axway, Jenkins, UNIX, JAVA, SQL, SOAP UI, Insomnia, XML, JSON,Groovy,Eclipse, Python,Bit Bucket, Jira, MobaXterm, Putty. QA Automation Engineer American Express - New York, NY May 2008 to August 2010 Digital Acquisition project allows internet banking customers to book Prepaid and credit cards online. The existing customers with pre-approved credit and credit cards can book the product online by logging into their internet card member account. Credit Initiation system process the complete information and interacts with internal & external systems like PZN to verify the customer and provide the customer approval decision.    Responsibilities:  • Closely work with Developers and PO's and analyses the requirements and prepares the test cases.  • Responsible for UI, Functional, Web Services, cross browser, Automation, Reports Testing of Web, distributed, Reporting, legacy.  • Involved in Defect Review meetings, assisted team members in knowledge transfer.  • Used agile methodology to ensure the new features meet the customer requirements and acceptable quality assurance standards.  • Participated in daily stand up meeting to report the progress of the work.  • Use Rally to house all test documentation, reports, track all issues/defects.  • Involved in daily meeting with Team members to keep track of defects and provided update on testing progress to the Manager.  • Participate in review meetings to resolve bug related issues with developers.  • Developed Test Cases using JSON which defines Web Service Request, Response, methods/operations, End Point of web service to be tested.  • Importing requirements, create test cases, validate requirements with test cases and generate reports using Rally.  • Developing virtual service model using iTKO Lisa virtualize and testing locally with SOAPUI.  • Built effective test data covering all possible scenarios and added in datasheets for LISA Testing.  • As a Scrum team member, participated in Sprint Planning, Product Backlog Grooming, Estimation & Demos, Sprint Retrospectives and Daily Stand-Up meetings.  • Created regression automation test scripts in Java using Web driver, TestNG.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium Web Driverusing Java programming language.  • As a QA Lead, participated in walkthroughs for the evaluation of the test plan with the design and development.  • Prepare the testing report for every production release.  • End of the sprint will give a quick demo to Product owners.  • Involved in preparing QA sizing document and QA Sign Off document based on the Test Plan approved by the Project Manager and Product Owner.  • Collected test data from the data team and tested for different kinds of scenarios (Positive & Negative) for the different fields of UI module.    Environment: Selenium Webdriver2.0, TestNG, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint,Java1.6, Oracle 11g, XML,HTML5, Web Sphere Application Server, Jboss6.2,Unix, Restful Web services, Lisa 4.6.7, SVN, SOAP UI, WAS 7.0, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASES (7 years), DATABASE (8 years), SQL SERVER (7 years), SQL (8 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Operating Systems Client Versions MS Windows8/7/XP/2000/NT, DOS, PowerShell and Unix/Linux.  Windows Servers Windows 2012R2/2012/2008R2/2008/2003R2/2003  SQL server tools  MS SQL Server Management Studio 2012/2008R2/2008/2005, Business Intelligence Development Studio, MS SQL Server 2000 Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, DTS, SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005 Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server 2005 Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Performance Monitor, Database Tuning Advisor    Databases MS-SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000, MS Access 2010/2007/2003, Oracle11g,10g,MY SQL, Sybase ASE 15.0  Oracle Tools Toad 12.0, PL/SQL Developer  Languages T-SQL, C, C++, VB6, Oracle PL/SQL,ASP.NET,VB.NET,C#.NET  Reporting Tools SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005 Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports XI, Business objects, MS Excel, Power BI  Web technologies XML, HTML,XSLT, Ado.Net, VBScript  Other Tools SQL Lite Speed, SQL Watch ,DB Artisan, Rapid SQL