Data Integration Developer Data Integration Developer Business Intelligence/Data Integration/SQL Developer Washington, DC Seeking a position as a SQL/ETL/BI Developer within a progressive  organization, where my skillset and experience can be leveraged to first be useful, bring value then become  necessary to co-workers and customers of the business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Integration Developer Business Intelligence/Data Integration Contrator January 2018 to Present Delivering Business Intelligence, Reporting, Data Integration and Data Management Solutions with On-going  Support and Managed Services.  • Designing, Developing, implementing and maintaining Data warehouse and Business Intelligence  Solutions for contracted projects on Microsoft Business Intelligence Stack (SSIS, SSRS, MS Sql Servers).  • Designs, Develops and implements Data Integration/Data Pipelines projects leveraging Python and NoSQL/PostgresSQL databases.  • Manages, maintains and provide on-going support for Microsoft Sql server Databases to contracted  project implementations.  • Provides documentation for Reporting and Database projects. ETL Architect/Business Intelligence/ Database Administrator Pandera Systems August 2017 to January 2018 • Design/Model/Implement/Maintain end-end Business Intelligence Solutions.  • Customer-facing Business Intelligence and Data Integration Consultation.  • Provide technical knowledge of database load processes.  • Analyze and translate business requirements and technical specification documents.  • Responsible for the design, development, testing, and implementation of ETL program logic.  • Create and maintain technical documentation.  • Assist in the ongoing development of technical best practices for data movement, data quality, data  cleansing and other ETL-related activities.  • work closely with project managers, business analysts, data modelers and solution architects in the timely execution of project deliverables. Principal Associate / Business Intelligence/ETL Developer/ Database Administrator Datameaning Services November 2012 to August 2017 project - November 2012 - August 2017  Principal Associate / Business Intelligence/ETL Developer/ Database Administrator  • Architecting and implementing Extraction, Transformation and Load (ETL) solutions for Hilton  Worldwide Digital Analytics (HWDA) businesses data from vendors and 5000+ properties worldwide.  • Managed HWDA 6TB data warehouse ensuring data integrity is maintained, backup strategy, data  security, SFTP secure data access flows, data cleansing and validation.  • Managed HWDA enterprise server capacity planning and allocation, provided synchronized global  access, identified and created system-level scripts as needed to automate redundant system and ETL  tasks.  • Architect and implemented ETL tasks and processes in support of MicroStrategy and Tableau Cubes.  • Ported and migrated ETL processes based on C++, MongoDb and Python from Linux platform to HWDA  Microsoft data platform. Business Intelligence Developer JetBlue Airlines /LiveTV April 2012 to September 2012 Architecting and implementing ETL processes for aircraft entertainment transactional flight data for US  and international airport locations leveraging MS SSIS and .Net technologies.  • Managed and administer Entertainment data warehouse optimization, query performance tuning.  • Generate technical requirements.  • Document data warehouse and ETL tasks and processes. Systems Administrator and Applications Support Contractor Southwest-Airtran Airlines August 2011 to March 2012 • Architect and implement ETL tasks and process for Pervasive SQL, MS SQL Server and flat files.  • Provide network administration support for the airline's Staff, Flight Crew, Aircraft Engineering and Maintenance and Flight Crew System Operation Control.  • Administer virtual servers in VMware ESX 4.0 in Orlando, Atlanta and Dallas data centers. Monitor and support SAN storage systems.  • Administer Pervasive SQL, Microsoft SQL 2005/2008 database servers.  • Provide 24/7 On-Call support services. Business Intelligence Developer/ Database Administrator Brown and Brown Insurance Corporate August 2009 to August 2011 Architect implement and support Sales Reports and Financial Dashboards, Marketing and Financial  Reporting web/desktop applications driven by ASP.net, Oracle 10g and MS SQL Server.  • Developed Financial Audit Reporting tools for field auditors and managers leveraging Oracle Apex.  • Architect and implement ETL processes that drive insurance sales and financial data from 300+ offices  into the finance data warehouse. Contracting Business Intelligence Solutions Developer May 2005 to July 2009 • Architect and implement Business Intelligence, data warehouse and reporting system for customers.  • Architect data warehouses and ETL process in government and private sectors in utilities, finance, airline  transportation and retail space. Information Technology Manager Bahamasair Airline April 2000 to May 2005 Migrated the Airline Reservations, Check-in and Customer Services from Worldspan to Sabre solutions  platform.  • Integrated its 4 call centers. Upgraded call center phone platform to IP based system.  • Integrated the Airline 32 fly-in locations communication and data systems on one common platform.  • Reduced communications expenses by $400,000 per month.  • Migrated network infrastructure at Lynden Pindling International airport from copper to fiber for increased reliability.  • Upgrade the Airline entire Information Technology Infrastructure.  • IT wins too many to list in resume. Education High school or equivalent Skills Db2, Etl, Mongodb, Power bi, Data modeling, Data Warehouse, Ssis Additional Information • Teachable, learns and adapts quickly with core drive to provide value.  • Self-Starter, Self-Learner with a GREAT Attitude and Strong Desire to WIN for team and customer.  • Provides, delivers more benefit than expected and NEVER says "That's not my job."  • "NEVER NEVER NEVER QUIT" - advice from Winston Churchill.  • Assists, motivates, encourage team members to always do their best work and always be learning.  • Able to deliver and contribute to data solutions needs of the business.  • Solid experience translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Implement best practices and methodologies in data analysis, design and modeling.  • Hands-on 20+ years experience in data driven information technology with specialization in data  integration, data management and data architecture leveraging primarily the Microsoft BI stack.  • Proficient with database architecture tools and application.  • Understands the value of data architectural design, data profiling and data management best practices.  • Demonstrated expertise utilizing data integration tools, including SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS),  Data Transformation Services and ETL package design for RDBMS and NoSQL data solutions.  • Strong team player who adds great value with good communication, problem solving skills and fantastic  personality.  • Strong background working directly with coworkers and customers to identify business objectives and  establish requirements.  • Provides guidance and work leadership to less-experienced team members.    Skills  • Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, Postgresql.   • Business Intelligence and ETL Tools: MS BI Stack (SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS).  • Data Modeling: TOAD Data Modeler, Visio.