Oracle database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle database administrator - SLDCADA NAVY WEAPON STATION YORK Hyattsville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle database administrator SLDCADA NAVY WEAPON STATION YORK - TOWN, VA, US February 2019 to Present • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager Weblogic.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Generated and AWR reports from Oracle database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, table space growth, and database growth.  • Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to ERP jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of testing using RMAN.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM , Weblogic  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer.  • Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  • Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Performing database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments.  • Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and active Data Guard for faster Disaster Recovery.  • Installed and Configured OEM grid control for maintenance administering the databases.  • Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  • Used Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading Oracle10gR2 to the latest Oracle 11gR2 and applied patches as required.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN for development and production databases.  • Database cloning from Production to Test and Development environments.  • Extensively worked on applying patches (CPU&PSU) whenever required.  • Schema Refreshing of databases using normal copy method and exp/imp utility.  • Cloning database and schemas using Data pump for 11g to 12c versions.  • Cloning 11g and 12c databases using RMAN duplication (with and without backup).  • ASM Disk storage and user Management  • Monitoring the Hit Ratios and tuning the System Global Area (SGA) accordingly.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Defining the standards, to maintain the health of the server.  • Monitor Oracle Data Guard as disaster recovery approach.  • Use Active Data Guard feature to offload reporting duty from production database.  • Set up test databases for development team by using RMAN duplicate tool.  • Schedule RMAN backups, purge jobs, maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER and Crontab.  • Support development teams for all the database-related issues and help to manage the ASM diskgroups.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Development of policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security and archiving.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c RAC/10g, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, Trackit, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Sun Products Corporation - Salt Lake City, UT September 2015 to June 2018 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Responsible for continuous Monitoring of CPU usage, I/O contention, memory paging and identify the resource and performance bottleneck and reorganization for ensuring performance.  • Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, and SQL tuning advisor.  • Involved in De fragmenting data blocks of table spaces for optimized performance. Also partitioned large tables to increase performance.  • Responsible for all database activities such as User management, space management, database security management.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4 and 11.2.0.3.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/111g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Diploma in Community Nursing in Computer science University of Buea Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql