Business Intelligence Engineer Business Intelligence Engineer Business Intelligence Engineer - Tennessee Valley Authority Knoxville, TN Experienced Business Intelligence professional with 10+ years of experience in Report Development, Business Process Analysis, and Database Development. Skilled in full lifecycle development of BI projects in multiple subject areas. Proven history of turning business requirements into actionable Business Intelligence. Work Experience Business Intelligence Engineer Tennessee Valley Authority - Knoxville, TN 2009 to Present Tennessee    • HR Workforce Analytics Dashboards - Replaced 10+ page spreadsheet with 3 page Human Resources Dashboard detailing Workforce Profiles, Workforce Actions, and Contractor Utilization. Over 70 HR Generalists can track trends or point-in-time metrics for the different business units that they support.  • Tableau Server Administration - Serve as the TVA Subject Matter Expert for Tableau 2018 Server installation. Duties include Site setup, security administration, Center of Excellence, and upgrade efforts.  • GL to Project Reporting - Designed data structures, ETLS, and reports to enhance FO&P reporting within the Business Performance Portal (BPP). FO&P analysts can run a single report for Actuals, Budgets, and Forecasts with a new capability to breakout Project and GL actuals.  • Supply Chain Material Tracking Application - Deployed a custom Cognos application currently used by 250 Supply Chain associates. A one stop application replaced the need to jump between multiple other applications and spreadsheets. The analytics process immediately allowed $12M of inventory to be redeployed to other locations.  • Support Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) and Cognos Analytics as the source of formal Financial Report, Nuclear Outage work management, and multiple other subject areas. Over 25,000 report executions are performed each week.  • PASTA distributed reporting - Used Cognos Reporting to model, automate, and deliver labor exception reporting for 10 fossil sites.  • On call support - Serve in on-call rotation for Informatica ETL environment. Support 50+ daily and near real time workflow processes.  • Attended IBM Think Conferences, Tableau Conferences, and Utility Analytics Summits Business Intelligence Developer IdleAire, Inc - Knoxville, TN 2007 to 2009 Administered and created content in IBM Cognos Reporting environment. Delivered ad-hoc, cube based, and self-service reporting solutions to Operations, Marketing, IT, and C level employees. Database Administrator (DBA) CDI, Inc - Knoxville, TN 2005 to 2007 Contract Oracle Database Administrator at the Tennessee Valley Authority. Administration duties included object migration, security management, application restores, and disaster recovery exercises while providing 24x7 on-call support for several enterprise wide applications. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Emory University - Atlanta, GA 1997 to 2001 Skills BI, Data Warehouse, Business Intelligence, Tableau, Cognos, Obiee