Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System/ Database Administrator - United States Navy Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Database Administrator United States Navy - Oceana, VA 2010 to Present Beach, VA  • Developed policies and procedures and implementing them with a configured command system infrastructure of Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information Systems (NALCOMIS).  • Configured BIOS and RAID volumes on various servers in addition to installing operating systems on a network of over 200 workstations.  • Coordinated with Naval Information Warfare Center (NIWC) to implement a new technology with VMware 11; migrated to virtual environment.  • Handled installation of land and sea Host Based Security System (HBSS) and ACAS scans; coordinated Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA), Data Alignment Programs (DAPS) and patches as required in accordance with DoD Regulations.  • Excelled in Network configuration, migrating from network to standalone environments, and configurations with the use of hubs, switches and routers manually performing up-line reporting for disconnected servers and databases in austere environments.  • Accountable for implementing policies and procedures required within the F/A-18 Automated Maintenance Environment, NALCOMIS Optimized OMA, and Naval Aviation Maintenance Program (NAMP) to ensure accurate data collection, and processing to increase operational readiness by reducing maintenance cycle times, error rates, faster diagnostics and improve the quality of the maintenance data collected to improve current and future aircraft system and maintenance processes.  • Maintained system integrity by performing backups on a daily, weekly, and quarterly schedule. Applied restoration procedures of database in catastrophic events while utilizing contingency processes in order to maintain minimum down time. System Analyst United States Navy - Oceana, VA 2010 to Present Beach, VA  • Supervised 200+ staff members for accessibility, permissions, and data processing within Optimized Maintenance Activity (OMA) database; resulting in 90% improvement of work order initiation, processing, and Naval Aviation Maintenance Program compliance (NAMP) compliance.  • Collaborated with Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) for management of Automated Logistics Environment (ALE), updating system versions, installing software patches, point releases, and transmitting feedback to NAVAIR.  • Maintained accountability for daily updates, operations, supply documents, assets, and migration from ashore to worldwide-deployed Aviation Management Supply and Readiness Reporting (AMSRR) environment.  • Compiled monthly analytical summaries for review at the senior management level for corrosion, parts usage, manpower, documentation, and cannibalization monitoring using both numerical and graphical information.  • Requested by Commander, Strike Fighter Wing Atlantic Oceana to assist in revamp of the F/A-18 Maintenance Environment program lesson taught at CNATTU, collaborated with the F/A-18 community across the flight line gathering common problems to help find resolutions to be implemented into course training. FAME Administrator United States Navy - Oceana, VA 2010 to Present Beach, VA  • Accountable for implementing policies and procedures required within the F/A-18 Automated Maintenance Environment, NALCOMIS Optimized OMA, SPAWAR, and Naval Aviation Maintenance Program (NAMP) to ensure accurate data collection, and processing to increase operational readiness by reducing maintenance cycle times, error rates, faster diagnostics and improve the quality of the maintenance data collected to improve current and future aircraft system and maintenance processes.  • Accurate data processing of Memory Unit (MU); Aircraft Archive Data (AAD) flight files within the FAME program using the following tools: Aircraft Configuration, File Debrief, NAVFLIR matching, Life Usage Indices (LUI), File Transfer Protocol (FTP), MAPA reports, Flight Summary Tool, Flight Data Admin, Repair Engine Usage/Advance NAVFLIR Matching, and Technical Data (CD-EF IETM).  • Requested by CSFWL Oceana to assist in revamp of the F/A-18 Maintenance Environment program lesson taught at CNATTU, collaborated with the F/A-18 community across the flight line gathering common problems to help find resolutions to be implemented into the course training.  • Held training with over 50+ Navy pilots on flight file & slam stick data processing to assist the Navy fleet in troubleshooting physiological events during flights as a result of cabin pressurization and environment control system issues. Module Service Record (MSR) United States Navy - Oceana, VA 2008 to Present NAS Oceana, Virginia Beach, VA  • Trained personnel in computing intervals on tracked Life Limited components on a daily basis to ensure component replacement due intervals were monitored prior to aircraft flight.  • Computed time cycle replacement intervals for Cartridge Activated Devices (CADs) and ensured inspection intervals of installed equipment/components were kept up-to-date and complied with.  • Maintained and screened engine Module Service Record (MSR), Scheduled Removal Component (SRC) cards, Equipment History Record (EHR) cards, Aviation Life Support System(ALSS) and Assembly Service Record (ASR) cards for times remaining of all installed components.  • Works with planners and engineers to rectify discrepancies on SRC/EHR/ASR card items to reconstruct history for lost card and logset data.  • Utilized Decision Knowledge Programming for Logistics Analysis and Technical Evaluation (DECKPLATE), Decision knowledge for Engine Transaction Reporting (DECKETR), and Aircraft Inventory and Readiness Reporting System (AIRRS) for required daily, monthly and quarterly submission of status changes as required by the Navy Aviation Maintenance Program (NAMP).  • Drafted Naval messages for Planner & Estimator (P&E), waivers for special inspections and technical directive compliance extensions, Baseline Transaction Report (BTR), and General Administrative (GENADMIN) for release.  • Researched and analyzed Technical Directives, specifications, instructions, and messages to determine the modification of aircraft and components for weight and balance purposes. Central Technical Publications Librarian United States Navy - Oceana, VA 2008 to 2010 Beach, VA  • Maintained an aviation library ensuring safe and productive maintenance environment in support of over 10,525 flight hours and 26,305 maintenance actions.  • Ensured updates were implemented throughout 15 work centers comprised of 300+ personnel during both land and global assignments.  • Trained and supervised 30 Dispersed Technical Publications Librarians (DTPL) while implementing 500+ Interim Rapid Action Changes (IRAC) to keep the most current maintenance publications at all times.  • Conducted a 100% audit annually for over 8,210 documents ensuring publications and changes were being correctly maintained for carrier-wide use, ashore, and in support of global operations. Office Manager United States Navy - Brunswick, ME 2005 to 2007 • Responsible for maintaining multiple personnel databases for the proper tracking of awards, leave chits, addresses, request chits, and the filing of Standard Subject Identification Code (SSIC). Mail logistics; shipping/receiving including scheduling pickups with USPS, FEDEX, UPS and DHL. Data inputs for the Monthly Maintenance Plan (MMP).  • Kept 100% accuracy of AIMD database for over 300 personnel tracking recall info, Projected Rotation Dates (PRD), Expiration of Active Obligated Service (EAOS), divisional info, and qualifications.  • Prepared, typed and routed correspondence and reports in support of our maintenance department.  • Scheduled and held divisional training for all maintenance departments for all Navy quarterly and annual General Military Training (GMT) as well as safety stand down efforts.  • Adept in spreadsheet creation to show trend analysis from maintenance data ADHOCs which in part assisted in recommended changes to maintenance policies and procedures. Education High School Diploma Howard High School - Columbia, MD Skills Linux, Active directory, Cisco, Vmware, Exchange, Android, Ios, Symantec, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Windows xp, Mac Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/josephyutzy Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Windows Servers 2003, 2008, 2012/Windows XP, 7, 8, 10; Linux, Mac, VMware, IOS, Android, Blackberry, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Server 2007/2011, Microsoft Office, Symantec, Cisco Systems, Ubuntu