Sr. IT Technical/ Business Analyst Sr. IT Technical/ Business Analyst Sr. IT Technical/ Business Analyst - Optum Technology Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Sr. IT Technical/ Business Analyst Optum Technology October 2011 to Present Account Analyst for Medicare, Commercial and Duals Healthcare Risk Management solving analytic problems using quantitative approaches to generate and effectively communicate results from data. As the technical and business Subject Matter expert I oversee the client onboarding implementation project. Performed an in-depth analysis on data quality and layout specifications to ensure a successful file load process. Oversee weekly\monthly client files for healthcare eligibility, Provider and Medical Claims are loaded promptly and accurately. The data is loaded into Oracle databases to be analyzed by operating SQL queries utilizing TOAD software. During ETL implementations, client meetings are setup twice a week to review file content and address data gaps while performing quality measures to assure data quality. Extensive research is administered using gap analysis by creating BRD's for inbound and outbound files during testing and production phases.    Responsibilities:  • Provide internal strategic expertise during client implementation stages to deliver the highest quality service for clients  • Manage change control to files and logic stated in the original specifications of the file load  • Ensure scheduled timelines are met and client satisfaction is exceptional.  • Manage day to day operations by monitoring and reviewing files while ensuring data quality for processing  • Manage multiple projects simultaneously to resolve data issues and to complete by project deadlines  • Monitor project risks and scope to identify potential client problems to recognize solutions and escalate any issues that may impact operations  • Manage and tessted Claims data migration for ICD 9-10 Codes  • Provide support to internal and external clients and acted as the point-of-contact on status of EDI transactions Business Analyst Redbrick Health/ Virgin Pulse October 2015 to June 2019 Business Analyst  Responsible for ensuring all inbound/outbound data file schedules were met on time.  Managed data file mapping projects in a JIRA agile process through to completion with development and QA.  Elicited business requirements from internal and external stakeholders to design and build employee wellness data integration programs, including eligibility, incentive, biometric and other custom wellness data files types.  Managed workload to fully support daily data integration relationships for 30 key accounts.  Worked with leadership to identify process and product improvements to SaaS platform    • Collaborate with stakeholders to serve as Reporting and Analytics SME for a inbound data sets of large, complex clients, including delivery of live presentations  • Analyze clients EDI specifications to define mapping requirements for new relationships. Strong collaboration, communication and presentation skills.  • Built SQL scripts and Excel spreadsheets to analyze and build trading partner configuration automation scripts.  • Responsible for analyzing customer EDI guidelines and building EDI maps to fit the needs of transportation loading, ordering, status messages and invoicing.  • Creates and recognizes the importance of detailed documentation  • Work with Technology teams to provide matching and cross-platform analytics utilizing claims analytics tools and internal systems  • Collaborate with Product team on new standard reporting and analytics design and creation BI Analyst/ Dialer Administrator Cashcall Inc October 2006 to March 2010 Manage Access database administration assignments for all business departments. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, ETL of sophisticated quantitative analyst, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Responsible for Cognos Business Objects and Excel daily and weekly reports. Manage and monitored dialer/dashboard/scorecard reports.    Responsibilities:  •Advance skills of providing system analysis, design, development and deployment of BI applications.  • Worked directly with customers, analysts and vendors to develop, articulate, and document a project approach.  • Provided thorough documentation of all BI applications and processes to be used in the event of equipment or system failure.  • Assisted in the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications.  • Ensured compatibility interoperability and data integrity of BI systems.  • Debugged program logic in a structured and organized manner. Reporting Analyst/ Database Administrator Ford Motor Credit March 2000 to May 2006 Developed functions, scripts and reports instrumental to the success of high-priority development projects using Business Objects Business Intelligence reports. Strong skills in data mapping, coding, ETL, metadata and electronic report development. Six years of SQL experience designing, developing, and administering Business Objects BI applications. Excellent customer service skills with the ability to work in a fast pace environment.  Key projects:  • Developed approximately 25 custom financial and auditing reports using Business Objects and Crystal Reports with T-SQL, JDE Report Design Aid, with advance MS Excel and Access and VB skills.  • Analyzed and consolidated data across the business and made effective planning decisions.  • Accountable for coordinating business and technology resources to overcome challenges and resolving issues.  • Administered and maintain complex databases such as Teradata, SAS, MS Access and Sybase.  • Provided end user support for day-to-day use of the business intelligence-reporting platform within a financial service industry.  • Facilitated meetings to achieve specific outcomes.  • Worked with the training department effortlessly and developed training materials    Cashcall Inc.  BI Analyst/ Dialer Administrator    Manage Access database administration assignments for all business departments. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, ETL of sophisticated quantitative analyst, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Responsible for Cognos Business Objects and Excel daily and weekly reports. Manage and monitored dialer/dashboard/scorecard reports.  Responsibilities:  •Advance skills of providing system analysis, design, development and deployment of BI applications.  • Worked directly with customers, analysts and vendors to develop, articulate, and document a project approach.  • Provided thorough documentation of all BI applications and processes to be used in the event of equipment or system failure.  • Assisted in the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications.  • Ensured compatibility interoperability and data integrity of BI systems.  • Debugged program logic in a structured and organized manner.    Ford Motor Credit  Reporting Analyst/ Database Administrator 03/2000 - 05/2006    Developed functions, scripts and reports instrumental to the success of high-priority development projects using Business Objects Business Intelligence reports. Strong skills in data mapping, coding, ETL, metadata and electronic report development. Six years of SQL experience designing, developing, and administering Business Objects BI applications. Excellent customer service skills with the ability to work in a fast pace environment.  Key projects:  • Developed approximately 25 custom financial and auditing reports using Business Objects and Crystal Reports with T-SQL, JDE Report Design Aid, with advance MS Excel and Access and VB skills.  • Analyzed and consolidated data across the business and made effective planning decisions.  • Accountable for coordinating business and technology resources to overcome challenges and resolving issues.  • Administered and maintain complex databases such as Teradata, SAS, MS Access and Sybase.  • Provided end user support for day-to-day use of the business intelligence-reporting platform within a financial service industry.  • Facilitated meetings to achieve specific outcomes.  • Worked with the training department effortlessly and developed training materials Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Phoenix May 2009 to August 2011