Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - TEKSystems, Inc Urbandale, IA Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator TEKSystems, Inc October 2018 to Present using MySQL Enterprise Edition  Application Infrastructure Database Administrator    Roles/Responsibilities  Duties include Maintaining and updating the MySQL Binaries, Monitoring the Backups, and Database performance. Updated the MySQL Databases from 5.7.17 to 5.7.23 and finally to 8.0.13. Developed Stored Procedures for the Application Development team to improve Application performance. Developed and implemented a HA (High Availability) strategy using MySQL 8.0.13. Sr. DBA, Systems Programmer - MySQL, Oracle, UDB DB2, Hadoop, SSL/TLS November 2014 to August 2018 Application Install, Maintain, Monitor and Tune Multiple Data Base Platforms.    Roles/Responsibilities  As a Sr. DBA on the IS Distributed Database team, my primary duties were to install, maintain, backup, upgrade and research vulnerabilities for MySQL a web facing DB. Monitored MySQL DB's using MySQL Enterprise Monitor v4.0.5. Have upgraded MySQL v5.5 to v5.6 and finally v5.7. Installed SSL/TLS on all MySQL DB Servers to increase security between application and DB Servers. Managed the application of MySQL version upgrades and worked with the Drupal application teams for integration testing. Tested multiple HA methods with MySQL began using Source/Replica Replication, but this did not give us the automatic failover we were seeking. Developed a Group Replication environment and this would failover to the next server as needed. Create three Group Replication clusters two three node, and a five node.  Assisted with the Hadoop analytical DB, including but not limited to upgrading Cloudera Manager, reviewing any health issues with the multiple processes running in Cloudera Manager. Falcon Fraud Mgr v5.2 Anheuser Busch, Edison Brothers, Sprint and Amdocs 2016 to 2016 A Senior Information Technology Professional with experience in the project management, database administration, analysis, design, development and implementation of computer business systems. Experience includes project and budget estimating/management, defining project and business objectives and scope, defining/adhering to project management processes and documentation requirements, identifying/interviewing project teams/members, completing projects on time/ under budget, and leading cross-functional project teams. I have produced a solid track record of success and have held project management roles at Anheuser Busch, Edison Brothers, Sprint and Amdocs. In addition, I have medical industry experience to include working for Blue Cross Blue Shield. I have been consistently awarded the highest rating in my annual reviews for my top-notch communication and interpersonal skills. In addition, I have excellent client interface skills to include presenting solutions/ideas to top levels of management.    Skills Summary:  MySQL E.E. v5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 8.0 6+ yrs Falcon Fraud Mgr v5.2 3 yr DB2 v1.0, thru 9.5(mainframe) 10+ yrs Agile Methodology 2.5 yrs MS SQL Server 2014, 2016 3 yrs CICS 10 yrs  SQL 24+ yrs JCL 20 yrs  QMF 10+ yrs OS/MVS/XA - OS/390 20 yrs  COBOL/COCOL II 20 yrs TSO/ISPF 20 yrs  UDB DB2 v9.7 to 11.4 8.5 yrs UNIX/Linux 15 yrs  Oracle Version: 11.2.04 to 12c 8 yrs ERwin 7 yrs  Assembler 10 yrs PANVELET 10 yrs  LIBRARIAN 10 yrs ENDEAVOR 10 yrs  IE STRADUS 2 yrs FOCUS 5 yrs  IMS-DB/DC, MFS 10 yrs DIALOG MGR. 10 yrs  Case Tools (IEF, IEW) 5 yrs BACHMAN TOOLS 2 yrs  PL/SQL 2.5 yrs File-Aid 4 yrs  Application Programming, Analysis, and Project Management 15 yrs Sr. Database Administrator TEKSystems, Inc June 2013 to October 2013 using Oracle 11.2.0.2 with Data Guard  Application Database Administrator for Retirement Administration System    Roles/Responsibilities  As the primary DBA for the State Retirement System, duties include SQL performance tuning and database optimization. Completed contract. Used RMAN to duplicate production database across several environments. Recommended SQL changes to Third Party Vendors concerning performance and tuning of their software. Contract successfully completed. Sr. Database Administrator TEKSystems, Inc November 2011 to May 2013 using Oracle 10.2.0.4 and 11.2.0.2 with RAC  Application Database Administrator for Multiple Financial Applications    Roles/Responsibilities  As the primary DBA for multiple Financial systems duties include DDL and DML deployment, maintaining optimum performance and responding to any Database issues as they develop. Most of the Databases are multiple node RAC systems using Data Guard. However, several of the Legacy systems are single node systems also using Data Guard or Goldengate. Duties also included applying PSU patches, upgrading 9i and 10g databases to Oracle 11.0.2.0. Responsibilities included a nine day On Call rotation on a quarterly bases. Contract successfully completed. Hy-Vee Corporate Office on Contract Sogeti USA November 2010 to August 2011 Position Sr. Database Administrator using SQL Server 2008 R2  Application Data Warehouse Development    Roles/Responsibilities  Assisted in developing a Data Warehouse application using BIDS and SSIS ETL Wrote and developed ETL packages as need for completion of the project. Additionally, I Created automated tests for regression testing of newly developed software. Contract successfully completed. Sr. Database Administrator for UDB DB2 ITS, Inc December 2004 to June 2009 9.2, Oracle 9i and 10g r2 v4, MySQL  Environment Sun Solaris 10, Windows 2000/XP, Erwin, Crystal Reports  Application Falcon Fraud Prevention, ACH Electronic Funds Transfer, Web Reporting, and Netegrity Site Minder Security    Roles/Responsibilities  As a Senior DB2 Database Administrator for 47 different databases with a combined 5 Terabytes of data in a Web Access environment. Duties include Back-up and recovery and Disaster Recovery, Daily tuning and monitoring of the DB2 databases and running DB2 Utilities (runstats, reorg, etc.) as needed. The current production environment is v9.2. Duties also include assisting the programming staff in query development, attending systems design sessions to develop new database schemas. Additional duties include Database Administration for Oracle 9i and 10g including Backup and recovery and performance tuning. Continuing Oracle education includes Advanced Backup and Recover using RMAN, Performance Tuning for 10g, and New Features for Oracle 10g. There are now 18 Oracle databases, in the test, parallel and production environments supporting 4 third party applications and consuming 1.8 Terabytes of storage.    Assigned as the system administrator for the Falcon Fraud Prevention package v5.2 on Oracle 10g duties included data mapping, job setup and user training. Also administered the P&H ACH software package which was initially installed to use a 9i DB and has now been converted to a 10g DB.    Additionally, duties included building a report DB in MySQL to relieve online contention and maintain a .25 second response time. Sr. Consultant, Sr. Database Administrator DB2, UDB DB2, Oracle, SQL Server October 2000 to December 2004 Oct '00 - Dec '04 As an Independant Contractor with the following assignments  Position Sr. Consultant, Sr. Database Administrator DB2, UDB DB2, Oracle, SQL Server    Kelly - Mitchell Consulting assigned to SBC  Position Sr. Database Administrator for Oracle 9.i  Environment AIX, Windows 2000/XP, Erwin  Application Copper Cable Inventory and Engineering    Roles/Responsibilities  As an Oracle Application Database Administrator duties included Analysis of legacy systems data and creation of tables in the new OSP (Out Side Plant) Data Warehouse. Creating Entity Relationship Diagrams in Erwin using forward and reverse engineering to create complete system models. Performance tuning of the OLAP and ETL processes.    OAO Technologies assigned to IBM  Position Sr. Database Administrator for UDB DB2 Ver. 8  Environment AIX, UDB DB2 EEE, Windows 2000/XP, Windows Server 2000, Websphere  Application CRM on Demand using Siebel Enterprise Manager    Roles/Responsibilities  As a UDB DB2 DBA, Duties included Performance Tuning of the Database and the SQL executed to retrieve the data. Running Backups of the databases, restoring the databases as needed. Created reports to determine the frequency of reorgs and runstats jobs to keep the tables at optimum performance. Required to be available for 24x7 support.    BriteSource LLC., assigned to RCI, Indianapolis, Indiana  Position Sr. Database Administrator for UDB DB2 Ver. 7.1  Environment AIX, UDB DB2 EEE, Windows 2000/XP, Windows Server 2000, Websphere, SQL Server  Application Siebel Enterprise Manager and Data Warehouse    Roles/Responsibilities  As a UDB DB2 Specialist and Data Analyst, Performance Tuning of the Database and SQL as required to meet performance expectations. The system is heavily custom coded and requires monitoring to maintain quick response time to the global offices from this central location. Duties also include Database Administration and Systems Administration of 6 SQL Servers on Windows 2000 Server. Performed other DBA duties as required such as runstats, reorg and backup of the tables to increase performance. Also involved in reverse engineering of the Informatica Schemas and ETL Data loading. Automation of the Information Warehouse Incremental load is only one of my current assignments along with testing and evaluating new DB2 tools from Quest and Embarcidaro. Any other tasks as assigned by the project director.    Envision  Position Sr. Consultant, Project Manager, DB2 & Oracle DBA  Environment OS/390, TSO, SPF, Oracle 8.i - 9.i, Windows 2000 Server, Unix  Application Database Conversion    Roles/Responsibilities  A major conversion project to move data from an Oracle 8.i and SQL Server platform to an Oracle 9.i integrated platform, with Data Warehousing. The project required reverse engineering of the Oracle tables and analysis of the data for migration. The project originally estimated at 1 year was completed with 90 days. A second data conversion project spawned from the success of the first was designed and implemented with 3 weeks.    Tri-Com Technical Services assigned to Tamko Roofing Products  Position Database Administrator, DB2 & Oracle DBA  Environment OS/390, TSO, SPF, Panvalet, File-Aid, DB2, QMF, SPUFI, JCL, CICS  Application Database Design and Development    Roles/Responsibilities  As a Senior DB2 DBA designing and developing new databases and tables, performing maintenance, as required, on existing databases and tables including but not limited to, back-ups, re-orgs, data recovery and production performance tuning. For the same client tested File-Aid for DB2 and installed into production. Tested and installed QMF version 7.1 into the production environment and tested DB2 7.1 in the test environment. Monitored stogroup usage and altered tablespace usage to keep disk packs under 85% capacity. Acted as the back-up DBA for Oracle 8.i and Oracle applications. Also assisted with SQL Server DBA duties as needed.    Consultant, DB2 & Oracle DBA  Environment OS/390, TSO, SPF, Panvalet, Endeavor, File-Aid, DB2, QMF, SPUFI, JCL, CICS  Application Credit Card Processing System    Roles/Responsibilities  For a client, programmed reports in Easytrieve to report status of Cobol programs and other types system files in Endeavor for standards requirements. In a MVS, DB2 environment.    Previous job history available upon request. Education A.S. in Data Processing Meremac Community College 1981 Computer Science St Louis University