Industrial Material Analyst Industrial Material Analyst Logistics Management Specialist Carlsbad, CA Well versed in life cycle logistics ---- cradle to grave implementation and sustainment operations, supporting maintenance, repair, overhaul requirements for emerging systems and existing aircraft platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Industrial Material Analyst Fleet Readiness Center Southwest - San Diego, CA January 2018 to Present Sample Processor GenomeDx Biosciences - San Diego, CA 2016 to 2017 NASM Certified Personal Trainer University of North Texas 2014 to 2017 Trinity CPM Apartment Manager University of North Texas - Denton, TX 2013 to 2014 Database Administrator Marine Aviation Logistics Squadron 24 - K?ne‘ohe Bay, HI 2007 to 2011 Database Administrator Marine Aviation Logistics Squadron 11 - Miramar, CA 2005 to 2007 Supply Specialist Marine Aviation Logistics Squadron - Meridian, MS 2004 to 2005 Education Bachelors of Arts in Philosophy University of North Texas - Denton, TX May 2014 Bachelor's in Applied Technology & Performance Improvement University of North Texas - Denton, TX August 2011 to August 2012 Green Belt Lean Six Sigma Villanova University July 2010 NTCSS Systems Administration in Data Reporting/Analysis Center for Service Support - Norfolk, VA May 2008 to May 2008 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  Industrial Material Analyst --- FRCSW (Current)  • Responsible for managing router improvement investigation requests, ensuring avionics component bills of material (BOM) reflect proper material and financial requirements (replacement rates and units per assembly), which in some cases involves working with section leaders, production support logisticians, and integrated product team members to vet anticipated requirements against approved technical data (i.e. illustrated parts breakdowns and schematic drawings). I collaborate with work leads to initiate requests for engineering investigations (REIs) to determine and procure suitable substitute parts as required, and initiate requests through CONOPS universal call board system via Production Based Logistics Department and Defense Logistics Agency Department to have approved parts added to our material master repository for BOM and route updates.  • The A-11 review is an annual forecasting effort that involves looking at a 3 year history of material and workload standard requirements. As part of our sustainment efforts for the various weapons systems we support, I was responsible for assessing expected versus achieved results; material and labour hours threshold against actual requirements to identify trends that justify a cost increase through COMFRC. A series of reports are ran in our BOE (MRP) system --- component unit price (CUP) report, component capability report, multi-level EBOM, mat-NIIN query, and material expenditures --- to assess overall cost and material expenditures, ultimately for potential CUP changes as required for anticipated workload.    Supply Management Division --- DBA, Audit Branch, MALSP (2006 - 2010)  • Developed targeted ad hoc queries in NTCSS to extract, compile, and provision data using Excel to assist the Continuous Process Improvement Branch (CPIB) in analyzing lead time, process variability, and flow issues in supply/maintenance functions as part of inventory buffer-sizing initiatives and improving replenishment systems --- time to reliably replenish.  • Coordinated with internal supply divisions and all levels of leadership up to the Commanding Officer while forward deployed and assisted in facilitating an effort to raise supply effectiveness ratings going into the battle of Marjah in February 2010. Reported metrics directly to the CO using pivot charts in Excel to link inventory shortages to type model series aircraft.  • Presented trends in inventory shortages (NIS/NC orders) that were driving down our supply effectiveness ratings and with the help of stock control expertise and leadership, level set adjustments in our MRP re-order application were made and frequency of inventory purchases increased, thus shifting to more of a pull inventory management strategy and resulting in first pass yield (supply effectiveness) increase of 10%.  • Coordinate all end of month close-outs and quarterly material obligation validation (MOV) responses between depot level supply and internal intermediate level supply divisions.  • Responsible for uploading and transmitting requisition statuses to and from NTCSS NALCOMIS/RSupply MRP systems ensuring real-time data and flow of supply/maintenance transactions.  • Awarded Navy and Marine Corps Achievement medal as a team player for facilitating and successfully coordinating the EOFY financial closeout in which 99.6% of all monies were obligated within budget, surpassing Type Commander (TYCOM) goals for successful close-outs.  • Managed audit branch program overseeing and conducting internal supply audits to monitor compliance and standardization of supply functions in accordance with established guidelines and procedures.  • Coordinated with depot suppliers and internal supply divisions to ensure allowance changes were properly loaded in supply information systems. Managed inventory for FISP items totaling in over 1,000 line items and maintaining inventory accuracy of 100%.    Consumable Management Division --- Receiving (2006)  • Experience with both repairable and consumable aviation parts, processing inventory receipts, receiving and stowing parts, monitoring NTCSS mailboxes, conducting inventories/shelf-life review, and ensuring parts were timely and accurately delivered to O level activities (squadrons) and maintenance sections within the IMA.  • Assisted warehouse operations by receipting for over 1,000 consumable stock and direct turn-over requisitions containing over 8,000 pieces of consumable aeronautical support equipment with an extended money value of $500,000  • Receipted a monthly average of over 1000 repairable requisitions with an extended money value of $8 million.  • Reconciled with internal divisions on all high priority/direct turn-over orders on a daily basis, ensuring hi-pri components reached the customer as quickly as possible, while also successfully tracking down dozens of misdirected parts.    Repairable Management Division --- AWPB, Receiving (2004 - 2006)  • Expedited time sensitive high visibility bit piece parts for partial-mission capable (PMCS) and non-mission capable (NMCS) aircraft components to minimize aircraft down-time and increase flight line readiness.  • Reported procurement course of action and updated statuses on requisitions to the maintenance chief, AMO, and my supply OIC for parts control meetings on a daily basis.  • Responsible for using several resources including supply reports and internal partners in order to solve cross-functional problems, such as reconciling with maintenance and avionics divisions to determine supply requirements and developing the best procurement method to fulfill those orders as expediently and efficiently as possible.