Developer Specialist Developer Specialist Application developer/Application support/SQL development Roseville, MN Financial services (mortgage origination) development or operations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Specialist ACCENTURE MORTGAGE CADENCE - Edina, MN August 2015 to Present • Member of Agile development team creating custom coded connection functionality for 3-party appraisal service.  • Coordinate/provide advice to offshore development team providing assistance on current development project.  • Develop new functionality utilizing Visual Studio.NET and C#.  • Develop new SQL Server tables, fields, stored procedures and integrate loan platform via-a-vis existing and new SQL stored procedures.  • Provide advice and assistance to others internally utilizing service transport (MSMQ) process for 3rd party integrations and/or orders.  • Lead junior developer relative to current assigned tasks and completion of those tasks.  • Coordinate and provide expertise to off-shore development team related to current integration development project.  • Most recently, member of Agile team creating middleware service bus .NET application to place and receive third party orders relevant to mortgage process.  • Certified SAFE practioner.  • JMeter API trst case development testing api's, database, and log files.  • Azure AD, Service Bus, Sql development. Lead Application Support Technician/Developer ACCENTURE MORTGAGE CADENCE - Edina, MN March 2005 to August 2015 • Provide application support to users of Classic ASP/ASP.NET and SQL Server 2008-based mortgage origination applications.  • Company administrator for internal Footprints workflow/ticketing system.  • Create new and revised web development utilizing classic ASP and C# .NET.  • Troubleshoot ASP/T-SQL code and user interface issues, code/recode ASP/T-SQL code if necessary, draft technical documentation and coordinate with client users and client technical support regarding problems and solutions.  • SSIS Package development and modification.  • Coordinate with client personnel regarding identification and resolution of production issues, code modification, application testing and new development.  • Utilize advanced T-SQL skills for ad-hoc database queries, fine tune database performance issues, create and maintain database tables, UDF, stored procedures, and triggers.  • Advanced SQL Ad-hoc querying for both requested client data needs as well as internal company data analysis.  • Company BI analysis utilizing SQL 2008/2012 and Excel 2013. Contractor/ Database Migration QSI/PIPER JAFFRAY - Minneapolis, MN February 2005 to March 2005 • Migrated Access 97 Database applications and VBA code to Access 2003 platform, fully tested converted applications and coordinated user testing and acceptance.  • Reviewed and proposed corrective modifications to various Piper Jaffray Office applications. Contractor/ Database Migration/Support Analyst SHARP SKY PARTNERS/BREMER FINANCIAL SERVICES - Lake Elmo, MN August 2004 to February 2005 • Migrated Access 97 Database applications and VBA code to Access 2002 platform. Fully tested converted Access applications and coordinate rollout and user orientation. Prepare converted Access applications for delivery via Citrix NFuse MetaFrame.  • Synchronized data between Access databases, from Access to SQL Server databases and between SQL Server database using DTS Packages.  • Provided migration Level 2 support to Bank users relating to troubleshooting file/print operations, application configuration and general Citrix MetaFrame setup. Contractor/ Database Migration 3M LEGAL AFFAIRS - Saint Paul, MN May 2004 to August 2004 • Migrated Basis data into Access 2000/SQL Server 2000 tables; converted, verified and updated data prior to move.  • Converted SQL Server 2000 data for load into Summation iBlaze 2.6.  • Designed data load and verification tools for use with image/ database data and Ringtail. Systems Administrator/ASP Web Development SPINAL DESIGNS INTERNATIONAL - Minneapolis, MN October 2000 to March 2004 • Responsible for administration of external and intranet patient data entry system based on ASP/IIS5 and SQL Server 7.  • Administered SQL Server mission-critical outcomes database based on patient data and develop/maintain MS Access 2000 and IIS5 reporting tools for clients and marketing purposes.  • Advised upper management regarding technology alternatives and conducted cost-benefit analysis for new technology options.  • Provided support for corporate office and six related remote clinics on all aspects of PC usage/repair, user support and patient data entry system usage.  • Assigned as corporate HIPAA 2003 coordinator. Responsible for development and implementation of corporate actions to insure compliance with HIPAA 2003. Contractor CONSULTIS/NYSTROM BLDG PRODUCTS - Minneapolis, MN August 2000 to September 2000 • Project involved removing duplication from large SQL Server 7 database with large base table and eight related tables and maintaining integrity between database tables.  • Refined client MS Access 2000 load procedures for the database to prevent future loads including duplicates involving external data from Dodge Company and data from internal Macola accounting system. Consultant Minneapolis, MN June 2000 to August 2000 • Maintained and developed new IIS4 website functionality utilizing ASP, ADO, Javascript, VBScript, DHTML, and SQL Server 7.  • Maintained and developed new database applications utilizing MS Access 2/97/2000.  • Provided user support for remote shoppers accessing the client website. System Analyst/ Database Development/Web Development DORSEY & WHITNEY LLP - Minneapolis, MN October 1997 to June 2000 • Developed firm ASP web-based Intranet/Extranet applications utilizing MS SQL Server 7, ADO, VBScript, JavaScript, DHTML, MS Internet Information Server 4, MS Visual InterDev/ASP, MS Transaction Server 2 and MS Exchange Server 5.5. Created COM objects to facilitate database access for these applications and integrated existing COM objects to add functionality to those applications.  • Provided technical support for in-house Micro Dynamics Ltd. ("MARS") document imaging system. Provided general advice and guidance on all aspects of imaging and database litigation support technology in connection with automated litigation support options.  • Designed, implemented and supported firm multi-user litigation support applications, as well as, firm internal database application using Summation Blaze with Barcode support, Concordance, MS Access 97 and MS SQL Server 6.5 and 7.  • Setup several legal specific applications with user access through pcAnywhere. Provided technical support and training to users for those applications.  • Administration of Trial Department migration projects involving move of 300 users from Apple Macintosh to Windows 95/Windows NT environment.  • Setup and tested networked and standalone Windows NT server and network, and 17 workstations at public opening of Minnesota Tobacco Document Depository. Further, responsible for technical support and maintenance of databases containing 4,000,000+ document records, administration of the on-site NT Server and troubleshot system problems. MARS System Administrator DORSEY & WHITNEY LLP - Minneapolis, MN April 1995 to October 1997 Litigation Support  • Administration of in-house Macintosh Micro Dynamics Ltd., ("MARS") document imaging and coding operation and supervision of related rotating staff of fifteen document analysts.  • Hired, supervised and evaluated the in-house coding staff.  • Supported entire Trial Department in development of relational database applications, use of imaging technology and coordination with co-counsel regarding technology issues.  • Successfully built eight imaged databases, two of which included over 120,000 pages of information, which were built under tight time constraints.  • Successfully concluded major upgrade of MARS system hardware and software, as well as, facilitated upgrade of relational database and migration of prior database applications.  • Provided full programming and design support to department personnel using relational database manager Fourth Dimension ("4D") and MS Access 97.  • Ported image databases built for Macintosh use to format usable with Summation for Windows.  • Provided training and ongoing assistance to Trial Department personnel in main office and branch offices on use of firm litigation support software. Litigation Paralegal OPPENHEIMER WOLFF & DONNELLY - Minneapolis, MN June 1986 to April 1995 • Responsible for day-to-day supervision and implementation of pretrial discovery, trial preparation, factual development/research, and large case file organization and control of securities fraud, environmental, employment law and other professional liability cases.  • Developed and implemented numerous databases and developed expertise in trial support database development, spreadsheet damage analysis and trial graphics presentations.  • Provided support to seven attorneys in development in litigation discovery programs, co-counsel/client coordination, and implementation of automated solutions to multi-district case organization. Education Edina East High School Edina B.A. in Political Science Hamline University - Saint Paul, MN Certificate Paralegal Institute - Phoenix, AZ Skills .NET (5 years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), TSQL (10+ years), c# (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Iis (8 years), RabbitMQ (1 year), sql server, database, sql, jQuery, XML Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: Germany Rank: SP5 June 1980 to January 1986 Cavalry scout bit served as unit armorer and training NCO in Armor battalion, Ft Carson CO. Later served overseas at Bamberg Germany as Battalion Legal specialist. Certifications/Licenses SAFe for Teams 4.5 November 2017 to Present Driver's License