SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SUMMARY South Amboy, NJ SQL Server DBA with 5 years of experience of IT with strong administration, design, development, and implementation experience using SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005.    • Experience in Database administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup & Recovery, Database security, and SQL Server Integration services.  • Experience in providing Production Support for 24x7.  • Experience in upgrading from MSSQL Server 2005 to MS SQL Server 2008.  • Experience with SQL server 2008/2012, DDL/DML Triggers, Database Mirroring and Migration.  • Successfully created, implemented and maintained Log Shipping Technique.  • Experience in implementing High Availability such as Clustering, Database Mirroring, Peer to Peer Replication and AlwaysON.  • Experience in Maintenance plan for checking integrity, schedule with full and transaction lo  • g backup.  • Experience in creating Jobs and monitoring job steps and troubleshooting failed steps.  • Creation and maintenance of Databases, creating Roles and managing user permissions, resolving deadlocks.  • Experience in investigating and applying necessary SQL Server database patches and installing service packs.  • Monitoring SQL Server logs to ensure the backup operations, batch commands, or other scripts and processes have completed successfully.  • Experience in providing Production Support for 24x7. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Emblem Health - New York, NY December 2012 to Present Description: The GHI and HIP health plans administered by Emblem Health are among the most innovative and flexible in the industry. Groups and individuals can choose from a variety of accredited PPO, EPO and HMO health plans, as well as prescription drug, dental and vision coverage. Plan members get access to most of the tri-state area's top doctors and other medical professionals. Our members can also make use of acute care hospitals and physicians with hospitals across all 50 states. And the nearly 2.8 million people we serve - ranging from employees in small and large groups to individuals, public workers and retirees.    Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2 and 2012.  • Involved in resolving blocking and dead lock Issues by using SQL commands Using T-SQL.  • Extensive worked on administration activities like Disaster Recovery, backup and restore.  • Created & managed the Database Users, Login and Security.  • Creation of Jobs, Schedules, Alerts using SQL Server Agent and Notifications using SQL Mail.  • Collaborated with Developers in troubleshooting application and database issues.  • Monitoring Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  • Provided 24 x 7 Production support for the database issues.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012, T-SQL, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server, SSIS, SSRS, MS Excel and Windows XP, Idera Toolkit SQL Server Database Administrator U.S. Foodservice - Perth Amboy, NJ December 2011 to October 2012 Description: US Foods is one of America's leading foodservice distributors to restaurants, healthcare and hospitality facilities, government operations and educational institutions. We offer more than 350,000 national brand products and our own high-quality private label items ranging from meats to produce to frozen foods.    Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2.  • Involved in setting up Transactional Replication and Snapshot replication  • Involved in Setting up Log shipping.  • Extensively involved in database mirroring.  • Extensive worked on administration activities like Disaster Recovery, backup and restore.  • Created database objects like tables, views, indexes, stored-procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL.  • Administrator tasks such as managing users, roles, and profiles.  • Used DTS Packages for data import and export data from SQL Server to Access, text and EXCEL files.  • Created Database Maintenance Planner for the Performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Performed System Study and Requirements Analysis, prepared Data Flow Diagrams, Entity Relationship Diagrams, Data Diagrams, Table Structures, with a lot of interaction with the client.  • Created and deployed and scheduled report using SSRS.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, T-SQL, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Windows 2003/2008 Server, SSIS, SSRS, MS Excel and Windows XP, Idera Diagnostic Manager SQL Server Database Administrator Sun National Bank - Vineland, NJ October 2010 to November 2011 Description: Sun National Bank is the primary subsidiary of Sun Bancorp, Inc. (Nasdaq: SNBC), a $3.33 billion asset bank holding company headquartered in Vineland, New Jersey, with its executive offices located in Mt. Laurel, New Jersey. The Bank, serves customers through 66 locations in New Jersey. Sun National Bank has been named one of Forbes Magazine's "Most Trustworthy Companies" for five years running.    Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting high availability scenarios involving Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication  • Involved in designing and creating Databases, Tables, Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Identified, tested and resolved database performance issues to ensure data optimization.  • Used tools like SQL Server profiler, Performance Monitor to identify bottlenecks.  • Implementation of system wide security policies and trouble shooting.  • Involved in installing SQL Server 2008/2008R2 on Development, Production.  • Created and deployed SSIS packages and scheduled jobs on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Created logins and users with specific roles and permissions as per security rules.  • Created linked servers and tested the linked servers  • Deploying database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.  • Monitoring all activities of the server including monitoring the daily SQL jobs, SQL Server error logs and Windows error logs.  • Configured replication methods like snapshot, transactional and merge replications.  • Monitoring and scheduled jobs on production and staging environment.  • Imported data from text files and excel spread sheets into SQL Server 2008/2008R2 database using SSIS  • Responsible in Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance issues.    Environment: Windows 2008 Server, MS SQL Server 2008, MS SQL Server 2008R2, BIDS, SSRS SQL Server Database Administrator Biomedical Systems - Maryland Heights, MO May 2009 to July 2010 Description - For 35 years Biomedical Systems has set the health care industry standard by providing innovative approaches to non-invasive diagnostic services, clinical trials, products and supplies.    Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of MS SQL Server 2005 and 2008.  • Extensively Involved in Creating Back up Strategy.  • Created & managed the Database Users, Login and Security.  • Implementation of system wide security policies and trouble shooting.  • Involved in installing SQL Server 2008/2008R2 on Development, Production.  • Developed, designed and documented data dictionary, tables, view, stored procedures, advanced queries, triggers, indexes and functions using T-SQL, SQL Analyzer and SQL Enterprise Manager.  • Designed DTS/SSIS Packages to transfer data between servers, load data into database, archive data file from different DBMS using SQL Enterprise Manager/SSMS on SQL Server 2000/2005 environment, and deploy the data, scheduled the jobs to do these tasks periodically.  • Worked with SSIS to import, export and transform data between linked servers.  • Monitoring all activities of the server including monitoring the daily SQL jobs, SQL Server error logs and Windows error logs.    Environment: MS SQL server 2008/2008R2, Windows 2003/2008 Server, SSIS, SSRS, SSMS, SSCM Education B.S. in Management Information System Rutgers University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    RDBMS  MS SQL 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005 and MS Access    Languages  T/SQL, Java, HTML    Operating Systems  Windows Server (2000/2003/2008/2012), Desktop Operating Systems (Window XP /Vista/7/8/8.1)    Tools  SSMS, SQL Server Profiler, SSIS and SSRS, SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, Idera Diagnostic Manager, SQL DeFrag Manager, SQL safe