Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Canton, OH • Over 10 years Oracle DBA experience in the industry.  • Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) DBA (highest scored 98% in North America in OCA exam) with extensive qualifications including Oracle 12C/11/10g RAC, EM grid control, active data guard, data analysis, modeling, designing, data formatting, loading, database create and managements (backup & recovery, security maintenances), infrastructure development with multisite networks, hardware/software acquisitions and configurations.  • IT professional, proficient to analyze, design, develop, implement and integrate complex business systems that provide real time business solutions and increase organizational efficiencies/productivities.  • Master Degree in Computer Science & Engineering and having multi-tasking capabilities and enable to work in-group and independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA Stark State College - Canton, OH July 2017 to December 2017 • Performed Oracle database servers' software installations, configurations and setup backup & recovery systems in all three environments(prod/test/dev) as designed by the organization.  • Provided day to day databases administration operational supports under data warehouse environment.  • Created/removed user profiles, groups, roles, privileges, authentications, encryptions and scripted for easy database administration.  • Created huge number of new batch jobs, views, materialized views, synonyms and scheduled those jobs, stored procedures and packages and run them when needed by the end users/developer  • Performed scripting and broken jobs fixing in ERP Oracle Banner 8.5 environments for running smooth operations.  • Upgraded databases/applications released available server patches using available utilities and techniques (OEM, OPatch, adpatch,admrgpatch)  • Upgraded Oracle Banner 8.5 Ellucian release patches for all major ERP modules.  • Migrated databases /applications from Oracle Windows to Oracle Linux Redhat 6.9.  • Provided on call support (24/7 On Call) in production database environment.  • Provided supports for running oracle application servers (Web Logic 10.3 servers) and applications management servers (Atomic 9.0)  • Monitored database systems performance using various tools and techniques (OEM Grid Control) and maintained database backup and recovery processes, data security/integrity, disk space requirements and database server performance.  • Tuned databases / applications process to ensured better performance of the systems..  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 12C/11gR2, Oracle Banner 8.5 (Student, Finance, Fin aid, HR, Student Advancement, Position Control) Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 12C Oracle SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager Database Console, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, ASM, Windows 2010/2008 servers, Web Logic Server 10.3, Citrix XenApp 7.11, BMC Software(Magic), Oracle TOAD 10.7, Oracle TOAD Analyzer). Database Administrator HUMANA May 2014 to June 2017 • Provided day to day HUMANA operational Enterprise Production Databases (Oracle 12C/11gR2, IBM Netezza) and applications supports under all three environments (Prod, Dev and QA) for ongoing business activities.  • Performed Oracle database servers' software installations, configurations, upgrading (In place / Out place) databases and patching, set up backups, disaster recovery (Active Data Guard) and high availabilities(RAC) of the systems  • Monitored enterprise database systems performance, including running applications, user session activities, long running jobs/queries and managed workloads to ensure the healthy systems and resources are available.  • Performed database tuning activities, codes reviewing, SQL scripts testing, logs analysis; long running query analysis, bug fixing and recommended to release into the production.  • Migrated Oracle database from 10gR2 to 11gR2 and 11gR2 to 12C also migrated 12c non container to 12C container db.  • Participated in Humana Oracle Exadata Migration Project 2017 as one of the technical expertise members, and analyzed migrated databases applications performance issues, impacts and initiated changes related to Exadata Infrastructure.  • Implemented Humana financial Corporate System Data Mart (CSD) development projects, the major tasks were under the project like cloned / created new databases, setup backup/recovery system, designed schema objects (profiles, groups, roles, privileges, tables, views etc.) and scripted for easy DB administration.  • Supported financial CSD running all applications (Daily/Monthly/Quarterly End running critical/noncritical jobs) to make sure jobs/applications run properly and data populated on the target systems, in case of jobs failure or aborts, did research on root cause analysis and fixed the issues.  • Installed and configured Oracle Golden Gate Software and replicated tables data on remoted targeted locations.  • Supported to developers'/business users/ stockholders required data movements processes from single/multiple partitioned tables and locations under Data Warehouse (WH) distribution policies and agreements using ETL, PL/SQL etc.  • Maintained up to date change control documentations following Humana operational standards and procedures to establish and formalize database infrastructure administration principles for Oracle, IBM Netezza warehouse appliance and Informatica Power Center Repository etc.  • Performed weekly/Friday night database backups and financial data archiving.  • Provided on call (24/7) days assistance in troubleshooting applications and database infrastructure problems in order to restore business systems that have failed.  • Administered IBM Informatica offered products and applications (Power Center Repository, Designer, Workflow Manager/Monitor, Data Integration Hub etc.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 12C/11gR2/RAC, Active Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM), Oracle Exadata Appliance, Oracle SQL*Loader, Fast Reader, Oracle Golden Gate 11gR2, RMAN, AWR/DIET/ADDM, ASM, Ticketing Systems (Service Desk, ETP), Oracle TOAD 11.5, Oracle TOAD Analyzer), DB Artisan. Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank, IA August 2013 to May 2014 • Provided day to day operational and technical supports for the databases (prod/dev/qa) and applications issues under Oracle RAC 12c/11g/10gR2 enterprise grid control, and SQL Server 2012R Clustering environments.  • Installed, configured and maintained new created databases (Oracle 12C/11gR2 and SQL Server 2012/2013, Sybase 15.x) required for development and testing purposes.  • Setup vendor recommended databases and applications monitoring tools Oracle 11gR2 Enterprise Manager (OEM), Fog lights and setup database health alert system.  • Setup databases disaster recovery systems such as Oracle 11gR2 (RAC), Active Data Guard.  • Installed Oracle Golden Gate and migrated/replicated tables data to target sources.  • Monitored performance of the running production databases and OLTP, user connected session's activities, locks, latches, alert.log, block corruptions, segment fragmentation, security threats, and tune databases when it was needed.  • Performed huge database tuning activities (systems and SQL query) using available tools and techniques such Oracle Tuning Pack, Tkprof, Plan Table, SQL Tracing, Stats pack, AWR,ADDM,  • Applied vendor released critical patches and upgraded database instances as per SLA (Service Level Agreement).  • Planned and implemented databases backup (incremental/differential hot & cold) and recovery (RMAN) systems for all new created databases (test and dev).  • Monitored daily backups logs activities, verified and tested backup pieces using db verify utilities before sending to the secondary storage locations.  • Lead the team members (offshore applications developers) in WF ICMP applications (Iowa farming mortgage and loan) project deployment and provided project progresses to the project manager during weekly meeting.  • Provided support for ICMP applications, mainly ensure that jobs were running on time and got completed properly, in case of failure or aborts or needed any parameter changes or values all done properly.  • Controlled migrations of all database programs (oracle 11gR2, SQL Server 2008/2012/2013), especially database changing, reference data changing and menu changing through the development life cycle.  • Migrated existing old databases (IBM DB2, SQL Server2005, Sybase, Oracle 8i, and Oracle 9i) to new Oracle 11gR1/R2 database environments using available Wells Fargo provided tools and techniques like Oracle Golden Gate, Oracle SQL Developer, and SwisSQL.  • Initiated change management procedure and released new changes into productions and non-productions database systems environments.  • Implemented database auditing, data security and remediate high-risk violations in production environment.  • Evaluated the vendor released products, tools, and third parties running applications, hardware/software products to ensure that the site was running the products that were most appropriate.  • Administered all of the database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, materialized views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Scripted and wrote PL/SQL codes, stored procedures, created views, roles, materialized views, various DDL/DML operations to administer databases easily.  • Assisted with the impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Troubleshoot regarding the problems and bugs of the databases, running applications and development tools.  • Provided on call support (24/7 On Call) in production database environment by rotations.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 12C/11/10gR2, Oracle 11R2/10gR2 RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL Server 2008/2012/2013, Oracle SQL*Loader, Oracle GG 11gR2, RMAN, Explain Plan, Stats pack, Tkprof, SqlTrace, AWR, ADDM, ASM, BMC Software (Remedy 7.2), Quest (Oracle TOAD 11.5, Oracle TOAD Analyzer), Embarcadero (DB Artisan), Sybase 15.x, Oracle Exadata Appliance, Oracle Database Appliance v2.1. Sr.Oracle DBA Hewlett - Packard, MI January 2011 to August 2013 • Performed installations, configurations, coordinating and administering databases (Oracle 11/10g/9i/8i, People Soft HR/FS) server hardware/ software, and setup backup & recovery systems as designed by the organization.  • Provided day to day databases (Oracle 11/10g, 9/8i, SQL server 2012/2008R2/2005, Sybase 15.0 PostgreSQL including HP large data ware house) operational supports, maintenance and upgraded patches in all environments (prod/dev./test).  • Created/removed user profiles, groups, roles, privileges, authentications, encryptions and scripted for easy database administration (including Sybase user profile).  • Developed the daily/weekly databases maintenance and backup plans (RMAN, IBM Tivoli, and VERITAS) and restoration of all critical systems and data, in terms of using disaster and recovery methods.  • Created huge number of new batch jobs, views, materialized views, synonyms and scheduled those jobs, stored procedures and packages and run them when needed in terms of end user and developer requests.  • Performed scripting and broken jobs fixing in Oracle/SQL server environments for running smooth operations.  • Upgraded database patching and application server (OAM) patching using available utilities and techniques ( OPatch, adpatch,admrgpatch etc)  • Migrated databases from Dv2, Oracle 8i, SQL server 2000 to Oracle 10/11G using golden gate, SwisSQL, Oracle SQL Developer.  • Provided on call support (24/7 On Call) in production database environment.  • Assisted and supported end users, and prepared Bible documentations as it transferred from test projects to productions (promoting), familiarizing with the expected performance and results of the applications.  • Provided supports for running oracle application servers (Fusion Middleware11g, Web Logic 10.3, HTTP servers)  • Monitored database systems performance using various tools and techniques (OEM Grid Control, Active Data Guard), and maintained database backup and recovery processes, data security, data integrity, disk space requirements and provided reports on database server performance.  • Added new database instances to Oracle 10gR2 RAC and 11gR1 RAC environment (4 nodes).  • Tuned databases and running applications and ensured best performance of the systems.  • Participated in the database promotions and data fixing processes.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 11/10g,9/8i, Oracle 10g RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 11g, Oracle Golden Gate 11R2, Oracle SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager Database Console, RMAN, Spotlights, Fog Lights, SQL DM, AWR,ADDM, ASM, Windows 2000/2005/2008 servers, People Soft 8.0, PostgreSQL, Web Logic Server 10.3,VMware 2.0 server/Citrix XenApp 5.5,HP Open views, BMC Software(Remedy 7.2),Quest Software(Oracle TOAD 10.7, Oracle TOAD Analyzer),DB Artisan, Confio Ignite 8, Oracle Exadata, Oracle Appliance v2.1. Sr.Oracle DBA Exxon Mobil June 2010 to December 2010 • Analyzed, designed, developed, deployed & implemented Exxon Mobil Oracle Enterprise Database (Oracle 11/10g, 9i, 8i) systems.  • Supported in database modifications in all three (production/testing/development including large data ware house) environments and designed structures.  • Installed and maintained upgraded databases, patches under various OS platforms (Sun Solaris 5.X/Windows 200X).  • Setup DB disasters and recovery systems (Oracle 11gR1/10R2 RAC, Oracle 11g Active Data Guard).  • Upgraded Sun Solaris versions 5.8 to Sun Solaris 5.10, 5.11 and Window Server 2000/2005/2008R2.  • Developed database applications forms, banner using Oracle Application Express (Apex 4.0) and maintained databases backup and recovery systems (RMAN).  • Created/removed databases user profiles/setting accounts and granted resources for smooth database operations.  • Installed and configured oracle application servers (Fusion Middleware11g, Web Logic 10.3, IIS Server)  • Migrated databases from Dv2, Oracle 8i, SQL server 2000 to Oracle 10/11G using golden gate, SwisSQL and Oracle SQL Developer.  • Provided after-hours on-call support of production environments including oracle Exadata databases.  • Monitored databases, applications and hosts (OEM, HP Open view, Fog Lights), analyzed performance of the data health and tuned/refreshed the databases when needed.  • Provided databases and applications technical support to Exxon Mobil users using Oracle Golden Gate 11.1.1.1, TOAD Oracle 10.7, DB Artisan, and Remedy10.7.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 11/10g,9/8i, Oracle 10g RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 10g Rel. 5, Oracle SQL*Loader, Enterprise Manager Database Console, RMAN, Spotlights, AWR, ADDM, ASM, Web Logic Server 10.3, VMware 2.0 server/Citrix XenApp 5.5, HP Open views, BMC (Remedy 7.2),Quest (Oracle TOAD 10.7),Embarcadero(DB Artisan), SwisSQL,IBM Tivoli, Oracle SQL Developer. Oracle DBA VERIZON Communications Inc August 2009 to June 2010 • Performed VERIZON enterprise databases (Oracle10/11g,9i, SQL server 2008R/2005, DB2, PostgreSQL) and Middle Tier Applications Server (HTTP 2.1/Web Logic 10.3) software installations, configurations, upgrading patch systems, and provided life cycle support, management and administration under UNIX (Sun Solaris 5.8,5.9,5.10)/Windows 200x platforms.  • Analyzed the customers/vendors/contractors & others third parties' requirements (tickets) and provided accesses on the databases/applications according to the privileges and agreements.  • Received escalated trouble tickets (TTs) regarding the database servers / running applications (including data ware house) issues during the on call (24/7); provided immediate client supports and technical solutions.  • Provided solutions regarding infrastructure development and implementation of the database applications security features (e.g. roles, privileges, authentications)  • Migrated existing data from SQL 2003 to SQL 2005 server, and Oracle 8i, 9i to Oracle 10/11g.  • Performed daily backups (hot/cold) & recovery systems (RMAN), database troubleshooting, tuning and diagnostics activities for analyzing database performances.  • Added new database instances into the Oracle 10g RAC and OEM environments.  • Monitored database health and connectivity via various database management utilities (OEM, Fog lights, HP Open view, TOAD 10.X,DB Artisan and Oracle Golden Gate)  • Audited (FGA) and controlled VERIZON host database and modified when needed.  • Participated weekly VERIZON world conferences (discussed weekly progresses, incoming problems identification and possible recommended solutions).  • Kept up to date documentation and online reporting for the future references.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 11/10g,9/8i, Oracle 10g RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 10g Rel. 5, Oracle SQL*Loader, Enterprise manager Database Console, RMAN, Fog lights, AWR, ADDM, ASM, SQL*Plus, UNIX (Sun Solaris 5.9,5.10, Linux, AIX), Windows 2000/2005 servers, VMware 2.0 server, Web Logic Server 10.3, /Citrix XenApp 5.5, BMC (Remedy 7.2), Quest (Oracle TOAD 10.7), Embarcadero (DB Artisan). Oracle DBA Wells Fargo Bank, IA - Des Moines, IA August 2008 to August 2009 • Provided 24/7 by operational Oracle databases support based on highly transactional production systems under UNIX (Sun Solaris 5.X)/Windows environments.  • Developed and documented backup/recovery policies successfully.  • Provided backup success notification emails to all onsite DBA including team leader.  • Installed and upgraded of Oracle on Sun Servers and applied patches as required.  • Setup and Installed Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) and performed the configuration of the backup routines using Enterprise Manager Interface.  • Performance tuning, memory tuning, using either queries from the v$ views or gather performance metrics from the AWR by means of the EM DB Control Console.  • Defined the backup policies and disaster recovery criteria.  • Involved in data loading using SQL Loader/Informatica.  • Maintained the databases updating and applied the latest patch sets available for the all three databases environments (production/development/test).  • Performed capacity planning to prevent resource shortage  • Validated applications prior to perform upgrade databases from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g on production environments.  • Upgraded databases from 10gR1 to 11gR2, as well as other upgrades from databases in 9i to 10gR2.  • Performed data movements from the productions to a test and development environment using Data Pump, data export/import and other third party tools.  • Developed applications forms, banner using Oracle Application Express (Apex 3.0)  • Traced and troubleshoot highly resource consumer sessions that slow down DB performance.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 11/10g,9/8i, Oracle 10g RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM), Oracle SQL*Loader, Enterprise manager Database Console, OPatch, RMAN, Explain Plan, Stats pack, Tkprof, SqlTrace, Spotlights, AWR,ADDM, ASM, UNIX(Sun Solaris 5.9,5.10.linux,aix), Windows 2000/2005 servers, VMware 2.0 server/Citrix XenApp 5.5,BMC Software(Remedy 7.2,),Quest Software(Oracle TOAD 10.7, Oracle TOAD Analyzer) Oracle DBA IBM Canada Ltd March 2005 to July 2008 • Performed enterprise database (Oracle 10R2) and applications server (Web Logic 10.3) software installations, configurations, upgrading patches, database management and administrations under various operating systems (Linux, Sun Solaris 5.10/Windows 2003).  • Created user profiles, groups, roles and scripting for easy database administration.  • Approved all productions database designs and schema changes.  • Controlled all migrations (Oracle 8i and SQL Server 2000 to Oracle 10R2) of the database schema objects and ensure the data availabilities.  • Performed daily backup & recovery system (RMAN) and VERITAS.  • Setup databases performance monitoring system tools (OEM 10g Grid Control)  • Monitored database performance tuning and others diagnostic activities.  • Provided On Call (24/7) technical supports when needed.  Environment: Oracle RDBMS 11/10g,9/8i, Oracle 10g RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) Grid Control 10g , Oracle SQL*Loader , Oracle Data Integrator(ODI),Oracle Warehouse Builder(OWB) Enterprise Manager Database Console, OPatch, RMAN, Spotlights, AWR,ADDM, ASM, SQL*Plus, UNIX(Sun Solaris 5.9,5.10,linux,aix), Windows 2000/2005 servers, VMware 2.0 server/Citrix XenApp 5.5,BMC (Remedy 7.2,),Quest (Oracle TOAD 10.7, Oracle TOAD Analyzer). Education Bachelor's Skills database (10+ years), OEM (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS  Database: Oracle 12c, 11gR2/10gR2, IBM Netezza, SQL Server 2013/2012/2008R    Oracle Tools: PL/SQL, Oracle SQL* Plus, ERP Oracle Banner 8.5 (major modules) ,Oracle RAC(12/11gR2),OWB, Active Data Guard, ASM, Oracle E-Business SuiteR12/SOA, DB Partitioning, Oracle XML Publisher),DB Modeling Tools (MS-Visio, Toad, Erwin, Designer, Oracle Developer suit6i), DBMS Tools ( Toad Oracle 11.6, Oracle SQL Developer4.X, DB Artisan9.X), Enterprise Management Console (12C/11gR2), Backups & Recovery (RMAN), DB Monitoring Tools ( OEM Grid Control, Confio Enterprise Ignite8, , Fog Light, Oracle G.G 12C/11g, HP Open View) Ticketing Systems( BNC Remedy7.X/Magic, Service Desk, ETP)    ETL Tools: IBM Informatica (Power Center Repository Manager, Designer, Workflow Manager and Workflow Monitor), DIH (Data Integration Hub), ODI (Oracle Data Integrator), Oracle SQL* Loader, Fast Reader Loader, Data Pump.  Platforms: Sun Solaris (5.x), Redhat Linux Server, AIX, HP UNIX, Oracle EXADATA Appliance Citrix XenApp 5.0, Windows NT, Scripting (ksh/csh)