Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Walmart Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Walmart - Laurel, MD January 2014 to Present Environment: Windows, RHEL, Oracle 11g, Oracle RAC (11g), Data Guard, Oracle Grid Control, RMAN, ASM, STATSPACK, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL*Plus.    Responsibilities  ? Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  ? Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  ? Executed SQL queries with pre-defined aggregated functions such as COUNT, MAX or MIN.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  ? Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  ? proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  ? Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  ? Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  ? Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  ? Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  ? Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  ? Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  ? Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  ? Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  ? Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Generating Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Oracle Database Administrator LIMIT Rader Inc - New York, NY April 2012 to December 2013 • Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 11.2.0.4 databases in 24/7 production environment on Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers, as well as Microsoft SQL Server 2012 databases on Windows Server 2012  • Managed inventory and customer database authorization and database roles/privileges, and enabled database auditing for database security.  • Configured Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt sensitive data such as customer's personal and payment information  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, preparation of tables, indexes, tablespaces, and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources usage.  • Provided and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using Oracle Data Guard.  • Monitored space utilization and optimized performance of Oracle 11g databases.  • Enforced business rules and maintained data integrity via the use of constraints using DDL statements. • Assisted developers with application related problems  • Provided troubleshooting and support for end-user issues.  • Resolved Oracle related errors/issues assigned through Remedy ticketing system.  • Performed bulk load into databases SQL Loader  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Analyzed complex SQL queries, and provided data analysis and interpretation.  • Cloned databases using RMAN.  • Created logical backups of Oracle databases using Data Pump utility.  • Created database design using Entity Relation Diagrams (ERD) using Oracle SQ Developer Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor, Alert Log, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM 2008 to 2012 •Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • Database design  • Installation& Data modeling  • Database migration using traditional Exp/Imp, Datapump, and SQL Loader, Transportable Tablespaces (TTS)  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Database security using TDE, Data masking, Patching, data redaction Education Associate Degree in Information Technology Montgomery College