Senior Enlisted Advisor Senior Enlisted Advisor Senior Enlisted Advisor Pass Christian, MS jzehn@yahoo.com  (360) 969-0471  Hardworking and motivated professional transitioning from the U.S. 12448 Vidalia Rd, Pass Christian, MS  Navy to civilian workforce. Expertise includes leading operations, 39571  managing reporting and enhancing systems to maintain responsiveness  in dynamic situations. Work Experience Senior Enlisted Advisor United States Navy - Meridian, MS June 2016 to June 2019 Leadership  ? Managed command with over 500 personnel; oversaw and provided ? Resource management  guidance concerning issues such as personal growth development, ? Computer skills  career advancement and mentorship. ? Thrives on multi-tasking  ? Developed and implemented current and applicable training ? Strong leader  programs for students, reducing instructional days and improving ? Organized  morale amongst staff and student personnel. ? Active listening  ? Advise managers on organizational policy matters, such as equal ? Human resources management  employment opportunity and sexual harassment, and recommend ? Critical thinking  needed changes. ? Secret security clearance  ? Active communication between personnel dealing with personnel ? Microsoft PowerPoint, Excel and Word  issues, command policies, work-related problems. ? Team Player  ? Mentored and trained United States Navy Instructors to continuously ? Quick Learner  improve knowledge and abilities in Aviation Administration  procedures and responsibilities.  ? Managed assets valued in excess of $1 million.  ? Oversaw facility and system updates and enhancements to keep Education  operations in line with current demands. Maintenance Control/Line Division Chief Columbia College - Columbia, MO June 2013 to May 2016 Monitored priorities and liaised between maintenance team and management, delegating tasks to ensure timely task completion. Certifications  ? Organized ongoing maintenance schedules to increase operational  ? Master Training Specialist  readiness.  ? Instructor Qualified (US  ? Implemented a trouble shooting work center; trained and qualified 9  Navy-Classification Code 9502)  personnel; resulting in 100% mission completion rate for aircraft  ? Command Drug and Alcohol Program  qualifications. Advisor  ? Coordinated daily workflow through task prioritizing and concise  scheduling.  ? Completed thorough inspections of aircraft, systems and equipment to check for notable defects and maintenance issues.  ? Managed quality assurance program including on site evaluations, internal audits and customer surveys.  ? Performed system data analysis to maintain computer software. Database Administrator United States Navy January 1999 to May 2013 Prepared aircraft and maintenance related correspondence  ? Maintained and operated Navy Aeronautical Technical Publication  Library  ? Sustain data integrity between operations and maintenance  departments  ? Input data for logs and records; performs records and administration  duties.  ? Prepares directives and instructions for improving operations  ? Supervise organizational maintenance on Naval aircraft, components  and ground support equipment.