Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Sr. SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator - Smith & Nephew Keller, TX I am looking for a Business Intelligence Developer / Data Scientist position, which stimulates my intellectual curiosity along with my deep desire to take raw data and create knowledge to solve real business problems. I effectively communicate technical issues to non-technical managers using strong analytical and interpersonal skills. Expertise includes designing, developing, and implementing solutions for complex business problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Smith & Nephew July 2014 to Present Designed, Developed and currently preparing to implement an automated SQL Server performance monitoring system for all critical servers. This system incorporates the Windows Performance monitoring, SQL Server Waits, Latches, Dynamic Management Views (DMV) to identify, analyze and troubleshoot system performance.    Created and modified existing Cognos TM1 programs and scripts along with generating new programs and scripts to incorporate a consistent approach to coding standards. Integrated the usage of an dynamically configuration for data integration and automating of the following processing of Dimensions, Cubes, Processes, Feeder rule, Business Rules, and data imports and exports to support and enhance the Business Intelligence tool for Reporting the companies monthly financial result(s) through the Finance department Rubik's project.    Design, develop, and maintain automated ETL processes (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) utilizing SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages for optimal data integration strategies with internal applications and external data file feeds with special focus on data flow, error recovery, and exception handling and reporting. Developed SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) packages using BIML / Mist, which consisted of 135-stored procedure, 64-SSIS packages, and 1,700+ of TSQL Code in 3 days. Special features are error recovery, and exception handling and reporting. Each of these SSIS package compared the archive database to current production records and add only the new records to the archive database.    Design and develop logical and physical database models (tables, indexes, views) for internal operational databases, data warehouses, and analysis services cubes. Design and code TSQL stored procedures for new functionality, and enhancements, as well as refactoring existing code for improved performance.    Improved the performance of the Sales Analytics Engine (SAE), become to the "go-to" for all SAE architectural, and design changes. The results of the redesigning the database architecture reduced monthly processing of Distributors sales data 81% (From 22 hours to 4 hours).  I have the ability to work both independently and as part of a team when required. Database Administrator / SQL Developer Emdeon December 2012 to July 2014 Design, develop, and maintain automated ETL processes (Extraction, Transformation and Loading) utilizing SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages for optimal data integration strategies with internal applications and external data file feeds with special focus on data flow, error recovery, and exception handling and reporting.    Design and develop logical and physical data models (tables, indexes, views) for internal operational databases, data warehouses, and analysis services cubes.    Design and code TSQL stored procedures for new functionality, and enhancements, as well as refactoring existing code for improved performance. Create and maintain reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).    Document source-to-target mappings, data dictionaries, data flows, process logical flows, and database design.    Build relationships with internal stakeholders and collaborate with Production Database Administrators to meet stakeholder's business requirements. Business / Financial Analyst McKesson Corporation June 2006 to December 2012 Designed and implemented statistical and predictive analytical solutions to create meaningful information that identified specific customers and customer segmentation that resulted in increased customer loyalty and purchasing compliance. The 2012 fiscal year results were $11.1 million of additional departmental sales resulting in $5.2 million of Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT). The 5½ years' combined totals were $40.1 million in actual incremental revenue and $18 million in actual incremental EBIT.    Developed SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) 2008 Framework and packages for data extraction, transformation, and loading from multiple source existing systems (SQL Server, Oracle, Informix and DB2) to promote the SSIS package from Development to Production environments. The SSIS framework documents the data movement and SSIS package(s) performance from source-to-target destination for employee performance dashboard and reporting systems. This included reporting data validation error(s) to all concerned parties.    Architected, designed and documented both physical and logic database design(s) for the online Scorecard reporting system, created database models, provided source-to-target field mappings, created modified indexes, and created stored procedures for standard reporting, ad-hoc reporting and scoreboard solutions.    Successfully utilized SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and ad hoc reporting to provide operational analysis, scoreboard development and reporting support that identified current business trends and produced actionable strategic direction to cross-functional business units, marketing analytics managers, and sales managers.    Provided online operational analysis and reporting of chargeback sales for McKesson Packaging in the following areas: Monthly Trending Report, Monthly Sales by wholesaler and GPO, NDC, contract number, Quarterly Sales Analysis by GPO, Wholesaler, Contract & Product Reports using SQL Server 2005 reporting services.    Designed, developed and implemented a data warehouse complete with SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) cubes, SQL Server Integration packages to perform the ETL of the data warehouse using the Kimball methodology, consuming the SSAS data cubes using Excel 2007 Data mining add-in and SSRS. Education Certificate Southern Methodist University - Dallas, TX Certificate University of Dallas - Irving, TX Master of Business Administration in Information Technology Management in Information Technology Management Adams State University - Alamosa, CO Skills Database (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), stored procedures (10+ years) Additional Information Special Skills: Use Case Analysis, business requirements gathering, process modeling, and documenting system specifications. Extensive experience with relational databases: Microsoft SQL Server (2005, 2008, and 2012), with a thorough knowledge to develop SSIS packages, stored procedures, and database triggers. Perform data extraction based on customer requirements and provide data analysis, statistical analysis, and reporting in a timely manner.