Sr Oracle DBA Sr Oracle DBA Sr Oracle DBA Work Experience Sr Oracle DBA Signature Bank - Chicago, IL December 2017 to February 2019 Roles & Responsibilities: Signature Bank is a New York-based full-service commercial bank. The company offers a variety of business and personal banking products and services, as well as investment, brokerage, asset management, billing management, mortgage, credit lending and Insurance products and services through its subsidiary. I was involved in testing a Web based application, which has front office activities. Front office activities include accounts, cash management, transfers/transactions, check book issues and maintenance while the back-end activities include day end, month end, quarterly and yearly process and refunds. There is a Real Time decision application to take an appropriate decision during different financial campaigns.    • Provided database related services to development & QA environments.  • Installation of Oracle 11g ,12c databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps.  • Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard and Active Data guard feature for High availability.  • Improving current architecture, design, delivery and support model, and helping in related areas.  • Good experience in Oracle database replication using Oracle Golden Gate and Golden Gate management and maintenance.  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and STATSPACK.  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Experienced in performing Point-in-Time Recovery  • Responsible for Maintenance and Support of multi-terabyte databases in production, testing and development environments.  • Designs, implements, and maintains data replication and consistency solutions.  • Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TRACE FILE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Continuous monitoring of database performance during peak and non-peak loads using STATSPACK.  • Architecting Oracle Fail safe environments for site critical databases, including configurations, failover testing, tuning, creating standards etc.  • Develop strategy for designing architecture.  • Wrote PL/SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Performed logical backups using Export/Import and Data Pump  • Created Oracle Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, TOAD, PL/SQL, OLTP, OLAP, Golden Gate, Oracle Applications E-business Suite 12i, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, HPOV, DBArtisian, Sql Developer, OEM, Putty, F-secure, AWR, RMAN, UNIX Shell Scripting, UNIX, PL/SQL Developer Sr Oracle DBA West Field Insurance, OH March 2016 to November 2017 Roles & Responsibilities: The project was developing a web-based application that handles insurance Services offered to Individual consumers. This application enables customer's right from creating a quote to purchasing insurance and managing an account online and billing credibility's.    • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager 10G/11G Grid Control for Enterprise.  • Configured and managed physical standby database using Data Guard for disaster recovery on a different node for different production servers.  • Performed Data Guard switchover/failover as per the requirements.  • Created monitoring scripts to send alerts in case standby is out of sync.  • Configuring and Managing two nodes UNIX RAC environment for high availability, highly busy databases.  • Worked in Oracle 10g/11g RAC environment and troubleshooting for RAC issues.  • Worked on RAC/ASM interconnect issue.  • Worked with Developers and change management team to ensure smooth life cycle progress from development through testing and production implementation.  • Provided 24/7 production support for infrastructure and performance areas.  • Performed the migration and Upgradation of Oracle databases by using Import/Exports, Oracle Data Pumps and Transportable Tablespaces.  • Day to day troubleshooting like adding space in data files, rebuilding indexes, check alert log file and monitoring of system.  • Cloned databases on same node and also on different server nodes using custom shell script with hot and cold backups of source database.  • Upgraded and patched Oracle binaries in the development environment and production environment.  • Upgraded Oracle from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3.  • Performed load testing on pre-production multisite database servers.  • Coding and optimizing objects for data access.  • Responsible for setting up production, development, performance and staging database environments.  • Reorganized existing database to standardize the placement of various databases related files.  • Managed logical/physical backups for these databases depending on the nature of database set up either full export, partial export or export of just the structure of schema objects.  • Monitored and audited database access for unauthorized access.  • Work as part of team and provide 24x7 supports when required.  • Do general technical trouble shooting and give consultation to development teams.  • Have Applied Patches to existing versions.  • Created tablespaces and managed tablespaces adding/deleting/ resizing data files.  • Utilized SQL Loader ETL to perform bulk data loads into database tables from external data files.  • Use of Crontab, DBMS JOBS to automate the monitoring jobs.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Sun Solaris, AIX, TOAD, OEM, ADDM/AWR, SQL, RMAN, OEM12c, SQL Loader, ERWIN Data Modeller, Dell Shareplex, Reflection X, Humming Bird Exceed. Spec- Database Administrator Verizon Data Services India Pvt Ltd January 2011 to August 2015 Roles & Responsibilities: Hands on experience in requirements gathering, business design, technical design, development, testing, implementation and writing reliable and efficient code, queries, triggers and scripting in Oracle.  * Managing and supporting the 50+ Oracle databases.  * Managing table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments.  * Maintaining data integrity also managing profiles, resources and password security.  * Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the users.  * Used Data pump to take the logical backups of databases.  * Installation of Oracle software and patches.  * Hands on experience in Database migrations/upgrades from lower versions higher versions like 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  * Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups  * Performed Data Guard switchover/failover as per the client requirements.  * Tuning SQL statement against database and its objects.  * Implemented and Installed Baseline Housekeeping and Monitoring scripts.  * Cloning of the test and development databases from the Production Environment.  * Taking Export and Import on Client request for tables, tablespaces and full database.  * Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  * Solved High Priority (sev1 and sev2) problems in co-ordination with different teams to ensure less impact to the business.  * Involved in RAC implementation and Unix shell scripting to run the DB operational tasks  * Involved in production support as part of 24x7 rotation basis and technical database support.  * As a Lead helped team members to resolve technical issues and participated in day to day activities and monitoring and metrics.  * DB2 configurations, installations and schema implementations and password management.  * Fine tuning oracle procedures and functions using PL/SQL and automations using Unix Shell scripts. Eng.- Database Administrator CSC India Pvt Ltd July 2006 to January 2011 Clients: Royal Mail Group (RMG), British Bombardier Transport (BBT), Gallaher, Nissan, Belron and Diageo  Title: Eng.- Database Administrator  Duration: July'2006 to January'2011    Roles & Responsibilities: Hands on experience in requirements gathering, business design, technical design, development, testing, implementation and writing reliable and efficient code, queries, triggers and scripting in Oracle.  • Managing and supporting the 50+ Oracle databases.  • Managing table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments.  • Partitioning and re-organization of table and indexes.  • Maintaining data integrity also managing profiles, resources and password security.  • Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  • Installation of Oracle software and patches.  • Hands on experience in Database migrations from lower versions to higher versions like 8i to 9i and 9i to 10g.  • Upgrading the Database from lower version to higher version.  • Tuning SQL statement against database and its objects using PL/SQL.  • Implemented and Installed Baseline Housekeeping and Monitoring scripts.  • Cloning of the test and development databases from the Production Environment.  • Taking Export and Import on Client request for tables, tablespaces and full database.  • Solved High Priority (sev1 and sev2) problems in co-ordination with different teams to ensure less impact to the business.  • Prepared Operational level run books, High and low-level architecture diagrams and implement best practices for the database environments.  • I was part of the team and provide 24x7 technical database support.  • Building installation or deployment scripts using Unix Shell, PowerShell, Python.  • Participated in cloud management and configurations. Education B.Tech in C.S.E Jayamukhi Engineering College 2002 to 2006 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, LINUX Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Oracle 9i 10g 11g 12c installations and upgradations  • Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA)  • Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) / Metal ink  • UNIX/Linux Shell Scripting & PL/SQL  • SQL*Plus / SQL Developer  • AWR / ADDM Report Analysis  • Exports and Imports  • Hot and Cold backups  • RMAN backups  • Real Application cluster (RAC)  • Oracle Golden Gate  • Tools: Toad, Putty, Remedy, Cloud, Notepad++, DB Scrub, ServiceNow