Senior Database Administrator - Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Consultant Senior Database Administrator - Consultant - Novel Engineering Melbourne, FL Work Experience Senior Database Administrator - Consultant Novel Engineering - Melbourne, FL December 2018 to Present Consulting for GE Transportation. Install, upgrade, manage and monitor 12c-18c Oracle databases on RedHat 6-7 platforms. Production support and development lifecycle support. I support GoldenGate 12c and Dataguard processes. I script in bash and kshell, using Github and Ansible. Database Administrator Technical Specialist Space Group Vencore - Melbourne, FL July 2017 to November 2018 Install, configure, manage and monitor 11gR2 and 12cR2 (18c) databases on windows and RedHat platforms.  Tune for spatial data, scaling architecture and analyze future upgrades per client specs.  Design scripted processes for installation, monitoring, backup, replication and configuration.  Install, configure, manage GoldenGate 12c, OEM and DataGuard. Database Analyst III Ericsson - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to June 2017 Production Support responsibilities include performance tuning, monitoring, restarting, restoring/recovering and troubleshooting on Oracle databases from 8i to 12c.  Manage and support Advanced Replication, Streams and Cluster administration (10g to 12c) on large systems and large databases.  Script and tune RMAN backup, recovery and standby creation.  Personally support approximately 50 databases ranging from 8i to 12c in Oracle on AIX, Linux, Windows, Solaris and HP servers. Assist with over 200 additional databases.  Install, configure and monitor Oracle GoldenGate 10g and 11g.  Configured, managed and supported multi-terabyte 12c databases in clustered (GRID) environments in support of nationwide client.  Install and configure Oracle client on various platforms. Install and configure DB2 Connect client on various platforms.  Perform routine audits and health checks of databases I manage.  Mentor teammates. Research and implement new technologies and train team members in them.  Develop project scope definitions, LOEs and project plans. Coordinate with systems administration, SAN/storage management and vendors, when needed. Consultant Midwest Consulting Group - Overland Park, KS May 2011 to April 2014 Ericsson  Production Support responsibilities include performance tuning, monitoring, restarting, restoring/recovering and troubleshooting on Oracle databases from 8i to 11g.  Personally support and manage approximately 50 databases from 8i to 11g in Oracle on AIX, Linux, Windows, Solaris and HP servers.  Install and configure Oracle client on various platforms. Install and configure DB2 Connect client on various platforms.  Perform routine audits and health checks of databases I manage.  Install, configure and monitor Oracle GoldenGate 10g.  Configure and troubleshoot Weblogic 10g and 11g.  Configure and manage Streams. Senior Database Administrator Metropolitan Community Colleges of Kansas City - Kansas City, KS September 2008 to May 2011 Installation, configuration, tuning and management of software  Creation of databases, configuration, patching, upgrading and management of releases 10g and 11g on AIX 5.3 and 6.1.  Configuration and management of Enterprise Manager Grid Control 10.2.0.4 in AIX 5.3 and 6.1.  Troubleshooting, installing, patching, upgrading PeopleSoft HRMS 8.9 and 9.0 applications Consultant BalancePoint May 2008 to September 2008 Metropolitan Community Colleges of Kansas City  Oracle database administration - installation, configuration, tuning and management of product, creation of databases, configuration and management of high-availability (Dataguard), RAC databases in windows.  SQL Server - administration and tuning of SQL Server databases in windows environments. Senior Database Administrator Covansys/CSC June 2006 to May 2008 Oracle database administration - installation, configuration, tuning and management of product, creation of databases, configuration and management of high-availability (Dataguard, flashback), RAC databases utilizing Automated Storage Management (ASM) in LINUX, AIX and windows. Installation, configuration and management of Enterprise Manager Grid Control environment in LINUX.  SQL Server - administration and tuning of SQL Server databases in windows environments. Database Technician II University of Central Missouri October 2002 to June 2006 Perform routine tasks of designing, creating, tuning, recovering, backing up of Oracle 9i RAC databases using SQL, RMAN, Cluster Management Software and LiNUX/BASH scripting  Perform security management tasks, including user setup, role creation and resource management  Develop business areas and workbooks using Oracle Discoverer.  Supervise team and perform day-to-day tasks in support of Sungard/SCT Banner 6.x product including patching/upgrading application servers, database servers, application software, security development, problem resolution and migration of data from database to database during development life cycle  Support and manage half dozen Oracle 9i Application Services servers on LiNUX RedHat AS 3.0  Support document management solution.  Negotiated implementation schedule with end users and arranged for on site training by vendor.  Manage university data warehouse on Oracle 9i database.  Oversee work by outside contractors and vendor support personnel.  Design and develop star schemas and data marts using Warehouse Builder, OEM, SQL, IDS and PL/SQL  Support users of SQL Server databases as needed.  Supervise team of three DBAs in day-to-day administration, tuning and recovery of a dozen Oracle 9i databases, both RAC and enterprise and multiple 9i and 10g Application Servers  Supervise team in support of 100 SQL Server 7 databases, including current migration to SQL Server 2000.  Develop and oversee training plan for team, both in Oracle and Banner software. Consultant Self-employed August 1996 to October 2002 Designed small office solutions for commercial firms.  Analyzed business needs; made recommendations about hardware/software.  Purchased components, built and configured LAN-based systems.  Installed, tested and maintained network solutions.  Tuned and upgraded network/desktop systems Senior Software Engineer GSLLC February 2001 to November 2001 Installed Oracle 8i on servers as needed, configured and tuned databases.  Wrote, tested and executed backup and recovery scripts and performed all other tasks necessary to the development and maintenance of Oracle 8i databases.  Modeled data structures using Oracle Designer 6i, creating entity-relationship diagrams, server models and executable DDL scripts.  Audited design of databases and tables for new application.  Supervised junior DBA, and trained my replacement.  Desktop support tech and network administrator on NT4.0 and Windows 2000. Consultant Self-employed October 1994 to December 2000 Implemented an infrastructure of Applications Data Coordinators to document legacy systems.  Conducted technical reviews with potential vendors to purchase a metadata Repository product.  Guided developers on new projects to implement sound data management principles and to design appropriate relational databases using DB2 and SQL Server database products and ERWin modeling tools.  Coordinated development group and database administrators, modeling the requirements to create database schema used to generate SQL statements to create tables and indices.  Business Subject Matter Expert, and data and systems architect for Accounts Receivable/Collections project (AROS).  Designed bulk of the Accounts Receivable Operational Support database and system utilizing Cayenne, COBOL and DB2.  Technical team lead for 6 developers.  Liaison for cross-system application development, worked with the CRB, SPICE and IVR systems to support the Accounts Receivable client.  Wrote utilities for MQ Series queues and assisted developers writing IMS DB/DC programs to interface legacy systems for data acquisition.  Subject Matter Expert as data modeler utilizing Oracle Designer 2000 in re-engineering DSDS disbursing system for DFAS.  Project lead on other development efforts using same toolset.  Training coordinator for project team and developer of a training management system using Microsoft Access 97.  Mentored coworkers at various levels.  Performed front-end analysis and project estimation.  Developed project plans and made staffing recommendations.  Project leader of a team doing research for legal department in support of a lawsuit involving Sprint.  Supervised from one to ten contractors at a time.  Researched customers and revenue over a ten-year period utilizing SAS, ADABAS Natural, Terradata, COBOL, DB2, IMS, Oracle and MVS.  Developed EDI compliant structures to support a new marketing program.  Learned Natural and RPG 400, as well as refreshing Oracle and SQL skills.  Technology coordinator for the Radio Shack marketing partnership, developing software to transport and audit customer information from the UNIX/Oracle datamart to the client systems.  Designed Oracle database on UNIX server to support datamart. Senior Analyst/Team Leader National Assn of Insurance Commissioners May 1993 to October 1994 Supervised the conversion of a DataGeneral COBOL system to LAN based processing.  Managed between three and five persons including contractors, providing project direction, technical assistance, guidance and performance reviews.  Did overall project management, including communication with the users as the project, providing updates on a regular basis, chairing project development meetings, and overseeing systems conversion testing.  Trained in Microsoft C and Knowledgeware ADW to do data and process modeling for development of a Risk-Based Capital system using Knowledgeware ADW. Consultant Self-employed February 1991 to May 1993 Commerce Bancshares, Inc.  Contracted to develop online EIS system in CA DATACOM/IDEAL; hired after decision made to use distributed processing technology.  Project leader in Loans Systems Applications and all areas of management reporting, including re-engineering existing programs, redesign and enhancement of online Loan Review System, development of Loan Portfolio Analysis system and numerous research projects utilizing SAS and COBOL.  Involved with team converting acquired banks and enhancement of existing COBOL-based reporting systems.  Mentored teammates in CA-IDEAL and prototyping development methodology.  Servistar  Contracted as a senior programmer analyst for the client's financial management and reporting systems.  Managed several development and re-engineering projects in various systems, utilizing COBOL/DL and CA-IDEAL in a MVS/XA environment, using TSO, ROSCOE and LIBRARIAN.  Marketing Comm., Inc.  Contracted to develop programs in COBOL/CICS. Senior Programmer Analyst House of Lloyd March 1990 to February 1991 Supervised several programmers and contractors in development of IDEAL programs to produce demonstrator statements and fiscal reports.  Coordinated staging and implementation of the system, development of run schedule including all documentation, backup and recovery procedures, and provided primary technical support for the installed system. Consultant Self-employed July 1986 to March 1990 Sprint  Team leader during the debugging and installation of McCormick & Dodge's General Ledger package.  Managed several contractors in the development and coding of DB2 interface programs, as well as modification of the package software.  BMA Company  Coded enhancements necessary to permit tiered-rate billing.  Developed and wrote SAS Programs to calculated and audit rates and produce customized letters to customers.  American Express  Developed COBOL IMS DB/DC programs for the Worldwide Optima Card system.  Managed systems testing by user groups from England, France and China.  Developed and installed JCL required to produce auditable test results.  Martin Marietta  Developed COBOL IMS DB/DC system to audit assembly orders from customers against manufacturing specifications to eliminate cost overruns in government orders due to entry errors.  US West  Installed and enhanced ASI Accounts Receivable programs using COBOL CICS. Programmer Analyst Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co April 1985 to July 1986 Developed and installed Group Ins. Auditing System in CULPRIT/EDP-AUDITOR.  Maintained Operations Analysis System in COBOL, IMS DB. Programmer Dodson Insurance Group March 1984 to April 1985 Maintained DL/I, COBOL and ASSEMBLER programs in underwriting and claims systems. Education MBA in Information Systems Central Missouri State University 1995 to 1995 BS in Mgmt of Computer Information Systems Park University 1984 to 1985 Electronic Computer Programming Institute 1981 to 1983 Skills ORACLE, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, WEBLOGIC, XML, OEM