Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) IT Professional with 30 years of experience Plymouth, IN Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) IBM - Plymouth, IN 2018 to Present Support staffing needs by attending Oracle University online for Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) training.  • Cross-trained in support of staffing needs, completing coursework in Unix and Linux Essentials, Database Administration, Install and Upgrade, Backup and Recovery, Data Guard, Managing Multitenant Architecture, and RAC Administration. Customer Assistance Coordinator IBM - Plymouth, IN 2017 to 2018 Verified entitlement and/or coordinated billable service request tickets. Gathered applicable information and concisely documented all pertinent details in permanent log files. Communicated with clients  • Researched and resolved ticket entitlement issues in timely manner by querying online DBS for contracts and serial and model numbers. Identified and corrected database inaccuracies.  • Resolved, closed, or routed incident records to appropriate support level by following standard call flow and problem handling processes.  • Supported organization by managing additional tickets due to excellent communication skills and team rapport.  • Improved entitlement research, identifying and correcting database inaccuracies.  • Ensured timely completion of tickets, balancing incoming ticket workload across entire team. Senior Electronics Technician Walgreens - South Bend, IN 2004 to 2017 Serviced equipment and trained and mentored new hires and lower-level technicians. Coordinated on-call schedule for 24/7 service coverage for critical systems equitably within team. Supervised and audited various projects and yearly maintenance programs.  • Travelled extensively within coverage area and other states to meet company goals, increasing store count from 2K to 8K+ stores.  • Achieved 99% first visit resolution average by focusing on details and using analytical skills, prepared service approach, and thorough knowledge.  • Averaged 4.90/5.00 yearly customer satisfaction report through hard work and treating every service request as opportunity to serve.  • Earned 22% score on phone fix average, increasing satisfaction by correcting problem immediately and avoiding costs associated with onsite service.  • Reduced expenses, using proactive, self-directed service style, earning 100% NBD return rate and 48% secondary ticket average.  • Expanded organizational knowledgebase and increased readiness by training other technicians on multiple systems in Minneapolis, Indianapolis, Cleveland, and Detroit.    (Walgreens) Previous Positions:  A-Tech / B-Tech / C-Tech  Installed, repaired, and maintained electronic systems, including computers, network routers and switches, point of sale (POS) registers, phone, alarm, CCTV, and satellite systems, IBM AS/400, and other devices throughout wide coverage area.  • Reduced cost and improved service, traveling to other states as needed for new store installations instead of hiring additional staff.  • Minimized critical system downtime through 24/7 availability.  • Increased team knowledgebase by attending centralized equipment development training and disseminating to entire team. Education Associate of Science in (AS), Electronics Technology Acme Institute of Technology - South Bend, IN Bachelor of Science in (BS), Computer Science Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology - Terre Haute, IN Skills AS/400 (10+ years), Ms access, Oracle, Linux, Unix, Oracle Dba, Intel IMS Server, Information Technology (10+ years), It Specialist (10+ years), Help Desk, Desktop Support (10+ years), Network Support (10+ years), Robotics (10+ years), AGFA photo lab, Electronic Reader board (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/shawn-master