Principal, Oracle DBA Principal, Oracle DBA Principal, Oracle DBA - Digicert / Symantec Pleasanton, CA Excellent knowledge and implemented product development / improvement / automation strategy / project management / Data center migration.  Ideas setting, Planning, Designed and thoroughly completed game. Extensive vision and deep understanding of complete product beforehand. End to end innovation of every aspect of the game from splash screen, music , sound , functionality , quality , etc. Identified and managed the team to develop this and uploaded it in android market with very limited expense. https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.emergingblocks.learn.withfun  Managed 27/7/365 operations in critical environment.  Designing, implementing complex database migration strategy with minimum / no down time. Proven leadership qualities to improve the processes and efficiency for the activities.  Proven achiever who is committed to aligning technology and business to generate cost-effective solutions and deliver multiple, mission-critical, multimillion-dollar projects on time and within budget.  Excellent skills to grasp client products / processes and development / modify to improve and automate, which gives the product a shine and opportunity for new business development for the company.    Proven project manager for SQL server consolidation, Oracle database consolidation and other projects.  Demonstrated leadership, strong interpersonal skills, good time management, consistent process improvement and adapts to matrix organizations.  Excellent understanding to set-up the right environment for the clients for development, testing and production.  Optimistic, imaginative, hard-working self-starter cited by senior management for exceptional multi- tasking ability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal, Oracle DBA Digicert / Symantec - Mountain View, CA September 2013 to Present Environment: Exadata, Oracle appliances  ? Hire and coached dba for day to day operational database administration activities.  ? Planned migration budget with detailed analysis and then hired and coached the team to drive to complete data center migration.  ? Migrating $500 million dollar generating data center.  ? Leading the team to migrate database to new data center involving complex architecture involving oracle and MariaDB database, Oracle Goldengate. Migrating(50 databases with Oracle Goldengate , OEM 13c) and 3 Mariadb databases.  ? Leading automation effort for various activities.  ? Managing $500 million dollar generating database single handed for 2 months.  ? Designed and automated various tasks.  ? Efficiently lead the database migration project from AIX to Oracle Exadata. Engaged various teams as required.  ? Managed the project for migration from SharePlex to Oracle Golden Gate.  ? Setup primary, standby database, Data Guard, Database upgrade, Oracle Golden Gate and Veridata.  ? Installed and configured Cassandra database for PoC.  ? Efficiently lead table re-org project by generation the plan and assigning to the team and follow-up till closing.  ? Assign the work with India / US team mentor, assign and guide the team on technology and decision making.  ? Collaborate with network, operations, infrastructure, development and various teams for building robust products. Sr. Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank - San Leandro, CA September 2011 to September 2013 Environment: SunOS 5.6, HP UNIX, Linux, ORACLE 8x, 9x, 10x , 11x (RAC, Non-RAC)  ? Installed Oracle 10g, RAC / non-RAC databases, setup RMAN backups replication, shareplex, standby database. Switched failover to standby database in RAC/non-RAC environment with data guard or / and shareplex.  ? Mentor and guide the team on technology and decision making as required  ? Discussed with application team for database sizing, costing, timing and estimation. Identified and resolved database bottlenecks and batch slowness. Trouble shot application slowness for multi- database environment on the server and the tuned the SQL if identified as running slow.  ? Lead the effort for setting-up new environment database and shareplex, added database in monitoring, backup. and tested the application in given window. Received appreciation award for this activity.  ? Monitored database growth, reviewed and updated capacity plans (memory, CPU).  ? Identified and proved the application / business team for the excess growth of lob column for some months.  ? Set up Rman backups from scratch for Unix, windows, RAC and non RAC  ? Automated to generated and send the AWR reports to the application teams on first day of the month. Automated processes to ensure timely deliveries and reduce manual interaction  ? Tuned databases. Worked on security audit for database and creating roles, assigning privileges as-per security requirements.  ? Wrote UNIX scripts; made recommendations, implemented system changes to stabilize environment Sr. Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA August 2009 to August 2010 Environment: Sun OS 5.6, HP UNIX, Linux, ORACLE 8x, 9x, 10x , 11x (RAC, Non-RAC)  Worked on application for Internet Banking like Bill Pay, Transfers, Alerts, Currency transaction etc. on 5TB database  ? Installed and crafted Oracle 10g, RAC / non-RAC databases, setup RMAN backups replication, standby database. Switched failover to standby database in RAC/non-RAC environment  ? Lead development team to build scalable design, identified and resolved database bottlenecks.  ? Automated a process to generate report for top management and is still in use after 6 years.  ? Tuning sql queries.  ? Assigned and managed tasks to team in India and USA.  ? Installed OEM grid control, agents, Data base refresh from production to test and staging environments using following tools: Using Shadow copy, Using Hot backup, from standby database, crafting technical documents (run books).  ? Partition maintenance on various databases. Dealt with data corruption. Led efforts to trouble shoot problems for shadow copy failures, Application / Database errors Database Architect Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2009 to August 2009 Environment: Linux, Sun Solaris, Windows 2000, Oracle 10x , Erwin  Warehouse application where users can generate the reports for their router performance and find solution for the router failures.  ? Creating project plan using MS Projects.  ? Assigning tasks to developers and monitor the deliverables.  ? Schema Designing and proposed application database architecture for various applications  ? Analyzing the business requirements.  ? Designing Logical and physical models as per the business requirements.  ? Creating the physical structures in the database.  ? Installing and configuring Oracle server.  ? Tuning SQL statements. Implemented temporary tables.  ? Generating design documents required for the application.  ? Designing and implementing the data load processes. Sr. Database Administrator San Francisco, CA August 2008 to February 2009 Oracle and SQL Server)  Environment: Linux, Windows 2000, Oracle 10x, SQL Server 2005  H5 conducts large scale document analysis, reviews projects supporting clients' critical legal objectives.  ? Led project to completion for delivery to clients. Ensured server readiness to install databases. Worked with QC to fix bugs before servers released to client. Installed Oracle 10g software, created databases as required as well installed SQL server databases as required.  ? Monitored database growth (added data files) memory usage and reviewed capacity  ? Improved database performance, changed next extent sizes, modified memory parameters and created technical documents.  ? Managed Oracle installation, pushed data from ETL to Production server.  ? Deployed data pump, added email notification. implemented RMAN backups, reconfigured SQL server backups  ? Designed and implemented backup strategy for Oracle and SQL server.  ? Installed Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control, added Oracle database to monitor. Installed Oracle 10g RAC on Linux  ? Automated processes like creating schemas for the project. Pushed data from ETL Oracle server to Production Oracle Server using data pump  ? Reviewed database design from application perspective, upgraded 10g to 11g, tested application  ? Conducted routine administration and maintenance tasks; created users, assigned roles in Oracle and SQL server; rebuilt indexes  ? Suggesting process improvements for new releases of application Database Administrator / Project Manager Infineon / Qimonda - Raleigh, NC October 2005 to February 2007 Environment: SunOS 5.6, HP Unix ORACLE 8x, 9x, 10x running web based applications on Oracle database (OLTP, Data Warehouse) in Terabytes. Application is Oracle 9x and SQL Server 2000/2005 backend.  ? Installed Oracle 10g software and created databases and user implementation roles, privileges and security.  ? Lead and Managed the MS SQL server upgrade and consolidation, SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 cluster  ? Saved up to $150k annual MS SQL Server licensing costs to the client  ? Requirement gathering, cost estimation, coordinated with the application and business owners for migration and review. Met target date for database migration to the production farm. Rolled out production for each application. Prepared for the Data Center move. Designed and implemented backup strategies for Oracle and SQL Server. Refreshed data from production to test environment using following tools: Oracle - RMAN - database cloning, import export for 250 GB database using named pipes.; implemented 9i Data Guard and SQL Server backup and restore. Automated Logical backups from cron jobs. Created technical documents Designer Patni Computer Systems - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2001 to August 2005 Mumbai; Stamford USA,Minneapolis USA; Leads, UK Aug 2001 - Aug 2005  Worked on the GE account, at various BUs in US and UK.  ? Gathered, consolidated information for all database servers across PCS. Migrated databases of various versions to Oracle 8i on single server. Installed Oracle on Win NT, UNIX. Planned, designed and created new databases. Transferred data to new servers  ? Implementing roles, privileges and security. Database server tuning (SGA tuning).  ? Data refresh from production to offshore Test / Development; Troubleshot Database problems  ? SQL and Server tuning; recovered Oracle database due media failure  ? Developed proposals, provided solutions for high availability applications  ? Monitored project and performance of team members  ? Data Modeling using Erwin; installed Designer 2k and created repository  ? Mapped Informatica for data warehouse. Rolta Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 1999 to August 2001 NGRID (New England Electric System Geographic Information System) provides electric supply.  ? Installed Oracle, created users, assigned roles to users. Performance tuned, Query Optimized using SQL plans, memory management. Developed coding standards and database management  ? Loaded MS Access data to Oracle using Oracle utilities. Developed data entry forms, QC reports in PRO*C. Designed Pl/SQL scripts to generate data. Developed excel reports through macros F. x Computers - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 1998 to July 1999 Designed schema, created users, assigned roles. Developed and tested data entry forms  ? Designed and tested database; connected Database server for production operators Project Manager DSA Engineers Mumbai July 1994 to July 1998 Designed various firefighting systems using Auto Cad; designed pump room, planning project and inspect the sites.  ? Managed project sites in Mumbai, Goa, Pune and Gujarat Education BE in Mechanical Engineering Vishwakarma Institute of Technology - Pune, Maharashtra 1990 to 1994 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, DBMS, SQL SERVER, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, ETL Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.emergingblocks.learn.withfun Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Automation Product improvement Project Manager Effective communication Database Administration Data Modeling Migration projects Adopting new technologies Develop new team for projects.    Skills  DBMS: Oracle 7.x / 8i / 9i / 10g / 11g (RAC, Non-RAC) 12c, Exadata, SQL Server, Mariadb , Postgresql, Cassandra, Hadoop.  Programing Languages: C, Java.  Front End/GUI: Developer 2000, Visual Basic 6.0, ASP  OS/Environment: Solaris 5.9, Linux, HP Unix 11i, Windows NT / 2000 / 2003  Tools: Ansible, Informatica, Oracle Grid Control, Erwin, Visio, MS Project, Autosys, AutoCAD. Android development, phone gap development.