Senior Manager Senior Manager Senior Manager - Agile Delivery Golden Valley, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Manager Agile Delivery - Plymouth, MN 2015 to Present Over ten years in management roles focusing on strategic initiatives, coaching and mentoring direct reports, developing  repeatable solutions, including a deep understanding of technology focusing on delivering reusable business solutions  • Project Delivery and Operations  ? Oversee the management and IT delivery of 200+ active platform and infrastructure projects via Agile  methodology  ? Communicate appropriate risk assessment and mitigation planning for all platform related infrastructure  projects  ? Review all active infrastructure projects and ensure high quality results are being delivered and instill complete  confidence to business prior to Go-Live  ? KPI and metrics management: demonstrating understanding of underlying drivers of the business  infrastructure projects and deliverables by developing and presenting complex monthly and quarterly  spreadsheets and presentations to multiple levels of leadership  ? Translate IT terminology into common business language to ensure understanding by all stakeholders  ? Enable Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery capabilities including platform integration, platform  consolidation, and non-functional continuous improvement  ? Manage a team of specialized software architects and engineers to develop and deploy into FISMA and MARS-E 2.0 high-secure environments  ? Demonstrate understanding of DevOps methodologies and processes and the streamline project delivery and operations  ? Led successful integration and implementation of several state healthcare information exchanges  ? Performed detailed analysis of all projects and initiatives and ensure they meet corporate standards, policies, and audits (internal and external)  ? Managed defect-tracking and provide status reporting to senior management as well as resource planning  and estimates  ? Approve code moves from one environment to another, managing team hours associated with projects and participate in Go/No-Go meetings  ? Lead and develop process improvements for technologies requiring/needing Product Lifecycle Management  (PLM)  ? Budget and forecast management: Implement and manage budget, forecast, and resource planning  processes to ensure optimal efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity of application and infrastructure  projects  ? Operations escalation management: served as point of escalation for multi-platform on-call rotations  ? Assess and review infrastructure engineering software architecture and design reviews with all stakeholders  ? Ensure IT system availability, scalability, and capacity to meet current and future business needs  • Leadership and Staff Management  ? Leadership and technical direction for both tactical and strategic enterprise critical initiatives with multiple  peer managers and directors along with 50+ on-shore and 30+ off-shore multi-platform database and cloud/Java engineers  ? Diverse team management: managing DBAs and Java Integrators with multiple overlapping skills, including  database design, migration, upgrades, maintenance, and support  ? Conduct regular staff meetings and provide weekly assessments to senior leadership  ? Influence decisions in hiring, recruitment, evaluations, and all aspects of employee development for all  direct/indirect reports  ? Cultivate and mentor technical and non-technical staff members throughout their career  ? Promoting cross-training to develop full-stack engineers  ? Set organizational goals and priorities and ensure IT staff is in alignment  ? Identify and solve for technical, operational, and organizational problems, including conflict management  ? Efficient in performing correction action(s) on employee(s) who need additional coaching on policies and practices  ? Serve as Acting Director during leadership PTO or other unavailability  ? Work closely with Human Capital (HR) and corporate immigration law firms on H-1B and PERM resident  applicants  ? Proven use of ITSM Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, and other risk  management techniques, ability to identify resource needs, perform quality review, and escalate functional, quality, and timeline issues appropriately  ? ServiceNow SME: serving as Subject Matter Expert for ServiceNow Change, Incident, and Problem  Management for Platform Engineering team (and for SE&D team in 2018)  ? De facto SharePoint administration: releases 2010 and 2013  ? Successfully modernized platform and infrastructure delivery into code (e.g. Infrastructure as Code) to support  cost saving models with the use of Chef Automate and OpenShift Origin technologies  ? Created cross-discipline curricula enabling MS SQL, MySQL, and Oracle DBAs to cross-train and cross- populate task and duties Manager, Storage Capacity and Health Information Exchange Database Administrator Agile Delivery - Plymouth, MN 2014 to 2015 • Diverse team management: managed individuals with minimal skill overlap  • Continual delivery and operational improvements: promoted Agile methodology, enhanced Oracle capacity  planning models  • Special projects delivery: delivered one-off requests to support senior leadership needs    Parks Resume June 2019 Manager, Oracle Applications Agile Delivery - Plymouth, MN 2009 to 2014 • Global team management: led team consisting of on- and off-shore resources and contractors, including hiring, firing, and promotions  • Product expertise: provided guidance and technical expertise for multiple internal customer implementations of the Oracle E-Business Suite enterprise resource planning product spanning multiple application and database  versions and a variety of architectures  • Delivery management: oversaw internal and customer-facing delivery efforts while balancing operational duties  • Operational improvements: developed operational support model to reduce MTTR and outages year over year;  managed on-call rotation supporting multiple ERP customers  • Vendor management: consult and identify vendor solutions for project and operational implementations; manage  vendor communications for delivery and support  • Perform system sizing and hardware and software configuration for cross-technology projects  • Drive effective and timely project documentation and mitigate any concerns or risks as they arise  • Contributed to improving infrastructure standard solutions through continual development and enhancement  • Led Operations personnel to determine root cause analysis and problem resolution of database, application, and infrastructure issues including performance and behavioral patterns Oracle Applications Database Administrator Agile Delivery - Plymouth, MN 2007 to 2009 Over two years in lead DBA role focusing on mentoring peers, developing repeatable solutions, and streamlining  workflow, including expertise in full project life cycle development for implementation and integration  • Contributions to DBA team: defined best practices for environment installation and maintenance; developed  standardized processes including Oracle E-Business Suite/SOA Suite/B2B Integration Component installations, instance cloning, application patching, code deployment, and general environment maintenance  • Leadership efforts: represented Managed Services as lead DBA on two simultaneous R12 implementations;  delegated work intake, change tickets, service calls; led weekly team meetings; presented training demonstrations;  involved in staffing decisions  • Architected custom version control and code deployment process: short-term solution to enable development  team to manage multiple branches and preserve code integrity  • Customer-facing duties: Managed multiple Oracle CSIs, SR escalations, bug reports, enhancement requests; worked  closely with PIs/PMs to manage customer expectations, succeed with Managed Services, and identify acceptable  exceptions Education Advertising Bradley University - Peoria, IL February 2010 Skills Oracle (10+ years), Sql, CVS version control (10+ years), Chef (1 year), Git (1 year), Html (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Jenkins (1 year), Perl (10+ years), Python (1 year), Scripting (10+ years), Subversion (10+ years), Css (10+ years), Sharepoint (5 years), T-sql (2 years), MySQL (2 years), MS SQL Server (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/stevenbparks Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Operations Management • Strategic Planning • Budget & Cost Control  • Ability to Influence • Staff Coaching & Mentoring • Talent Development  • Adaptability • Cross-Functional Communication • Resource/People Management  • Vendor and Client Management • Human Capital Policies • Conflict Management    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases Oracle R7-current, MySQL 5.7-current, MS SQL Server 2000-current  Software Oracle GoldenGate, Oracle Grid Control, Apache, Git, Chef, Jenkins, CVS, Subversion, SharePoint  Languages SQL, Shell (Korn, Bash), Python, Perl, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Windows T-SQL and batch scripting  Systems Red Hat, Solaris, AIX, Oracle Exadata/Exalogic; Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X