Driver research Driver research Driver research - IHA I am a detail-oriented professional with a passion for service in the information technology industry. I have skills in a Windows Server and Networking, software application installation and upgrades. My expertise includes professional interpersonal skills and demeanor; offering real-time site survey and planning for proper tasking and execution. Work Experience Driver research IHA - Ann Arbor, MI July 2019 to Present Ann Arbor, MI  End User Support  • Data backup, desktop PC and laptop imaging, hardware deployment and device installation.  • Driver research, download, and installation, drive mapping, software installation and configuration.  • O365 installation from network share points and end user support explanations of license updating, as well as configuration and sign in assistance.  • Printer configuration and mapping; wire management.  • Scripting group policy updates.  • Travel to multiple sites involving systems allocation and deployment.  • ShoreTel, MiTel VoIP installation; port activation. Communication Technician Comcast Corporation - Ann Arbor, MI June 2015 to June 2019 • Displayed superior communication skills in presenting products to both small and large groups on a daily basis.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and installing products to a largely diverse customer base.  • Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards and procedures.  • Installed and maintained routers, switches, and access points.  • End user support for desktop PC's, iMac's, and laptops including peripheral devices.  • Promoted three times in four years; actively involved in leadership and mentorship of new hires and seasoned technicians, Desktop Support Eberspaecher - Brighton, MI April 2015 to June 2015 • Hardware and software updates, maintenance, and repair.  • Troubleshooting and configuration of Windows 7/8/10 Operating Systems.  • O365 troubleshooting over the phone, remote access, and end user support.  • Addressed repair requests from staff daily and created documentation.  • Developed processes to mitigate user error and provided real-time updates.  • Provided support for all peripheral devices and mobile devices. Network Administrator Michigan Bell Telephone Company Inc - Lansing, MI March 2013 to April 2015 • Maximized corporate network services uptime.  • Provided over the phone, email, and remote support for end users.  • Provided clients with emergency 24x7 on-call support on a rotating basis.  • Administrated Microsoft Windows Server network of servers.  • Investigated problems and then made technical suggestions.  • Resolved network operational issues.  • Installing and testing server software on a variety of platforms. Database Administrator Dish Network EchoStar - Auburn Hills, MI August 2011 to March 2013 • Wrote script to create page_view tables, browsing, tables, and partitions.  • Organized tables into clusters a sorting property allowing internal operators to use preferred data structures.  • Developed capability to write queries for samples of data increasing efficiency.  • Performed table alterations; renamed/added columns.  • Dropped tables and partitions also loaded data in tables.  • Performed simple queries, partition based queries, joins, aggregations, multi table/file inserts, etc.  • Adapt at Dynamic-Partition Insert; with this experience I am able to work around fatal errors.  • Database management structural development helped me to develop processes that reinforce sound practice.  • Over my career certain methodologies have been key to tempering any frustrations I may have experienced over 5 years Agile and ITIL serve to provide an ease of configuration.  • My experience with MySQL provides me with the foundation necessary to interface with Hive with relative ease. Export Analyst Cargo Airport Services - Jamaica, NY March 2011 to August 2011 • It was necessary to familiarize myself with OSHA standard regarding recognizing and understanding decals for hazardous materials.  • Worked closely with different teams to complete tasks orderly and on schedule.  • Provided troubleshooting and analysis for OSI model.  • Data entry; inventory management.  • Shipping and receiving. UNIX/Linux Administrator Mount Hope Housing Company Inc - Bronx, NY January 2007 to March 2011 • Software installation and configuration.  • Performed daily database check for connectivity and its security measurements.  • Optimizing disk space of handling data.  • Automated manual tasks for faster performance.  • Performance monitoring and fine tuning on actual basis.  • Installing patches and upgrading software.  • Data modeling like designing and implementation of data based on recognized standards.  • Daily installing Hadoop in Linux environment.  • Tuning of Hadoop cluster and Hadoop MapReduce routines.  • Backup and recovery tasks.  • Configuring NameNode to ensure its high availability.  • Deployment in Hadoop cluster and maintaining it.  • Health check of Hadoop cluster connectivity and security.  • Manage Hadoop log files.  • Resource and security management.  • Troubleshoot application errors. Propose and deploy new hardware and software environment required for Hadoop. Education Bachelor's of Information Technology in Information Technology Monroe College - Bronx, NY Associate of Applied Science in Databases Monroe College - Bronx, NY Skills Data backup, Database, Imaging, Sdlc, Software lifecycle, Comptia, Server administration, Linux, Windows 7, Mac, Mac os, Engineer, Database management, User acceptance, User acceptance testing, Data entry, Documenting, Translating, Maintenance, Test cases Additional Information Key Strengths:    * CompTIA A+ certified  * Solution Concept to Execution  * Project Management  * Able to translate Business Data Into Action    * CompTIA Network + certified  * Hardware/Software lifecycle maintenance  * User Acceptance Testing  * Database management    * Talented network engineer  * Team Leadership  * Strategic Planning    Core Competencies:    ? Unique competency in translating business issues into IT solutions including opportunity identification, requirements development, delivery, support, and analysis.  ? 4 + years of experience in server administration, data entry, user-story/issue creation and Business Analysis.  ? Possesses strong analytical skills and aexcellent orientation toward SDLC.  ? Involved in implementation, documenting test cases and engaging feedback.  ? Possesses analytical, problem solving, communication and leadership skills.    Operating Systems: Linux, Mac OS X, Windows 7-10    Methodologies: Agile    Others: Imaging, Testing, Data Backup, Licensing, End-User Support, Problem Solving