Senior Database Administrator / AWS Cloud Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / AWS Cloud Engineer Leading the architecture and engineering efforts required to automate the creation/propagation of Cloud constructs across a global landscape McMurray, PA Work Experience Senior Database Administrator / AWS Cloud Engineer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA November 2016 to Present • Guiding the DevOps staff as “Technical Team Lead” ensuring our landscape is crafted with precision and scale.     • Providing vision for our data center migration efforts and the pathways to their eventual home in the Cloud.    • Championing the vision of our “Cloud First” mentality in and amongst our service partners.    • Crafting the security constructs necessary to govern “least privileged access” to Cloud Services    • Participating on a team that devises network topologies and tags necessary to automate service delivery    • Building the policies & constructs necessary to encrypt data at rest and in-flight    • Devising the tag structure and policies/procedures DevOPs engineers use to manage a diverse landscape    • Architecting a framework that allows for dynamic deployment of DBaaS using one body of code    • Mapping out the use of cold storage and the tags, lifecycle policies, privileges & encryption policies that allows for their efficient use    • Searching for new ways to manage our ever-expanding landscape using Ansible, Python/boto3, TerraForm, etc.    • Coding the alpha/beta version of playbooks/recipes necessary to deploy Infrastructure using Infrastructure as Code. This is done using a variety of lab environments that best allow the code base to interact with the various facets of our LOBs, allowing one body of code to manage many end points.    • Serving as primary educator, author, content creator for SOPs as they relate to the creation/consumption of our architecture    • Serving as one of the primary engineers responsible for devising the code/constructs/policies that allow for the dynamic resizing of Cloud services as a cost saving measure.    • Fomenting the relationship between Compliance and the Cloud Database Team to create policies/procedures that assure compliance with our regulatory bodies. We are working towards a Compliance as Code model for managing the gap between reality and expected Compliance. Manager - Database Technologies Industrial Scientific - Robinson Township, PA December 2015 to November 2016 • Managing a disperse team of off shore DBAs that provide 24 hour support, management and administration.    • Serving as a database technical lead for a multi-terabyte IoT (Internet of Things) repository that ingests data in batch and real time from millions of sensors reporting in from around the globe.    • Serving as Co-Chair for SWAT team providing guidance for enterprise BI Suite/Tool selection.    • Creating, piloting and implementing an effective disaster recovery plan for database infrastructure across geographically dispersed data centers and other physical sites.    • Providing thought leadership for a future initiative to implement a Data Governance framework.    • Developing a framework of processes that allow the database team to manage our footprint by exception, eventually reducing our reactive management time by 50%.    • Creating opportunities for up to 50% license savings by consolidating 34 single node SQL Server installations into virtual clusters.    • Laying the foundation for Business Intelligence and Enterprise Reporting using on premises MySQL. This solution will eventually migrate to the cloud to leverage elasticity and scalability.    • Compiling scenarios that justify future investments based on ROI/Revenue Enhancement/Cost Reduction. Enterprise Infrastructure Manager PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA September 2013 to December 2015 • Developing a team of 6-10 nimble and efficient Application Engineers using the Agile, Scrum and Floating Head methodologies. Our sprints range from 1-4 weeks depending on the complexity of our user stories and the breadth and dearth of our deployment schedule across our SDLC.    • Serving as Manager/Employee Coach responsible for presenting databases and assets using converged systems and Oracle's DBaaS ( Database as a Service.) In doing so, we are accomplishing the following:    • Changing Oracle deployments from an event that must be managed by a specialized group of DBAs to a self service offering our service partners can choose from a Customer Service Portal.     - Decreasing the time to deployment from 6 weeks to less than an hour  - Reducing the amount of installation errors from 5-10% to less than 1%  - Increasing Oracle availability to more than 99.99%    • Performing duties as Primary Architect responsible for the presentation and deployment of a Level 4 MAA Oracle Enterprise Management framework that currently manages over 20,000 targets. This installation is ultimately responsible for alerting and monitoring for all Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL databases and the assets they are deployed on.    • Creating and managing a metadata repository and highly available, F5 load balanced web presence that houses all of the data required to maintain an enterprise level database presence. This repository and web presence is the vehicle that allows us to reach out to every managed database via jdbcurl for many tasks, such as real time license management and capacity planning.     • Fulfilling the hands on and project management tasks required to present dynamic and scalable database presences across the following platforms:    - Active/Passive Oracle clusters on Solaris  - Active/Passive SQL Server clusters on Windows Server  - Active/Active RAC clusters on Redhat Enterprise Linux and Exadata Database Machines  - Active/Active Weblogic clusters on Enterprise Linux  - Active/Passive Virtualization of Oracle using Solaris Containers Oracle Platform Architect/Engineer/Senior DBA PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA October 1999 to September 2013 • Excelled as principal/supporting architect for the creation and maintenance of PNC's primary virtualization platform for Oracle products  • Responsible for setting corporate standards as they apply to system availability, capacity planning, data presentation, training and maintenance.  • Collaborated with in-house technical teams to standardize hardware platforms, storage solutions, network topologies and distributed frameworks to better utilize PNC's ever evolving technical underpinnings.  • Managed relationships and expectations with external vendors to fit their offerings within PNC's operational framework.  • Assisted service partners in the identification and re-utilization of system resources and processes to enhance productivity and extend the usability of assets prior to their end of life.  • Served as principal technical writer and process specialist for all Oracle installations across multiple frameworks needing near 99.9% availability.  • Served as senior technical mentor and project lead for team of eighty Database Administrators.  • Acted as primary architect/tactical lead for architecture creation, planning, implementation and eventual rollout of Oracle's Enterprise Manager Framework to manage, alert and notify the status of over 8000 targets across a variety of federated platforms.  • Promoted to perform the duties as a Database Technical Lead to better utilize my talents for ferreting out and implementing creative technological solutions to seemingly complex problems. Database Administrator II Coventry Health Care - Pittsburgh, PA May 1996 to October 1999 • Served as primary data architect for data warehouse and electronic transactional systems (EDI).   • Responsible for the guidance and planning of a team of three Database Administrators in day-to-day operations, capacity planning, data presentation, training and maintenance of capacity and backup/recovery plans.   • Primarily responsible for performance monitoring and system tuning Informix Dynamic Server and Solaris environments to enhance performance.   • Proactively monitored database growth and adjusted capacity plans to ensure uninterrupted expansion.   • Performed database engine updates and assisted in Sun Solaris updates as they applied to the Informix.   • Continuously restructured physical database layers (partitions, indexes and schemas) to improve query response time.   • Served as technical lead for the installation of Digital storage farm and its eventual presentation to Sun SparcServer 2000, Solaris 2.5.1 and Informix Dynamic Server.   • Created dynamic SQL scripts to load and validate business critical data, proactively monitor database(s) and notify responsible parties of critical situations. Team Leader - System Integration and Development Galaxy Registration and Data Management - Frederick, MD August 1994 to April 1996 • Served as primary engineer in the planning and creation of an integrated Executive Information System and corporate-wide communications model using Microsoft Office and Visual Basic. Duties required logical and physical data modeling, code generation, implementation and maintenance of client installations.   • Developed a client/server suite of Access datamarts and Excel applications to support end-user reporting needs.   • Served as system administrator for internal and external data network (Novell 3.12) and telephone (Mitel 2000) platforms across multiple sites.   • Served as a member of team responsible for finding new ways to continue growth through the use of cutting edge technology and/or business process re-engineering.   • Supported internal and external clients extracting and manipulating proprietary data. Database Administration and Development Prudential Home Mortgage June 1993 to August 1994 Contract Agent: Manpower Technical Services  Frederick, MD    • Responsible for management and maintenance of accounts payable and fixed asset information platforms. Duties required the maintenance and administration of corporate data structures, libraries and development environments, creation of training materials and working closely with data entry personnel to better define business opportunities. Duties also demanded building and maintaining communication channels between Accounting, MIS and senior management. Youth Development Coordinator Fort Detrick Youth Services - Frederick, MD December 1991 to May 1993 Education Bachelor of Science in Marketing Education and Advertising & Promotion BALL STATE UNIVERSITY - Muncie, IN 1991 Skills Cloud Computing (4 years), Javascript, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/greg-pirker/15/853/348/en Additional Information Awarded HealthAmerica Employee of the Year - 1999