System and Database Administrator System and <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System and Database Administrator - Perspecta Tampa, FL Over twenty years of Information Technology experience. Extensive experience in system administration, database administration and in performing software evaluations. Expert in the design, implementation and administration of Oracle, SQL server and Cache databases. For over 10 years I held a TS/SCI clearance from DOD and Now I hold an active Position of Trust clearance from the Veteran's Administration. As a Technical writer created data dictionaries, entity relationship diagrams and written installation instructions and white papers.    Technical Skills    Hardware: PC Installation and Repair, LAN / WAN Network, UPS  Software: Microsoft Exchange 2003, Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, DNS, Front Page, Crystal Reports, Adobe Studio, Oracle ( Designer ,Forms and Reports), Quest Software , Erwin Data Modeler, Allscripts EHR software ,Rational Rose Suite , Serena Dimensions and Citrix  Database Languages: Oracle 9I, 10G and 11G, SQL Server 2008 and 2012 R2  Operating Systems: Windows 2012 R2Server, Windows 10, OS/2, Red Hat Linux, VMS, UNIX,  Sun Solaris, HP/UX and IBM AIX  Programming Languages: - Visual Basic, C, C+ +, PL/SQL, XHTML, HTML, PHP and SQL.  Utilities: FTP, Remote Desktop  Antivirus: Norton (Symantec), McAfee Work Experience System and Database Administrator Perspecta September 2014 to Present • Maintenance of the Citrix farm for security compliance as a Junior Citrix Administrator.  • Within the datacenters on site VMWare infrastructure, supported databases that were in a virtual test environment.  • Lead for user access management of over 200 VistA database instances. Enforcing the compliance VA Security compliance. Implementing security auditing and security solutions as needed for all environments. Providing guidance in the development of system policies in the Test Datacenter for 1000's of users  • Also have role of a Backup DBA to assist when needed.  • Provided System Administration support to local development servers and installed all custom software on developer's machines  • Added, modifying, and deleting user accounts, logical and Physical Database structures meeting 100% of the test center service level agreement for 6 years and improving the turnaround time from 5 days to 24 hours. System and Database Administrator Systems Made Simple July 2011 to September 2014 • Installation /Configuration of Oracle software/upgrades and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Created Oracle & SQL server Databases for development staff and provided DBA support during the testing of application code prior to installing in production environment.  • Consulted management strategy team on hardware replacements, system upgrades and purchase pricing.  • Working with NCVAS group to assist in the reorganization of their current systems and provide DBA support for their SQL servers.  • Implemented Auditing and Security solutions for all environments  • Working with ICD-10 testing team reviewing database requirements in order to identify risk during the development cycle of the application  • Supported databases that were in a virtual test environment.  • Provided System Administration support to local development servers and installed all custom software on developer's machines IT Consultant Strategic Innovative Solutions October 2009 to November 2011 • Create database documentation for data dictionaries, entity relationship diagrams and several white papers  • Installed and maintained SQL SERVER 2008 on a Windows 2003 server platform to support Development staff.  • Created Oracle & SQL server Databases for development staff and provided DBA support during the testing of application code prior to installing in production environment.  • Responsible for administrating SQL database with Mirroring and clustered environments  • Installed 2 Sun Solaris version 10 servers on the development network.  • Evaluated test of new DBA tools to improve efficiency of the databases.  • Performance Monitoring and tuning of all development databases and corresponding applications  • Wrote policy, procedures and manuals for backup/recovery and database implementation plans.  • Consulted management strategy team on hardware replacements, system upgrades and purchase pricing.  • Added, modifying, and deleting user accounts, logical and Physical Database structures. System and Database Administrator DuPont Registry August 2010 to January 2011 5 month Contract    • Installed and maintained SQL SERVER 2008 R2 on a Windows 2008 R2 server platform to support Web and .NET Development staff.  • Migrated all the production databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Extensive performance tuning to increase response time on Web site searches.  • Redesigned there databases to use some of the new functionality in SQL Server 2008  • Supported databases that were in a virtual test environment.  • Developed a Disaster Recovery plan to ensure minimal downtime.  • Migrated the databases from clustered environment to using mirroring.  • Implemented Data Mirroring to ensure no downtime in case of a hardware failure.  • Implemented new security standards to ensure the security of the customer's personal data is safe.  • Migrated all the production and development database servers from Windows 2000 to Windows 2008 R2  • Purchase and install all Server and PC hardware for the Web Development Team.  • Performance Monitoring and tuning of all development databases and corresponding applications  • Evaluated test of new DBA tools to improve efficiency of the databases. Database Administrator /System Administrator Northrop Grumman Information Technology June 2007 to October 2009 • Supported VETSNET development team responsible for the Veteran Administration's (VA) nationwide compensation and pension payment system.  • Created Oracle & SQL server Databases for development staff and provided DBA support during the testing of application code prior to installing in production environment.  • Upgraded Sun servers from Solaris 9 to Solaris 10.  • Installed and Maintained 10 RED HAT Linux workstations and 2 Linux servers.  • Responsible for all installation of patches and updates on both Solaris and Linux servers.  • Performance Monitoring and tuning of all development databases and corresponding applications.  • Planning and implementation of database backup and recovery strategies.  • Responsible for Designing Databases and implementing changes in both SQL Server 2008 and ORACLE 10G for the development group.  • Evaluated test of new DBA tools to improve efficiency of the databases.  • Implemented Auditing and Security solutions for all environments  • Installed and upgraded Oracle software on Sun Solaris systems, Oracle Client tools on PCs and new databases. Modified their scripts to operate on customer systems.  • Migrated /Upgraded Oracle 9I databases on a Solaris 10 server to Oracle 10g on the development servers.  • Migrated /Upgraded SQL Server 2005 databases on a Windows 2003 server to SQL SERVER 2008 on the development servers.  • Installed SQL server 2008 on a Windows 2003 server platform for development testing of a Data Warehouse  • Provided System Administration support to local development servers and installed all custom software on developer's machines.  • Familiar with UNIX platforms such as HP-UX, Sun Solaris, and IBM AIX  • Supported 8 development database environments.  • Installation /Configuration of Oracle software/upgrades and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Added, modifying, and deleting user accounts, logical and Physical Database structures. Database Administrator/System Administrator Northrop Grumman Information Technology September 2000 to June 2007 • Supported War Gaming and Simulation/Analysis Divisions on Joint Analytic Support Programs (USSOCOM) and coordinated database administration of all simulation databases.  • Responsible for maintaining and upgrading 8 Sun Solaris servers from version 7 through version 10.  • Installed and Maintained 2 RED Hat Linux servers and 10 RED Hat Workstations.  • Responsible for running security checks on all UNIX and LINUX servers and workstations.  • Responsible for Upgrading Linux servers and installing patches and updates.  • Created Oracle and SQL Server Databases for development staff and provided DBA support during the testing of application code prior to installing in production environment  • Supported Clustered databases environments in SQL Server 2005.  • Maintained 5 Window 2003 servers including installation of software and patches to server  • Installed and upgraded Oracle software on Sun Solaris systems, Oracle Client tools on PCs and new databases. Modified their scripts to operate on customer systems including shell scripting to automate day to day processes.  • Provided feedback on installations and identified and resolved associated system issues.  • Evaluated test of new DBA tools to improve efficiency of the databases.  • Authored database documentation including: data dictionary, entity relationship diagrams and scripts using the Erwin Data modeling Suite  • Wrote policy, procedures and manuals for backup/recovery and database implementation plans.  • Accountable for compliance with database security procedures outlined in the DISA.  • Monitored and tracked all applicable Oracle service contracts to ensure continuous maintenance.  • Evaluated present and future hardware and software requirements for SORR-SC.  • Assisted in justification and procurement process of equipment once funding sources are identified.  • Installed Red Hat Linux Operating system on PCs and laptops in support of JCATS network. Database Administrator Utility Partners May 2000 to September 2000 • Reviewed, revised and created policies and procedures for Database Administration (DBA) group.  • Authored database documentation including: data dictionary, entity relationship diagrams and scripts using the Erwin Data modeling Suite.  • Upgrades all Sun Solaris servers from version 7 to version 8.  • Project lead for testing and evaluation project that recommended a suite of development tools that became the group standard. This task was executed on time and was adopted by management.  • Provided DBA support to the Quality Assurance group throughout the product development cycle.  • Responsible for upgrading Oracle software (RDBMS, Developer and Designer) for NT/UNIX platforms. Also familiar with UNIX platforms such as HP-UX, Sun Solaris, and IBM AIX.  • Consulted management strategy team on hardware replacements, system upgrades and purchase pricing. Database Administrator Sverdrup Technology June 1998 to May 2000 • Helped database design team implement the central Database for the Joint Mission Analysis group.  • Designated as UNIX system administrator for the UNIX machine at local office that used Sun Solaris.  • Created and modified scripts executed database imports/exports and created and deleted user accounts.  • Assisted with upgrade and installation of software including: NT, Microsoft Office, Microsoft SQL Server, Map Objects, Crystal Reports and various other software packages.  • Created database documentation for data dictionaries, entity relationship diagrams and several white papers.  • Advised management team on new equipment and supplies purchases for government and local offices.  • Managed key hardware installations and upgrades (memory, drives, CD-ROMs/Burners and peripherals).  • Led Oracle software maintenance team that performed routine system installs and upgrades (editing, building, modifying and tuning databases) Systems Administrator Booz Allen & Hamilton November 1997 to May 1998 • Recognized as leader on Command LAN support team (USSOCOM). The LAN consisted of 55 NT servers, and 7 UNIX machine that ran Sun Solaris. Also ran nightly backup on all LAN servers and rebooted servers.  • Assisted in the design and rebuild of 1500 hard drives for major 'customer-site' software upgrade.  • Monitored Microsoft and Sun websites for updates and new versions of software and system patches.  • Provided technical support, resolved issues and assisted multiple users with solutions. Education Master of Science in International Management Troy State University 2000 Bachelor's of Science in Management Information Systems University of South Florida 1997 Skills Sql Server, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA