Sr. Database Administrator (DBA) Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Sr. Database Administrator (DBA) - Conduent Austin, TX • Oracle Certified Professional with 10+ years of IT experience  • Experienced in a variety of DBMS's with specialization in ORACLE, MS SQL Server & MYSQL.  • Vast experience in managing Database's on Linux, Solaris and Windows operating systems  • Highly qualified Database Administrator having solid knowledge in all facets of software development lifecycles SDLC including Data architecture, Database design.  • High level of expertise in Grid Infrastructure, Real application cluster RAC, ASM and Data Guard Standby databases.  • Highly experienced in Installing, configuring, troubleshooting and maintaining Golden Gate replications.  • Created and configured Data Guard physical and Logical Standby Databases  • Superb experience in database upgrades. Recent upgrade projects include - Oracle database upgrade of large size 11 TB database from 10g to 11g using TTS, 11g to 12c using DBUA and upgrade scripts.  • Solid Expertise in Performing Database Tuning using oracle tools such as ASH, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF and OEM.  • High level of expertise in Backup, Recovery & Cloning of databases using RMAN and Oracle Utility EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Solid experience in applying Patch sets, CPU, One-off Patch and PSU patches to various versions of databases like 10g / 11g with minimum downtime.  • Extensive usage of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 10g/11g/12c) for actively monitoring multiple databases and identifying database issues.  • Experienced in UNIX Shell Scripting for configuring database monitoring alerts and automation.  • Excellent interpersonal skills, communication skills, with strong troubleshooting, and problem-solving ability. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator (DBA) Conduent - Austin, TX 2018 to Present • Worked for Oracle Migration Project from Oracle 11G to Oracle 11G Exadata machine & oracle virtual machines using Datagram switchover and export and import.  • Installing Oracle Enterprise manager Cloud control 13c.  • Performed Database Tuning as required- Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Performance Tuning techniques and tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, TKPROF and OEM.  • Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database, Standby both physical & logical standby. Performed switchover/failover and monitored using Data Guard manager command line and GUI.  • Performed Large size database backup including Physical backups using RMAN and EMC Data Domain technology. Sr. Database Administrator (DBA) Blue Cross Blue shield - Detroit, MI September 2015 to October 2018 • Worked for Oracle Migration Project from Oracle 10G to Oracle 11g AIX to Linux Cross Platform Migration using Oracle Transportable Tablespace (TTS) and export and import.  • Installing Oracle Enterprise manager Cloud control 12c.  • Performed Database Tuning as required- Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Performance Tuning techniques and tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, TKPROF and OEM.  • Supported and Maintained database Snap Clone (12 TB) using EMC SNAP Technology  • Implemented RMAN backups and restore of database using EMC Data domain for refreshing UAT/testing and development environments.  • Oracle RAC system Clusters monitoring, tuning, load balancing using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Grid control  • Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database, Standby both physical & logical standby. Performed switchover/failover and monitored using Data Guard manager command line and GUI.  • Involved in Capacity Planning for Oracle database infrastructure based on future business growth requirements. Well experience in DDL (data definition language), DML (data manipulation) and DCL, hardware/software configuration, writing complex queries, procedures, and functions.  • Performed Large size database backup including Physical backups using RMAN and EMC Data Domain technology. GM General Motors - Detroit, MI January 2014 to August 2015 Sr. Database Administrator (DBA)    • Setup and supported for Oracle 11g/12c HA solutions including RAC, Data Guard, Golden Gate.  • Oracle RAC system Clusters monitoring, tuning, using OEM 12c (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Cloud control, AWR/ADDM, and V$ dynamic views.  • Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database and Data guard broker, implemented log miner, Data guard / Standby both physical & logical standby. Performed switchover/failover and monitored using Data Guard Broker manager command line and GUI.  • Constructed data models, designed schemas, generated DDL and worked with development team members on the implementation of BRM Product and Position components of this centralized data resource.  • Gathered the requirement, completed the proof of concept, Designed, Developed and Tested Sr. Oracle DBA Foresee Result, MI September 2013 to December 2014 • Installation, Configuration, and maintained 11gR2/12C HA solutions including RAC, Data Guard with broker on Oracle Enterprise Linux 6.1 and Red Hat Linux.  • Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database (second standby database) for 3 node Real application cluster, Implement Dataguard broker, Data guard / Standby both physical & logical standby database, perform switchover/failover and monitor using Data Guard manager command line and GUI.  • Contributed to a re-architecture project to develop a corporate wide centralized data distribution resource by preparation of a high level conceptual overview, road map for development efforts and draft plan outline. Gathered the requirement, completed the proof of concept, Designed, Developed and Tested application Sr. Oracle DBA/ Apps DBA / Architect HCL/Crawford/Direct Brand (DBI)/Enabil solutions November 2011 to August 2013 • Setup and supported for Oracle 9i/10g/11g HA solutions including RAC, Data Guard, installed and configured of Oracle 9i/10g/11g Database & RAC (Real Application Clusters) on Red hat Linux 4.0 AS, AIX 6.0/5.3 & HP UNIX.  • Oracle RAC system Clusters monitoring, tuning, load balanced using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Grid control, Stats pack/AWR/ADDM, and V$ dynamic views.  • Contributed to a re-architecture project to develop a corporate wide centralized data distribution resource by preparation of a high level conceptual overview, road map for development efforts and draft plan outline.  • Constructed data models, designed schemas, generated DDL and worked with development team members on the implementation of Financial Instrument, Account, Trade, Mortgage Product and Position components of this centralized data resource.  • Involve in the Capacity Planning for databases based the future business growth requirements, well experience in working with DDL (data definition language), DML (data manipulation) and DCL, hardware/software configuration, physical I/O optimization, RMAN, writing complex queries, procedures, and functions.  • Gathered the requirement, completed the proof of concept, Designed, Developed and Tested the applications. Sr. Applications Performance DBA WELLS FARGO - West Des Moines, IA November 2010 to October 2011 • Setup and supported for Oracle 9i/10g/11g HA solutions including RAC  • installed and configured of Oracle 9i/10g/11g Database & RAC (Real Application Clusters) on Red hat Linux 4.0 AS, AIX 6.0/5.3 & HP UNIX.  • Oracle RAC system Clusters monitoring, tuning, load balanced using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Grid control, Stats pack/AWR/ADDM, and V$ dynamic views.  • Setup, Configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database, implement log miner, Data guard / Standby both physical & logical standby perform switchover/failover and monitor using Data Guard manager command line and GUI.  • Contributed to a re-architecture project to develop a corporate wide centralized data distribution resource by preparation of a high level conceptual overview, road map for development efforts and draft plan outline. DBA WELL CARE INC - Tampa, FL July 2010 to October 2010 - Data Analysis    • Involve in the Capacity Planning for databases based the future business growth requirements, well experience in working with DDL (data definition language), DML (data manipulation) and DCL, hardware/software configuration, physical I/O optimization, RMAN, writing complex queries, procedures, and functions.  • Designed Hardware Configuration for OOB Agile PLM Business Intelligence.  • Gathered the requirement, completed the proof of concept, Designed, Developed and Tested Physical Layer, Business Layer and Presentation Layer of OBIEE  • Data architectures using multi-tier physical architecture and application development layers Sr. DBA Lead / Apps DBA / Architect AC NIELSEN - Green Bay, WI April 2007 to June 2010 • Architect and support for successfully Implemented feature - ecommerce application development in Java 2 Enterprise edition (J2EE) environment, and coordinate with development team. Worked with business team for gathering information for data analysis to develop logical & physical data models ( database design) for large scale public application domain.  • Setup and support for Oracle 9i/10g/11g HA solutions including RAC, Standby servers, Data Guard, installed and configured Oracle 9i/10g/11g Database & RAC (Real Application Clusters) with ASM on Red hat Linux 4.0 AS, AIX 6.0/5.3 & HP UNIX.  • Setup, configured Oracle Data Guard using physical standby database  • Implemented log miner, data guard / standby both physical and logical standby perform switchover/failover and monitor using Data Guard manager command line and GUI. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator KROGER - Cincinnati, OH January 2007 to March 2007 • Plan, Implement and test Oracle Streams Oracle's strategic replication solution.  • Design and implement of database backup strategy and performed full incremental and Cumulative backup using RMAN.  • Restructured production databases and improved performance, considered the requirements of Business, databases and applications, and resource utilization.  • Optimization and fine-tuning the database by planning storage requirements, building indexes and altering storage clauses for tables and indexes.  • Extensive working knowledge on Performance tuning using Statspack/AWR, explain plans, tkprof, sql tuning Indexing and creating spatial partitioning etc.  • Implemented log miner  • Data architectures using multi-tier physical architecture and application development layers Education PGDM in Information Systems & Computer Applications Osmania University Skills Jdbc, Mysql, Odbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Ksh, Red hat, Sun, Unix, Perl, Rman, Ebs, Vm, Vmware, Bash, Apex, Er win, ETL, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information Skill Set Summary    Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MS SQL, MYSQL,  Languages: Perl, Shell Script, PL/SQL  Applications: Oracle EBS R12, Oracle SOA, Oracle BIEE, Business Objects  Virtual technology: Oracle VM, VMware vSphere Hypervisor/player  Operating Systems: UNIX (HP / AIX / Sun Solaris8.0 / Red Hat Linux4.0 AS), Windows 2012/16.  Tools: OEM, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, RMAN, HTMLDB (APEX) Toad/Quest tools, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle Developer, CA ER Win, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, Explain plan, JDBC, ODBC, VI editor, Bash/ksh/csh