Senior Principal Consultant Senior Principal Consultant Oracle Database and GoldenGate Architect The Woodlands, TX * Multilingual, Oracle Certified GoldenGate 12c Implementation Specialist with fifteen years of experience in successful design, development and implementation database applications on very large environments with RAC, DataGuard, GoldenGate and Oracle in Memory Database (Times Ten).  * Work synergistically with team members in meeting challenging project goals and deadlines. Excels in reducing downtime and boosting productivity. Works well independently or as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Principal Consultant BIAS Corporation - Houston, TX March 2017 to Present Oracle Database and GoldenGate Consultant Utah Department of Public Safety - Salt Lake City, UT September 2016 to November 2016 - Currently Architecting Informix Database migration from informix to Oracle Pluggable database infrastructure.  - Planning and Configuring near zero time database migration from Informix to Oracle with Oracle GoldenGate.  - Planning and Configuring Bi-Direction GoldenGate replication between two Oracle Exadata data center and legacy Informix to Oracle.  - Installing and configuring GoldenGate Veridata and Monitoring Pack. Oracle Database & GoldenGate SME Intercontinental Hotel Group - Alpha, NJ March 2016 to November 2016 ? Created and configured RAC 12c databases in Exadata X4 for upgrade and migration.   ? Zero downtime cross platform database migration and upgrade leveraging incremental backup and GoldenGate.  ? Design and implement Active to Active and Active to Passive GoldenGate replication for the Migration.  ? Design monitoring environment for GoldenGate (12c GoldenGate plugin). Senior Oracle Consultant CSL - Boca Raton, FL August 2016 to September 2016 - Reviewed any existing or proposed architecture and GoldenGate best practices  - Implemented GoldenGate into the Production environment in an active passive configuration for DML according to the tested configuration and Blueprint Architecture developed in the development phase.  - Instantiated the databases on the source and target using Data Pump and/or GoldenGate.  - Assisted CSL Plasma in performing replication testing between the replication nodes.  - Assisted CSL Plasma in creating proactive issue detection and operational procedures to address them  - Provided Oracle GoldenGate tuning and or assistance  - Defined and implement archive log and trail file retention policies  - Provided hands on training on the installation, architecture, and management of Oracle GoldenGate. Oracle GoldenGate Architect Consultant Flimatech inc - Calgary, AB 2007 to May 2016 ORACLE GOLDENGATE ARCHITECT (ROGERS/ORACLE, TORONTO, ON)  ? Designed high available GoldenGate 12c Architecture for Integrated Capture   ? Installed, Patched and Configured GoldenGate 12c for initial OBIEE and OBIA configuration in Exadata  ? Installed and Configured GoldenGate 12c Real Time Downstream Capture for OBIA.  ? Integrated GoldenGate with ODI for OBIEE and OBIA data consumption  ? Provided different options for downstream capture architecture to reduce risk of potential source system load    ORACLE GOLDENGATE ARCHITECT AND INSTRUCTOR (BLUECROSS BLUESHIELD OF SOUTH CAROLINA)  ? Reviewed proposed GoldenGate architecture  ? Implemented best practices in the infrastructure architecture  ? Installed, Patched and Configured GoldenGate for initial application configuration  ? Trained DBA staff on GoldenGate from basic to advance  ? Supported DBA staff during the DEV/TEST and implementation to Production    Oracle GoldenGate Architect (Nucor Steel, Decator, AL)  * Architected the physical and logical solution GoldenGate Oracle EBS replication to datawarehouse in real time.  * Implemented GoldenGate on RAC/ASM with CDC, conflict resolution and DDL replication.  * Installed and Configured Oracle Fustion Middleware, Weblogic and Goldengate Monitoring Package.  * Developed custom macros for specific conflict resolution.    Oracle GoldenGate Architect (EnCana Corp, Clgary, AB)  * Currently designing and implementing GoldenGate for Data warehouse ETL and CDC. Data to be used for corporation reporting and interface to other systems.  * Planned and designed JDE upgrade and migration with near zero downtime with GoldenGate.  * Developed ETL and Real time replication monitor procedures.  * Upgraded Oracle GoldenGate from 11g to 12c  * Upgraded replicat with performances issue to integrated delivery with the new API.    Oracle Database and GoldenGate Architect (Provincial Health Service Authority, Vancouver, BC)  * Architecture and Implemented GoldenGate for Data warehouse. Data to be used for reporting and interface to other systems.  * Implemented replication from Oracle to SQL Server and GoldenGate replication from Oracle to PostgreSQL.  * Established high level of security with GoldenGate encryption and configuration.  * Real time ETL load, with change data capture and transformation.    Oracle Consultant ( WorldPay, Atlanta, GA)  * Rescued corrupted 8TB eComm (online credit card payment processing) database application by migrating all data to a new host, where backups were not available.  * Established new backup and recovery strategy to prevent future failure to restore.    Oracle Consultant (NW Partnership)  * Installed, created and configured JDE database on AIX. Designed backup and recovery strategy and established IBM Power HA.    Oracle HA Infrastructure Architect Consultant ( AESO - Alberta Energy System Operator)  * Designed and Implemented new High Availability Oracle database Infrastructure.  * Upgraded all 9i and 10g oracle databases to 11gR2 RAC with and without outage.  * Upgraded databases using Oracle GoldenGate for near zero downtime upgrade and very large databases with Oracle cross platform transportable tablespaces.  * Designed and Implemented oracle advance compression reducing the storage footprint by 12TB.  * Managed several implementations within the Oracle Upgrade Program.  * Designed, documented and led the HA oracle infrastructure with NetApp storage, Oracle RAC, dataguard and GoldenGate.  * Designed and Implemented refresh and clone environment from the HA datacenter with GoldenGate, Dataguard snapshot and Netapp snapshot/flex-clone.  * Migrated all infrastructure from Sun Solaries to Oracle Enterprise Linux.    Oracle DBA Architect Consultant ( NGX - Natural Gas Exchange)  * Designed NetApp storage implementation for Oracle databases.  * Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Linux, Oracle database and migrated from AIX to Linux.  * Designed and implemented HA environment with dataguard and daily refresh to Staging database.    Senior Oracle & SQL Server DBA Consultant ( ENMAX Corp.)  * Upgraded and Migrated storage from old NetApp NAS to the new NetApp Filer.  * Implemented NetApp Flex-Clone to refresh/clone Dev and Test from production databases.  * Moved all 100+ Oracle databases from Sun Solaris to SUSE Linux.  * Installed and Configured Oracle Application Server 10g. Configured Grid Control on Linux SUSE.  * Moved Oracle Management Server (OMS) from Sun Solaris to SUSE Linux.  * Implemented ESRI geographic database system ArcGIS, ArcSDE, ArcMap and ArcFM.  * General DBA services for Oracle and SQL Server. (partition management, NetApp snapshot and snap vault backups, replication management and dev and test refreshes)  * Implemented Oracle Data Guard for disaster recovery on OMS (Outage Management System) database.    Oracle DBA Consultant ( Service Intelligence Inc.)  * Implemented Oracle Real Application Cluster 11g Standard edition with ASM on RedHat platform.  * Upgraded all database systems from 9i/10g to 11gR1 RAC.    Oracle DBA Consultant ( Pulse Data Inc.)  * Installed Red Hat Linux and configured it for oracle, created file system on the SAN and installed and patched 10g software. Upgraded RDBMS Oracle 9i Windows to Oracle10g Linux.  * Implemented of Oracle Data Guard for DR and RMAN backup strategy.  * Developed and implemented external monitoring solution. Senior Oracle DBA / Database Services Manager The Forzani Group - Calgary, AB 2005 to 2007 Installed and configured new Oracle RAC 10g instances on Linux Red Hat using OCFS and ASM.  * Installed and configured Oracle RAC 10g with Netapp storage using snapshot technology for backup and Dev/Test/QA environment creation.  * Migrated Cognos data warehouse database from 9i to 10gR2 RAC on AIX.  * Planned and Migrated several 8i and 9i database to 10g.  * Administered all company databases including backups, daily administration tasks and performance issues. Planned, developed and implemented database controls and security policies for SOX (Bill 198) compliance.  * Created a new backup strategy focusing on restore time expectation based on SLA.  * Wrote RMAN backup end restore scripts. Installed oracle patches and updates.  * Managed DBA team staff. Managed table partitions with different RAID configurations.  * Managed 120 SQL Severs Databases (2000 and 2005), including general database administration, backup and recovery strategy, DTS packages, and jobs.  * Refreshed DEV and TEST databases with RMAN duplicate (Clone Database). Senior Oracle Database Administrator Treetop Technologies @ Hewlett-Packard - Calgary, AB 2004 to 2005 Installed and configured new Oracle 10g instances.  * Installed and configured/migrated Oracle DB instances from Oracle 7.3.4 to 8i/9i and 10g.  * Installed and configured OEM, managed event and job schedule including backups.  * Maintained Oracle Cluster Environment with MC Service Guard.  * Highlighted current inefficiencies and tuned a number of queries to run 10-100 times faster.  * Involved in installing and configuring MC/Service Guard on HP-UX for failover clustering.  * Installed oracle patches and updates.  * Mentored and trained peers/team members to tune PL/SQL using trace and explain plan outputs.  * Wrote routines using Unix shell script to automate many of the DBA related activities.  * Used OEM, DB Artisan, DB Tools and TOAD in order to perform daily DBA activities.  * Designed and implemented DB security roles, privileges and user management both on the database and application level.  * Managed and supported 75 Hewlett-Packard very large Oracle databases as part of the DBA team.  * Migrated oracle instances from one UNIX box to another and different oracle versions. Oracle Developer / System Analyst Accenture Ltd - Calgary, AB 2003 to 2004 Designed and implemented commercial key accounts application solutions to the Southern Gas Company (Atlanta Gas) billing system, as part of their delinquency system.  * Designed and implemented solution to streamline delinquency report distribution: Automated report generation to be distributed (UNIX automated email) to customer's managers. Improved report delivery performance, previous done manually by operators.  * Created multiple database objects, triggers and PL/SQL packages to interact with BANNER.  * Created and maintained KSH scripts for Application deployment and development.  * Provide mentorship and leadership to junior development team members on Oracle PL/SQL and Shell Script programming and design. Oracle Database Administrator / Back-end Developer OAO Technology Solutions - Toronto, ON 2001 to 2003 Spent total of ten weeks in AT&T (USA) client's site working besides IBM (USA) consultants on two distinct application migration projects.  * Analyzed business requirements and develop system requirement, technical specifications and develop install and release plans to install at customer sites for AT&T data warehousing, ordering and billing system using C++, ASP, ADODB, Unix Shell Scripts, Oracle (PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, and SQL), JAVA, JDBC and SQL Server 6.5/2000 following CMM level-III standards for AT&T.  * Participated in numerous large projects through IBM on AT&T account.  * Worked through IBM with Accenture on AT&T IVR (Interactive Voice Response) Project.  * Helped develop the interface between IVR and CRANE (AT&T Local Business) application.  * Performed and monitored synchronization between SQL Server and Oracle databases.  * Performed daily production database administration, storage management, backup/recovery, upgrades, and networking by installing Oracle on client servers, setting up SQL*Net, and tnsnames.  * Developed disaster recovery plan, including training and preparing the rest of the team for the event of database failure and performing system backups.  * Performed daily operations and development including designing, coding, testing, and performance monitoring on existing and new databases.  * Developed data load scripts to import flat data files from other systems; runs data import and export tasks.  * Migrated SQL Server 6.5 to SQL Server 2000 Database Administrator & Network Administrator SM Factoring Financing Services, Brazil 1997 to 2000 Installed and Configured Oracle Financials 11i and Oracle 8 databases.  * Served as DBA for a Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 database and administrator for a Windows NT LAN, diagnosing and resolving issues efficiently and effectively.  * Diagnosed and tuned performance problems using monitoring / diagnostic tools.  * SGA tuning to avoid fragmentation of shared pool and memory structures. IT Staff, Contractor SM Factoring Financing Services, Brazil 1997 to 2000 Served as DBA for a Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 database and administrator for a Windows NT LAN, diagnosing and resolving issues efficiently and effectively. Business Analyst SM Factoring Financing Services, Brazil 1994 to 1997 Conducted presentations on company products and opportunities to potential clients.  * Supported account executives and managers with projects, proposals and presentations.  * Analyzed user requirements anddeveloped software implementation plan for automating business functionality. Education Bachelor Of Arts in Business Administration Ouachita Baptist University - Arkadelphia, AR 1994 Skills Oracle MMA (7 years), Oracle GoldenGate (10+ years), Oracle Databases (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle GoldenGate 12c Certified Implementation Specialist Present