Db2 Subject Matter Expert Db2 Subject Matter Expert Colorado Springs, CO Chad is a detail oriented Information Technology professional with experience in Database architecture, administration, modeling, and Application Programming. With over 20 years experience Chad has a proven track record for managing complex projects and resolving issues as they arise. Chad has several database administration certifications and works with OLAP, OLTP, and NoSQL databases. Work Experience Db2 Subject Matter Expert Strategy 7 Corporation September 2018 to Present Provide Db2 expertise with indexing and backup/recovery. Automate daily/weekly scripts for routine maintenance using ksh. Created docker containers for Db2 and Maximo applications. Worked with development providing performance tuning support. Setup HADR active passive fail over. Setup Db2 BLU for columnar data processing. Senior Db2 LUW/Oracle Database Administrator Freddie Mac April 2018 to September 2018 Db2 LUW production/development support. Worked with development providing performance tuning support. Worked with Data Analysts to take logical ddl to physical ddl. Support HADR, install fixpacks, upgrade to V11.1 and changed all databases to use compression. Also provided production support including backups, and reorgs., and patching as needed. Create/Modify scripts with ksh. Senior Db2 LUWDatabase Administrator Prudential Insurance December 2017 to March 2018 Worked with the client on Proof of Concept for migrating existing Db2 database to Amazon RDS MySQL. Provided data definitions, modified stored procedures, and triggers. Provided documentation and did a complete migration with successful testing of the functional aspects. Provided faster performance on the Amazon platform over the existing in house Db2 environment. Wrote ksh and python scripts. Senior Db2 LUW/Oracle Database Administrator SRISYS - State of Illinois - Detroit, MI January 2017 to October 2017 Support client with Db2 and Oracle Database design and administration. Perform restores for testing. Made recommendations for database settings. Upgrade existing databases. Installed new databases. Assist programmers with SQL. Trouble shoot technical and performance issues. Senior Db2 LUW/zOS Database Administrator OXFORD INTERNATIONAL April 2016 to December 2016 Upgraded existing Db2 databases including 2 Db2 z/OS subsystems, 5 Db2 LUW instances and over 300 Db2 gateway servers. Also provided capacity planning and recommendations for Db2 connect gateway servers. Setup MapR multi node environment. Senior Db2 LUW Database Administrator XTIVIA, INC - Colorado Springs, CO February 2015 to March 2016 Support external clients with database design, performance issues, upgrades, and troubleshooting technical problems. Provided 24x7 on call support for all clients for SQL Server, Db2 and Oracle database engines. Scripting with ksh and python. Database Manager SPINS - Schaumburg, IL April 2013 to February 2015 Manage a team of Database Administrators, System Engineers, and Network Administrators. Managed data center move and upgrade with new HP Servers and switches. Evaluated various Cloud services for possibly moving away from data center. Implemented changes to existing Db2 LUW DPF 33 node 40 terabyte database to 9 node 40 terabyte database. Observed over 4 times faster response time for our clients. Provided proof of concept plans for migrating from Db2 to PostgreSQL EDB or MySQL. Support production SQL Server. Evaluated MapR Hadoop versus Cloudera Hadoop in a proof of concept. Implemented MapR M7 16 node cluster with great results. Scripting with ksh and python. Administrator for Spark, Hive, HBase, Scoop, Jira, Git, Confluence.  Past Experience Database Architect, Project management, and Database Manager May 1985 to October 2012 IT Professional May 1985 - October 2012  Progressive responsibilities in Computer Operations, Application Programming, System Programming, Database Administration, Database Architect, Project management, and Database Manager. These roles were both long/short term contracting and full time employee. Education Bachelor of Science in Management of Technical Services Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR, DATABASE, DB2, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, HADOOP, AIX, KSH, UX, C++, Hadoop, PERL, REXX, COBOL, JAVA, ISPF, ENGINEER