Campaign Manager/Developer Campaign Manager/Developer Business Analyst Towson, MD ? Proven track record in relationship building to create solid ties with both my clients and internal team   ? Over 15 years of experience in all facets of database and production maintenance from change management, database and solution development   ? Strong emphasis on quality management in a fluid, demanding and agile environment   ? History of facilitation and mediation skills on a technical and management level developed through daily interaction with both client and internal teams   ? Excellent oral and written communication enabling me to know when to listen and when to lead Work Experience Campaign Manager/Developer Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD July 2017 to July 2019 SOLUTION DESCRIPTION: A series of databases and marts used to support campaign creation and execution in conjunction with quantitative analysis and model creation used to provide the client with a quantifiable breakdown of their campaign strategy.    ROLE:   ? Reporting and Analysis: Created client facing reports used to analyze data and campaign optimization.   ? Data Analysis: Analyzed data received by various vendors as per client request and for campaign creation.   ? Change Management: Review change request documents with clients to ensure requirements and objectives are aligned with development. Using JIRA ticketing system, communicate to campaign analyst instructions for campaign creation based on change request document.  ? Campaign Development: Create SSIS packages to select optimal marketing universe based on analytic input and change request documents. Create campaign reports to facilitate internal and external QC.  ? Client Management: Lead campaign meetings with client to discuss campaign deliverables and scheduling. Field client questions regarding reporting and campaign mart.  ? Database and Analytics Liaison: Interdepartmental liaison for complex database solution development.  ? Campaign Management: Campaign schedule creation and analyst oversight to ensure error free execution of the client's campaigns.  ? Quality management: Review of deliverables to ensure business requirement were met and up to organizational standards. Solution Manager Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2014 to 2017 ROLE:   ? Reporting and Analysis: Created client facing reports using Excel and Tableau for campaign optimization and campaign ROI.   ? Data Analysis – Performed data analysis on large data sets for data sizing and data quality.    ? Client Management: Lead weekly meetings with the client to discuss deliverables. Attend monthly strategy sessions to ensure strategy initiatives and production tasks are aligned.  ? Resource Management and Tasking: Daily management of team resource tasks and general resource management to ensure optimal solution staffing.  ? Production Management: Oversight of the production manager and other associated production staff to ensure client deliverables are met on schedule and within budget.  ? Vendor Management: Coordinate with different client vendors to ensure files required are received in time.  ? Change management: Oversight of client marketing database change requests and enhancement requests using JIRA software. Production Manager Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2011 to 2014 ROLE:   ? Production Management: Leading client team on a daily basis to insure deliverable milestones are being met.  ? Client interface: Lead weekly meetings with the client to discuss client deliverables.  ? Business Analysis: Oversight of detailed requirements gathering and client consultation for technical assessments.  ? Quality management: Code review of client deliverables and update code changes.  ? Resource management: Mentor and coach a team of campaign analysts Senior Database Developer Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2006 to 2011 ROLE:   ? Automation of production processes through the use of SSIS packages and stored procedures using SQL.  ? Data import and extraction into client database using SQL Query Analyzer, Aginity Workbench and SSIS.  ? QC and code review of client deliverables and SQL code.  ? Client consultation and requirements gatherings for technical assessments.  ? Documentation of production procedures in the transition from development into a production operational environment. Production Lead Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2005 to 2006 ROLE:   ? Production Management: Managed production schedule and tasks in order to meet production deadlines and client deliverables. Communicate client status reports to upper management.  ? Quality management: Code review of client deliverables and update code changes.  ? Resource management: Oversee and manage production staff of 5+(specialists and developers) ? Change management: Review all change requests and assign tasks to developers. Review and approve technical assessments from developers. Application Developer Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2003 to 2005 ROLE:   ? Develop SQL - Epiphany attributes and measures for client marketing selections and reports.  ? Develop and document end user's data mart for Epiphany Client Tool.  ? Create and modify DTS packages and stored procedures using T-SQL for automation of production processes.  ? Create client universe and reports in Business Objects for comparison of E.piphany and Business Objects reporting functionality.  ? Administer and troubleshoot Epiphany application. Production Application Specialist Merkle, Inc - Columbia, MD 2001 to 2003 ROLE:   ? Responsible for updating and maintaining client databases utilizing SQL Server 2000 and Visual FoxPro 6.0.  ? Stored procedures, DTS package and SQL job creation for production automation.  ? Information extraction from client databases using SQL queries to fulfill client requests.  ? Responsible for creating production documentation and QC procedures for ensuring data integrity. Database/System Administrator Wise Recycling - Linthicum, MD 1999 to 2001 ROLE:   ? Database Management: Administering the company's multi-platform system including RIMAS, Platinum, SQL Server and Interbase.  ? Report Creation: Create management reports using Seagate Crystal Reports 7.0.   ? Network Administration: NT network Administration including (PDC, BDC, application, database, file and Citrix servers).  ? Code Development: Creation of DTS packages and Stored Procedures for updating databases. Creation of HR Database for tracking background checks using Access 97. Education BS in Bachelor of Risk Management Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 1996 Skills Client Management (5 years), Database (10+ years), JIRA (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (10+ years), Excel, Tableau, Marketing, Microsoft SQL Server Assessments Written Spanish for English Speakers — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bfp-fs-vw8szcczf Organizational Skills — Highly Proficient August 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p70c2akd6bqg1sxx Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gzgcwvhh8k50o6u9 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.