Business Intelligence / Database Services Supervisor Business Intelligence / <span class="hl">Database</span> Services Supervisor Experienced IT Veteran Specializing in Business Intelligence Seeking Exciting Role in Emerging Technologies Houston, TX Highly motivated individual able to apply a wide range of experience to the cloud data architecture role. Seeking challenging opportunities in emerging technologies such as Data Vault, Data Warehouse Automation, MPP Cloud Data Warehousing and Convergence of Traditional Warehousing and Big Data.     Strengths include:  • Ethical, responsible, and able to work in fast paced environments  • Mix of small and large company experience  • Broad technical competency spanning software, hardware, and infrastructure  • Ability to document requirements and adhere to requirement documents and technical specifications  • Ability to design, develop, implement, document and support decision support solutions  • Possess rare ability to suggest holistic solutions through advanced knowledge hardware, software, theory and best practices  • Proven track record of delivering high quality solutions, on time  • Able to function as individual contributor, leader, mentor and manager  • Highly Respected both within the team as well as across the business  • Experience managing projects with in-house resources as well as off-shore resources  • Multi-Lingual. Adept in SQL, C#, VB Script, PowerShell, VBA, MDX, DAX, IBM DataStage Basic, Microsoft SSRS and SSIS Expressions  • Quickly adapts and evolves with technology  • AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional  • AWS Certified Big Data - Specialty Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Intelligence / Database Services Supervisor Tokio Marine HCC - Houston, TX February 2012 to July 2018 Management. Managed team of 2 BI Developers, 1 SQL Developer, 2 SQL Database Administrators, 1 PeopleSoft  Administrator, 1 PeopleSoft Oracle DBA and 1 offshore, contract, DBA. Responsible for Vendor Relationships, Budget  Preparation, Project and Resource Planning and Allocation    Architecture. Applied advanced knowledge of business, theory, technology and practical experience to design, document and direct implementation of many solutions including 6NF EDW, Always-On High Availability infrastructure, SAN RAID levels and tiering strategy for database VMWare clusters. Architect and Implementation of Business Intelligence solutions consisting  of a wide range of tools such as custom developed dashboarding solutions, MicroStrategy, Analysis Services MDX and DAX  (tabular), column store and in-memory data marts, SQL Reporting Services.    Data Warehousing. Designed, Documented and Implemented Corporate Data Warehouse for US Property and Casualty  business lines representing $600 MM of annual revenue. Extended warehouse to contain PeopleSoft general ledger and journal lines. Created SQL Server Analysis Services Tabular Cubes. Migrated and retired Analysis Services cubes to  MicroStrategy Intelligent Cubes for better usage within MicroStrategy. Data Warehouse is loaded near real time every 5  minutes. Application used by more than 400 users.    Database Administration. Lead team supporting over 100 production SQL servers. Established best practices for installation,  high availability, performance analysis reporting, vulnerability remediation. Implemented Idera SQL Diagnostics Monitor to monitor all production installations. Developed automated restore down scripts from EMC Avamar to pre-production  environments. Architect physical environment for compute and storage with appropriate infrastructure teams to ensure metrics  meet SLA while also minimizing SQL licensing true-up costs.    Data Integration. Applied prior knowledge of SSIS to quickly attain advanced level of proficiency in IBM DataStage. Senior Database Architect and Administrator NCR Corporation - Duluth, GA March 2009 to February 2012 Lead Database Administrator. Applied prior experience in infrastructure design combined with database design to effectively scale environment from a single production database server to several by vertical and horizontal techniques. Identified root cause of poor performance and addressed accordingly through disk I/O expansion, index optimization, transaction replication, query optimization. Database system has grown from less than 100 GBytes to over 2 TBytes in 2 years. Proficient in determining root cause of database performance degradation. Administer Databases running SQL Server 2005 Standard, SQL Server 2008 Standard and Enterprise, 2008 R2 Enterprise. Administer CDC, Replication, Link Servers, Security, File Groups, RAID groups, and performance tuning. Planned and executed production database servers from end of life hardware with several roll back decision points, each with specific procedures. New hardware assumed identity of retired servers. Upgrade included disk i/o expansion through additional storage array and solid state PCIe fusionIO cards. The database objects were moved from SQL 2005 Standard edition to SQL 2008 Enterprise Edition. Replication was re-initialized as per best practices.  Data Integration Developer. Create and maintain countless integration services packages used to integrate systems both internal and external to business. Created EDI package from specifications documents for purchase order, shipment, and invoice systems with external vendor. Create data exports to a number of external parties based on rigid specifications. Create specification documents with external parties and applications to consume documents. Develop solutions using SSIS 2008 / 2005, VBScript, BCP, SQLCommand, osql, and / or SQL as specified in technical requirements. Proven track record of adherence to and creation of integration specification documents and file formats. Very familiar with programming and administration of change data capture feature in SQL Server 2008 Enterprise. Very familiar with programming xml data within TSQL.  Report Developer. Designed and maintain accurate data summarization procedures to support responsive reporting and ah-hoc analysis. Develop and maintain dozens of reports using primitive toolset due to security concerns. Own all reports used by finance and accounting team in month end close; reports used on NCR earnings / investor calls concerning Entertainment LOB; executive dashboards. Adept at delivering advanced reports using Microsoft Excel.  Best Practice Advisor. Provide knowledge, guidance, and advice to database programming techniques and best practice to ensure scalable applications. Review all new code prior to deployment and provide improvement opportunities.  Landscape Subject Matter Expert. Maintain documentation and provide guidance for most Microsoft Windows Server expansions. Acted as Web Server administrator for public facing website. (www.blockbusterexpress.com). Act as interface contact with data center for requests of server additions, firewall rule modification and software upgrades. Participate in nearly all change management meetings and maintenance activities. Familiar with successfully executing maintenance activities including fall back and risk mitigation. Provide production support as highest internal technical escalation for all mission critical systems.  Subject Matter Expert. Applied expansive depth of business content and process expertise to aid all internal and external data consumers in materializing information from data through reports, raw extracts, and adherence to data interface specifications. Work with internal data warehouse team to source data and understand information derived therein.  Technical Advisor. Participate in nearly all discussions regarding technical expansion, hardware and software, with respect to sizing analysis, supportability, effort estimation, and security concerns. Data Architect The New Release (prior to NCR Acquisition) - Houston, TX July 2005 to March 2009 Analysis Services Design and Development. Designed and developed two Analysis Services databases consisting of 3 cubes, all of which are linked for reporting and analysis. Designed Enterprise Data Warehouse consisting of 9 Analysis Services Databases spanning Inventory, Supply Chain Integration, Revenue Recognition, Customer Analysis, and Point of Sales system.  Applied master knowledge of all SQL Server 2005 and 2008 technologies to develop, maintain, design, implement and support a wide range of SQL applications. Built systems to integrate over 8 data sources, including SQL Server, flat files, SAP, and web services. Built business logic for high performance credit card system using stored procedures, cursors, xml, SQL encryption, SQL CLR (extensive), functions, and database mirroring. System contains a run time engine and archive engine. System acts as an enabler for other systems. Designed and developed business logic for Customer Support tool. System consumes real time data from multiple SQL servers. Familiar with Inmon principles of data warehouse design  Report Developer. Provide the knowledge and expertise of data to deliver reports for analysis to all groups of the company using SSRS. Experience developing multi level reports using disparate data sources including SSAS and SQL Server.  ETL Developer. Designed countless ETL packages using T-SQL and SSIS. ETL packages are used to import data from large data stores (over 100 GB) to data warehouse and data marts. Packages normalize flat data structures into 3NF. Marts are built off the EDW into dimensions and fact tables using a snowflake schema. Worked with consulting company to design, build, implement and support data warehouse based on SQL Server 2005 / SQL Server Analysis Services 2005.  SQL Developer. Apply extensive knowledge of T-SQL to create countless stored procedures, ad-hoc queries and data analysis.  SQL DBA. Act in role of DBA to index, performance tune, maintain a network of SQL Servers. Familiar with creating link tables, database models, security, SQL profiler, indexes, partitions, service brokers, federated views. Database system ranges from production, ecommerce, reporting, and administration functions. MIS Director Southwest Oilfield Products - Houston, TX May 2000 to July 2005 Maintain entire information system.  Implement design improvements of servers and network. Network Consists of 11 Server, all rack mount and “Lights Out.” All servers are connected to an EMC SAN Array, 5 servers are HP blades. All servers connect to a single SAN attached tape library. All servers have multi gigabit connections with multiple network paths. Network contains 6 core switches each with multiple trunks and paths between switches for speed and reliability. Manage Exchange 2003 Server, 2003 Domain, SQL 2000 Server, Enterprise Backup and Antivirus Software. Selected and implemented ERP system (MAS500) with consulting company. Created new custom reports and data extracts from MAS500 using SQL Server, Microsoft Access and Crystal Reports. Migrated payroll to ADP Enterprise Etime to better automate hourly time and attendance tracking. Updated manufacturing floor control from aging system to web based touch screen terminals in manufacturing facilities with hundreds of miles of separation. Education Some college Skills Reporting (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Business Intelligence (10+ years), Data Warehousing (10+ years), MicroStrategy (4 years), IBM DataStage (6 years), SSAS Tabular (5 years), ETL (10+ years), Data Modeling (10+ years), Data Marts (10+ years), Design Documentation (10+ years), Real Time Data Integration (10+ years), Microsoft SSRS (10+ years), Start Schema (10+ years), Anchor Modeling (5 years), 6 NF (5 years), Microsoft SSIS (10+ years), Microsoft SSAS (10+ years), MDX (10+ years), DAX (5 years), SQL Master Data Services (5 years), AWS (Less than 1 year), Cloud Architecture (Less than 1 year), HTML, XML, SQL Server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielmillikan/ Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate August 2018 to August 2020 The AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate exam is intended for individuals with experience designing distributed applications and systems on the AWS platform.    https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/badge.aspx?i=1&t=c&d=2018-08-10&ci=AWS00584506 AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional August 2018 to August 2020 The AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional exam validates advanced technical skills and experience in designing distributed applications and systems on the AWS platform.    https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/badge.aspx?i=4&t=c&d=2018-08-24&ci=AWS00584506 AWS Certified Big Data - Specialty August 2018 to August 2020 The AWS Certified Big Data - Specialty exam validates technical skills and experience in designing and implementing AWS services to derive value from data    https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/badge.aspx?i=8&t=c&d=2018-09-14&ci=AWS00584506 AWS Certified Developer - Associate October 2018 to October 2020 The AWS Certified Developer – Associate exam validates technical expertise in developing and maintaining applications on the AWS platform.    https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/badge.aspx?i=2&t=c&d=2018-10-10&ci=AWS00584506&dm=80