Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator Liberty, MO I am a passionate and tenured technical professional who has a deep knowledge of Oracle data systems and related tools.     I can be counted on to handle your most critical systems and can go beyond the standard definition of that role to deliver value to you and your organization.    I am customer focused and committed to making sure systems work efficiently and customer data is available and secure.    DATABASES  Oracle 7.3.4, Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g    ORACLE TOOLS  RMAN (backup and recovery),  RAC (Real Applicaion Clusters),   OGG (Oracle Goldengate),   OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g & 12c),   OID, (Oracle Internet Directory - LDAP),   AWR (Automated Workload Repository),   ASSM (Automatic Segment Space Management),   ASM (Automatic Storage Management),   AUM (Automatic Undo Management),   Trace Analyzer,   Transparent Gateway to Sybase,  Utilities (Export, Import, Data Pump, DBNEWID, LogMiner)    SOFTWARE  Sunguard iWorks Compass (6.6 & 7.2)   HP Service Desk,   Business Objects,   DataStage,  HP-UX,  Linux x86-64    SYSTEMS  Hewlitt Packard PA-RISC & Itanium (10.20, 11.00, 11.11, 11.31),  Linux x86-64 (SUSE, sles9, sles11),  SunOS,   AIX,   Windows Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Assurant Employee Benefits 2001 to 2014 Senior Oracle DBA in a interrrupt-driven environment supporting OLTP and OLAP databases running 10gR2 and 11gR2.  On call 24/7/365 with rotating primary support.  Provide application support for SunGard iWorks Compass Core Administration system.  Provide technical expertise on the Oracle database system to programmers/developers and managers.  Perform installs and deinstalls of Oracle Enterprise Edition.  Perform server-level installs of Oracle Client.  Monitor system performance.  Support backup and recovery using mirrored disk hot backups and RMAN.  Tune database performance leveraging published and hidden Oracle parameters.  Design and upgrade existing systems - major upgrades in 2008 (10gR2) and 2013 (11gR2). Database Administrator Assurant Employee Benefits 1999 to 2001 Responsible for all aspects of database support including installation, deinstallation, troubleshooting and support.  Responsible for all production environments and related development environments.  Act as consultant to applications teams to perform data analysis and SQL tuning. Associate Database Administrator Assurant Employee Benefits 1997 to 1999 Joined database group to add layer of support for Oracle databases.  Became proficient in relational database functioning and structured query language (SQL).  Gained understanding of expectations of user community.  Created and implemented solutions to meet users' goals. Programmer/Analyst II Assurant Employee Benefits 1996 to 1997 Continued to build programming skills.  Learned UNIX,.   Became sought after for UNIX consultation.  Designed program for UNIX training.  Responsible for remote server and learned all aspects of server, including AIX, CRON, Korn shell scrips, SQL and Oracle.  Led program to perfect automation of incoming premium receipts which resulted in greater automation capabilities than originally designed. Programmer/Analyst Assurant Employee Benefits 1996 to 1996 Trained in Cobol.  Gained experience coding against IMS and DB2 databases. Supervisor Production Control Assurant Employee Benefits 1988 to 1996 Led production control operations in Kansas City.  Directed 24 hour staff of five employees, three of whom I personally hired and trained.  Received commendation for ability to handle problems and communicate effectively and professionally.  Acquired premium receipt process.  Gained proficiency in personal computer workstations.  Responsible for oversight of personal hardware repair throughout the Kansas City location, including troubleshooting of 2000 PCs and printers.  Set up and installed new client hardware and software. Senior Computer Operator Assurant Employee Benefits 1986 to 1988 Production control analyst working with UCC7 (CA-7). Gained more familiarity with TSO/ISPF and JCL. Learned to troubleshoot batch jobs running at night. Computer Operator Assurant Employee Benefits 1985 to 1986 Furthered skills in mainframe environment and added skills in TSO/ISPF, Network management, JCL and CLIST. Performed Master Console Operator functions in off hours. Junior Computer Operator Assurant Employee Benefits 1984 to 1985 Learned to work in a mainframe operations environment using MVS and JES, including light mainframe support. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lappdarrell Additional Information • Thirteen years as a Senior Oracle Database Administrator.  • Oracle7 through Oracle11g  • SQL; PL/SQL; Shell scripting    • Operating Systems: UNIX; HP-UX; Linux x86-64; SunOS; AIX; WindowsXP  • Migrated Kansas City data center to Minnesota using shared SAN and Transportable Tablespaces  • Upgraded SunGard iWorks Compass Core Administration system from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g and Compass 6.6 to Compass 7.2  • Team player; good relationship and leadership skills; excellent presentation skills; superior organizational skills; work well under pressure and deadlines; embrace change.    ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS:  Independent Oracle User’s Group (IOUG)  Kansas City Oracle User’s Group (KCOUG)  Oracle RAC SIG  Fellow, Life Management Institute (FLMI)  Associate Customer Service (ACS) also from the Life Management Institute