IT / Database Administrator IT / <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Applications and Systems Engineer San Jose, CA My goal is to expand my programming skills to include cloud application development, Python or Java coding, and interfacing with SQL or NoSQL databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT / Database Administrator Cityteam - San Jose, CA July 2006 to May 2019 Programming Projects  ·        Video Clips Website project: Python coding, HTML, and CSS.  ·        Portfolio Website project: Python coding, HTML, CSS, and responsive web design.  ·        Setup of Ubuntu 16.04 virtual server on MS Azure platform.  ·        Python code development with Atom and Git code control.    ·        Invented, wrote and maintained 30K line custom Visual Basic application that cleaned, normalized, de-duplicated and imported the VHub (volunteer CRM) contact information into our main CRM.   ·        PhoneCleaner VBA project: automatically decode telemarketing feedback files into RE CRM import files.  ·        Designed, created, and coded new corporate receipting system using MS Access database that automatically generated all variations of receipts.    User Desktop Support for RE / FE and MS Office Applications  • Lansweeper / Helpdesk Admin (monitoring tickets, assigning and resolving user desktop issues) including support for Outlook, MS Office, printer setup, G-Suite / Gmail, Raisers Edge and Financial Edge, network file shares, file and folder permits, Citrix workstations, and custom applications as needed.  • Admin on Active Directory for user management, and distribution and security group administration.  • Developed and documented onboarding process with HR. Onboarded and formally trained new staff on Raiser’s Edge and Google applications.   • Interfaced with Blackbaud Tech Support to resolve all user RE CRM database issues, as well as to upgrade and patch the database servers.  ·        Wrote custom RE queries / reports and dashboards as needed by Development and Marketing.  ·        Worked with department heads to gather and understand requirements, and create new customizations, processes, and workflows as needed (e.g. VHub to RE record importing, new phone imports, custom attribute creation, global record changes, etc.)   ·        Created and maintained all user RE accounts and security profiles.  ·        Planned and implemented many enhancements that improved the reliability, performance and function of RE CRM, SQL server and Citrix server. I also installed and maintained 40+ Citrix workstations distributed in 5 remote offices.    G-Suite Super User / Chrome Administration  ·        Enrolled, programmed and deployed 62 Chromebooks to serve the needs of the San Jose and Oakland Learning Centers and the Mayfair Youth Connect ministry.  ·        Assisted IT director in migration from MS Outlook to G-Mail  o   Migration of cell-phone accounts from Outlook to Google Apps.  o   Creation of 150+ Gmail user accounts, migration of mailboxes and calendars, Google training, and interfacing with Google Tech Support.  ·        Designed and documented Business Unit architecture and unique Chrome settings for each ministry site. Managed licenses and access for Google Apps.   ·        Migrated Outlook distribution groups to equivalent Google Business Groups for corporate email distribution and Website access emails.    Salesforce Migration Project  As requested by senior management, obtained department-level business objectives from key stakeholders, and investigated, developed and presented possible Salesforce solution. Trained staff on Salesforce basics. Created test account and did demo of key Salesforce functions. Obtained quotes, and did customer calls. Created list of suggested apps, and sized integration, license and maintenance costs. Project was approved.    ·        Created security model for new User Accounts (e.g. owd, security profiles)  ·        Installed and tested Salesforce Apps PrintSF, Apsona, and DemandTools.  ·        Used DemandTools to manage system storage, import test data, and obtain record ids Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA Skills Git (1 year), Atom (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), HTML (4 years), CSS (Less than 1 year), Windows Server (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Visual Basic (5 years), Unix Scripting (5 years), Microsoft Shell Scripting (3 years), Database Management (10+ years), G-Suite Administration (1 year), Microsoft Active Directory (9 years), Microsoft Access Development (3 years), Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/paulcarreirofsp Additional Information Applications / Tools: Git, Git Hub, Atom, Notepad++, Citrix XenAp Server, Remote Desktop, MS PowerShell, Idle Python Shell, 1.0/BAT/CGI and shell scripting, Apache server, Python, HTML and CSS coding, G-Suite Administrator, G-Mail Administration, Chromebook Deployment, Salesforce CRM, Raiser’s Edge CRM, Financial Edge RDB, Active Directory (AD), Lansweeper, MS SQL Server (setup for RE), MS Visual Basic Applications (VBA), MS Access programming, MS Office 2016.    Operating Systems:  Windows Server, VMWare Virtual Server, VMware Workstation, Win 10, Chrome, Linux/Ubuntu, SUN Unix (Solaris CDE and Openwindows).    Other Qualifications:  Excellent written and verbal communication skills.  Excellent sense of organization.    Volunteer Experience & Causes -- Cityteam International    Tutor, Compass Learning Academy (CityTeam), San Jose, Ca  July 2006 – 2016 (10 years) Social Services    Mentor, Working one-on-one with Cityteam program client. Report to Men's Recovery Program director.  May 2019 – present (2 months) Social Services