Salesforce Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce Administrator Pembroke Pines, FL Work Experience Salesforce Administrator The Sailor Group - Miami, FL January 2010 to Present Resolve cases submitted to the help desk from customers ranging from a few users to over 50 users  ? Create workflow, validation rules and process builder to create additional automation  ? Create permission sets when needed, as well as add or remove permissions from profiles or page layouts  ? Migrate data from one salesforce org to the force.com salesforce org using data loader and middleware sync software. Manipulate data from salesforce platform structure to a custom force.com org  ? Create custom objects, and standard and formula fields  ? Convert merge documents from Conga to Webmerge for customers  ? Convert Javascript buttons to lightning compatible buttons  ? Install apps for customers and change configurations in Salesforce, if needed, to make the app work  ? Refresh sandboxes; edit and deploy changes to non-managed apex classes, or triggers Specialist II, E-Business Database Administrator United Way of Miami-Dade - Miami, FL January 2010 to October 2018 Develop customer service console in classic and then in lightning used to address questions and issues from the United Way of Miami-Dade fundraising portal.  ? Create campaign management tool in Salesforce utilizing visualforce which provided a central location of resources used for active campaigns  ? Assist Salesforce users with account creation and maintenance as well as manage permission sets and feature licenses  ? Create new lightning home page and additional default lightning page layouts in preparation for the full migration to lightning  ? Develop reports and dashboards used to provide status, and information of ongoing fundraising campaigns  ? Use of process builder and workflows to automate notification and task assignments from Salesforce  ? Demonstrate technical expertise in utilizing HTML and CSS applications in managing customer databases and Salesforce in handling all aspects of donation platform  ? Administer email communications with employees at companies using donation platform through HTML, CSS, SQL, and data mining software as well as coordinate with other departments and clients to prepare emails for employees  ? Generate and present dashboard reports to the company's development officers and company contacts in charge of facilitating fundraising at various companies using donation platform  ? Use of Microsoft Access and SQL to streamline the process in producing complete detailed information needed for the donation thank you letter process  ? Exhibit competencies in troubleshooting and resolving any issues on database application for donor data management, including Andar 360  Key Highlights:  ? Took full accountability in administering online donation platform to process employee pledges at companies in Miami-Dade area, as well as subsidiaries of these corporations nationwide, which increased database from 2 companies with more than 10,000 employees to 25 companies with more than 150,000 employees, as well as with $5M in pledges  ? Led the installation and configuration of third-party application in Salesforce, including Service cloud, Conga composer, iContact, and other various smaller applications. Online Marketing Specialist Nova Vision - Boca Raton, FL July 2008 to September 2009 Provided oversight to the development of company website  ? Worked with the advertising agency in building website and content management platform for editing content  ? Observed strict compliance with all applicable Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations in creating specification document for the website  ? Organized Google AdWords accounts to maximize budget and exposure  ? Used Google Analytics in determining website statistics to monitor users' behaviors for the improvement of website  ? Utilized HTML and CSS on data mining and generation of email documents  ? Oversaw email communications with individuals in customer and prospect database Marketing Analyst Internet Advertising Group (IAG), Inc - Coral Springs, FL December 2004 to July 2008 Handled the negotiation of rates, contracts, and schedules of rates, contracts and schedules of cost per mailing (CPM) email advertisements as well as the troubleshooting of reports problems  ? Analyzed performance of CPM email buys, as well as optimized CPM email campaigns in adherence to advertisers' performance  ? Oversaw all CPM email publishers, including testing, optimization, scheduling, coordination of creative email for campaigns, and management of budget for email campaigns  ? Established cost per action on affiliate network for publishers in accordance with collected statistics from campaign reporting  ? Collaborated with database programmers in developing new reporting systems, as well as with database administrators in resolving any issues  Key Highlights:  ? Decreased cost per acquisition by 46% through the utilization of statistical analysis, which increased campaign budget from $15K to $150K per month  ? Efficiently interfaced with tracking company in creating a method to track multiple pages on sales path and attribute sales on specific media buy, which resulted in more effective spending of marketing budget Education Bachelor of Science in International Business University of South Alabama - Mobile, AL Skills Sql, Html, Javascript, Visio, Css, Power bi, Apex, jquery, Bi, Public relations, Process improvement, Strategic planning, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Word, Program management, Budget management, Budget, Regulatory compliance, Salesforce, Salesforce Admin, Visualforce, COM Certifications/Licenses Salesforce Administrator 201 August 2017 to Present Salesforce Certified Platform Developer I May 2019 to Present Additional Information Analytical, detail-oriented and versatile professional offering progressive years of experience in identifying and addressing business requirements, analyzing complex information, formulating strategic recommendations, and delivering positive results in various business functions. Critical problem-solving aptitudes to develop customized solutions and execute process improvements to consistently achieve client goals and organizational objectives. Articulate communicator proficient in English, with working knowledge of Spanish language, coupled with excellent ability to cultivate and maintain rapport with individuals of diverse backgrounds.    Areas of Expertise    Certified Salesforce Administrator Certified Salesforce Developer I Program Management Business Administration Continuous Process Improvement  Application Installation and Configuration Regulatory Compliance Strategic Planning and Implementation  Teamwork and Collaboration Public Relations Budget Management    Technical Skills    Certified Salesforce Administrator Certified Salesforce Developer I SQL HTML CSS  Microsoft Office Applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, and Visio)    Working knowledge of:  Visualforce Apex SOQL SOSL JavaScript jQuery Microsoft Power BI    Affiliation    Nonprofit User Group - Salesforce.org, Salesforce Trailblazer Community