Sr. Oracle Database Developer Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Sr. Oracle Database Developer Phoenix, AZ ? Technical professional with 14+ years of progressive experience in software and database development.  ? Experienced Oracle PL/SQL Developer with strong knowledge of Oracle database internals to deliver highly scalable solutions.  ? Developed Oracle9 Packages, Functions, Procedures, Triggers, tuned application using Bulk Collect, Collections and Partitions.  ? Experience developing middle-tier applications using Java with backend Oracle database connectivity.  ? Working knowledge of AWS DynamoDB, MapR-DB, Couchbase, and Kafka technologies part of Bigdata POC implementations.  ? Experience using AWS CLI tools loading data in DynamoDB and commands monitoring EC2 instances.  ? ETL development using Informatica PowerCenter in SQL Server, DB2, Teradata, Informix and other database environments.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills developed over many years working with diverse teams across different industries.  ? Proven ability to manage complex development projects collaborating with both onshore and offshore resources.  ? Experience with Agile/Scrum and Waterfall environments. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Developer 8K Miles Software Services, CA April 2018 to September 2018 Oracle database and ETL development for the APS division in the Supply Chain environment, developing solutions using Oracle technologies to streamline production at various global production sites.    Environment: Oracle 12c, Rapid Response, Unix, AutoSys, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, Java, Informatica 10, SQL Loader    Key Contributions:  * Worked with APS business analysts to fine tune requirements and develop Oracle database packages, tables, functions, and procedures to process data to be fed into Rapid Response and JDA supply chain software.  * Modified/Create Autosys jobs according to the needs of the business requirements.  * Created/Modified Shell scripts for various database processes and moving data files through the Supply Chain process.  * Performance tuned queries by creating missing indexes, adding gather statistics calls, and partitions to improve performance in the Supply Chain process  * Performed functional and UAT testing, and deployed code to production systems to the satisfaction of the business users.  * Process Improvement measures, streamline process, remove gap between teams, and implement lessons learned from previous releases  * Prepared High-Level Design (HLD) documents, which included functional system coding requirements, and data mapping for new and existing database tables to support both internal and external interfaces.  * Worked on data mapping design deliverables from legacy to new supply-chain application. 8K Miles Software Services, CA April 2014 to September 2018 Lead/Sr. Oracle Database Developer 8K Miles Software Services, CA April 2017 to March 2018 Database project for the FP&A (Fraud Prevention and Authentication) and Mobile Preferences department, responsible for analyzing requirements and providing solutions to mitigate threats for mobile devices. Created and analyzed existing ETL process using Informatica for data marts to aid analysis in fraud-detection and enhancing security.    Environment: PL/SQL, SQL Developer, Java, GitHub, Informatica 10.1, SQL Loader, RESTful Webservices, Kafka, MapR-DB    Key Contributions:  * Provided database schema design and solutions for database development in the Fraud Prevention and Authentication group.  * Developed packages, tables, functions, and procedures for storing preferences data for Wells Fargo's mobile preferences customers.  * Created shell scripts for Autosys jobs to purge and cleanse data after the statutory period prescribed by financial regulatory bodies.  * Developed ETL SQL scripts used in transforming data for the Fraud Prevention data-warehouse environments  * Collaborated with various project teams to resolve potential issues with requirements to ensure on-time delivery of database components for mission critical systems.  * Maintained Java based application in the FP&A environment, modifying existing Java methods that call Stored Procedures and Functions in the Preferences database.  * Managed projects for database development in the Fraud Prevention and Authentication group.  * Collaborated with various project teams to resolve potential issues with requirements to ensure on-time delivery of database components for mission critical systems.  * Analyzed existing processes for storing Wells Fargo's mobile preferences customers data in order to deliver new solution.  * Worked with team members in recommending solution to purge customer data after the statutory period as per banking regulations.  * Exposure to Bigdata technologies like MapRDB, Couchbase, and Kafka as part of the POC in the FP&A environment. Lead/Sr. Oracle Database Developer 8K Miles Software Services, CA February 2016 to March 2017 Developed and maintained Oracle database procedures, packages, functions, triggers, indexes for WinCare customer portal. Provide data analysis and expertise on resolving application bottlenecks for the Oracle CRM database. Developed ETL processes to import large datasets using Informatica and related scripts to import/transform data into CRM schema.    Environment: PL/SQL, TOAD, Golden Gate, Informatica 9.5/9.6, Git, SQL Loader, Win SQL, Webservices, .NET    Key Contributions:  * Created and maintained procedures, functions, packages, indexes, and other database activities for the WinCare CRM based on JIRA Epic/Stories assigned.  * Created logical and physical data models to develop new functionality as needed for various enhancement to the CRM portal.  * Worked on tuning the database objects to increase performance and enhance user experience.  * Analyzed requirements, developed and maintained Informatica/ETL processes to import data from multiple sources into the CRM database.  * Deployed database code through automated processes from lower environment to higher environments  * Worked on creating new process to load data from Golden Gate replication for billing data into the CRM schema through Job Scheduler.  * Used SQL Loader to load data from Sales Force data into the CRM schema.  * Wrote ad-hoc queries for reports, maintenance and other database functionalities as needed.  * Collaborated with business, engineers, and management to institute best practices for the CRM database.  * Developed Deployment Plans to capture all tasks involved for the successful deployment to production.  * Facilitating smooth communication channel between 3rd Party Vendors and the project members for successful integration. Lead/Sr. Oracle Database Developer 8K Miles Software Services, CA March 2015 to February 2016 Developed database processes and scripts to migrate data from Safeway's data-warehouse (Teradata) to Oracle Exadata. Analyzing existing environment in Teradata to look for ways to optimize new implementation in Exadata. Loading legacy Point of Sale data from the Teradata into Oracle Exadata to the satisfaction of the business users.    Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle Exadata, Informatica 9.5/9.6, TOAD, SQL *Plus, Shell Scripts, Teradata, SQL Loader, Win SQL, DB2    Key Contributions:  * Analyzed existing business process used for loading POS data into Teradata.  * Performed extensive dataflow and data analysis in Teradata for migration into Oracle Exadata.  * Created data models for the new structure to be implemented in Oracle Exadata.  * Wrote PL/SQL Packages, Functions, Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Materialized Views to load data from Staging to EDW.  * Created Table Partitions to improve overall performance of the POS data model being implemented.  * Recommended various performance tuning techniques both at the PL/SQL and database level.  * Worked with the testing team to check for data precision and accuracy as part of the migration procedures.  * Analyzed existing Shell Scripts used for loading POS data into Teradata.  * Implemented various performance tuning techniques both at the PL/SQL and database level. Lead Oracle Database Developer 8K Miles Software Services, CA April 2014 to April 2015 Led database development for the Global Marketing Shared Services (GMSS) in the Segmentation Tool process. Create new tool for the Initiative List Request process collaborating with offshore teams in integrating the database code with the GMSS List Request Portal. Designing and building a database model to incorporate verified data sent by vendors into the GMSS datawarehouse environment through Informatica.    Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, TOAD, SQL *Plus, Informatica 9.5.1, WebLogic, Java, SVN, Golden Gate    Key Contributions:  * Conducted meetings with various business stakeholders in understanding the requirements for the Initiative List Request tool.  * Developed database objects including Packages, Functions, Stored Procedures, Tables, Triggers, Materialized Views and Indexes for the Initiative List Request tool.  * Worked with the offshore team in India in integrating the developed database objects with the GMSS portal so that it meets all the existing standards.  * Tuned the SQL queries involved in the Initiative List Request tool, so the best performance is achieved including using parallel queries when appropriate.  * Fixed bugs in the existing Segmentation Tool and assisting the offshore team in making sure the code adheres to best database practices for optimum performance.  * Presented solutions to the Marketing team for various Marketing Campaigns to efficiently engage customers in utilizing the data in the CXD Marketing database.  * Wrote ad-hoc SQL queries to effectively prune the contacts that match requirements for the Marketing Managers for various international campaigns.  * Designed new database objects to receive data from the various vendors like SMARTe & Social123 for the Key Contacts Database project, allowing the Marketing team to have confirmed VP and above contacts for top Oracle customers. Sr. Software Engineer Higher One Inc October 2012 to March 2014 ERP Specialist)/Project Lead, Sr., Directed CASHNet and ERP system projects integrating internal application project with third party companies, managing scope, effort, cost, schedule and quality while continuously identifying and mitigating project risks. Engaged with end-user clients and managers on implementation to ensure smooth deployment and project reporting.    Environment: Java, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Informatica 9.1, TOAD, SQL *Plus, Web Services (RESTful & SOAP).    Key Contributions:  * Developed PL/SQL functions, stored procedures, packages, triggers, and other Oracle DB scripts used in the integration process.  * Performed analysis of the existing Java code structure to mitigate and scope future enhancements.  * Developed RESTful and SOAP based web services in Java for other ERP systems to integrate with CASHNet  * Provided subject matter expertise in Banner accounting and financial-aid APIs to implementation specialists and support engineers.  * Analyzed and debugged .NET code using Visual Studio to troubleshoot the CASHNet product to streamline integration with Banner ERP system.  * Used ANT files to create EAR/WAR files to be deployed in Apache Tomcat and Web Logic application servers.  * Developed and deploy SQL Server Reporting Services RDL used in the CASHNet eBill process.  * Worked with the technical writer to document new features in the Banner interface comprehensively and constantly look for ways to enhance existing documentation.  * Conducted training sessions for project managers, implementation specialists, and product support engineers on various aspects of the CASHNet/Banner integration  * Worked closely with the IT Ops group to troubleshoot and resolve network issues pre/post implementation.  * Mentored junior software engineers at various levels on the CASHNet-Banner integration environment and other technical aspects including Java & Oracle level support.  * Evaluated innovative technologies and techniques to be used in the overall implementation process.  * Worked in development, testing and maintenance phases of SDLC in the interface development project. Implementation Consultant/Lead Nolij Corp - Beverly, MA March 2008 to October 2012 Managed analysis, database workflow development, configuration and training for implementation projects, while serving as a technical expert for installations, troubleshooting and quality analysis. Performed complex testing functions and produced detailed technical documentations.    Environment: Oracle10g/11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica 8.6.1, Java, HTML, XML, PERL, Toad/SQLDBX, UNIX Shell script, Apache Tomcat, Central Authentication System (CAS), LDAP, Web Services (RESTful).    Key Contributions:  * Spearheaded installation of Web Document Imaging and Workflow solution for higher education; configured server files and developed solutions for various campus departments.  * Developed database code and conducted complex analysis for departmental needs to integrate appropriate workflow logic, created forms to display and upload data and installed and configured Auto Import to upload documents onto Nolij Web.  * Performed complex workflow analysis to implement Nolij Web workflow component  * Implemented triggers to execute stored procedures that move Folders in the workflow.  * Generated DDL to create new database objects like Views, Sequences, Functions, Synonyms,  * Developed Indexes, Triggers, Packages, Stored Procedures for User Acceptance Testing  * Created Oracle DBMS Jobs or Crontab entries for routines that need to be run after-hours to assign Folders to the correct Inboxes the following day.  * Used Informatica to load data from XML and Comma Separated Files to Oracle Database using Router, Rank, XML Source Qualifier, Lookup, Joiner, and Sorter Transformation per the business requirements.  * Utilized Informatica workflow manager for session management, database connection management and scheduling of jobs for the university data-warehouse systems (Admissions and Registration departments).  * Developed Java Servlets for Nolij Web API project utilizing DOM parser to process XML response to display Role, Queries and Search Results from different applications.  * Wrote Java code making RESTful calls to upload images/documents using Multipart/Form-Data.  * Programmed JSP pages that used JSTL core tags to iterate through Collection<String> from the Servlet.  * Configured authentication for CAS, Active Directory (LDAP), Web Auth systems based on requirements.  * Ran scripts to implement the 'Go-Live' phase of the project and worked, with clients, on ad-hoc basis to transition them completely into production.  * Prepared the Requirements Traceability Matrix to ensure all the Client/business requirements were completed.  * Prepared required documentation for a new projects and ad-hocks request, including both program-level and user-level documentation.  * Fine Tuned procedures along with DBA's for the maximum efficiency in various schemas across databases using Oracle Hints, Explain Plan and Trace sessions for CBO.</String> Database Administrator Sullivan County Community College - Loch Sheldrake, NY September 2004 to February 2008 Maintained Student Information System within the Computer Service Department, ensuring all technical issues were resolved. Successfully upgraded systems and databases for optimal performance and developed comprehensive staff and faculty reporting. Standardized processes, modified programs, performed testing, and monitored systems continuously to increase performance.    Environment: DB2, RPG, AS/400 iSeries, NET.DATA, VB.NET, Teammate, SQL, SQLCA.    Key Contributions:  * Developed NET.DATA and HTML code to enable access of data over the Internet.  * Installed and tested new software applications on the AS/400 Server and developed CL programs to facilitate a user-friendly environment.  * Performance tuning of SQL queries for faster Database performance.  * Wrote NET.DATA and HTML code to implement Student Financial and Registration information available on the web.  * Create reports for the Registration Department on student course history using DB2 programs.  * Create CL programs for Registration and Admissions Department for printing transcripts on-demand.  * Apply both IBM and Jenzabar Program Temporary Fix (Patches).    Additional experience with Indiana State University as an Intern in the Department of Information Technology, Computer Consultant and Help Desk Student Analyst. Education MBA in Hybrid Program Bentley University 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Indiana State University 2000 to 2004 Skills DATABASE, INFORMIX, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2005, SQL SERVER Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  • Database Development & Implementation  • ETL Development  • Systems Architecture & Analysis  • Risk Control    • Java and .NET Software Development  • Complex Troubleshooting & Resolution  • Testing & Quality Assurance  • Communication & Relationship Building  • Project Planning & Management    Technical Proficiencies    Tools:  SQL Developer, Toad, Bugzilla, Informatica 8.x/9.x/10.x, Data Stage, Selenium IDE, NetBeans, Teammate, Clarity, HP-Project Portfolio Management Center (PPMC), Clarizen, Micro Strategy, Cognos, Toad, HP-Quality Center, Application Lifecycle Management, Turbo C++    Languages: PL/SQL, T-SQL, Java, JavaScript, Perl, Shell Scripts, VB.NET, RPG, NET.DATA, C/C++, C#, COBOL, HTML, Assembly, Pro-C  Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Teradata, Informix  Protocols: SFTP, Telnet, SMTP, HTTP, TCP/IP  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile (Scrum, Kanban)