Oracle DBA for SAP Oracle DBA for SAP Chicago, IL Work Experience Oracle DBA for SAP May 2016 to Present Working as Sr. Oracle DBA consultant for Tyson food to migrate Tyson databases to ASM/RAC environment. Involved in planning and installing and upgrading all Databases 11g to 12c and converting Single instance databases to 2 node RAC and migrate from SAN storage to oracle ASM. Create physical standby databases for prod systems and configure Data Guard broker to manage standby database. Resolved issue related to brtools and sap multi oracle home issue. Overcome all AIX related issues for database 12c installation and upgrade. Worked with application team for volume and stress testing following 12c upgrade. DBA/DMA consultant cardinal health January 2011 to April 2016 Job responsibilities included implementing migration of ECC/BW/CRM multi TB 4 node RAC/ASM Databases to Exadata X3/X4/X5-2 Full Rack server, ½ Rack and ¼ Rack. Involved in managing multiple databases up to 50TB OLTP and 70TB OLAP databases. Involved in migrating/upgrade of Non CDB 11g database to 12c PDB (pluggable DB) and, created multi PDB in CDB 12 multitenant architecture, resolves performance related defects using precise for oracle, Created Multi Dataguard Standby and cascade standby Databases into Exadata environment, Configure multiple database in Exadata environment. Exadata environment. Responsible for Exadata patches (cell storage, infiniban and linux patches as well) &zfs patching. , support multiple 4 node RAC environments 11g/12c Managing databases for SAP modules ECC 6.0, CRM , EWM , SCM , PI, Portal, GTS, FSCM. Major task performed were DB compression from 50TB to 22TB using advance compression, implementing online reorg using brtools and made system available 24x7, enhanced process of periodic SAP system refreshes for large BDLS conversions for SAP system, DB patches , All SAP databases Endian conversion from Sun Sparc to x86 platform, keeping DB in compliance with sap early watch report. Sap basis / oracle DBA Abbott Laboratories - Waukegan, IL July 2004 to December 2010 as SAP DBA. Involved in managing 80 SAP instances with multiple multi terabyte productions, Involved in upgrading all oracle instance from 8i to -> 9i -> 10g oracle and applying off-patches as well. Also involved in managing oracle 9i/10g databases for SAP Core (4.6c) for entire SAP landscape (DEV,QA, Training, Staging, Eval, Production). Involved in daily DBA and Basis activities including applying databases patches and some SAP kernel patches. Involved in fresh install of Databases (10g/11g) / SAP HRT (ECC, CRM,BI, Portal and Xi) systems. Involved in using SAP tools (brtools) and latest SAP transactions for sap 4.x system and using DBACockpit for latest NetWeaver release for daily database activities. Work closely with ABAP developer for all SAP/ database issues. Worked extensively on SAP Basis for performance analysis and memory management, database management and troubleshooting (problem reporting and resolution). Involved in planning/implementing backup strategy for all database instances using RMAN and media s/w Lagato and Netbackup. Involved in extensive multiple Disaster Recovery off-site / on-site 3rd party datacenter for 7 Terra byte SAP Database. Involved in some aspects of SAP Basis Administration including installing SAP and oracle instances, implementing change management system (CTS) and Transport management system (TMS), Background jobs, Workload Analysis, SAP workplace monitoring using CCMS, System Monitoring, Performance Tuning, design and implementing strategy for backup and recovery, Evaluating sap components, DB tools. Performed DB refreshes using RMAN and client copies /deletes in Sandbox, Development and Training. Hands-on exp with SAP utilities like sapdba / brtools / brspace / brconnect for online and offline reorgs of SAP DB objects, stats collections, tablespace management etc. Involved in implementing SAP Recommended Go-live checklist for databases parameters and databases recommendations. DBA Takeda Pharmaceuticals - Chicago, IL May 2002 to June 2004 as Sr. Oracle DBA. Involved in managing 14 Production database including SAP Application (4.6C,4.6D), oracle clinical, and siebel (crm) database instances. Involved in installing and implementing oracle clinical systems 4.0 and upgrade to 4.0.3, supporting CRM siebel system (6.0, 7.0) during upgrade from 6.0 to 7.0 system and involved in oracle upgrades (8i and 9i) for various applications. Involved in managing oracle database instance including performance and monitoring. Setting up alerts and backup using rman and netbackup all across the SAP landscape. Involved in daily SAP Basis activities like SAP system monitoring, Troubleshooting the Basis issues using CCMS, Client and system copies, Weekly Transports using TMS, Periodical Support packages implementations, Involved in capacity planning for various applications. Involved in supporting Documentum based applications (docbases). Involved in planning / implementing backup strategies. Involved in evaluating various Database tools such as DBArtisan's performance center Database Analyst, BMC's smartdba. Support application teams including knowledge transfer and mentoring other dbas in the team. Sap basis / oracle DBA McKesson Inc March 2001 to May 2002 ranks 35th in fortune 500, a Pharmaceutical Distributor organization. Involved in managing Production Database as Sr. SAP Basis Admin / Sr. Oracle DBA under SunOS using Solaris (2.6, 2.8) running Oracle Parallel server (OPS) 8.0.6 to achieve High Availability. Involved in managing 1.4 Terabyte Production database along with 2 QA and 2 Development databases. Involved in managing all sort of typical database Administrator responsibilities along with knowledge transfer. Involved in writing Alert watch scripts for on-call operation Dept. Involved in resolving issues regarding big table spaces as well as big objects fragmentations using TSReorg from CA. Involved in as SAP Basis Admin as well which includes R/3 4.6D installation, Transports, Performance issues of SAP and Database, supporting in-house Development and QA teams, involved in evaluation of different third party SAP and Oracle Database tools like BMC's Opti System and Precise In-Depth for Oracle. Involved in implementing different version Oracle databases (8.1.6, 8.1.7) for Non-SAP Applications as well. Responsible for Database sizing and capacity planning, involve in upgrading oracle (32 bit) on solaris 2.6 to 64 bit version on solaris 2.8. Sap Basis Admin SAP America - Chicago, IL January 1998 to March 2001 Worked for Sap biggest clients such as Bank One (Ohio), WW Grainger (Chicago), Responsibilities included Database modeling and maintenance, Implementation of SAP Loan and Fund modules as Database architect / Sap Basis Admin using Sap (4.0B) in combination with Oracle 8i with sizes varies from 50GB to 700G on different flavors of UNIX (HPUX 10.20, Solaris 2.4, Windows NT) and BMC Patrol. Responsible for mentoring other DBAs, Knowledge transfers to end-users by having regular communication. Worked with users to gather requirements and define scope for various modules, with Data modelers and designers to define the Database schema and with DBAs to convert logical schema to physical schema. Database sizing projections, strictly adhered to OFA guidelines. Involved in defining database architecture for distributing application and database replication. Underwent OLTP database design, sizing and setting up of a highly available Oracle 8i database server for web sites. Also involved in development activities using store procedures and database triggers using PL/Sql for data validations and Business Logic, Setting up and implementing Backup and recovery plan, Dealt with space utilization issues such as table space management, reorganization of database object to defragmentation for better performance. Involved monitoring Database activities batch processes etc using SAP GUI utilities. Database Administrator Phoenix Intl June 1996 to January 1998 The Phoenix Banking system is a complete, integrated Client server based Banking environment. The system process items from front-end capture units such as POD and platform systems as well as clearing documents received online from Federal Reserves , NACHA, ATM and EDI compliant networks. Led a team of DBAs, involved in DBA Activities, User management and Security. In consultation with management and development teams, devise security guidelines for accessing database and its respective business objects and implements them. Created custom Roles for application for ease of user administration Used Export and Import utilities as well as cold backups and educate the customer on the benefits of using Hot backups compared to logical (export/import) backups. Also implemented Hot and cold backup automated shell scripts. Maintenance of hot site for standby database. Software installation and support, Involved in writing store procedures and database triggers using PL/Sql , Installation of oracle 7.3.3 and applying appropriate patches to overcome oracle known bugs. Database Administrator Birla Horizons Intl December 1992 to June 1996 Worked as Oracle DBA as well as Oracle developer in maintaining different databases for various applications for Birla Horizons. Involved in maintaining 22 databases and development of various client server based applications and data ware housing over a period of 4 years. Involved in data modeling of inventory database including creation of entity relationship model and normalization of database objects. The inter connection of these system using TCP/IP and SqlNet V1 and V2 also facilitated an effective MIS. Involved in identifying table spaces, data files, sizing and splitting of database files to make use of available disk space in best possible way. Involved in all sort of dba activities as well as writing code using PL/Sql, Pro*C, C++ to achieve business logic. Also involved in creating SqlForms windows using SqlForms 3.0 and reports work bench. Involved in writing code for Store procedures and triggers. Involved in writing sql scripts to create the physical database, database schemas, rules. Involved in applying oracle patches for oracle bugs. Involved in monitoring performance and database tuning on user as well as system level. Involved in setting sqlnet setup for clients and database communications. Involved in routine jobs of handling user requests regarding security issues, performance and tuning issues, maintaining user sessions tracing long running sqls and auditing users workloads. Additional Information Expertise:  Over 20 years of experience in software Design, development and implementation as Database Architect/DBA, Exadata DMA in combination with ERP APPs using SAP system and Siebel system. The key involvement in SAP Basis Administration and Oracle Database administration and Exadata DMA for various fortune 500 organizations. Extensive experience in managing all SAP Basis and Database activities for VLDB and HA environment applications    Skills: Oracle (7.x.x, 8.0.x, 9i, 10g, 11g,12c), Sybase (4.x)  Exadata X5-2, X4-2, X3-8,  SAP BASIS (4.0B, 4.5, 4.6D, ECC 5.0, 6.0) including  SAPDBA (Dba utility), brtools, Hana 1.4 SP5  Siebel (6.0 , 7.0)    GUI Tools: Embarcadero DBArtisan (5.4, 7.3), BMC Patrol 3.2, BMC OptiSystem Solution for SAP, Precise InDepth/insight    O/S: HP-UX 9.0, 1020, 11, Solaris (2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8), SunOS 5.10  Sco Unix Unix SVR 4.2, Windows NT, Windows 2000/2003 XP  Windows 7, Linix, AIX