Senior Manager, Customer Support Senior Manager, Customer Support Arvada, CO Work Experience Senior Manager, Customer Support Datavail 2018 to Present Defining, building, operating and supporting database/server monitoring and automation software in a SaaS delivery  model benefiting Datavail's delivery and clients' business outcomes.  ? Expert in troubleshooting and architectural advising with regard to DatAvail monitoring tools.  ? Defining and building support process and organization for said SaaS software. DBA Team Manager Datavail - Broomfield, CO October 2011 to October 2018 Managed a distributed team of Senior DBAs.  ? Provided direction and oversight of database teams of 50 - 100 associates.  ? Provided technical leadership to the team as well as served as an escalation point for customer issues.  ? Coordinated efforts between technical staff, project managers, service delivery managers, and offshore support team.  ? Responsible for planning and management of: Enterprise Database Services in diverse multi-client and multi-location  environments.  ? Responsible for the planning and management of: database architecture, database development, testing and maintenance  functions for enterprise database systems.  ? Assisted in the creation and enforcement of company-wide controls for compliance, including PCI DSS and ISO 27001.  ? Led security/risk analysis, DR/BCP planning, integration, compliance, architectural standards and guidelines, technical  designs, coding practices, best practices, performance enhancement efforts.  ? Performed staff recruitment, development/mentoring and evaluation. Data Migration Systems Administrator Glacier Technologies March 2010 to September 2011 Remote  ? Security administration, disabling/provisioning AIX and Oracle users in migrated sites.  ? Ensuring that security in the new system and data center matched that of the source systems.  ? BASH and TCL scripting to automate pre-migration processes.  ? Troubleshooting of migration procedures, including but not limited to disk space, rsync, TCL, and shell scripts. Database Administrator The Reed Group - Westminster, CO May 2009 to March 2010 Planned and executed a move from individual NT logons to AD groups with regard to SQL security.  ? Led efforts to plan, test, and implement application of current service packs and hotfixes to SQL environments.  ? Focusing on clustered instances, designed and implemented a backup strategy that reduced space used as well as lag time  for reporting databases.  ? Provided technical leadership and advice to parts of the business unfamiliar with SQL. Senior Database Administrator Intrawest - Golden, CO August 2008 to February 2009 Sole DBA resource for Copper Mountain and Winter Park ski resorts.  ? This involved SQL 7 through 2005, with some development environments in 2008.  ? Supported several back-end databases for third-party products, such as RTP and VMWare, as well as some homegrown  applications. Senior SQL Database Administrator Datavail - Broomfield, CO September 2006 to August 2008 Provided technical leadership to the team as well as served as an escalation point for customer issues.  ? Coordinated efforts between technical staff, project managers, service delivery managers, and offshore support team.  ? Responsible for planning and management of: Enterprise Database Services in diverse multi-client and multi-location  environments.  ? Responsible for the planning and management of: database architecture, database development, testing and maintenance  functions for enterprise database systems.  ? Led security/risk analysis, DR/BCP planning, integration, compliance, architectural standards and guidelines, technical  designs, coding practices, best practices, performance enhancement efforts. Various DBA and Related Roles Buyers Access, Policy Studies, Inc 1998 to 2006 Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre Design in Theatre Design University of Kansas - Bachelor, Kansas, US 1998 Certifications/Licenses Certified Cloud Security Professional (CCSP) July 2019 to July 2022 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) October 2017 to October 2020 CompTIA Security+ May 2004 to Present AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate March 2017 to March 2019