Production Support Analyst DBA Production Support Analyst DBA Production Support Analyst DBA - Bank of America Tampa, FL Looking for a challenging environment where I can excel to highest level based on my versatile skill set in software development with over 6 years of experience in Database Administration, Business Intelligence, Data Warehousing, Data Mining, Data Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Support Analyst DBA Bank of America May 2007 to Present Database Analyst/DBA  • Provide 24/7 support for production environment as DBA lead  • Analyze and resolve production issues resulting from processing mainframe batch jobs in the Automated Production Control  • Leading Enterprise Data management (EDM) team for Teradata for Technology Review Board(TRB) which Reviews all production change requests to mitigate risk and ensure stability, reliability and availability of Teradata Hadoop and Associated platforms.Production change requests are reviewed Daily from Monday through Fridayand approved through Remedy    • Leading 3-4 new projects at time  • Leading Change Advisory Board (CAB)for all Teradata related changes  • Providing technical guidance to the team on assigned software projects.  • Guiding and implementing enhancing current applications  • Monitor processing of manually-started jobs through completion.  • Implementation of data and table-level security  • Setup access rights and space rights for Teradata environment using panels  • Performance tuning, monitoring and reporting includes both systems and application  • Review system utilization by user  • Evaluating SQL and table design for enhancement recommendations  • Planning and execution of hardware/software upgrades and expansion.  • Define backup and recovery methods for the data warehouse  • Runtime optimization, capacity management and planning, security, configuration, scheduling, and execution of maintenance utilities.  • Provided corrective strategies for application and data integration barriers.  • Thorough understanding of Teradata system parameters, query performance, space usage, space management, security, data access and manipulation processes  • Assisted and provided direction to the development team to tune the SQL programs for optimal Teradata performance and validating data integrity.  • Skilled to set up, maintain and troubleshoot a Teradata database in a production environment, design architecture with operational rigor, application optimization, ETL, data protection strategies, integrity and optimal performance across all applications in the Teradata warehouse.  • Provides technical advice and guidance to system users and sharing my knowledge with team members and subordinates. Production Support Database Administrator 3M November 2005 to May 2007 • Provide day-to-day support for production environment as DBA.  • Team Lead for team of Seven individuals working in on site and offshore setting  • Analyze and resolve production issues resulting from processing mainframe and Unix batch jobs in the Automated Production Control  • Monitor processing of manually-started jobs through completion.  • Implementation of data and table-level security  • Setup access rights and space rights for Teradata environment  • Performance tuning, monitoring and reporting  • Review system utilization by user  • Evaluating SQL and table design for enhancement recommendations  • Planning and execution of hardware/software upgrades and expansion.  • Define backup and recovery methods for the data warehouse  • Runtime optimization, capacity management and planning, security, configuration, scheduling, and execution of maintenance utilities.  • Provided corrective strategies for application and data integration barriers.  • Thorough understanding of Teradata system parameters, query performance, space usage, space management, security, data access and manipulation processes  • Assisted and provided direction to the development team to tune the SQL programs for optimal Teradata performance and validating data integrity.  • Skilled to set up, maintain and troubleshoot a Teradata database in a production environment, design architecture with operational rigor, application optimization, ETL, data protection strategies, integrity and optimal performance across all applications in the Teradata warehouse.    Application Experience:  Main responsibilities included transforming business information requirements into models, performance tuning,  Designing load strategies Implementation of data and table-level security, Setup access rights and space rights for Teradata environment, monitoring and reporting, review system utilization by user evaluating SQL and table design for enhancement recommendations define backup and recovery methods for the data warehouse. Involved in performance tuning and design issues for Teradata product by use of primary/secondary indexes, derived tables join indexes and design techniques to improve query performance.  Provide day-to-day support for production environment and databases across the different regions for existing and new development. Did runtime optimization, capacity management and planning, security, configuration, scheduling, and execution of maintenance utilities. As team lead for seven onsite and offshore resources was involved in assigning and managing their projects and was actively involved in planning and execution of hardware/software upgrades and expansion. Application Database Analyst Verizon Communications July 2002 to November 2005 Responsibilities:  • Designing database as per the business requirements.  • Participated in JAD sessions for the better understanding of the whole business rules.  • Actively coordinated among end users, modeling, ETL and DBA teams.  • Proficient in Dimensional Data Modeling such as identifying Dimensions, Attributes, specifying Hierarchies and creating Fact tables and Dimension tables.  • Thorough understanding of Snow Flake schema, Star schema, and Hybrid schema model an integrated model of Star schema and 3rd normal form.  • Experience developing logical and physical data models using ERWIN.  • Strong knowledge of Teradata Architecture, Teradata Administration,Teradata utilities and Data Warehousing  • Program in NCR Teradata SQL to perform the ETL functions  • Excellent working knowledge of FastLoad, MultiLoad, TPUMP, FastExport processes, Archiving and Recovery processes, performance monitoring, Korn shell, BTEQ scripts.  • Experienced in working with Multi-Terabyte Enterprise Data warehouse.  • Thorough understanding of Teradata system parameters, query performance, space usage, space management, security, data access and manipulation processes.  • Data processing training in designing and implementing Data Mart applications, mainly Transformation processes using ETL tool Informatica Power center 7.x for bench marking.  • Perform Mapping, Scheduling, extraction, transformation, and load (ETL) programming functions.  • Creating users and roles for authenticate logins and validate permissions  • Documentation of general design and metadata    Application Experience:  Verizon-Active Enterprise Data Warehouse (aEDW) is a single source of truth for Verizon Consumer and Business customers across the footprint powered by enterprise data gathering engine (EDGE). Its major objective is to replace the existing redundant warehouses and consolidate them into one as "One Source" for all data and analysis. aEDW provides executive performance management that caters various marketing segments and categories.    The Objective of this project was to integrate the existing BCMS and BCAD databases into the EDGE Model, with common elements identified and duplication of those elements eliminated, Did Analysis, Mapping and applied Transformation rules while integration. Created Materialized Tables for end-users and optimized queries for better performance. Extensively utilized Multi-load/Fast export, BTEQ, SQL Query Assistant and PERL.  • Worked thoroughly in the aEDW by migrating various legacy data marts into Edge model. Migrated BCMS (Business Campaign Management System) from Unix/Oracle to Windows/TeraData. The scope of the project included data extraction, data mapping and data transformation processes. Finally developed detailed reports for clients.  • As a member of data warehousing team worked on building a BI interface for marketing group (MKIS) transforming business information requirements into models. As an active analyst worked on a broad range of business questions and developed solutions for them by writing SQL queries, macros and stored procedures. In order to provide clear solutions created dimensions, measures, fact tables and processed cubes in MS Analysis Server.  • Involved in migration of legacy data mart (BUCU-Business Users) into aEDW by analyzing, mapping, transforming data into the active data warehouse model. Extensively worked in SQL Server by writing stored procedures. Decoded programs written in C, C++ and provided their equivalent functionality in SQL by writing Macros and Stored Procedures.  • Designed Canned Reports, Adhoc Reports, Analytical cubes and quality assurance reports.  • Involved in migration of legacy data mart (BCAD Business Customer Analytical Database) Power base into aEDW by analyzing, mapping, transforming data into the active data warehouse model. Extensively worked on Macros and store procedures on Teradata platform.  • Involved in BCMS integration in EDGE model, analyzing reports generated in (MDSW) Marketing Data Systems Warehouse and MITAS Marketing Intelligence Tracking and Analysis System. During the whole life cycle participated in JAD sessions and gathered user requirements specific to user community needs. Have been instrumental in bridging the gap between legacy and aEDW systems. Coordinated between users, legacy, modeling and IT development teams. Worked extensively in designing, modeling, extracting, transforming and loading various data marts into EDGE model in aEDW. Wrote High level and general design documents. Being a teradata certified master have been playing a pivotal role in mentoring rest of the group in various teradata functionalities. Database Developer World Health Organization (EMRO) January 1999 to January 2001 Responsibilities:    • Analysis and development of database systems  • Database creation, configuration, optimization, migration, back up and recovery  • Planning, organization and provision of data processing support    Application Experience:  • Worked for this health institution as a database developer. As per business requirements maintained patient's data in MS Access and Microsoft SQL Server. Involved in planning, design and implementation of various database projects.  • Input screen designing and developing forms  • Output reports designing and development  • Technical support to end users for the in-house developed applications    Professional Areas of Interests:  • Currently working on Informatica certification and PMP certification  • SAS,Hadoop,Big Data Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems George Washington University July 2002 Master in Business Administration Institute of Business & Management Sciences December 1999 Skills Help Desk, Desktop Support, Production Support Additional Information Skills    * Databases: Teradata V2R5, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, Oracle 9i/8i/8.x/7.x, MS Access  * Data Warehousing Tools: Microsoft Analysis Server (OLAP)  * Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, Visual Basic, Perl 5.8, SAS    * Operating Systems: Windows 2000/NT/98/95, Linux, HP Unix, MVS JCL  * Designing Tools: MS VISIO, Erwin ERX 3.5.2, MS Office 2000  * Development Tools: SQL*PLUS, MultiLoad, FastLoad, FastExport, OLE LOAD, SQL Assistant 6.1,  DTS, TeraData Administrator 6.0, NDM, Developer 2000, Forms 4.5, Reports 2.5, Load Runner ,Datamover ,Remedy Maximo