Database and Middleware Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> and Middleware Manager Database and Middleware Manager - City National Bank Canyon Country, CA Work Experience Database and Middleware Manager City National Bank - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to Present Led a team of onsite and remote SQL and Oracle DBAs in managing databases for the entire bank and affiliates. This included hiring, coaching, performance evaluation, goal setting and training the team with a focus on team building and job satisfaction.  • Implemented practices for protecting NPPI data such as encryption and obfuscation  • Managed over $2 million in department budget.  • Led resolution of database security issues for enterprise wide Oracle and SQL Server as identified by MRAs and internal audit.  • Reengineered architecture for payments and digital system for high resiliency and disaster recovery.  • Presented at executive steering committees and effectively articulated complex IT problems to non-IT audience.  • Managed lifecycle projects related to database and applications end of life.  • Managed relationship with Microsoft, Oracle and IBM including license management.  • Part of management team to implement cloud capability for SQL Server environment for digital banking.  Key Technologies: SQL Server, Oracle Webspere, Weblogic, Gemalto, Informatica TDM, OKV System Engineering and Database Services Manager EXL Landa - Chico, CA September 2013 to August 2014 Manager of Client Delivery  • Led implementation team of system engineers and DBAs in deploying EXL Landa software for multiple clients simultaneously and managing client expectations and project  • Worked with clients to evaluate their architecture for deployment of software  • Defined Performance Tuning methodology and led performance tuning efforts across all tiers of the architecture at client Sites  Key Technologies: AIX LPAR, IIS, VMWARE, Webspere, Oracle 11gR2, Apache Tomcat, IPERF Data Services Manager Dayton Power and Light - Moraine, OH May 2011 to June 2013 Line manager of nine technologists consisting of DBAs, Linux/Unix, Storage, and Backup Administrators. This included hiring, performance evaluation, goal setting and training the team.  • Implemented measures to enhance database availability and performance by 60%.  • Maintained 99.99% availability in all enterprise database applications.  • Managed $1 million in Capital and O&M budgets for my department,  • Developed and implemented Disaster Recovery sites and methodology to protect business critical applications.  • Re-engineered enterprise backup strategy from tape to de-duplicated disk based solutions. (Quantum and Avamar) reducing network traffic and backup times by 70%.  • Introduced Data Purge/Data Archiving capability reducing storage and backup capacity.  • Successfully managed projects related to Databases and Infrastructure.  • Prepared business cases for Infrastructure projects related to architecture and engineering.  • Maintained database and server compliance to SOX and internal security standards. Global Database Team Manager Computer Sciences Corporation - Kettering, OH October 2001 to May 2011 Managed global team of 14 DBAs and one developer. This included hiring, performance evaluation, goal setting and training the team.  • Serviced clients including Reynolds and Reynolds, Estee Lauder, and Exelon.  • Member of client relationship management team to develop new business opportunities.  • Introduced and implement SQL Server Clustered consolidated servers saving the client over $900,000 in hardware and software license costs and ensuring high availability.  • Implemented measures to attain 99.99% availability on all enterprise database applications by automated database administration processes including self-correcting logic and automated database alerting.  • Developed strategy for backup and recovery, and Disaster Recovery sites  • Managed Database vendors and licensing keeping costs at a minimum.  • Database Management for Sybase, SQL Server, Ingres, Oracle and RDB.  • Prepared business cases for database projects.  • Provided Project Management using cross-functional resources and prioritizing tasks on concurrent projects.  • Trained in ITIL and Lean Six Sigma concepts.  • Conducted risk evaluation of database security for enterprise wide Sybase, Oracle, SQL Server, Ingres and RDB databases, and managed mitigation of identified areas with diverse teams.  Key Technologies: SYBASE, INGRES II, SQL SERVER 7,2000, 2005, ORACLE10g, DBArtisan Key Technologies 2005 to 2008 ORACLE 11gR2, EBS, WAM, DB2 Senior Database Administrator The Reynolds and Reynolds Company - Kettering, OH September 1996 to October 2001 Served as a Database Administrator (DBA) for Oracle, Sybase, Microsoft SQL Server, Ingres, RDB, and RMS databases hosted on Unix, NT and VMS. Provide DBA services in support of new development projects as well as support of existing database environments.  • Setup and managed enterprise DBA group consisting of 11 DBAs, implemented processes and procedures, expanded the DBA group to manage over 1500 databases in a world-wide, distributed database environment.  • Determining database requirements, modeling physical structures, implement/maintain database structures, ensure referential integrity, monitor database performance, database and query tuning, implement database security strategies, implement backup and recovery strategies, setup database monitoring tools and report database status and activity to management.  • Trained junior DBA's on database administration tasks and tools.  • Performed database architecture, data modeling, and logical/physical database design.  • Lead DBA on a project where I participated in the implementation of Sybase connectivity tools providing access to data on legacy systems. Maintained Replication Server, which served two Sybase Servers.  • Interacted with Database vendors to track and resolve technical issues, order product upgrades and patches. Team Leader of SYBASE CIIM Customer Support team Avalon Software Inc - Tucson, AZ January 1996 to August 1996 Senior Software Engineer International Data Group - Louisville, KY January 1993 to August 1996 Consultant in Relational Database Management Systems with the following organizations. Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corp - Louisville, KY June 1994 to December 1995 Responsible for customization of MRP II system CIIM 9.0 produced by Avalon Software Inc., using SYBASE 4.9.2, APT 5.2, T-SQL and SQR Avalon Software Inc - Tucson, AZ January 1994 to May 1994 and Accounts Payable modules for CIIM 9.0, Part of a team chosen to provide customer support for the product to clients like IBM and Network General. Education Masters in Business Administration in Business Administration University of New Orleans - New Orleans, LA December 1992 MS Computer Applications in Computer Applications Priyadarshini Institute for Computer Aided Knowledge - Delhi, Delhi August 1989 BS in Electronics Engineering RV College of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 1987