Cloud Solutions Architect Cloud Solutions Architect Cloud Solutions Architect - Microsoft Austin, TX Work Experience Cloud Solutions Architect Microsoft - Austin, TX 2016 to Present Helped Microsoft customers build Big Data and Advanced Analytics solutions on Microsoft Azure cloud using Azure Data Services and/ or Open source software.  • Driven high priority Big Data and Artificial intelligence solution architecture discussions and projects with key decision makers, and helped them scale Data integration, ingestion, processing and visualization requirements. Used combination of Azure data services and Open source software.  • Conceptualized, identified and recommended opportunities for more Insights and Analytics from Customer data. This helps customers get more business value, competitive advantage, efficient operations and enable employees. Some of the AI/ ML work include Natural Language processing, Targeted marketing, Sentiment Analysis, Customer lifetime value, Predictive maintenance, Customer Churn, Insurance Risk/ fraud, Credit fraud etc.  • Worked on Project implementations and deployments. Lead Proof of Concepts (POC) to conceptualize and prove the feasibility and efficiency of the end solutions. Drove customer workloads onto Azure cloud deployment and improved Azure consumption  • Lead Customer solutions implementation projects and teams. The teams typically consist of partner and/ or customer staff. Mentored the team members and directed them towards a successful development and implementation of the solution  • Lead Customers Advanced Analytics solutions using Machine learning and Deep learning. Deployments included distributed learning and on GPUs. This helps customers get insights from the Data. Worked and optimized Classification, Regression, Anomaly detection and Clustering algorithms  • Lead design of complex solutions and integration of different services. Researched solutions and provided recommendations for blockers. Driven technical discussions to viable and efficient solutions and provided best practices  • Presented Microsoft Azure Data Service offerings to large audience and user groups, including Executives and decision makers  • As a Technical leader, worked with customers from different industries - Insurance, Healthcare, Mortgage providers, Finance, Manufacturing,  • Lead Customer solutions implementation projects and teams. The teams typically consist of partner and/ or customer staff. Mentored the team members and directed them towards a successful development and implementation of the solution  • Established deep technical relationships with key executives, decision makers to drive long term Cloud and Data platform strategies within the customer organization. Made recommendations on long term customer technical decisions, so that they are well positioned and prepared for evolving technology trends and challenges  • Worked with Microsoft Product team to provide feedback, gaps in products and improve the products  Technologies/ Services  Scala, Apache Spark, PyTorch, SpaCy, TensorFlow, CNTK, Keras, Horovod, Hadoop (Cloudera, Hortonworks), HBase, Kafka, Storm  Azure Data/ AI services - Azure Databricks, HDInsight, Cosmos DB, Azure Machine Learning, Azure Data Factory, Azure Stream Analytics, Power BI, Azure Data Warehouse, Azure SQL, Azure Data Lake, Cognitive Services, Azure IOT Hub, Azure Event Hub Director / Sr. Software Architect NextGen HealthCare - Austin, TX 2014 to 2016 Worked on the new Electronic Health Record and Practice Management product development. Designed and developed the REST web services. Mentored and guided the developers on the development, provided technical specifications  Technologies used: Hadoop, Kafka, Spark, Storm, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, Redis, Java, Spring Boot, MyBatis, Node.js, REST, Solr Search, AngularJS, Postgres  • Worked on real-time processing of various data streams that would be used for Meaningful Use 3 (MU) certifications using Electronic Health Record (EHR). The metrics include Clinical Quality Measures (CQM), Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS)  • Designed and developed a framework that supports the infrastructure for business logic - RabbitMQ integration, Micro service container, JSON serialization/ deserialization, MyBatis support, caching capabilities using Redis  • Worked with Product Owners and business leaders on the requirements and come up with a viable design following the standards put in place  • Established and enforced coding standards. Reviewed developers' code and made recommendations as necessary. Worked with developers to improve the Unit tests and Code coverage  • Worked on Proof of Concepts (POC) to try out new technologies and libraries. Analyzed the efficiency and the viability to integrate into the product  • Worked with ICD1-10 and SNOMED codes as well as HL7 messages Director AT&T - Austin, TX 2011 to 2014 Managed two highly productive teams that are responsible for delivering the solutions on time and on budget.  Drafted strategies and road maps for long term product development. Partnered with business teams and proposed solutions for the use cases and requirements, keeping in view of both the long and short term needs  • Built professional relationships with business, technology leaders and stakeholders to set medium to long-term technical initiatives. Took ownership of technology approaches and direction. Worked with senior technical members to come up with development standards and guidelines.  • Designed real-time telemetry system that collects network metrics and presents the data through highly interactive web interface dashboards. The system served as the gateway to the customers.    Technologies used: Hadoop, HDFS, Kafka, Storm, MapReduce, Cassandra, Hive, Pig, Flume, Java, Spring, NodeJs, AngularJs, AJAX, Web Services, Tomcat  • Developed code to analyze and report on the data coming from numerous on-site Wi-Fi network management devices services as well as from legacy data systems. The analysis/ reports are shown in the web portal. This portal has different authorization levels for different groups of users and integrates with enterprise systems  • Designed, developed and maintained complex customer-facing software solutions/services. Lead the design sessions with other technical teams and produced design documents.  • Worked on design and architecture of medium to complex features. Interfaced with other technical teams and helped drive technical solutions and decisions. Guided team members in technical direction and challenges, while setting reasonable expectations and timelines with the customers. Effectively delegated tasks to the team members for implementation. Reviewed code committed by the team.  • Presented designs to technical and non-technical members.  • Worked with business analysts, Product owners and technology partners to translate business problems into technology solutions. Lead multiple project initiatives.  • Presented project proposals, feasibility studies and demoed projects to senior management. Effectively communicated risks, assumptions and technical challenges/limitations to stakeholders.  • Led highly skilled development team to deliver applications to the customer. Managed relationship and project terms with the customer. Reviewed the project progress on an ongoing basis with relevant members. Set clear directions and expectations for on-time delivery and on budget. Proactively worked with project partners to communicate any issues and risks. Supervisor, Software Development IBM - Dublin, OH 2002 to 2011 Led and designed e-commerce based products. Worked on web store order management system that Aggregates, manages, and monitors orders from all channels. This system Consolidates inventory information from multiple systems, generates a single view of all supply and demand data  • Simplified the e-commerce selling processes by automating the configuration, pricing and quoting of complex products, services and bundles. The selling/ quoting process also has business rules management that requires approvals for different thresholds  • Led and mentored team members, onshore and offshore resources. Managed resources' capacity planning and provided direction in general and in conflict. Interacted with end-users on system requirements.  • Architected and designed software solutions that are medium to complex in nature. Analyzed project feasibility studies and estimated time efforts for the project activities. Involved in projects from requirements gathering to analysis, design and development. Assisted management to prepare budget and resource allocations.  • Worked on different software tools/technologies like Java/JEE, Spring, .NET, Hibernate, Struts 2, Web Services (JAX-WS, JAXB, Axis, SOAP, REST), JSP, Servlets, JSF, UML, CVS, Hudson, C#, Informatica, WebLogic, HP Quality Center, Maven, ANT. Knowledge and in-depth experience on RDBMS: SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2 and Sybase, ranging from schema design to develop SQL scripts-stored procedures, triggers, views.  • Integrated disparate systems with service-oriented architecture (SOA) using Web Services (WS). The systems integrated ranged from legacy systems, stand-alone apps to 3rd party vendor tools e.g. Salesforce.com. Came up with innovative ideas to exchange information and integrate service layers with WS. Created mash-ups/portals with Liferay Portal.  • Prepared work breakdown structure (WBS) to assign, manage and track project tasks. Interacted with development teams by reviewing project progress and helped overcome technology challenges by troubleshooting issues.  • Worked on application design documents that encompass all components and integration points. Interacted with management, other technical teams and business/functional community.  • Worked closely with functional leads to help streamline and develop/ improve processes that eliminates/identify duplicate data entries.  • Designed systems by keeping Integration pain points and point of failures in mind. Translated business requirements into technical design.  • Led the development efforts of the products. Took the ownership of many projects/applications, and carried the products from analysis and design to development, delivery and maintenance stages.  • Worked on projects simultaneously. Implemented Scrum Agile and traditional waterfall methodologies.  • Supervised software projects and activities and demonstrated products at different stages  • Developed/reviewed use and test cases. Involved in system testing (unit, functional, regression, performance and load). Performed code review and recommended code refactoring when needed.  • Involved in interviewing prospective candidates and provided feedback on hiring decisions to the management. Delegated work and provided work direction to team members. Coordinated efforts between different departments, assisted team members with new project estimates and change management Lead Web Designer/Developer and Database Developer J P Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH December 1999 to April 2002 • Designed and developed dynamic Internet and Intranet applications for Chase Securities. Roles included, communicating with users and business personnel for their requirements and expectations, training other developers, transforming business requirements into an application design and also its development on front-end, middle-tier and back-end. Lead other developers and also worked individually on different applications. Developed webpages in Java. The middle-tier development includes developing JEE. The back-end development role is to write stored procedures, views, triggers, cursors etc. in SQL Server, also database design and data migration. Software used: Java, JSP, JEE, JDBC, Java Servlets, Applets, XML, JavaScript, JDBC, JRun, SQL Server 7.0, DTS, Dynamic HTML, JDK, ODBC, etc.  • The applications are developed for the users to equip them with better information and management tools. They are developed for the Team Leaders and Managers, from area to national level. Applications developed are sales reports, referral status reports, management information services, new money reports, mega blotter, contact list etc. Database Administrator/Sr. Software Developer A.M.Todd Company - Kalamazoo, MI December 1998 to December 1999 • Worked on SQL Server 7.0 database administration and also on its design and development. Upgraded SQL Server 6.5 database to 7.0. version. The database is used to store the information about the company's financial accounts. Roles include scheduling database backup, recovery, users access, importing and exporting data objects between databases using DTS (data transformation service), linked servers, writing stored procedures, triggers, views etc. for reports.  • Visual Basic was used as front-end. Developed the VB Application to use against the database, using ODBC connections. Software Programmer Priority Health - Grand Rapids, MI June 1998 to December 1998 • Designed and developed an application called "Patient Care Map Application" for a healthcare company, which deals with the patients' health care, disease control and case management.  • The application was developed in Visual Basic 6.0 environment. ActiveX and OLE components are used, to exchange the information between other applications and also to increase the functionality of its own.  • The databases, Microsoft Access '97 and Oracle 8, were used.  • Development included, working on forms, class modules in VB, and writing stored procedures, triggers, creating tables, queries on the back-end database. Database Developer Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH June 1997 to June 1998 • Designed, developed, and maintained the health service department's database.  • The project used Visual Basic 5.0 as front-end and Microsoft Access'97 as back-end.  • Project gives statistics of the department such as details of each patient, patient treatment information, their provider, payment details, and other information. Database Programmer Software System Integrators January 1996 to December 1996 • Developed and maintained a project to process the company's sales and product quality information for an Indian based company.  • The databases keep track of the commission for each sales representative.  • The product performance module aids in monitoring the performance of the products during the post installation phase.  • Worked on PL/SQL, triggers, cursors, views, security issues, error handling, etc.  • The front-end was developed using Visual Basic, and Oracle 7 as the back-end. Programmer Analyst RCS Networking June 1995 to December 1995 • Developed a customized text editor in Microsoft Developer Studio (Visual C++), for a networking company.  • The project was developed to create a user-friendly rich text editor in graphical user interface (GUI).  • The editor was developed in multiple document interface (MDI) and uses both modal and modeless dialog box concepts for different tasks.  • The project used controller-model-view architecture.  • The project was developed using MFC classes. Education Masters in Computer and Information Sciences Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH 1998 B.E. Nagarjuna University 1995 Masters in Computer and Information Sciences Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH B.E. Nagarjuna University Skills LINUX, UNIX