Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Virginia Department of Transportation Chantilly, VA Detail-oriented SQL Server DBA with a Bachelor of Science and 5 years of extensive experience in database management, performance tuning, high availability and disaster recovery; seeking to leverage my technical and professional expertise in challenging projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Virginia Department of Transportation July 2016 to Present ?Installed, configured and managed SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 on different environment domains  ? Applied Service Packs, patches, hot fixes and cumulative updates  ? Experience working on SQL Server Enterprise and Standard editions  ? Have working knowledge of Windows server OS 2008R2 and 2012  ? Managed numerous databases in 24/7 environment on standalone and cluster servers  ? Provided support for Active Directory and assigned roles, permissions, etc  ? Coordinated and collaborated with team members to ensure smooth connection to the databases  ? Assisted developers and QA teams on a daily basis with tasks and other inquiries  ? Developed and implemented backup strategies and DR plans for large operational databases which ensured better performance and HA  ? Devised superior performance tuning plans by proactively ensuring bottlenecks are identified and eliminated  ? Configured SQL server agent jobs for daily maintenance tasks like: backups- restores, shrink database, update statistics, rebuild and reorganize indexes, maintenance cleanup, etc  ? Performed bulk-operations via deploying SSIS packages or powershell cmds  ? Provide data migration and data refreshment services as requested  ? Configured and assured the smooth operation of HA options like:logshipping, database mirroring and AOAG  ? Created and maintained exhaustive documentations on server and database configurations, maintenance plans, security policies,etc  ? Performed planned DR testing for different environments Operation DBA Dewberry June 2013 to July 2016 ? Possess knowledge of Agile Scrum and Waterfall SDLC   methodologies  ? Experience working on Govt. and Enterprise level projects  ? Attended meetings and collaborated with different   stakeholders  ? Participated in conceptual design phases with developers to   implement database normalization  ? Utilized SSRS to generate reports for business management   decision making  ? Maintained database integrity of all vendors and in-house   databases  ? Resolved database related trouble tickets  ? Configured and managed SQL server in standalone and cluster  environments for SQL server 2008R2, 2012 and 2014 and   troubleshooted errors during installation  ? Provided server and database level support for different   environments  ? Grant security permissions for CRUD operations upon   management approval and revoke after completion of task  ? Established, recommended and enforced policies and   procedures to safeguard the security and integrity of the   databases and systems  ? Monitored server activity, error logs and performance to   resolve any impending issues  ? Assisted with server migration to VMware  ? Performed database upgrade in development, QA and Production  environments  ? Configured and maintained HADR options like: replication,   logshipping and mirroring  ? Designed and implemented DR backup and restore plans  ? Possess knowledge on database capacity planning, maintenance planning   and scheduled SQL server Agent jobs for various activities  ? Investigated performance issues and aided in resolving them Education Bachelor of Science George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2016 Skills SQL (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/afsana-a-0b0284a3/ Additional Information Technical Background   ? Proficiency in Microsoft SQL server 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and   2016, Microsoft Access, MySQL and Oracle 11g  ? ETL and reporting services: SSIS and SSRS  ? Programming languages: T-SQL, C#, C++, Python, Matlab, ASP,   ASP.net, PHP, HTML, XML, Visual Basic, JavaScript  ? OS: Windows 2008-2012 server, VMware, Linux Ubuntu  ? Web Application: SharePoint enterprise  ? Web Server: IIS5.0, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5  ? Other tools: SQL Server Migration Assistance (SSMA) and   OLEDB/ODBC/DB link, Toad data modeler, RedGate, Litespeed    Professional Training & Certs   ? MCITP: SQL Server Database Admin   ? MCP: Microsoft Certified Professional  ? Training on SharePoint Admin  ? Training on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  ? Training on Performance Tuning