Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - IBM Irvine, CA • Overall 14 years of experience working as DBA, Tech Lead, Database and Data Warehouse Design, Database and BI Developer and Supporting Software in different industries (Telecommunication, Insurance, Finance, Banking, E-Government, Billing).  • Using MongoDB, Oracle (10g, 11g, 12c), Microsoft SQL Server (2005, 2008R2/20012/2014/2016) and MySQL Environments.  • Hands on experience in Architecting, Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting MongoDB.  • Configure and deploy MongoDB clusters using Docker containers in AWS cloud.  • Ensure the continuous availability of our mission critical MongoDB clusters.  • Automated routine tasks via scripts and tools. Operations of MongoDB on Microsoft Windows and Linux  • Secured MongoDB using MongoDB-CR and SCRAM-SHA authentication.  • Worked with Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise  • Disaster recovery strategies and regular recoverability test.  • Tuning and optimizing access patterns (queries, query sequences, commands) for MongoDB.  • Understanding Aggregation pipeline operations have an optimization phase which attempts to reshape the pipeline for improved performance.  • MongoDB Ops Manager monitoring, alert, automation, backup and restore and performance tuning and indexing strategies of MongoDB Database.  • Creating, handling and monitoring MongoDB replica set replication and Sharding.  • Using and Understanding MMAPv1 and WiredTiger MongoDB storage engines.  • Created multistage aggregation pipelines for data processing and analysis.  • Expert in Oracle migration from 9i to 10g, 11g and 10g to upper versions.  • Hands on experience in Administration Oracle (10g, 11g, 12c), Microsoft SQL Server (2005, 2008R2/20012/2014/2016) and MySQL.  • Expert in cloud computing solution such as Window's Azure, Oracle Clouds and Amazon Web Service AWS.  • Expert in Code Optimization and Improving efficiency in Databases.  • Extensive experience with Data Partition, Tuning performance and allocate server resources to achieve optimum database performance.  • Expert in Data Analyzing and Data quality.  • Expert in implementing BI Solutions involving Cubes, Creation of Reports and Maintaining Report Server.  • Extensive experience in Data Extraction, ETL Using ODI, Oracle Essbase and Pentaho in complex environment both SQL Server and Oracle.  • Solid experience with third Party tools like Toad, Red Gate SQL Backup, Apex, DB Artisan, NoSQLBooster, MongoDB Compass, MongoChef (MongoDB Visualization tools by Studio 3T).  • Solid team work and negotiation Skills with IT (DBA & Application teams) Management and Developers.  • Very enthusiastic to explore new technologies and to mentor other team members as necessary.  • Converting and Migration between RDBMS databases together.  • Expert in NoSQL and RDBMS Data Modeling  • Extensive experience in Oracle Data Integrator, Oracle Golden Gate and Pentaho.  • Expert in reporting tools such as OBIEE, SSRS, Crystal Reports.  • Strong experience in creating new SSIS packages for data import process from heterogeneous data sources like MS Excel, text, Oracle, MySQL.  • Involved in Data conversion from old system and FTP process.  • Involved in daily data refresh from the feed, maintaining load inventory.  • Created new data models OLTP, Star-Schema and Galaxy Schema in OLAP.  • Experience in analysis, design and construction of Data warehouses and Data marts  • Using Microsoft Integration Services SSIS 2008, 2005 and 2012 Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator IBM May 2018 to Present • Leading and training Database team.  • MongoDB design, Data Modeling and Management.  • MongoDB Administration, Performance Tuning, Architecting, Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting.  • Design and develop needed JSON Complex queries (MongoDB Developing).  • Developing needed script for better automation, monitoring and management.  • Enable MongoDB Sharding on databases and collection by choosing suitable shard key.  • Deep understanding of Disaster Recovery setup and scenarios in support of an installed and tested Disaster Recovery environment.  • Using MongoDB Ops Manager, mtools and keyhole for both monitoring and Administration.  • Mtools and keyhole tools for monitoring and more analyzing.  • multi-region replica set configuration and management.  • Loading huge volume of data to mongoDB and from mongoDB.  • MongoDB Queries Performance Tuning and deep index understanding of proper indexes.  • Capacity estimation.  • Using MongoDB, Oracle 12c, Mongo Shell, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Database Engineer TATA Consultancy Services - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to January 2018 TCS is one of the largest Indian companies by market capitalization. It is the world's 10th largest IT services provider by revenue.  • Leading project for data control and data guarantee in data flow (From App DBs to EDW).  • MongoDB design and data modeling and management.  • MongoDB Administration, Architecting, Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting.  • Design and develop needed JSON Complex queries (MongoDB Developing).  • Enable MongoDB Sharding on databases and collection by choosing suitable shard key.  • Deep understanding of Disaster Recovery setup and scenarios in support of an installed and tested Disaster Recovery environment.  • Develop and Support Finance systems in Bank of America  • PL/SQL Query Performance Tuning  • OLAP and OLTP Databases Supporting and Monitoring  • Data Quality base on main sources and OLAP.  • Using Oracle 12c, MongoDB, Mongo Shell, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows Server, Shell Scripting.  • MongoDB Cloud on AWS.  • Oracle Database Cloud Services Sr. DBA DealerClick LLC - Irvine, CA November 2016 to May 2017 Developing and maintenance of Finance and Inventory for Car Dealerships (Clouds, SaaS, IaaS).  • SQL Server and MySQL Administration, Architecting, Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting.  • Query Performance Tuning and test loading of databases.  • Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting MongoDB and Cassandra in test environment.  • R&D on NoSQL databases and test and implement them for best performance.  • OLTP Databases Supporting and Monitoring  • XML and file transferring, FTP files  • SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Microsoft Azure, AWS, Cassandra, T-SQL, Linux, Windows Server, Shell Scripting.  • On-call (24*7). Database Tech Lead Tecnotree Co - Tehran, IR October 2015 to October 2016 Tecnotree is vendor and third party of Telecom companies. Developing and maintenance of Mobile systems in large scale in MTN (Telecom Operator).  • Ensure the continuous availability of our mission critical MongoDB clusters.  • Disaster recovery strategies and regular recoverability plan.  • multi-region replica set replication on AWS.  • MongoDB Ops Manager monitoring, alert, automation, backup and restore and performance tuning and indexing strategies.  • Design disaster, backup and recovery environment, Clustering for MongoDB  • Configuration and deployment of Mongo Ops manager and MongoDB Compass.  • Implemented multiple MongoDB CRUD operations and familiar with new enhancements in each and every release.  • Servers and Databases Backups, Space, logs and Resource management and monitoring.  • Develop and Support the implementation and maintenance of Mobile and Telecommunication Systems.  • Query Performance Tuning  • OLAP and OLTP Databases (Oracle and MongoDB) Supporting and Monitoring.  • ETL and FTP files and checking Data Quality base on main sources  • Using MongoDB, Mongo Shell, JSON Queries, Oracle 12c, 11g, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows Server, Shell Scripting.  • Oracle Database Cloud Services and AWS.  • On-call (24*7). Sr. DBA Data Mining Leaders Co - Tehran, IR January 2014 to November 2014 DML Co. is big company for Banking Software and BI in Finance industry.  • Handling OLAP and OLTP Servers in Banks.  • MongoDB and Oracle administration.  • Design disaster, backup and recovery environment for both Oracle and MongoDB  • Estimate and design shared environment.  • MongoDB deployment, management, configuration, monitoring of production Replica sets, Shard sets and MongoDB clusters.  • Installing and configuring MongoDB, Oracle 11g, 12c and SQL Server with required Service Patches and Packs.  • Migrating various Oracle 10g to 11g and 12c.  • MongoDB Ops Manager monitoring, alert, automation, backup and restore and performance tuning and indexing strategies  • Loading Data from Oracle and SQL Server to Oracle Warehouse.  • Configuring and Installing Oracle OBIEE, OWB, ODI Oracle EPM.  • Supporting critical Enterprise supplier and trading databases.  • Performance and tuning Monitoring using tools such as Red Gate and SQL Profiler.  • Configuring SSIS and SSRS and working with SAN storage system.  • Managing Oracle standalone and Data Guard Databases.  • Successfully owned and Implemented Migration and Upgrade projects.  • Performance tuning of slow performing queries, run Consistency checks, rebuild indexes and statistics for databases.  • Monitoring all ETL process and checking Data parallel by automatic queries.  • Using Oracle 11g, MongoDB, SQL Server, Mongo Shell, JSON Queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows Server, Shell Scripting.  • On-call (24*7). Sr. DBA Behpardaz Jahan Co - Tehran, IR September 2008 to January 2014 Behpardaz Jahan Co. is a great company in Iran which develops IT solutions in Telecommunication, E-Banking, Insurance industries.  • Handling Oracle and MongoDB Databases.  • Installing and configuring Oracle 10g, 11g and MongoDB.  • Performed deployment, management, configuration, monitoring of production Replica sets, Shard sets and MongoDB clusters.  • Migrating Oracle 9i to 11g and Oracle10g to 11g and 12c.  • Converting and loading Data between Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Created maintenance jobs, ODI and Oracle jobs and Power Shell Scripting for database consistency.  • Strong experience in creating new Oracle schemas by packages for data import process from different data sources like MS Excel, text, SQL Server.  • Created indexes and rebuilt them at regular interval and ran update statistics for better performance of the queries  • Successfully owned and Implemented Migration and Upgrade projects.  • Configuring database high availabilities  • Performance tuning of slow performing queries, run Consistency checks, rebuild indexes and statistics for databases.  • Involved in design and development of DB and Warehouse.  • T-SQL and PL/SQL developer.  • Using Oracle 11g, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Mongo Shell, JSON Queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, UNIX, Solaris, Linux, Windows Server, Shell Scripting. DBA Baregheh Communication Co - Tehran, IR September 2007 to September 2008 SQL Server DBA  • SQL Server 2000 and 2005 Database Administration and Management  • Involved in Upgrading the Instance of SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 in testing and production.  • Configuration, Maintenance, Supporting SQL Server  • Created & maintained databases, tables, indexes, store procedures, roles, profiles, partitions and other schema objects.  • Tuning queries performance  • Providing reports by Crystal Reports  • Providing Stored Procedures and needed functions for Develop team Database Support Engineer Andisheh Computer Co - Tehran, IR September 2006 to September 2007 • SQL Server 2000, 2005, DB2 Administration and Monitoring  • SQL Server and DB2 Supporting and troubleshooting  • Upgrading from SQL Server 2000 to 2005  • Implemented Constraints (Primary Key, Foreign Keys, Check and Not Null) and fine-tune Indexes.  • Visual Basic 6.0 and C#.NET, Crystal Report Developer and Technical support Education Bachelor in BSc/BA Azad University - Tehran, IR February 2014 to September 2015 Associate Degree in Computer Hardware in Computer Hardware University of Applied Science and Technology - Tehran, IR February 2004 to July 2006 Skills MongoDB (7 years), MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (7 years), MYSQL (6 years), ORACLE (8 years) Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS  • Relational Databases: Oracle (10g, 11g and 12c), Microsoft SQL Server (2005, 2008R2, 2012), MySQL.  • Non-Relational Databases (NoSQL Databases): MongoDB, Cassandra and Hadoop.  • Languages and Scripting: JSON, Mongo Shell, JavaScript, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Power Shell, Linux Shell Scripting, Perl, VB 6.0, VB.Net, C#.Net.  • Web Technologies: HTML, XML, VBScript, IIS, ASP.Net, Weblogic and Apache.  • Tools and Software: Ops Manager, MongoDB Compass, Mongo Studio 3T/Robo 3T, mtools, keyhole, mongoDB built-in tools and commands, SQL Server Management studio, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), SQL Server Data Tools, Nagios, System Center DPM, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, Visual Studio, VMware WorkStation, Toad, MS-Office 2007/2010/2013 Suite, MS Project, Keep Tool, Red Gate, Pentaho, Crystal Reports, Oracle Form Developer, Oracle APEX, Jenkins, NoSQLBooster, RazorSQL(RDBMS and MongoDB tools).  • Operating Systems: Windows (XP, 7, 10), Windows Server (2003, 2008R2, 2012), Linux (CentOS, Fedora, Redhat, Oracle Linux) and UNIX.  • Data Design and Modeling Tools: Rational Rose, Sybase Power Designer, Oracle Designer, Oracle Warehouse Builder, Oracle EPM and DB Artisan.