AVP Data AVP Data AVP Data - BPI - Bank Policy Institute Laurel, MD Work Experience AVP Data BPI - Bank Policy Institute - Washington, DC July 2018 to Present Technical Scope: AWS Cloud; S3, E2, VPC, Dynamics 365, SharePoint, WordPress  Responsible for architecting, implementing and maintaining, the infrastructure that hosts company's websites. Design, develop, implement, integrate, and maintain multiple solutions and core database management technologies, tools, and utilities. Analyze, diagnose, and resolve complex technical problems and system coordination issues. Lead and mentor co-workers in design of low-high complex database systems or solutions. Negotiate and purchase departmental software, tools, or utilities used to provide automation or operational efficiencies.    Key Achievements:  * Led effort to migrate existing infrastructure into Virtual Private Cloud environments  * Reduced AWS operation cost by 20% over 3-month period by executing efficient changes using AWS Cost Explorer  * Developed playbooks for automating the provisioning of custom Docker containers using AWS EC2 machines as hosts  * Built a solution to quickly import data from The Clearing House into BPI's Dynamics 365 environment. Webmaster/ Database Administrator The Financial Services Roundtable - Washington, DC June 2015 to July 2018 Technical Scope: Salesforce, iMIS, CRM, Crystal Reports, iMIS IQA, WordPress  Developed clear and well-structured analytical plans and analyzed large data-sets; managed all databases and ensure syncing and effective communication between databases and to FSR members. Collected, maintained, and managed qualitative and quantitative data and report findings to support informed decision making. Implement, maintain, and coordinate website content and features; manage three websites (FSR, BITS, and HPC) in collaboration with the digital manager and communication team; and aid in responding to system hardware, software, and network issues that occur during office hours. Oversee, troubleshoot, and provide customer support and documentation for websites; monitor and edit content submitted; and direct site's positioning on search engines.  Key Achievements:  * Orchestrated development of members-only site which saved $122K in development costs.  * Devised a mechanism for video submission and voting during the Save 10 video contest saving $16K in development fees.  * Migrated from iMIS to Microsoft Dynamics 365 saving $60K in annual licensing fees.  * Resolved the 500 recipient limit set by Office 365. Tier II Support Technician/Webmaster Geeks-on-Call/Woodstream Christian Academy - Bowie, MD April 2013 to June 2014 Technical Scope: Spiceworks  Analyzed, designed, implemented, and maintained technical solutions, multimedia content, and systems for the school. Communicated and consulted with staff to identify website needs and functionality. Reviewed and recommended hardware and software needs; coordinated content and organization of static and dynamic data; and investigated various specialized computing options and solutions and provided troubleshooting of system errors and bugs. Developed and tracked website activity, gathered data for reports, and evaluated data trends to present results. Networked with inside and outside counterparts; remained current on technology trends; and managed both software and hardware continuously to ensure efficiency.  Key Achievements:  * Resolved a reoccurring issue related to Spiceworks ticketing system leading to a 90% reduction in outages on the application.  * Boosted available storage capacity for the school's network printer server which decreased issues with server memory and network problems. Junior Database Administrator/Data Analyst Rawneed/United States Conference of Mayors - Washington, DC May 2010 to April 2013 Technical Scope: Oracle 10g, Microsoft SQL server, MySQL, OpenID  Directed operational support of entire portfolio of databases; maintained reliability, stability, and data integrity of the databases; and provided support in the administration, backup, integrity, and security of various SQL databases. Conducted software upgrades, custom interfaces, troubleshooting, and continually assessing and optimizing the databases.  Key Achievements:  * Championed migration from legacy Oracle 10g production databases to Microsoft SQL server and MQL which optimized the performance of the system.  * Collaboratively configured automated reports which reduced administrative time by 50%.  * Procured information on over 3000 mayors, village presidents, and city administrators and compiled the information into a single platform accessible through a secured intranet location. Lead Technician Howard University School of Business - Washington, DC August 2003 to May 2010 Technical Scope: Windows, Office, SPSS  Supervised a small team of technicians, developed and trained technicians through manuals and training materials produced, and devised inter and intra team processes to promote efficiency and communications excellence. Designed and implemented training manuals for IT and non-IT staff in conjunction with various computer systems. Oversaw prompt completion of overdue tickets, tracked trouble ticket resolution metrics, and measured and reported on service delivery performance metrics. Delivered device support, maintained equipment and software, and handled troubleshooting of connectivity issues.  Key Achievements:  * Set up and configured 200 workstations and seven computer labs, eliminating $30K in maintenance fees annually.  * Minimized IT security threats by 60% due to continuous updates to security. Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics in Economics Howard University - Washington, DC Skills SQL (5 years), DYNAMICS (5 years), VISUAL STUDIO, DOCKER, HTML (7 years), JENKINS, Ruby, DREAMWEAVER (3 years), SHAREPOINT (3 years), WEB SERVER, APACHE, WORDPRESS (4 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mayowa-babatola-901aa310 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows, MacOS  Tools:  AWS Cloud, S3, Cloudformation, Vagrant, Terraform, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, GitLab, GitHub, Microsoft Office Suite, Dreamweaver, Atom, Visual Studio Code, Dynamics 365, Office 365, SharePoint, WordPress, SQL, HTML, Ruby, Salesforce    Hardware: Apache Web Server