Sr. Database Admin/DevOps Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin/DevOps Sr. Database Admin/DevOps - M and T Buffalo, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Admin/DevOps M and T - Buffalo, NY February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Leading OLTP Database migration and up-gradation projects.  • Manage Offshore DBA team and allocate resource as per project requirement.  • Migrated the current Linux environment to AWS/RHEL Linux environment and used auto scaling feature.  • Install and configure chef server / workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Managing Amazon Weeb Services - ELB, EC2, S3, RDS,SNS, Cloudwatch.  • Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets  • Expertise in architecting secure VPC solutions in AWS with the help of Network ACLs,security groups, public and private network configurations.  • Experience in managing and maintaining IAM policies for organizations in AWS to define groups, create users, assign roles and define rules for role based access to AWS resources.  • Create snapshot and amazone machine images (AMI) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Hands on experience in writing Ansible scripts for servers to install LAMP stack.  • Used JIRA to track issue and Change Management.  • Troubleshoot Nagios Alerts  • Manabe Systems routine bnackup, scheduling jobs,enabling cron jobs, enableing system logging and network logging of servers for maintenence.  • Create and maintain user's accounts , profiles, security, right disk space and process monitoring.  • Provide technical support by trouleshooting day-to-day issue with various serves on different plateforms.  • Designed, Installed and configured a multi node MongoDB sharded cluster and replica sets on Linux and Windows platforms.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms and provide solutions related to the migration to MongoDB.  • Experience in query optimization and performance tuning.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB replica sets and multi - sharded cluster.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Designed and developed load balancing Mongo applications.  • Good experience on MongoDB scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Experience in troubleshooting errors in HBase Shell/API, Pig, Hive and MapReduce job failures.  • Extensive hands on experience in writing complex MapReduce jobs, Pig Scripts and Hive data modelling.  • Expertise in troubleshooting complex system issues such as high-load, memory and CPU usage and provide solutions based on the root cause.  • Configured Resource management in Hadoop through dynamic resource allocation.  • Maintenance and Management of 300+ nodes Hadoop environment with 24x7 on-call support.  • Extensive experience in MySQL Server Installation, Configuration and upgrading, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization and Supported backend SQL and Databases PHP, MYSQL applications on Linux  • Good Knowledge of MYSQL Server Clustering, Replication, and Conduct a walk through of database design including the entire architecture, physical logical schema, selection of storage engines innoDB, MyISAM , NDBCLUSTER , coding of stored procedures triggers prior to deploying solution.  • Expertise in planning and implementing MySQL Server security, database permissions, Backup/Recovery, Client/Server Connectivity and running Database Consistency Checks.  • Expert in MYSQL Server, PL/SQL, SQL Stored Procedures, Cursors, Views, Triggers and Indexes and have in-depth experience in creating Jobs Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, and automating Packages.  • Administering quarter and half Rack exadata server.  • Working on Database capacity and planning for existing and new databases.  • Working on Performance tuning for migrated databases.  • Working with oracle to setup Oracle database Appliance in current high availability system for proof of concept.  • Worked daily duties like resource allocation, attending Tech lead meetings and follow up for releases activity belongs to database.  • Working on Migration from Non-Exadata Sun (Solaris) Server to Exadata (Oracle Linux).  • Experience in Patching(including all components) and performance tuning.  • Migrated database to exadata using RMAN duplicate and validated with exachk report.  • Worked on enhancement and changes(Index/Storage Indexes, Partitioning, compression, parallelism, resource management) after migrations by using RMAN.  • Good understanding in Exadata smart flash cache , HCC, IORM, CellCLI, CellSRV, ExaCLI etc.  • Performing health check of exadata machine by Exachk utility.  • Invloved in decommissioning exadata database and storage.  • Subject matter expert for Oracle golden gate and Oracle Veridata(data comparison/validation).  • Leading Golden gate replication projects.  • Compare database by using Oracle Veridata after upgrade/migration.  • Created Golden gate performance monitoring script.  • Migrated Oracle 11g databases to Oracle 12c.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.2 to Oracle 11.2.0.4 databases.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.4 to Oracle 12.1.0.2 / 12.2 databases.  • Upgraded database from 11g to 12cR1/12cR2 by using oracle golden gate.  • Building Oracle data guard platform for replication.  • Created Physical standby, logical standby databases.  • Switching primary and physical standby databases for DR testing.  • Enable Fast Start Failover for critical application supporting databases.  • Build ASM, Cluster ware on Linux.  • Working with Engineering team for Exadata establishment.  • Worked on Performance tuning related to new migrated databases.  • Assisted with review of Oracle Golden gate replication architecture.  • Implemented Oracle Golden gate in non-prod and prod environments.  • Monitoring and compare data report by using Oracle Goldengate Veridata.  • Configured Golden gate capture process in source and target.  • Configured pump, trail discard file, replicate and extract process in Golden gate.  • Supported in go-live activities.  • Created Golden gate performance monitoring script.  • Provided 24*7 supports during production implementation.    Environment: Windows, Linux, AIX, Solaris, Oracle 11g/12c, OEM, Data Guard, Mongo 2.6/3.0/3.2/3.4,GoldenGate 12, Exadata X3/X5, TDE, Oracle Veridata, RMAN, RAC, ASM, AWR, ADDM, ZFS storage, Mongocompass,Mongostat,Mongotop,mongovue, Hadoop, CDH, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Oozie, Flume, Zookeeper, AWSYarn, Control-M, HBase, MySQL, AWS:S3, IAM, EC2, Route53, VPC, SNS, ELB, Cloudwatch, Auto scaling etc. Database Administrator Lead Barclays - Wilmington, DE September 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:    • Oracle subject matter expert and technical lead for major finance projects on HA/MAA Oracle RAC/Oracle Advance security.  • Leading Oracle Golden Gate and infrastructure project.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 12c database.  • Experience in oracle exadata quarter/ half rack configuration which including administration, migration, performance tuning and patching.  • Installed exadata storage server patches(rolling and non-rolling fashion).  • Involved in InfiniBand switch patch contains updates to the software and/or firmware for InfiniBand switches.  • Upgraded Oracle database to 12.1.0.2 by using various techniques (Golden gate, Data Pump, Data guard).  • Assist in installation and configuration of audit vault and database vault in oracle 12c in single instance and cluster database (2-3 node).  • Work with Architecture, Development, and Business teams to identify Privileged Account Management and Multi-Factor functionality that can be enabled and integrated to improve security or performance.  • Design and build platforms in CyberArk for new environments.  • Worked with different teams of SMEs to design technical solutions for CyberArk integration.  • Design/engineering, administration, and third-level support of the Privileged Account Management infrastructure components for CyberArk.  • SME for Oracle golden gate and Oracle Veridata.  • Created data Redaction Policy in Oracle 12c OEM.  • Extensively involved in collaborating with testing team in performing load testing which will help in capacity analysis of databases to scale up to concurrent load from end users.  • Gathering statistics on databases using stats pack to analyze database bottlenecks.  • Created OLTP/Warehouse Oracle 11g and Oracle 12c databases on Linux/AIX with failover mechanism.  • Provide 24*7 support if required.  Environment: Solaris, AIX, Linux, Unix, Windows, Oracle 11g/12c, TDE/ Database Vault/Audit Vault/FW, SQL Server 2005/08, Exadata, Oracle Golden Gate 11/12., Oracle Golden gate adapter for Java and Flat files. SQL Loader, RAC, JMS, Oracle Veridata, AWR, ASH, ADDM, TOAD, JAVA, PL/SQL, JDBC, CyberArk, SQLNET, Peoplesoft etc. Lead Oracle DBA Oracle Corporation August 2015 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Assisted with review of Oracle Golden gate replication architecture.  • Implemented Oracle Golden gate in non-prod and prod environments.  • SME for Oracle golden gate and Oracle Veridata.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.1.0.7 to Oracle 11.2.0.4 by using Oracle Golden gate with near to zero downtime.  • Monitoring and compare data report by using Oracle Goldengate Veridata.  • Reviewed Golden Gate Parameter files.  • Review Golden Gate process and parameters for Transactional Data Delivery to WebLogic Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Configured Golden gate capture process in source and target.  • Reviewed pump, trail, discard file, replicate and extract process in Golden gate.  • Supported in go-live activities.  • Supported once GG process is up and running.  • Reviewed golden gate process and suggest modification.  • Compared Source and target data through Veridata.  • Created Golden gate performance monitoring script.  • Provided 24*7 supports during production implementation.  Environment: Windows, Linux, Solaris 10, Oracle 11g/12c, OEM, Golden Gate11g/12c, JMS, TDE, Oracle Golden gate Veridata, RMAN, RAC, ASM, AWR, ADDM etc. Senior Database Administrator Barclays - Wilmington, DE February 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Leading high availability projects.  • Oracle subject matter expert and technical lead for major finance projects on HA/MAA Oracle RAC/Oracle Advance security.  • Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects.  • Worked with Oracle for X3-2 half rack configuration(eight database server with 2 8-core Xeon processors and 256 GB of RAM, fourteen storage servers, 168 disk drives).  • Assisted in integration of Exadata applications into current IT actionable events and solutions.  • Build and implement migration plan to oracle exadata which include synergy between hardware and software (smart scans, storage indexes, hybrid columner compression, smart flash cache over flash PCI, high speed infiniband backbone).  • Good experience in Exadata migration plateform which include physical and logical migration.  • created exadata databases for new application.  • Tested and setup Cloud Control 12c for monitoring Exadata boxes and non-exadata databases.  • Build Exadata X3-2 Full Rack and 1 Half Rack for DG/RAC environments.  • Good knowledge of X5-2 and X6-2 machine.  • Experience in Patch apply on Exadata machines.  • created grid disks on Exadata x3-2.  • Leading Oracle Golden Gate and infrastructure project.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 12c database.  • Assist in installation and configuration of audit vault and database vault in oracle 12c in single instance and cluster database(2-3 node)  • Enable Advance security feature in Oracle 11g/12c (TDE, Data Vault, Data Redaction, Application Security, Wallets, database firewall policy).  • Monitoring events and audit logs by consolidating Oracle Audit Vault and database firewall.  • Applying Advance compression.  • Enable Oracle ASM Cluster File System encryption to protect log and configuration files.  • Configure Oracle Key Vault to centrally manage oracle Wallets with AES256 and TDE/ACFS master key.  • Configure Data Redaction in Oracle 12c for cardholder data/national identifiers/personal identity/medical record etc.  • Provided presentation to higher management for Oracle security features( av, dv, dbfw, data redaction, wallets, TDE etc..)  • Created data Redaction Policy in Oracle 12c OEM.  • Leading DR and HAA exercise during production deployments.  • Implemented Oracle advance security features(av, dv, dbfw , wallets, TDE) in Oracle 11g.  • Extensively involved in collaborating with testing team in performing load testing which will help in capacity analysis of databases to scale up to concurrent load from end users.  • Gathering statistics on databases using stats pack to analyze database bottlenecks.  • Created OLTP/Warehouse Oracle 11g and Oracle 12c databases on Linux/AIX with failover mechanism.  • Performing checks on CPU, Memory and Storage while load testing is being performed as the loads are of different types which flood the database.  • Performed Cross plateform migration by using oracle golden gate.  • Migrated SQL server 2008 database to Oracle 11g by using Golden Gate.  • Migrated single instance database from AIX(Single instance) to Linux (RAC 2 node) by using Golden Gate and Monitored thru Veridata.  • Created staging tables necessary to store validated customer data prior to loading data into customer interface tables.  • Planned GoldenGate setup to achieve Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Goldengate 11gR2 Integrated Capture and Advanced compression features testing.  • Designed and developed several mappings to load data from source system to ODS and then to Data Mart.  • Creation of AWR, ADDM, ASH reports to detect bottlenecks in database if loads running multiple high volume queries take long time to execute.  • Executing plans for TOP SQL to tune them and avoid hard parses and waits.  • Knowledge of OEM 12C architecture pieces Oracle Management Agent, Oracle Management Service, Oracle Management Repository, Oracle Management Plug-ins and Enterprise Manager Cloud Control Console.  • Active management of Oracle Weblogic Server through OEM 12c cloud control.  • Proactively installing OEM agents and monitoring databases through OEM 12c cloud control.  • Performing Index analysis and rebuilding Indexes on objects if broken and creating them if missing.  • Refreshing databases in DEV and QA with new builds.  • Maintenance of Oracle Database parameters (SPFILE) with values to support application needs.  • Created documentation and separated data, indexes, LOBS from schema objects and migrated them to their specific tablespaces in PROD database for better management and faster access.  • Migrated Oracle 10gR2(10.2.0.4) databases on AIX to Oracle11gR2(11.2.0.3) on RHEL along with application schemas.  • Performed database upgrade from 10.2.0.4/11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3.10 and 11.2.0.4 on all databases in DEV, QA and new PROD VMs  • Proactively creating housekeeping scripts and monitoring databases and objects using them.  • Patching of database and grid home with latest patch set updates(PSU).  • Developed POC doc for database backup using hot backup scripts and RMAN, tested recovery scenarios and implemented it  • Familiarity with SOX compliance process.  • Worked on internal POC for integration of Cassandra with Hadoop and HDFS.  • Installation of CassandraDB version 2.0.  • Migration of transactions from Oracle to Cassandra.  • Using Remedy to log tickets and resolving them.  • Knowledge of creation of CR (Change Request)/CM through Unicentre and REMEDY after gathering information from concerned teams and getting approval.  • Expertise in creating and maintaining documentation and prepare report.  Environment: Windows, Unix, Linux, Solaris, AIX, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, Peoplesoft, TOAD, OEM, Golden Gate11g, Exadata, Golden Gate Adapter, Veridata, JMS, MViews, SQLNET, Oracle Streams, GPFS, RMAN, STATSPACK,TOAD, RAC, ASM, Microstregy, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, Grid Control, Control-m, TSM,SAP HR, Peoplesoft, Weblogic, Hadoop, Cassandra2.0, Golden Gate 11gR2/12c, Oracle Veridate and SDLC etc. Senior DBA Capital One - Richmond, VA March 2010 to January 2012 • Worked in multiple project related to finance, ecommerce, Payment accounts, Digital IT, Clarity, Banking etc.  • Providde DBA support to development/implementation projects as assigned, doing installations, database loading, conversions, testing etc.  • Protecting sensitive data using TDE column encryption and protecting entire application using TDE tablespace encryption.  • Applying Advance compression.  • Enable Oracle ASM Cluster File System encryption to protect log and configuration files.  • Configure Oracle Key Vault to centrally manage oracle Wallets with AES256 and TDE/ACFS master key.  • Lead DR setup for High availability database.  • Supported Production, Development, QA, Testing Oracle and ms-sql databases.  • Analyzed source system data like Business Hierarchy, Commodity Hierarchy and Geographical hierarchy, sites, Utilization and produced mapping document.  • Configuration planning and installation of Oracle servers and Server upgrades and conversions.  • Performance and general health / capacity monitoring.  • Implementation of traditional relational and dimensional modelling standards along with naming conventions provided by data governance committee ensures sustainable growth.  • Interacted with Business and finalized data elements.  • Prepared Data Migration document and test data based on business rules.  • Developing a backup and recovery strategy and tested several recovery scenarios Perform ongoing database administration, maintenance, troubleshooting, tuning, installation, backup / recovery Management of table spaces for different users by granting quota on Default & Temporary tables paces.  • Worked on various data migration activities using Export/Import utility and SQL * Loader Database security, job scheduling and documentation investigating suspicious database activity using Auditing.  • Working with Oracle regarding troubleshooting with SR creation.  • Working with UNIX Team regarding DR Testing, new server installation, memory configuration etc.  Environment: Windows, Unix, Linux, Solaris, AIX, Oracle 8i/9.2i/10g/11g, Sql Server 2005/08, NCR Teradata V2R6.2, TOAD, OEM, Golden Gate, Exadata, RMAN, STATSPACK, Data integrator, RAC, ASM, Crystal Reports, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, Control-m, TSM. Database Administrator Team Lead/Manager FedEx Memphis TN - Memphis, TN March 2009 to February 2010 • Responsible for providing data base management services that may relate to data monitoring, data management and programming.  • Managed organize, and design databases (e.g. Object Oriented Data modeling, ER data modeling, UML), table structures and data schema, logical and physical design, reports and forms development, naming conventions and other issues related to systems planning and data migration.  • Managed team of 4 database administrator.  • Provided data base consultations in a timely and professional manner.  • Allocated New Project to DBA's and explain them functionality.  • Worked as Oracle DBA with database and application design and support.  • Worked with VLDB (Very Large Databases) with understanding in large table partitioning.  • Developed custom utilities to automate manually intensive tasks including mass schema changes, repartitioning tables and rewinding/restarting GoldenGate to recover from trail file corruption.  • Administered single-node and RAC 9i, 10g and 11g Oracle databases on Linux, Solaris and Microsoft  Windows hosts.  • Utilize Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM), Oracle Managed Files (OMF) and Recovery  Manager (RMAN) to improve I/O performance, reduce administration overhead and provide a comprehensive backup and recovery strategy.  • Created the conceptual model for the data warehouse with emphasis on insurance (life and health), mutual funds and annuity using EMBARCADERO ER Studio data modeling tool.  • Configured Oracle golden gate with oracle team.  • Provided basic support and troubleshooting for several database environments and SQL 2005/2008.  • Implemented SAP application by using Oracle 10g database.  • Designed Logical & Physical Data Model /Meta data/ data dictionary using ERwin for development teams.  • Responsible for backups/restores, monitoring SQL uptime, designing and maintaining DTS packages.  • Designing and populated reporting tables, views and stored procedures  • Implemented partitioning to handle tables with over 500 million rows.  • Physical data model definition, design and implementation.  • Worked on Database Physical, Logical Design, Physical and Logical Data Modelling.  • Worked on 3/4/6 Node Clustering environments.  • Configured ASM, RAC with 4 nodes.  • Configured oracle streams, sharplex and Oracle golden gate for replication.  • Worked with in UNIX, Linux, Solaris, AIX environment.  • Worked for Oracle database performance and tuning.  • Worked with OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) for administration.  • Worked SQL and PL/SQL tuning.  • Configured Backup and Recovery tool OBACKTRACK.  • Worked with pl/sql developer team for designing and coding of sql.  Environment: Windows, Unix, Linux, Solaris, AIX, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12i, Pl/sql, T-Sql, OEM, RMAN,AWR,ADDM, RAC, ASM, OBACKTRACK,SAP ECC 6.0, VERITAS, Sybase, SQL Server, Ab Initio, Data Stage, Informatica, Disaster Recovery, Erwin, DbArtisian, Power Designer13.0, Data Modelling, Oracle Golden Gate and Oracle streams,SDLC Oracle DBA Capital One - Richmond, VA February 2008 to February 2009 • Back up the production database, synchronizing the standby database by responding to any physical changes in the primary database.  • Experienced in RMAN, GRID, Physical and Logical Standby, Failover methodologies and Disaster recovery(DR)  • Performed status checks by monitoring the status of databases, logs, archived redo logs etc.  • Applied ARCHIVE logs.  • Worked as part of a team and provide 7x24 support when required  • Involved in testing phase of implementation of RMAN for various advanced backup and recovery options.  • Planed and Implemented backup and recovery of the oracle database.  • Completed DR Site User Location maintenance for any major disasters  • Created of the Test and Production Oracle 8i/9i/10g databases Maintenance and support of the Oracle Applications and Oracle Databases Cloning of production database to the test environment using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Resolved Oracle listener and TNS names problems by using Net Manager and Oracle Net Configuration assistant Implementation of Security of database down to cells by creating users, groups, profiles.  • Database Administration and Planning including logical design, physical design, backup & recovery Applied various patchsets and upgraded databases from 9.1.0 to 9.2.0.6 Installed Oracle 10g on Solaris and Linux platforms.  • Implemented Tivoli Storage Manager for RMAN PL/SQL Coding and modifying packages, procedures and functions RMAN copy from Prod database to development, Snapshot refresh, Schema Refresh.  • Managed Application user profiles and managing concurrent managers, concurrent processing, load balancing etc Creation of rollback segments and planning application activities accordingly to enhance system performance.  • Copied databases, monitoring system performance, SGA tuning, rollback segments, space usage Database & Application Tuning through TKPROF & Explain plan Adept in Advanced Replication techniques using Materialized views.  • Tuned test and production database by altering the parameters Extraction of data from different flat files into Oracle Database using SQL*Loader and automated the process by using UNIX Shell scripting.  • Worked with Oracle regarding troublshooting with SR creation.  • Worked with Capacity Planning team.  • Worked with UNIX Team regarding DR Testing and performed failover process.  Environment: Windows, Unix, Linux, Solaris, AIX Oracle 8i/9.2i/10g/11g, 10gr2 RAC, TOAD, OEM, RMAN, STATSPACK, Data integrator, RAC, ASM, Crystal Reports, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, Control-m. Oracle DBA United Health group June 2006 to January 2008 Responsibilities:  • Data loading in oracle from different sources.  • Configuration of system databases like dbccdb, sybsecurity for monitoring and dbcc operations.  • Involved in troubleshooting of oracle servers and capacity planning.  • Responsibled for fixing log full/tempdb issues.  • Supported database performance in SAP environment.  • Checked storage on Oracle databases regularly.  • Performed changes in packages after migration.  • Designed file system with Oracle Optimal Flexible Architecture (OFA).  • Taken care of Crontabs & writing Unix Shell-scripts for data extract.  • Created and modifyied Scripts for user manage hot backup.  • Allocated system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database.  • Databases Patching.  • Implemented Database Backup (Physical and Logical) and Recovery strategy.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for Client-Server connections.  • Creating Database objects like (Tables, views, indexes, procedures, triggers etc).  • Created, monitoring tablespaces and re-org them.  • Tuned Oralce9i database server using tools dynamic, dictionary views, Statspack, Diagnostic and tuning packages.  • Planed and Implemented backup and recovery of the oracle database.  • Created & Configured RMAN recovery catalog.  • Closely worked with SA.  • 7x24 support when required.  Environment: Win 2K, Win 2003 Server, Unix, Oracle 9.2/10g, TOAD, OEM, RMAN, STATSPACK,SAP 4.7 & ECC 6.0, Data integrator, Oracle Discoverer Oracle DBA BellSouth, GA June 2005 to May 2006 Responsibilities:  • Installation, upgrading, configuration and maintenance of 9i/10g on both Windows NT and UNIX environments  • Having Good exposure for oracle 10g.  • Created and Maintained Roles and assign necessary privileges to users according to business rules.  • Allocated system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database  • Build and monitoring events.  • Implemented Database Backup (Physical and Logical) and Recovery strategy  • Configured TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for Client-Server connections  • Created Database objects like (Tables, views, indexes, procedures, triggers etc)  • Monitored Alert Logs  • Choosing different types of data storages (Locally managed tablespaces, IOT and partition tables) and indexes in order to have good performance for SQL and DML.  • Tuning Oralce9i database server using tools dynamic, dictionary views, Statspack, Diagnostic and tuning packages.  • Created & Configured RMAN recovery catalog.  • Performance tuning for the production databases.  • Back end Programming using SQL and PL / SQL.  • Coordination with front-end developers in designing complex queries.  • Help users in creating database objects, and enrolling users.  • Coordinate all system changes with the Operational DBA.  • Worked as part of a team and provide 7x24 support when required.  Environment: UNIX, AIX, Win NT/03, Oracle 9.2/10g, PL/SQL, OEM, RMAN, Shell Script, Oracle Form 6i. Oracle DBA MahaNagar Telecom Limited January 2004 to May 2005 Responsibilities:  • Created users and Creating Roles, and assigning privilege in it, grant to the role to the users, and Profiles  • Monitoring the alert logs regularly  • Coordinated with clients, in their regular activities in troubleshooting.  • Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring file Systems and tablespace growth  • Backing up the production database, synchronizing the standby database by responding to any physical changes in the primary database.  • Performed status checks by monitoring the status of databases, logs, archived redo logs etc.  • Applied ARCHIVE logs.  • Involved in testing phase of implementation of RMAN for various advanced backup and recovery options.  • Planed and Implemented backup and recovery of the oracle database  Environment: Oracle 8i, Windows NT Education Master's Skills Database administration, Database, Db2, Jdbc, Mysql, Jenkins, AWS, Linux, Devops Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Database Administration: Mongodb, MySQL,NoSql, Claudera, Hadoop, Oracle, Oracle cloud,Teradata, DB2, AWS,SQL-Server.  Oracle Tools and Utilities: OEM, Grid Control,RMAN, SQL*Loader, SQL*Net, Toad, Oracle Streams, Data Replications, Exadata, BEA, JDE, ODA, ZFS storage, Golden Gate 11/12, Oracle Veridata, Oracle Golden Gate Application Adapters for Flat File and Java, Java API, Data Guard, SQLNET,JDBC, Weblogic12c, Oracle SOA, AVAMAR, Veritas, TSM, Netbackup, Oracle RUEI,JMS, DGMGRL, Statspack, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Oracle Application Express, Oracle 11.5 E-Business, CyberArk, Tuning Advisor, oradebug, OS Watcher and SQL Plan stability management  Operating Systems: Windows, HP-UX, Linux (RHEL), AIX, Solaris  Programming Languages: SAP, ABAP, ECC6.0 C, C++, Java, VB6.0, Pl/SQL, T-SQL, PeopleSoft, .net, C# , PHP, Python, Hadoop, pig, hive , Ansible , JIRA  ETL Tools: Data integrator, Erwin, Power Designer, DbArtisian, Data Stage, Informatica, AbInitio etc    SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS:    • 15+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator (versions 8i, 9i, 10g,11g,12c,13c ),SQL server, Mongodb, Hadoop, MySQL, NoSQL, AWS cloud on Microsoft ,Unix, Linux Platforms, which includes Installation, Management, Administration, Backup and Recovery, Maintaining and Tuning of Oracle RDBMS.  • Managing Amazon Weeb Services - ELB, EC2, S3, RDS,SNS, Cloudwatch.  • Designed, Installed and configured a multi node MongoDB sharded cluster and replica sets on Linux and Windows platforms.  • Hands on experience in installation, configuration, supporting and managing Hadoop Clusters using Apache, Cloudera (CDH3, CDH4), Yarn distributions.  • Install, upgrade, optimize, troubleshoot, perform root cause analysis on the Database, I maintain MYSQL 5.6 server and also from between 3.2 to 5.6 versions and distributions from MYSQL Enterprise releases on Linux and windows using related tools like Enterprise Dashboard etc.  • Experience as Devops, AWS and Cloud Management, Configuration Management, Build, Deploy, Release Management and Quality Assurance.  • Experienced in Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates, Python, Ruby, Chef (DevOps), Ansible.  • Administering Mongodb databases.  • Strong exposure in Bigdata architecture and effectively managed and monitored the Hadoop eco systems.  • Build, deploy and management of large scale Hadoop based data Infrastructure.  • Capacity planning and Architecture setup for Bigdata applications.  • Strong exposure in Automation of maintenance tasks in Bigdata environment through Cloudera Manager API.  • Create and interpret appropriate database benchmarks to quantify performance bottlenecks and propose solutions to enhance and optimize the overall scalability of the system and backup and recovery, cloud backup with Amazon S3.  • Worked as DevOps manages the activities related to operation and development.  • Supporting in-house application databases.  • Working on Amazon RDS console, AWS CLI/API.  • Administering MySql/noSql databases.  • Working on Claudera.  • Proven ability of providing production support for 24X7 on multiple databases.  • Worked in Data Modelling (ERWIN/POWER DESIGNER).  • Understanding of DNS, DHCP,FireWalls, IPS., routing/switching.  • Experience in Flash, hybrid, spindle-based storage.  • Created POC's for Golden gate migration (Uni/Bi directional replication), Exadata migrations and rolling upgrade for data guard configurations.  • Upgraded database from 12.1 to 12.2.  • Upgraded Oracle 9i/10g/11gr1/11gr2 to Oracle 11gr2/12cr2 with and without golden gate replication tool.  • Configured Data Vault, DB Vault /TDE/Data Redaction/ DB Firewall (dbfw) in Oracle 11g/12c.  • Migrated SQL Server 2005/08/13 to Oracle 10g/11g and vice versa with Oracle Golden gate.  • Experience in Oracle Exadata (build, patching, performance tuning and administration).  • Installed Oracle Application Express and Oracle 11i/12i E-Business suite.  • Configure and administered Oracle11i E-Business suite in OEM.  • Upgraded oracle Apps 11.5.9 to 11.5.10.2  • SME expert for Golden Gate / Veridata.  • Build Golden Gate framework for replication from relational to irrational (Oracle/SQL server to JMS/Flat Files).  • Enables GoldenGate to interchange real-time relational transactional data with non-relational systems.  • Installed Oracle Golden Gate Application Adapters for Java and Flat Files.  • Experience in Analysis/Design/Development in SDLC.  • Troubleshoot and diagnose issues with non-standard systems for CyberArk.  • Experience in SDLC and AGILE methodologies.  • Experience in Hadoop Cloudera.  • Experience in administration of database machine EXADATA X3/2.  • Knowledge of Hadoop, MapReduce, PIG, Hive and Impala.  • Strong Knowledge in Logical / Physical & Dimensional Modeling, Normalized (up to 3NF) / Demoralized Databases on both OLTP /OLAP environment used Erwin.  • Handled Functional Analysis /Business Process model/ ER Model /Physical Model.  • Intensive experience in mapping document for ETL environment.  • Experience in Weblogic administration.  • Excellent knowledge in Data Profiling.  • Experience in process improvement, Database Design, Database creation, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Standby Database (Data Guard), Replication, Real Application Clusters, Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  • Experience in Multi Node RAC cluster design, administration and support.  • Knowledge on Web Sphere components such as Work Load Management (WLM), Servlet Engine, Session Manager, Admin Client  • Experience in configuration, implementation of Oracle 10g /11g/12c Oracle RAC.  • Worked on data encryption mechanisms TDE, FGAC, Backup encryption.  • Administered GoldenGate11gR2 for bidirectional replication.  • Configured and taking care of performance issue with bi-Directional and unidirectional Oracle Golden Gate replication.  • Expert in Oracle performance tuning, SQL tuning and Real Application Clusters (RAC) specializing in tuning and monitoring for high availability.  • Knowledge of RAID levels namely RAID 0 through RAID 5.  • Experience in developing Unix Korn Shell and perl scripts.  • Experience with tools used at capitalone controlm, RMAN, HP-Service Desk, BEN (Project1) & TSM.  • Good experience in SAP HR plateform and Peoplesoft application.  • Extensive experience in Relational and Dimensional Data modeling for creating Logical and Physical Design of Database and ER Diagrams using multiple data modeling tools like ERWIN, ER Studio.  • Demonstrable experience with PL/SQL including writing and optimizing code in PL/SQL using various tools such as TOAD, SQL Navigator and SQL Developer  • Experience creating an Oracle Database, creating application structures including implementing security using roles.  • Provide basic support and troubleshooting for several database environments and SQL 2005/2008.  • Work closely with developers, support and QA teams to maintain all database environments.  • Refresh SQL databases as needed by developers or functional teams.  • Perform database administration activities including installation, monitoring, space management, database backup and recovery and disaster recovery.  • Good Experience in administering Oracle database in SAP environment.  • Familiar with any Change Control Tools (basically understands the need for an audit trail of change requests).  • Experience with any on-call procedures.  • Oracle patches, Migrating database across releases.  • Diverse industry experience including Banking and Finance.  • Designed and developed plans to achieve high availability, scalability, recoverability of the Oracle RDBMS servers.  • Familiarity with Web Applications like Portal, releases etc  • Familiarity with ETL Tools like AbInitio, DataStage, Informatica, Sybase etc.  • Demonstrable experience with other databases like TeraData, SQL*Server, DB2, Sybase etc.  • Database upgrades experience from 9.2.0.7 to 10g/11g and 10g to 11g/12c.  • Hands on experience of managing Very Large Databases (VLDB) in the range of 500 GB to 120 TB.  • Managed Linux servers running Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c production Instance.  • Installation of Oracle Database and Application Server according to the requirements.  • Implementation and Administration of Data Guard for disaster and recovery setup.  • Acquainted with Real Application Cluster and Cluster Management.  • Acceptance and Pilot testing of the Application Software using test case.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills.  • Analytical and Systematic thinking ability with a goal and solution oriented approach.  • Project Management skills includes recommendation and installation of Hardware, Software, Network, WAN, Security Policy formation and implementation, Creation and implementation of Database, vendor co-ordination, Acceptance testing and Pilot testing of the software.