National Reporting Developer National Reporting Developer National Reporting Developer Wheat Ridge, CO Work Experience National Reporting Developer VERIZON - Ashburn, VA September 2014 to June 2019 Creation of ACD Sales and Reporting Systems Solutions  • Worked with IT Group and various teams to gather requirements and specifications.  • Automated process to import multiple sources daily (i.e., incoming sales files data into SQL server databases through SSIS packages), and to then migrate to BCP command for easy maintenance. Each file contained about 1.5 million records every day. Final tables were large and complex and incorporated multiple business rules.  • Designed and implemented relational databases to provide and support future data growth and reporting needs, created tables, store procedures, views, functions, SQL jobs.  • Developed complex and speedy load process to derive meaning results which were stored in two large tables: one for various reports and another one for validation payments. The result was that large amounts of raw data were manipulated according to applied business rules, combined and stored in a manner that made the files easy to access for reports and payments.  • Wrote and automated more than 50 reports to check data integrity on a continual basis. Communicated issues on a timely basis to update team for resolution.  • Streamlined and improved existing SQL processes by using Execution Plan, Index, and Table Partition. Revised and shortened 26-steps process in one main SQL job for the daily load from 3+ hours to 50 minutes.  • Frequently helped team members to identify bottlenecks in their store procedures and speed up their processes    Creation of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Reports for over 120+ vendors  • Created SSRS reports in Visual Studio Business Intelligence which pulled the SQL store procedures or directly pulled from SQL tables.    Creation of SSIS packages  • Created SSIS packages for all the daily feeds from various sources, pushed daily files to vendors through Visual Studio Business Intelligence.  • Migrated from SSIS package to BCP utility for easy maintenance for flat text source or destination files.    Ad-hoc reports  • Creating quick Ad-hoc reports by using "sqlcmd" as batch file and generating a flat text file or a .csv file. Worked with complex SQL queries with many tables such as equal join, outer join, left outer join, etc.    Table partitions  • Created critical PIVOT table to house all the sold products for 120+ vendors. Created process to push daily sales files to all vendors and generate vouchers on a weekly or monthly basis. Due to large volume of the table, SLA couldn't be met very often. Created partition, added indexes and analyzed bottlenecks until the entire 3+ hour process could be completed in less than one hour.    Maintaining Internal & External Web Portal Reports Dashboards for over 120+ vendors  • Maintained a well-established two web portal reports dashboards using ASP.NET C#, HTML, CSS  • Created Sales Data Performance Reports  • Made design changes to streamline and replace crowded page listing all the individual reports; created categories and dropdown lists such as KPI Reports, Performance Reports, Executive Reports and Order Status Reports. SQL Database Administrator, Automation and Reporting Developer VERIZON - Denver, CO October 2003 to August 2014 Used Execution Plan, performance monitor & SQL profiler trace to identifying server performance problems. Managed day to day maintenance of SQL Server 2005 servers, including but not limited to: Security, Job Reporting, SSIS development and maintenance, Backup and Recovery plans.    • Migrated SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005. Re-created SSIS packages based on the old DTS package.  • Designed databases to provide and support future data growth and reporting needs.  • Built Automated DBA maintenance reports such as Drive Space Status, Database File Size, Daily SQL Maintenance, Job Status, failed job alert  • Implemented data feed using a variety of different data sources and platforms, both internal & external to the company  ? Provided 24x7 on call coverage and support of all National Reporting SQL severs. Performed daily maintenance and administration on all servers and databases: Backup and recovery; Database consistency; Security maintenance; and Data loading processes  • Developed new process and streamline, improve or automate existing processes  • Built and maintained front-end reports for end users Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Metropolitan State College - Denver, CO Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, SSRS, T-SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, VB.NET, VBA, BCP, EXCEL, WORD Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/YvonneParsons Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Microsoft SQL Server databases, SSIS packages, SSRS reporting, Management Studio, Visual Studio, Cluster Servers, T-SQL, BCP Utility, SQLCMD, MS Transact-SQL, SP_SEND_DBMAIL, ASP.NET C#, VB.NET, HTML, CSS, VBA, Excel, Word.