Senior Database Developer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Senior Database Developer - Arrowhead General Insurance Agency San Diego, CA Experienced Information Technology solution Provider with 10+ years' experience in the IT field focusing on web development, database administration, providing hardware, software and custom application solutions. I have an unquenchable thirst to master and utilize new technology and share my findings with the people around me. I'm a strong advocate of finding new ways to leverage existing solutions, and purchasing new solutions that can extend and advanced current capabilities while providing business friendly returns on investments. I'm very hands---on and like to work directly with users, managers, customers and various stakeholders to gain a greater depth of understanding on what is wanted, needed, or not working so I can help steer the team and solution in the right direction. I strongly advocate collaboration and building communication channels within an organization, so one's rapport can be leveraged to drive a consensus, bring everybody onboard, and increase a projects chance of success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Developer Arrowhead General Insurance Agency - San Diego, CA August 2016 to Present • Lead Database Developer for Core Commercial, Residential Earthquake and Residential Property divisions.  • Created and designed Database for multi-million dollar project.  • Defined and created standards for other Database Developers.  • Work closely with Project Managers to allocate the correct resources.  • Support 3rd party software.  • Responsible for database designs and implementation, DTS packages, stored procedures, triggers and views before deployment to production.  • Create and maintain SSIS packages.  • Developed Feeds and Reports to Government Insurance Agencies.  • Responsible for Ad-hoc reports as well as Automated Reports using SSRS or Excel • Responsible for extracting and analyzing customer data.  • Data Analysis.  • Assist other developers in creating and debugging queries • Optimized other developers' queries.  • Query optimization and creation / maintenance of indexes.  • Administration of Goldmine data.  • Designing the application and implementation of the new clients for which Arrowhead is providing general agency services • Implementation of the import and export of data feeds using SSIS for the clients and third party vendors • Data modelling and implementation of the databases.  • Coordinating with other internal teams in the company for implementation for insurance functions • Performance tuning and troubleshooting of the issues encountered during client rollouts.  • Designing the data warehouse and SSRS reports for reporting requirements of the clients and internal operational and management teams.  • Supporting the other ongoing maintenance divisions of the company.  • Recruiting new members to the team and providing training and guidance. Database Administrator / Developer / Analyst Rush Star Wireless, Inc - Chula Vista, CA April 2014 to August 2016 • Database Administrator for MS-SQL 2008/2012.  • Responsible for database designs and implementation, DTS packages, stored procedures, triggers and views before deployment to production.  • Create and maintain SSIS packages.  • Responsible for Ad-hoc reports as well as Automated Reports using SSRS or Excel • Responsible for extracting and analyzing customer data.  • Data Analysis.  • Assist other developers in creating and debugging queries • Optimized other developers' queries.  • Query optimization and creation / maintenance of indexes.  • Assist in administration of Microsoft CRM 2011 and Microsoft GP 2013 • Create and maintain customization of MS CRM 2011 solutions, entities, forms, reports, etc.  • Created and maintain Customer commissions payout backend code • Responsible for accurate and timely commission's payout in the range of $5,000,000 per year.  • Help implemented a companywide help desk support solution, utilizing Freshdesk.  • Provide level III/expert level support for internal and external users. Applications Developer / DBA / Database Developer Revive Self Service - San Diego, CA September 2013 to April 2014 • Provide ongoing maintenance and support for front end and backend applications written in PHP.  • Debugging of web applications against IE and Chrome using built in debugging tools, Firefox using Firebug.  • JavaScript creation / debugging / modification using custom JavaScript or jQuery plugins.  • Administration of MySql databases.  • Developed new web application for client inventory management written in Groovy/Grails.  • Assist other developers in creating and debugging queries.  • Optimized other developers' MySql queries.  • Query optimization and creation / maintenance of indexes.  • Application UI creation utilizing CSS3 standards.  • Maintenance of production servers: software updates, installation of new software • Secondary roles included Network Administrator, Database Administrator.  • Provided level III/expert level support for internal and external users. Applications Developer / Database Developer and Administrator Sterling Bank Services Inc - Missoula, MT May 2009 to September 2013 • Provide ongoing maintenance and modifications on internal web applications written in Grails/Groovy, Coldfusion with SQL Server.  • Debugging of web applications against IE and Chrome using built in debugging tools, Firefox using Firebug.  • JavaScript creation / debugging / modification using custom JavaScript or jQuery plugins.  • Utilize T-SQL in the creation and maintenance of stored procedures, triggers, views.  • Assist other developers in creating and debugging queries.  • Optimized other developers' queries.  • Query optimization and creation / maintenance of indexes.  • Application UI creation utilizing CSS3 standards.  • Maintenance of production servers: software updates, installation of new software • Secondary roles included Network Administrator, Database Administrator.  • Provided level III/expert level support for internal and external users.  • Developed and maintain internal mobile app, allowing field operations personnel.  • Conversion of internal billing and payroll software application from JBASE/PICK to Grails/Groovy Web Developer / Database Developer and Administrator Sterling Bank Services Inc - Missoula, MT June 2003 to May 2009 • Developed corporate website, intranet, and extranet site utilizing Coldfusion, JavaScript, SQL Server, SQL Reporting Services, and various 3rd party components.  • Designed existing Databases, stored procedures, indexes, triggers, and views. Database Administrator for SQL Server Sterling Bank Services Inc 2005 to 2008 including QA of all; DTS packages, stored procedures, triggers and views before deployment to production. Introduced SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) to replace Crystal Reports and integrated with various in-house applications.  • Ad-hoc reporting for internal departments, customers and financial auditors.  • Setup and maintain customer help desk / support system for 10 help desk employees.  • Responsible for purchasing, setup and maintenance of field operation personnel laptops and other hardware.  • Provided training on software and hardware use to field operations and office personnel. Education High school Skills Database (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Ms sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql server. (10+ years), Ssis, MYSQL, Sql Database, DBA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bounsao-vongsotsavanh Additional Information Technical Skills  • Database: MS SQL Server 2008-2017, MySQL, Oracle  • Database Development: SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS), PowerBI  • Languages: SQL, T-SQL, Groovy, JAVA  • Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, MS Report Builder, Visual Studio, MS Office, Netbeans, Eclipse, Open Office  • Development: Coldfusion, Spring Security, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP  • Software: Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011 & 2013, Microsoft Dynamics GP 2013  • Current expertise is with Database Modelling and building data warehouse using Microsoft BI reporting suite (SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS)  • Experience in database design, development and optimizing SQL query performance.  • Ability to write complex SQL code involving triggers, Functions, Dynamic SQL