SQL Business Intelligence Developer / Database Administrator SQL Business Intelligence Developer / <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Business Intelligence Developer / Database Administrator - CACI Baltimore, MD Work Experience SQL Business Intelligence Developer / Database Administrator CACI - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD May 2019 to Present SQL database administrator for the Software Engineering Center at CECOM of the US Army.  Create SSIS packages to extract, transform and load data for a variety of applications.  Upgrade and re-write deprecated DTS packages into SSIS packages.  Deploy projects using Agile Scrum process and method.  Troubleshoot SQL stored procedures and application issues and errors.  Create SQL queries for ad-hoc inquiries and investigations. System Engineer/ Database Administrator Katmai Government Services - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD February 2019 to May 2019 System Engineer responsible for operational specifications of the Army Behavioral Health data warehouse/business intelligence system using SSIS packages with SQL Server & Business Intelligence Studio consisting of Raw, ETL & Production environments for suicide and medical analyzation.  Design, develop and optimize data transformation, data structures, and metadata from large disconnected data sources including flat files, SQL, XML and web services.  Work with analysts to understand their analytic requirements for medical and suicide related research and studies.  Identify, diagnose and resolve ETL data quality issues.  Design, develop, and maintain software for a variety of engineering applications including Access front end databases, Excel Spreadsheets and SharePoint sites.  Complete ad-hoc SQL reports or small studies as assigned.  Experience with Redgate SQL Toolbelt for SQL server administration.  SharePoint administration, site creation/modification and workflow creation.  System Administration responsible for Windows Active Directory environment of ~1000 users.  Build and upgrade Windows 2016 and SQL servers including configuring web and SQL delegation.  Create Powershell scripts to automate frequently used administration tasks.  Backup and restore of SQL databases.  Create surveys and administration of Verint Enterprise Feedback Management in-house survey solution. System Engineer/ Database Administrator ARS Aleut Service - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD February 2017 to February 2019 System Engineer responsible for the Army Behavioral Health data warehouse/business intelligence system using SSIS packages with SQL Server & Business Intelligence Studio consisting of Raw, ETL & Production environments.  Execute SQL database queries to filter, clean and prepare data from existing database.  SharePoint administration, site creation/modification and workflow creation.  Provide application support for over 100 in-house developed web applications.  System Administration responsible for Windows Active Directory environment of ~1000 users.  Design and create Powershell scripts and interfaces to automate frequently used administration tasks.  Create and design Access front end database interface tool to allow offline data entry with SQL Server replication when connected to the network at a later date.  Troubleshoot custom application SQL stored procedures. System Engineer/ Database Administrator NMR Consulting - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD August 2009 to February 2017 System Engineer responsible for the Army Behavioral Health data warehouse/business intelligence system using SSIS packages using SQL Server & Business Intelligence Studio consisting of Raw, ETL & Production environments.  Create SQL reports using SQL report server based on customer requirements.  SharePoint 2007 & 2010 administration, site design/modification and workflow creation.  Deploy and configure custom web applications in IIS and SQL Server.  Upgrade Access databases to Access 2010 web databases using SharePoint Access Services.  Provide application support for over 100 in-house developed web applications  System Administration responsible for Windows Active Directory environment of ~1000 users.  Create and administer VMware servers. System Engineer ARINC - Annapolis, MD March 2009 to August 2009 System Administrator responsible for Windows 2003 Active Directory environment consisting of 400+ servers running Windows 2000/2003 which includes installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, security and troubleshooting in a global environment.  Install, upgrade, convert and configure VMware ESX 3.5 hosts and guests.  Design, develop, test and deploy custom software installations using Wise and SMS.  Maintain windows updates using WSUS 3.0.  Monitor, configure and troubleshoot backups using Arcserve. System Engineer Provident Bank - Woodlawn, MD October 2004 to March 2009 System Administrator responsible for Windows 2003 Active Directory environment consisting of 400+ servers running Windows 2000, 2003 and Linux Redhat which includes installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, security and troubleshooting.  Install and configure VMware ESX hosts and guests.  Upgraded VMware hosts from version 2.5 and 3 to version 3.5.  Design, develop, test and deploy custom software installations using Wise and SMS.  Maintain server backups and restores with BackupExec.  Exchange 2000/2003 administration.  Configure and monitor data replication using Doubletake for disaster recovery scenarios.  Technical contact for vendor supported applications using SNA, IIS and SQL.  Implemented HP SIM for Windows and Linux servers to monitor up/down status, hardware faults, firmware upgrades, etc.) System Engineer Hewlett Packard - Washington, DC August 2002 to October 2004 Installed and configured new and replacement Windows 2003, 2000 and NT4 BDCs, PDCs, & member servers for Senators' offices and committees of the US Senate throughout the country. I transferred the data from the old server to the new server, recreated shares, migrated print queues, promoted servers when needed and created backup jobs using BackupExec.  Responsible for building servers, creating user accounts, log in scripts, home directories, and email accounts in Active Directory.  Advised customers on configuration options and purchasing decisions in "pre-installation meetings" for DC and state office installations. Desktop Support Technician T. Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD June 1999 to August 2002 Performed 2nd and 3rd level world class customer support of various applications including Office 97/2000/XP, Business Objects, Outlook/GroupWise, Remedy, Lotus Notes, and many others in Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP in a TCP/IP environment.  Troubleshot applications using Oracle, Sybase and DB2 middleware.  Lead technician at the St. Paul & Red Run locations. System Engineer System Source - Hunt Valley, MD October 1997 to June 1999 Provided on-site hardware and software support for corporate customers. Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Network Administration Howard Community College - Columbia, MD Towson State University - Towson, MD Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified IT Professional: Querying MS SQL Server 2012/2014 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist: SQL Database Administrator 2008 Implementation and Maintenance Microsoft Certified IT Professional: Designing, Optimizing and Maintaining a Database Administrative Solution Using Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist: Microsoft SharePoint 2010, Configuring CompTIA Security+ ITIL Foundation Secret Clearance