Entrepreneur Entrepreneur Richmond, VA Work Experience Entrepreneur January 2013 to Present Manage assets in stocks, real estate, and tangible goods to ensure optimal balance between income and investments.  ? Proven self-starter and decision maker  ? Willing to accept risks after appropriate analysis  ? Hard driven go-getter who aggressively seeks opportunities for investments Self Employed Self Employed - Richmond, VA 2013 to Present Dates Vice President / Manager Database Services / Professional Development Manager August 2002 to December 2012 Managed Oracle, DB2, and Microsoft SQL Server database teams for this $178 billion financial institution. Developed vision for enterprise database architecture and standards. Enhanced partnerships with internal customers. Assessed project requirements, assigned resources, and ensured timely and effective delivery of tasks.    ? Managed staff, project assignments, task scheduling, issue resolution for enterprise database technologies  ? Provided in-depth analysis for data and business requirements, leading teams to efficient technology solutions  ? Mentored staff in professional and personal development; groomed four team members to become managers  ? Ensured that databases were properly monitored and managed in order to maintain uptime of 99.9% and minimizing service disruption  ? Assisted DBAs to improve processes and quality of work while shortening delivery schedules    ? Worked closely with auditors, both internal and external, to identify and resolve security issues in order to remain in compliance with regulatory and audit controls  ? Managed vendor relationships for onshore / offshore staffing needs and software acquisition  ? Started 'centers of excellence' teams to facilitate problem resolution, standards development, identification of best practices, and documentation of environments  ? Charter member of ETI Mentoring Program; contributing member: Enterprise Change Advisory Board, IBM Relationship Team, System Admin Advisory Committee, ITSP Users Group, Enterprise Standards Review Board    Infrastructure: Oracle v7/8i//9i/10g/11i R1 & R2, DB2 LUW v8/9, DB2 z/OS v6/7/8/9, MS SQL Server v6.5/7/2000/2005/2010, IBM mainframe, HP servers, MVS, z/OS, UNIX, Linux, SQL, PL/SQL, COBOL SunTrust Banks, Inc - Richmond, VA 2002 to 2012 Dates Assistant Vice President / Applications Development Manager Inventory Systems February 1998 to August 2002 Successfully managed the largest and one of the most significant IT projects in company's history. Led teams in requirements gathering, development, testing, implementation, and support of ERP application. Screened, hired, trained, motivated and evaluated personnel in analysis, design, data modeling, coding, systems integration, testing and implementation.  ? Appointed to the Corporate Steering Team - contributing to organization-wide strategic planning  ? Effectively led a $3 million ERP project, which included upgrading technology and improving functionality, delivering project on time and 30% under budget  ? Utilizing principals of LEAN methodology, developed and implemented a strategic plan improving accounting reconciliation procedures resulting in annual savings of $70 thousand  ? Coordinated team activities across multiple on-going projects, ensuring task completion with maximum effectiveness and minimum duplication of effort  ? Led company in the transition from 3GL character-based applications using flat file architecture to 4GL GUI and web-enabled applications built on relational databases  ? Assisted direct reports in defining career development paths, including training schedules and job assignments    Infrastructure: Oracle 8.1.6/9.0.1/9.2.0, HP 9000, UNIX, NT, Linux, Oracle Developer, SQL, PL/SQL, COBOL UNIVERSAL CORPORATION - Richmond, VA 1998 to 2002 Dates Sr Database Administrator / Systems Analyst May 1996 to February 1998 Managed Oracle and Rdb environments, providing complete array of DBA services for 18 databases, supervision and mentoring of consultants and junior level personnel, application tuning, technical and business analysis, and data modeling for this $12 billion international manufacturing and chemical company. HONEYWELL - Richmond, VA 1990 to 1998 Technical Team Leader / Systems Analyst / Database Administrator March 1990 to April 1996 Lead analyst in the GEMMS ERP project, interfacing with legacy systems and developing custom reports and business modules. Application manager of the GEMMS ERP system (GEMMS has been incorporated into the Oracle OEBS suite). Backup UNIX Systems Administrator. DBA for all Oracle and Adabas/Natural environments.  ? Developed technical specifications to document database environments - ISO/9000 compliant  ? Provided direct leadership of developers and DBAs, selection of software and hardware infrastructure, negotiations with service providers (vendor management), and business continuity planning  ? Created course materials and taught classes in Data Modeling and Relational Database Architecture  ? Using project management tools and techniques, developed plans, assigned tasks and coordinated delivery schedules and dependencies during entire project life cycle    Infrastructure: Oracle 7.1.6, Rdb and Adabas dbms, HP K models, DEC Alpha, DEC VAX, IBM 390, UNIX, VMS, MVS, SQL, PL/SQL, Natural, COBOL, C+ Sr Database Administrator Equifax, Inc - Atlanta, GA March 1988 to March 1990 Infrastructure: Adabas dbms, IBM 390, MVS, JCL and Natural Database Administrator / Sr Applications Analyst Greenville, SC September 1984 to March 1988 1984 - 1988  Infrastructure: Adabas and IDMS dbms, IBM 390, MVS, JCL, COBOL and Natural Database Administrator / Sr Developer / Analyst BIGELOW SANFORD - Greenville, SC May 1981 to September 1984 Infrastructure: Adabas dbms, VSAM, IBM 360/370, MVS, JCL, Natural, COBOL, RPG II, Syncsort Developer Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology - Bethesda, MD September 1980 to May 1981 Infrastructure: Digital System 3, Digital OS, Assembler, COBOL and RPG II Education B. A. in Liberal Studies Limestone College - Gaffney, SC Computer Science, Business Management, Chemistry University of Tennessee - Chattanooga, TN A.S. in Computer Science Computer Learning Center - Springfield, VA