Senior Analyst/Programmer / GIS Analyst Senior Analyst/Programmer / GIS Analyst Senior Analyst/Programmer / GIS Analyst - CBRE-Econometric Advisors Weymouth, MA Work Experience Senior Analyst/Programmer / GIS Analyst CBRE-Econometric Advisors - Boston, MA December 2014 to Present Responsibilities  T-SQL programming of Real Estate information particularly Multi-housing data from raw data processing stage to final product warehouse population. Setup spatial analysis and visualization of building locations as well as statistical analysis at the market, submarket, zip code and census block group level. Created custom queries based on economist requests. Responsible for management of all GIS data and acquisition of new data within Econometric Advisors Group  Accomplishments  • Quickly got up to speed on an existing data warehouse of real estate data.  • Customized the database for new products  • Troubleshooting data inconsistencies.  • Worked with economists during forecasting and visualized results for error checking and trend analysis  • Displayed mapping information using ArcGIS Online Data portal.  • Managed map reconciliation process and identified, manipulated, and imported new GIS layers for econometric models  Software Used: SQL Server, ESRI ArcGIS Products, SSIS, SSRS, R, Python, MapInfo Geospatial Database Administrator Boston Regional Intelligence Center - Boston, MA June 2009 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Program data integration between outside data sources and the BRIC Data warehouse  • Automate reporting jobs for BRIC analysts as well as Boston Police Department officers  • GIS database Management including ArcGIS Server sites and all map services used by BRIC  • Schedule jobs and check on failed job runs. Cleanse bad data using automated procedures  • Manage mapping data web portal  • Implement new technology within the BRIC  Accomplishments  • Updated, streamlined and automated all reporting tasks for the BRIC.  • Used as a technical liaison for technology projects within the Boston Police Department and outside vendors  • Created and managed integration between all Boston Police reporting systems (Computer Aided Dispatch, RMS, Booking, etc.) and the Intelligence Centers Data Warehouse.  • My work resulted in smoother operation of the Intelligence center as well as access to many additional datasets for analysis.  • Data warehouse was built using the Microsoft BI stack (SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS)    Software Used: ESRI Geographic Information Systems (ArcGIS Server, SDE, ArcGIS Desktop) Microsoft BI Stack (SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS) GIS Manager Town of Weymouth - Weymouth, MA December 2003 to June 2009 Responsibilities  • Managed all aspects of the towns Geographic Information Systems  • Identified new uses for GIS Technology in town hall departments.  • Managed the towns Property Viewer website  • Automated department data entry needs by writing VB6 programs and Access Databases  • SQL Server Database Administration  • Identified and imported data from Town Department databases  • Printed maps and did Geospatial Analysis for town departments  Accomplishments  • Modernized and streamlined the towns GIS system and reporting tasks  • Created a Health Department Inspection application to move the department off paper reports to database reporting  • Worked with an outside vendor to implement a web portal for the town to allow access to town mapping information  • Created web applications for various town departments using this mapping portal    Software Used: SQL Server, T-SQL, VB6, ESRI Geographic Information Systems including ArcSDE, ArcGIS desktop, ArcGIS Server, Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, Access, Powerpoint) GIS Database Administrator AMEC Earth and Environmental - Westford, MA September 2002 to December 2003 Responsibilities  • Managed GIS and tabular data for a multi-year military base environmental cleanup  • Wrote queries to pull water and soil sample results for use in mapping software.  • Created a new mapping process to publish maps of chemical analysis on a weekly and monthly basis  • Created maps and managed data access for my department's analysts.    Accomplishments  • Rewrote, streamlined, and modernized the mapping system in use for the cleanup project.  • Cut by more than 50% the time it took to collect, manipulate and map environmental data for a monthly map request.  • Streamlined and cleaned up the database in use for the project leading to greater efficiency and less errors.    Software Used: ESRI Geographic Information System Software Arc/Info, Microsoft Access and Excel T-SQL and SQL Server Management Studio, ERDAS Imagine Image Analyst Applied Analysis Incorporated December 1999 to December 2000 Responsibilities  • Satellite Image Analysis and Classification in support of Military and Civilian Clients  • Managed all QA/QC of new software versions of the in-house developed ERDAS Imagine subpixel classifier.  • Manipulated Multiple Image Formats including Landsat TM, SPOT, IRS, IKONOS  • Performed Material of Interest Classification using the subpixel classifier software  Software Used: ERDAS Imagine and Subpixel Classifier GIS and Remote Sensing Research Associate Department of Geography - University at Albany - Albany, NY September 1995 to November 1999 Responsibilities  • Performed all data import, manipulation and analysis for several remote sensing / GIS projects  • Team taught GPS course using Trimble GPS.  • Published results and gave presentations at GIS conferences and meetings  • Experience working with several image formats including LandSAT, IRS-1C. SAR    Software Used: ESRI Geographic Information System Software, ERDAS Imagine Education MA in Geography University at Albany - Albany, NY 1995 to 1998 BA in Geology and Geography State University of New York at Potsdam - Potsdam, NY Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-portolese-08952810 https://github.com/jportolese Additional Information FAA Certified Drone Pilot