Sr. Data Warehouse Developer Sr. Data Warehouse Developer Sr. Data Warehouse Developer - United BioSource Austin, TX I am highly motivated, enthusiastic, resourceful, and trainable; able to adapt easily to new environments and successfully handle a wide range of responsibilities and special projects. I am a good communicator with people skills, an energetic team player in a professional environment. Extremely detail oriented and able to coordinate multiple team priorities. Work Experience Sr. Data Warehouse Developer United BioSource - Blue Bell, PA January 2017 to Present • Created and deployed SSIS packages using various transformations such as Slowly Changing Dimension, Multicast, Merge Join, Lookup, Fuzzy Lookup, Conditional Split, Aggregate, Derived Column, and Data Conversion Transformations.  • Fine-tuned SQL Queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  • Designed and implemented data warehouse architecture for corporate circulation data warehouse. Subsequent data marts, extracts and reports were sourced from the architecture of conformed facts and dimensions  • Created Tableau Dashboards with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security.  • Responsible for Tableau Server Administrative functions, upgrades, installations, configuration, backup of servers and load balancing techniques.  • Train and manage developers, advising other groups in organization on SSIS development, data warehouse development, and ETL development best practices.  • Conduct code walkthroughs and review peer code and documentation.  • Good knowledge of MS SQL Server 2016 implementing new features like Row and Page compression mechanism, CDC, Data Compression, Backup compression, Resource Governor.  • Created Partition function, Partition scheme and multiple file groups and files to host the table data for Data partitioning.  • Created Active Directory with Security group with Table level permissions.  • Setup Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job steps with automated response solution schedules.  • Created Service Brokers on various SQL Servers  • Build efficient SSIS packages for processing fact and dimension tables with complex transforms and type 1 and type 2 changes.  • Created system for capturing, reporting, and correcting error data.  • Work with developers, DBAs, and systems support personnel in elevating and automating successful code to production.  • Provide on-call support to production system to resolve any issues.  • Gather requirements and design of data warehouse and data mart entities. Sr. Database Developer Accolade Inc - Plymouth Meeting, PA February 2014 to December 2016 • Develops highly complex ETL code for data movement, data transformation, data quality, data cleansing and Performs data load tuning.  • Working with business users and business analyst for requirements gathering and business analysis and converted business requirements into high level and low level design.  • Created complex T-SQL stored procedures for both data loads and application systems  • MS SQL Server 2008 internals with emphasis on query performance enhancement on large data warehouse environments.  • Interacted with the Business teams throughout enterprise to support the design of data models and supporting load processes  • Planned, designed and implemented application database code objects, such as stored procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, views, joins and statements for applications.  • Implemented performance tuning by implementing suitable optimizations and appropriate indexes and keys.  • Support application development groups to debug and fix stored procedures and Optimize application based stored procedures where required.  • Experience using IDERA to monitor SQL database performance.  • Work with Analytic Team to generate data that is used to feed the Verisk application. Sr. SQL Developer Consultant Anexinet - Blue Bell, PA August 2012 to January 2014 • Troubleshooting SSIS job and data quality failures  • Writing SQL queries to help profile data and create reports.  • Created complex T-SQL stored procedures for both data loads and testing data for quality.  • Running and improving established ETL processes in both Production and Test environments.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting SSIS package execution.  • Working with business users to understand requirements and developing level of effort estimates.  • Enhance Profit Reporting dashboards and reports due to merger. The dashboards are developed in SQL Server 2008 R2 SSIS and SSRS.  • Converted Informatica projects to SSIS (2008 R2) ETL for General Ledger and Journal Entry processing. This streamlined the process and reduced the number of people needed for support. Sources included flat files, XML, SQL Server and Oracle databases to load an Oracle database.  • Implementing suitable optimizations and appropriate indexes and keys to database objects.  • Support application development groups to debug and fix stored procedures and Optimize application based stored procedures where required.  • Experience using IDERA to monitor SQL database performance. Database Administrator HarperCollins Publishers - Dunmore, PA April 2011 to August 2012 • Experience in using SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) for data extraction, transformation and loading. Designing, creating and maintaining already existing complex SSIS packages.  • Handled day to day monitoring and maintenance of database  • Monitored transaction activity and utilization.  • Created C# scripting focused on data manipulation and transformation  • Created complex T-SQL stored procedures for both data loads and application systems  • MS SQL Server 2008 internals with emphasis on query performance enhancement on large data warehouse environments.  • Interacted with the Business teams throughout enterprise to support the design of data models and supporting load processes  • Planned, designed and implemented application database code objects, such as stored procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, views, joins and statements for applications.  • Implemented performance tuning by implementing suitable optimizations and appropriate indexes and keys.  • Support application development groups to debug and fix stored procedures and Optimize application based stored procedures where required.  • Experience using IDERA to monitor SQL database performance. Programmer Analyst ALLONE Health Solutions January 2008 to April 2011 Wilkes Barre, PA  • Designed, developed and maintained current applications using DataStage and Quality Stage.  • Enhanced the quality of extracts generated using Quality Stage tools and using Information analyzer to investigate the content and quality of data.  • Support applications internally and externally.  • Generate reports using Transact-SQL Server 2005 (Stored Procedure), DTS packages and create, support and maintain already existing SSIS and DTS packages.  • EDI processing, monitoring and translation of all inbound (837i, 837p HL7 etc) using WebSphere TX.  • Investigate Data content using SAS. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • 11+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, implementation and administration of business intelligence solutions with Microsoft SQL server 2016 / 2014 / 2012 / 2008R2 / 2008 / 2005 / 2000 in development, testing & production.  • Extensive experience in BI suites - using integration services (SSIS) for ETL (Extraction, Transformation and Loading), reporting services (SSRS) for creating different types of reports and analysis services (SSAS) for design and developing complex cubes  • C# Scripting, VBScript, Visual Basic.Net, Visual Basic.Net 2005, Visual Basic.Net 2008, Visual Basic 6.0, C #, Crystal Report 11.0, QlikView, Tableau 10.2, Visual Studio 2008, Visual Studio 2010, Visual Studio 2012, Visual Studio 2015.  • Experience in Data modeling using ER Studio  • Sound knowledge of software development life cycle and software maintenance.  • Experience working with SSIS packages, DTS packages, and XML.  • Proficient ability to understand requirements of the customers and troubleshoot their problems.  • Experience in extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) of data flows using DataStage 8.0 8.2, WebSphere TX 8.2, Information Analyzer, Quality Stage with complex integration of SQL Server, flat file sources and IBM mainframe DB2  • Expert in writing T-SQL, working with DTS (Data transformation services) data cleansing, data scrubbing and data migration  • Expertise in creating indexed views, complex stored procedures, effective functions, and appropriate triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation to maintain data consistency  • 4 years' experience with Facets v4.21, v4.11 with specialization in Billing, Claims, Provides and Member/Subscriber.