Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Work Experience Programmer Analyst Point of Sale - Camp Hill, PA May 2006 to January 2010 • Responsible for SQL Server databases  • Europe and U.S. Point of Sale Support, 4th Level Support to Stores, helped in all aspects from loading register software, to troubleshooting and problem resolution of software and hardware issues.  • Retail Transaction Support (software & servers that transmit all data to/from stores). Separate servers and environment for U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia; Configured servers and Pathfinder software configuration, installed software application patches, created scripts to deliver and retrieve files to the stores; this included flash sales reports, inventory, sales and pricing data, polling, human resources files such as payroll, benefits, scheduling, etc. Research and resolve any delivery issues or failures including network, Active Directory, and security issues; Support and installation of credit servers (credit, check, gift card, and debit), responsible for testing and implementing new mandates and SOX compliance for credit servers; responsible for testing any Pathfinder modifications (register, software, and server end to end testing), support of software and servers 24/7 with a 30 minutes resolution window.  • Worked with Vendors to receive, apply and implement software and patches.  • Created scripts to run on the registers to install software and patches.  • Microsoft SharePoint administrator created and maintained sites for the I.S. organization; created and conducted training for I.S. developers.  • SQL Reporting Server - Created and ported existing reports for the I.S. organization from the Help Desk Software in SQL Reporting, automated distribution in e-mail and publication to a web site. Responsible for training I.S. associates and transitioning this responsibility to a new team. Including the process of requesting a new report, report modification, development, change control procedures, testing, implementation and security.  • Web Development and support  • PVCS responsible for older versions of software in production, assisted and provided mentoring for new department in configuring new versions and products.  • Testing completed using the project life cycle.  • Created web site for 3rd level support to document issues, resolutions and procedures. Site was also used by the Help Desk. Programmer Analyst Point of Sale - Camp Hill, PA August 1999 to May 2006 • Responsible for researching new technology, pilots, and implementations (i.e. Researched PDA's, recommended hardware and software, worked with vendors to pilot, worked with internal staff to set up servers and deploy into production, documented server installation, device installation, and maintenance)  • Web Development - Installed servers and created web sites for internal support.  • PeopleSoft Technical Skills - Responsible for planning upgrades, installed servers, and help the development staff through the conversion, created and maintained web servers, process schedulers and application servers in a UNIX and Windows environment, work closely with database administrators to setup/upgrade Oracle databases.  • Responsible for technical training to the Development staff; PVCS, UNIX, and Lotus Notes.  • PVCS upgrades and maintenance  • Lotus Notes development  • Assisted Development Staff with technical support. Programmer Analyst Point of Sale - Camp Hill, PA May 1999 to August 1999 • Responsible for internal training of PeopleSoft Financials  • Developed and implemented nVision Reports  • Unix Scripting and DOS Batch Files Access Database Administrator Point of Sale - Camp Hill, PA January 1997 to May 1999 Created and maintain Microsoft Access databases for Information Services. Education Associate Skills Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Html, Pvcs, Scripting, Visio, Peoplesoft, Citrix, Terminal services, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Frontpage, Microsoft frontpage, Printers, Retail, Business management, Human resources, Warehouse management