Senior GTM Security Product Adviser Senior GTM Security Product Adviser Senior Security Product Adviser & Consultant Boise, ID Work Experience Senior GTM Security Product Adviser HP Inc - Boise, ID November 2017 to July 2019 Home Office)    Key Responsibilities:  • Represented HP as a technical security expert and trusted adviser with customers; developed and strategized business plans with account teams, PBMs, and Channel partners; shared security knowledge and best practices recommendations for HP security solutions with customers and partners; assisted with "moving the needle" on closing sales by demonstrating why HP offers the world's most secure and resilient PCs.    • Worked extensively with HP's core OEM partners including Intel, AMD, and Microsoft to jointly present our security solutions and unique partnerships with HP customers and other partners.    • Worked with GBU, product marketing, PBMs, and sales enablement teams in the development and rollout of security product collateral and enablement training for customers, partners, and HP Direct and Inside sales reps.    • Delivered customer and partner security sales enablement events and workshops as appropriate for further understanding of issues and buy-in to HP's security proposal and solutions.    • Investigated and optimized a security solution's fit to the business requirements and objectives of a sales opportunity, both current and future.    • Established the validity of a security solution and its components to the customer, and defend HP's security solutions versus security features from competitors such as Dell and Lenovo.    • Advanced opportunities through the use of effective consultative selling techniques such as live product demos, chalk-talk sessions, discovery workshops, and security assessments.    • Built customer loyalty through continuous innovation, becoming a trusted advisor.    • Partnered with account managers and technical solution consultants to ensure post-sale problem resolution and customer satisfaction.    • Communicated and articulated the details of a security solution within a proposed customer solution and RFP response. Principal Security Product Manager / Security Services Solutions Architect / Principal Security Sales Consultant / Technical Implementation Consultant Oracle Corporation - Boise, ID September 1996 to November 2017 Key Responsibilities:  • Worked in a highly visible outbound PM role to manage the Security Strategic Customer Program (SSCP) in delivering onsite customer engagements for installation and configuration of Oracle database security products (Advanced Security encryption, Audit Vault, Database Vault, Data Masking, and Database Firewall).    • Prepared and delivered knowledge transfer training sessions to customers as part of SSCP. Knowledge transfer collateral included product overview, technical deep dive and product internals, and deployment best practices.    • Engaged with Oracle Support and Development teams to identify and troubleshoot bugs or other issues encountered during SSCP engagements.    • Developed collateral for the Database Security Development teams based on SSCP engagements that addressed recommended product enhancements, product implementation "gotchas", and deployment cookbooks.    • Delivered technical training sessions and presentations at OOW, XMonth, and other internal and external venues.    • Acted in a pre-sale role to architect security services solutions for numerous customers in Commercial and Public Sector. Tasks included engaging with customers to identify security issues and concerns, addressing security compliance requirements, delivering workshops and Proof-of-Concepts (POCs), developing and presenting security solution proposals, and developing labor BOMs to support security proposals.    • Delivered custom security product and services workshops to support security solutioning for specific customers. Workshops included hands-on lab exercises for database security products as well as detailed discovery sessions to pin down requirements prior to delivering security services proposals.    • Delivered custom POC engagements as needed either on premise or @OMCS to support customized security solution proposals.    • Delivered numerous pre-sale customer presentations, demonstrations, and POCs to public sector customers for Oracle database security products. Architected and developed security solutions, developed security proposals, and participated with sales teams to deliver security proposals to customers.    • Acted as primary technical lead in the rollout of the Database Security Risk Assessment (DBSRA) program. The program included onsite customer engagements in which detailed security assessments of a customer's chief production databases was performed, recommendations were identified, and engagement results were presented to executive management and technical staff. DBSRA engagements led to significant sales opportunities and closure of many security deals throughout FY 2014 and FY 2015.    • Co-developed and acted as technical lead for rollout of the "IRS 1075 & Oracle 12c Database Security" hands-on workshop. The workshop covered Oracle's entire database security stack and included practical customer use cases via a set of lab exercises. Development effort included preparing an extensive lab workbook and slide decks.    • Provided post-sale support of Oracle database security products for numerous customers.    • Delivered customer-facing onsite consulting engagements of Oracle database security products. Engagements included requirements definition and design, use case preparation, POC, UAT testing, and production deployment.    • Engaged on numerous pre-sale commercial accounts regarding security compliance, database encryption, database auditing, Database Vault, and data masking. Presentations ranged from high level to deep dives and demos (customers included Caterpillar, SciVantage, and Barclay's).    • Created and delivered hands-on database security workshop. Mentored many other sales consultants in delivering the workshop. The workshop was instrumental in helping to increase sales of Oracle database security throughout North America.    • Created a technical deep dive, hands-on workshop on Database Vault. Delivered the workshop in North America and throughout Europe. This workshop was used to drive sales of Database Vault globally.    • Responsible for presenting technical training courses to Oracle customers, including technical staff and end users. Range of students varies from functional end users to extremely technical individuals (programmers, DBAs, etc.).    • Primary areas of training expertise are database security, high availability (Data Guard, RAC), database tuning, backup/recovery, database replication, and database administration.    • Delivered advanced technical seminars worldwide on data warehousing, Oracle8i/9i tuning, and advanced tuning. Senior Database Administrator Rockwell Autonetics & Missile Systems Division - Anaheim, CA September 1995 to September 1996 Responsible for the maintenance of several Oracle and INGRES databases residing on an HP 9000 K200 platform under HP-UX 10.0. Responsible for developing and tuning three manufacturing data marts for an Oracle7 manufacturing data warehouse. Implemented numerous database security features within all production and test databases. Tuned SQL in existing applications to improve performance. Senior Database Administrator SAIC Health Care & Technology Group - San Diego, CA August 1994 to September 1995 Maintained Oracle database changes for a large health care system in a SCO UNIX environment. Incorporated database security features to lock down production, test, and development databases. Major tasks included performance tuning and administration of the system. Supported structural changes and administration of a health care data warehouse. Programmer/Analyst Superior Industries - Van Nuys, CA October 1989 to January 1990 Performed IDEF-1X data modeling for several legacy databases. Implemented modifications to in-house data acquisition databases for assembly and manufacturing data using Oracle. Senior Database Analyst/DBA Northrop Aircraft Division - Hawthorne, CA February 1988 to June 1989 Acted a project lead for the development of DB2 and Oracle database requirements of an automated airframe assembly system under MVS. Performed data modeling, wrote database specifications, and interacted with code development team for performance tuning of SQL. Also delivered in-house training classes on relational database design and C programming. Sales Consultant/Systems Engineer NBI, Inc - Los Angeles, CA April 1987 to February 1988 Performed pre-sale systems configuration for customer application requirements. Developed data models, created INGRES and Oracle databases, and created customer application programs using C language with embedded SQL calls. Developed and optimized databases for user applications. Participated in NBI in-house training of junior systems engineers. Systems Consultant AT&T Network Systems - Naperville, IL November 1986 to April 1987 Developed system requirements and prepared database specifications for the 5ESS development effort. Prototyped new requirements in C language interfacing with an Oracle database. Programmer/Analyst Hughes Aircraft Company - El Segundo, CA May 1982 to October 1986 Performed requirements specification, software design, and programming of systems in data communications, engineering, and manufacturing environments. Acted as project lead for the development of an engineering requirements document and drawing system tracking system. Prototyped and developed applications in C language using Oracle and INGRES. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Brigham Young University BA in Political Science in Political Science Brigham Young University Skills SQL, Data Visualization Links http://@OMCS Additional Information • Strong business acumen, HP security product knowledge, security risk assessment delivery expertise, software development experience, technical writing, and presentation skills acquired over an extensive IT career. Significant experience with pre-sale, managed cloud security services, and post-sale security product implementation in high profile customer-facing positions throughout Commercial and Public Sector verticals.    • Acted as a Senior GTM Security Product Adviser on HP's US Product Category team, representing HP as a recognized security expert and trusted adviser for PC security, to strategize with Channel partners and PBMs, and (most importantly) to "move the needle" on closing sales by demonstrating why HP offers the world's most secure and resilient PCs. Worked extensively with both HP direct sales teams and Channel partners throughout North America.    • Worked with GBU, product marketing, PBMs, and sales enablement teams in the development and rollout of security product enablement training for customers, partners, and HP Direct and Inside sales reps.    • Worked extensively with HP's core OEM partners including Intel, AMD, and Microsoft to jointly present our security solutions and unique partnerships with HP customers and other partners.    • Strong technical knowledge and hands-on skillset with HP PC security stack including Sure Start, Sure Run, Sure Recover, Sure Sense, Sure Click, Sure View, and other security features.    • Acted as primary technical lead in the rollout and delivery of a security risk assessment program for database security. The program included onsite customer engagements in which detailed security assessments of a customer's chief production databases were performed, recommendations identified, and engagement results were presented to executive management and technical staff.    • Acted in a highly visible customer-facing Security Product Manager role to deliver onsite customer security product deployment engagements for installation and configuration of Oracle database security products. Engagements included deployment of Transparent Data Encryption, network encryption, Audit Vault, Database Firewall, and other advanced database security products. Delivered security product training as part of the engagements. Used such tools as Wireshark, Tcpdump, Oracle scripting tools, and other tools while delivering these engagements.    • Acted as a service delivery pre-sale security architect for Managed Cloud Security Services solutions for numerous customers in Commercial and Public Sector. Tasks included engaging with customers to identify security issues and concerns, addressing security compliance requirements, performing security risk assessments, delivering workshops and Proof-of-Concepts (POCs), developing and presenting security solution proposals, and developing labor BOMs.    • Very strong GTM skills with sales account teams, PBMs, Channel partners, and customers in both pre-sale and post-sale security roles. Fully dedicated to ensuring that our customers are 100% successful with the adoption, usage, and management of our security products and services.