Enterprise Database Administrator Enterprise <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Brandon, MS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise Database Administrator United State Army Corp of Engineers - Vicksburg, MS July 2018 to December 2018 Support the administration of Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase databases in an enterprise environment.  Assist with the patching, creation, startup, configuration and tuning of databases supporting multiple applications. Enterprise Database Administrator United State Army Corp of Engineers - Vicksburg, MS July 2018 to December 2018 Support the administration of Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase databases in an enterprise environment.  Assist with the patching, creation, startup, configuration and tuning of databases supporting multiple applications. Analytic Business Analyst IBM Watson - Ridgeland, MS March 2015 to July 2018 Support a Decision Support System Oracle Data warehouse  Creating reports and analyzing data in support of the Mississippi Medicaid Department Analytic Business Analyst IBM Watson - Ridgeland, MS March 2015 to July 2018 Support a Decision Support System Oracle Data warehouse  Creating reports and analyzing data in support of the Mississippi Medicaid Department Enterprise Database Administrator United States Army Corp of Engineers / Lockheed Martin - Vicksburg, MS December 2014 to February 2015 Support the administration of Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase databases in an enterprise environment.  Assist with the patching, creation, startup, configuration and tuning of databases supporting multiple applications. Senior Programmer Analyst MS Department of Education - Jackson, MS December 2004 to December 2014 Supporting the State Education Accountability Model utilizing SAS, Oracle and Crystal Reports. Data that is stored in Oracle Databases are extracted for analysis using SAS. The results of the analysis are distributed using Crystal Reports.  Developed an application called (SPS) School Payment System. This application was developed using Oracle Forms and Reports. SPS is a web based financial application that interfaces with MS’s statewide accounting system to help school district business managers better manage funds received from the state.     Manage and organize the monthly collection and submission of education data to the United States Department of Education. This data are being collected using various methods such as surveys, crystal reports, sharepoint, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and spreadsheets.    Assist with the administration and support of ORACLE and Microsoft SQL Server databases. Senior Programmer Analyst SAKS Incorporated - Jackson, MS 2002 to December 2004 Led the development and maintenance of web enabled applications using The Oracle Enterprise and .NET Platform. Develop and automate data interfaces between the mainframe and client/server using Unix Shell Scripts, Stored Procedures, Unix Cron Tables, JAVA and VB Scripts. Provide business analysis and technical design support for a Logistical Data Mart.  Developed interface processes for SAKS International Logistical tracking system. Utilized DataStage migration product, FTP, and XML to automate the transferring and transformation of data.  Systems Engineer Electronic Data Systems (EDS) - Houston, TX 1991 to 2002 Provided support to the Mississippi Medicaid System.    I was a member of a team that successfully implemented a decision support system. The implementation included the installation of Business Objects/Codman onto a Novell Network, the development of user interfaces using Powerbuilder and the conversion of data from a mainframe to an Oracle database using C/C++.    I was a member of a team that maintained an enhanced a system that was responsible for administering a statewide federal health program. The maintenance was done using COBOL, Easytrieve and CICS on an IBM Mainframe.    I was a member of a conversion team that converted Savings and Loan Institution Applications onto EDS’s Banking System. I was a member of a technical team that migrated the conversion process from the mainframe to a client server environment. I wrote conversion programs using COBOL, Easytrieve and DYL260 that reformatted financial data such as demand deposits, savings, loans and certificates of deposits into formats that were acceptable by EDS’s Bank Management Information System. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Jackson State University - Jackson, MS September 1981 to May 1986 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, ETL Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE