SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SR. <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Los Angeles, CA To use my technical, leadership and interpersonal skills in a way that will create a winning relationship with an excellent organization. Work Experience SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SIEMENS PL February 2005 to July 2018 Database administration of Oracle, MSSQL, MYSQL and Oracle for SAP in a multi-billion-dollar company on a Db team of just two people. This involved keeping projects on track, ensuring systems were compliant with corporate-issued security standards and managing service tickets (db changes, refreshes, error resolution and performance analysis) in a timely manner. I also actively participated in documenting procedures and tracking of databases. Due to the company size and acquisitions made by Siemens, I was typically involved in no fewer than four projects per year. This included frequent communication with project sponsors; gathering requirements; determining specs for new systems; creating the Db environment and making it compliant and supporting the application team with connection, performance and data flow needs. INFORMATION SUPPORT SPECIALIST WEBSTER UNIVERSITY November 2003 to August 2004 Provided support services to University faculty and staff, including consulting, training and troubleshooting for the School of Business and Technology's computer software and hardware. Addressed technology inquiries, information requests and complaints in a timely, efficient and consistent manner. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Information Management WEBSTER UNIVERSITY ST. LOUIS May 2005 Skills Oracle Dba (8 years), DBA, MYSQL (5 years), MSSQL Administrator (5 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/szayrmz5y-vlinhq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.