IT Project Manager / Senior Systems Analyst IT Project Manager / Senior Systems Analyst IT Project Manager / Senior Systems Analyst / Database Administrator Kennesaw, GA ***Seeking employment in a Database Administrator, Supervisory Systems/Data Analyst, Information Technology Specialist, or IT Project Manager Field.***    *Over 16 years’ experience in training and development strategies.  *Over 19 years’ experience in computer networking, database administration, database development, data mining, and enterprise automation.  *Over 8 years’ experience in IT Project Management and proficient in SCRUM methodologies.   *Proficient in Microsoft Office applications such as: Microsoft Outlook, Word, PowerPoint, Access, Excel, Project, and Visio.  *Proficient in Visual Basic .Net, C#, ASP.Net, Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), Visual Studio, SSIS, SQL Server, Stored Procedures, SharePoint, and Cherwell Service Management (IT Service Desk Software); Background in HTML, Tableau, and SSRS.  *Known for excellent problem-solving skills and patience in dealing with complex situations.  *Developed expert communication skills by leveraging technical, business and financial expertise/experience to communicate effectively with clients and different levels of management. Work Experience IT Project Manager / Senior Systems Analyst Assurant Inc - Atlanta, GA August 2011 to June 2019 * Led teams as well as provided technical expertise and recommendations in assessing new software projects and initiatives to support and enhance existing systems which helped achieve enterprise wide automation goals.  * Managed multiple large scale projects through Development Life Cycle which included: Requirements Analysis, Project Scheduling, System Migrations/Integrations, and Testing/QA/Rollout/Support.  * Managed Workflow Automation Project for Lender Placed Insurance (LPI) department which decommissioned, combined, or converted to .Net/SQL over 400 MS Access databases/Excel spreadsheets and reduced employee workload by 65%.  * Developed and managed the "STREAM" Project which maintained and tracked internal and external reports, client documents, and correspondence across multiple departments; this led to improved response time to vendor and government inquiries as well as reduced employee workload.  * Made recommendations on custom applications which included a number of .Net data capture systems and other databases which needed to be moved into a central SQL repository.  * Reduced costs through creating the "48 Silver" and "HAZX" programs; the introduction of these streamlined processes and procedures improvements resulted in an annual cost savings of over 20% enterprise wide.  * Led and assisted in the creation of system designs and functional specifications for new development projects including writing technical procedures and documentation for the applications that improved end-user learning curve.  * Guided teams in the development of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) for over 30 clients which resulted in more client focused applications and client satisfaction. Some of the larger clients included: Chase, SunTrust, Regions, Wells Fargo, and PNC.  * Provided SQL administration in live and test environments and maintained optimal system performance.  * Created hybrid database solutions, which utilized the performance of SQL as a back-end solution and Windows Forms/VB.Net/ASP.Net/MS Access as a front-end user interface, with great success.  * Ensured that new database codes met company standards for readability, reliability, and performance; making enhancements, changes, and/or corrections in line with best practices.  * Used SSIS to automate and perform ETL request of large datasets from Data Warehouse and other data sources; helping transition to a more automation focused environment and reduce wait time for data availability.  * Developed and managed both transactional and analytical/historical databases using OLTP and OLAP methodology.  * Investigated and resolved application functionality related issues and provided first level support and troubleshooting, within SLA, with high customer satisfaction; issues were usually submitted via Cherwell Service Management (IT Service Desk Software).  * Analyzed data contained in the corporate database and identify data integrity issues with existing and proposed systems and implemented solutions, improving system performance and security. Database Administrator (Consultant) FIRSTPro - Atlanta, GA January 2011 to August 2011 * Provided database, software, and technical support and greatly reduced performance issues that resulted in fewer troubleshooting calls.  * Effectively planned and implemented program code enhancements to improve system functionality and associate workflow.  * Created, tested and maintained business wide process improvement applications; including the Corrective Action Plan system for documenting root cause analysis of process gaps.  * Implemented audit and training processes to improve support team compliance rate. Through these programs, compliance rates for government and client audits improved by 60% within the first 3 months.  * Prepared periodic compliance reports to help identify areas of improvement and monitor current processes for efficiency.  * Provided programming assistance to other programmers/projects as needed.  * Analyzed and modified programming systems, including encoding, testing, debugging and documenting programs.  * Analyzed Production Systems to ensure that they met operating requirements.  * Performed multiple project management tasks, like project plan creation & requirements gathering.  * Consulted regularly with vendors as well as internal and external customers, on project status, proposals and technical issues. Database Administrator Department of Human Services (DHS) - Atlanta, GA May 2010 to September 2010 Contract)  * Created, managed, and monitored multiple databases for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) program. Through the aforementioned databases, associate workflow was improved by over 75% and business processes by over 80%; resulting in a production increase of over 80%.  * Identified complex system problems and reviewed related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions with minimal turnover time.  * Provided training, to associates and managers, utilizing MS Power Point to develop training models to describe database elements and how they are used.  * Further enhanced users' understanding of database systems by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering group and individual training sessions and creating user-friendly training materials.  * Stored, retrieved and manipulated data for analysis, financial, auditing, and custom reports for all levels of management.  * Integrated different reports and queries using Structured Query Language (SQL), Macro's, and Visual Basic, to allow for data comparison, summarization, and meet specific business needs.  * Implemented security measures and user access levels to safeguard information ensuring zero security breaches of sensitive information. Information Technology Project Coordinator (Consultant) Adecco Staffing - New York, NY November 2007 to December 2009 * Planned and managed multimillion-dollar projects aligning business goals with technology solutions to drive process improvements.  * Defined processes and tools best suited to each project and mitigated risk factors through careful data analysis.  * Implemented Systems Automation Projects that tracked Regional financial goals and revenue, in excess of $200 million, for Global business accounts such as: AXA, AIG, Barclays, Bear Stearns, Bloomberg, Marsh, Thomson-Reuters, and United Nations.  * Led initiatives to evaluate, modify, and monitor existing applications and database management systems and directed programmers and analysts to make changes where needed; helping to reduce system issues, maintenance costs, and overall business expenses.  * Customized commercial/local databases and applications so that they work properly together to fit specific company and clients needs.  * Led project that provided financial awareness across the management and executive levels in the areas of budgeting and revenue trends and recovered over $5 million in unaccounted for funds.  * Engaged in business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, and coordination of people and resources.  * Assisted in the development of full-scale project plans for approved projects and associated communications documents.  * Researched and wrote company policies for the Legal IT department to maintain compliance with government policies; changes resulted in 98% compliance audit rating. Systems Administrator U.S. Navy March 2000 to September 2006 * Supervised the work of junior system analyst employees.  * Provided technical guidance and served as a mentor for junior personnel.  * Discussed job performance achievements and/or problems as well as upcoming goals and recommendations for areas of improvement.  * Presented training information, using a variety of instructional techniques and formats such as role playing, simulations, team exercises, group discussions, videos and lectures.  * Promoted an environment that was engaging, focused on execution and success oriented. Always willing to assist in the overall team objectives to produce high quality results.  * Performed inspections and audits of government programs and supporting databases.  * Created utilization reports used for the monitoring, repositioning, and inventory of resources.  * Managed multiple implementation projects with competing priorities and similar requirements at various stages.  * Installed software, modified and repaired database installations and resolved technical issues.  * Planned, coordinated and implemented security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  * Provided support that improved workflow, correspondence tracking, and budget management. Education Diploma in Information Assurance and Security University of Phoenix 2016 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, DATABASE DEVELOPMENT, IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT, DATA MINING, ASP, ASP.NET, SHAREPOINT, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, VBA, VISIO, VISUAL BASIC, VISUAL BASIC .NET, VISUAL BASIC FOR APPLICATIONS, SDLC, Information Technology Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5