VP of Information Technology VP of Information Technology IT Strategist, Technology Transformation Leader, Project Management guru, and Software Developer Scottsdale, AZ Work Experience VP of Information Technology SKYVIEW SATELLITE NETWORKS, INC 2009 to Present Private Satellite Broadcasting, Inventory Management, and National Sales firm. $100+Million revenue; national broadcast distributor for ABC News Radio & CBS Radio News    Empowered by founder and CEO to drive IT strategy for fast-growing firm. As change agent, tasked with creating innovative, web based inventory management system to manage local, regional, and national advertising campaigns amongst, in and at 100+ professional sports teams, TuneIn Sports, ABC News & CBS News.  Directing an IT & development team of 10+ while managing key relationships with ABC News, CBS News, TuneIn Sports, teams, & vendors enterprise wide. Lead sophisticated implementations of industry first radio BI    initiative, web-based inventory management system, TuneIn sports & satellite uplink virtualization initiative valued at over $5M.  Supported 800% Growth Within 5 Years Through Nimble, Cost-Effective IT Strategy  • Secured $250K yearly savings through the completion of Project Archturus, the transition of all mission critical IT systems to hyperconverged virtualized architecture & colocation at a Tier-IV data center. This was completed live with zero downtime.  • Upgraded core broadcast system live with zero downtime and unit testing against all systems to document and ensure business continuity and disaster recovery planning.  • Developed next generation industry leading software, the development of an entirely web-based advertising inventory management system for linear and non-linear broadcasts with the ability to deliver market specific targeted commercial advertising within each broadcast, now managing over 1 billion dollars in advertising revenue for:  • 100+ professional and collegiate sports teams across the country  • ABC News Radio's 1500+ radio nationwide radio affiliates  • CBS Radio News' historical brand in every major metropolitan market in the country.  • Reduced costs and streamlined support while ensuring global data availability. Eliminated multiple desktop systems being utilized as servers.  • Achieved 60-second disaster recovery time as business continuity strategist. Designed robust recovery process including rigorous testing & secure, off-site redundancy.  • Achieved 100% IT standup for enterprise policy control through evaluation & testing of all business units, desktops, servers, and software. Architected all internal IT policies/procedures.  • Restructured IT organization to align better with business operation and strategy  • Reduce cost-of-ownership by negotiating contracts with HP, Level3, VMWare & more.  • Increased IT responsiveness by implementing active monitoring systems and remote support capabilities to create a more active than re-active IT workforce.  • Delivered world-class support to customers by launching 24/7/365 Help Desk using minimum IT staffing to reduce costs and increase productivity. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR - FULL STACK DEVELOPER SKYVIEW SATELLITE NETWORKS, INC - Scottsdale, AZ 2007 to 2009 Motivated by opportunities and business challenges in the organization to modernize mission critical IT infrastructure, consolidate under a single organizational department, and provide improved SLAs to both internal and external customers across all systems.    • Implemented centrally managed network infrastructure to enable centralized control and security from the edge to the core and provide throughput necessary for business growth.  • Designed & Deployed centralized, redundant, & extensible storage platform across the organization for use by all mission critical systems and as a file server with true audit capabilities to ensure compliance with applicable security requirements of our clients as well as organizational policies.  • Implemented First Business Continuity plan and redundancy initiative based on industry accepted business risk assessments as well as risks unique to Skyview's business. Including:  • Standardized UPS deployment for all mission critical systems to ensure uptime sufficient to support all systems during transition to building generator power.  • Identified and implemented Microsoft Failover Cluster services for database architecture, continuously available file services, and initial virtualization initiatives to ensure redundancy across all mission critical systems.  • Implemented testing and drills for various mission critical failures to rehearse and adapt business continuity plans for various failure scenarios and to ensure that all staff are familiar with enacting disaster recovery plans to ensure business continuity  • Migrated the entire email system from an opensource email architecture running on desktop hardware to a true enterprise level Exchange email environment with true organization management, security, and oversight. .NET APPLICATI ON DEVELOPER SKYVIEW SATELLITE NETWORKS, INC. - Scottsdale, AZ 2006 to 2007 Recruited after graduation by founder and CEO to drive application development strategy for fast- growing firm. As the sole and first .NET Application Developer, tasked with creating services and clientless applications for business process automation throughout the organization. Designed audio synchronization application still in use today and licensed to Skyview clients. Implemented development modernization initiative to train existing development staff in .NET development methodologies, OOP, and Windows Forms & Services, and move the organization away from VB6. Kicked off, managed, and participated in development of the first advertising inventory management application at Skyview utilizing VB.NET Windows Forms.    • Significantly Improved Productivity, through the automation of key business processes eliminating the need for the hiring of additional staff to oversee business process completion during significant business growth.  • Modernized industry leading software, through the development of the first enterprise ERP system focused on sports advertising management and sales that saw widespread use internally and with major professional sports franchises across the country.  •   • Took on administration of mission critical systems including PostFix email system and three news actuality websites while continuing development modernization efforts.  • Implemented First Web Application in the history of the organization to reduce business process cycle times in key billing business process.  • Initiated & Implemented First Enterprise Level RDBMS to modernize data storage and interaction with related applications in a central repository. Education M.S. in Information Systems Arizona State University, W.P. Carey School of Business B.S. in Information Systems Arizona State University, W.P. Carey School of Business International Baccalaureate Leysin American School - Leysin, CH Skills Project Management (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Cloud Computing (5 years), Virtualization (5 years), Software Development (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Documentation (10+ years), Team Management (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), Scrum (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Business Intelligence (10+ years), ETL (10+ years), Routers (10+ years), Asset Management (10+ years), Customer Relationship Management (10+ years) Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s9e-zfs3-xj7cxw Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pajqvzxjxoobb3gx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Patents TIME SEGMENTED CONTENT PROCESSING SYSTEM AND METHOD (#037941.0005) 2018-12 Time segmented video content processing system with clip capture to identify in video advertising for proof of performance and verification of placement Publications Skyview Networks bolsters its mission-critical IT infrastructure to win broadcast deals and drive real results https://bit.ly/2JkjFc9 2019-04 • Since first deploying HPE Synergy and HPE 3PAR technology, Skyview Networks has delivered information to consumers with unmatched speed  • Skyview Networks achieved its goals of 100% availability in storage and sub 10 millisecond response times  • Major audio technology and network sales company enhances reliability and performance with HPE 3PAR and HPE Synergy Why composable infrastructure goes hand in hand with private cloud https://bit.ly/2VumwFW 2019-04 Some companies are opting out of SAN upgrades or costly converged systems in favor of composable architecture to build server and storage on the fly. But will the concept take off?