International Purchasing Agent International Purchasing Agent International Purchasing Agent - UNITED AUTO PARTS, INC Schertz, TX Business Adminstrative/Data Specalist proficient at data analysis and database management. Have strong passion for numbers, specifically manipulating to produce desired outcomes. Advanced Microsoft Excel knowledge with ability to produce. Excellent customer service skills and a high drive for quality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience International Purchasing Agent UNITED AUTO PARTS, INC - San Antonio, TX March 2018 to Present • Compile inventory data into a purchase order; strong attention to detail  • Engaged in International and Domestic Purchasing in an E-commerce communication style  • Prioritized time management and organizational skills to work with Freight forwarders and US Customs.  • Intensive product analysis and research to stay in current sales trends within the market Legal Secretary/Assistant KETTERMAN, ROWLAND & WESTLUND LAW FIRM - San Antonio, TX June 2016 to November 2016 • Assisted potential clients through initial interview process for their legal need.  • Drafted client contracts and provided information and clarification on client questions.  • Provided technical support for the firm's database. Quality Assurance / Database Specialist DAVIS LAW FIRM - San Antonio, TX May 2011 to August 2014 • Maintained clientele database, updated software with customizations applicable to each legal practice.  • Assisted attorney management and accounting with entering account receivables and payables per settlement.  • Provided management with custom reports and report analysis used in making business decisions. Network Administrator CAREER POINT COLLEGE - San Antonio, TX November 2010 to March 2011 • Apart of a team of administrators working together to provide technical assistance for staff and students.  • Maintained school database and software updates  • Assisted in on the job training in a new building project to set up the network infrastructure Legal Secretary / Database Specialist DAVIS LAW FIRM - San Antonio, TX December 2008 to November 2010 • Managed a high volume of clientele legal cases in pre-litigation status.  • Served as primary point of contact and assisted clients with questions, property damage resolutions, and medical treatment expenses.  • Maintained database, coded draft correspondences, and provided customized reports to management, accounting and team leads.  •. Provided technical assistance for attorney management and accounting by processing settlement account receivables and allocating funds to the proper parties involved. Generated billable statements and entered the accounts receivables and payables per case. Property & Casualty Claims Adjuster AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC - San Antonio, TX February 2006 to November 2008 Education Bachelor in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF INCARNATE WORD December 2013 Skills Excel, Microsoft Office, Procurement, Sales, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Purchasing, accounting Additional Information SKILLS/ • Superior customer service skills tailored to achieve company's mission statement.