Expert DBA Expert DBA Certified ORACLE DBA, ,Having Couchbase,Cassandra,Hadoop Expertise knowledge Champaign Associate with Amdocs since last 10 years in different capacities such Team Lead ,Senior DBA and having a total experience of 12 years in IT industry as production DBA and supported huge Telecom production setup (24*7) like Sprint, Metro PCS, COMCAST ORION,MODESTO ,ALTICE, Cable Vision.   Oracle Certified, Professional. And Having expertise in Casandra and Couch base NoSQL DB ‘s in Production environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Expert DBA AMDOCS - Champaign, IL September 2015 to Present CORE COMPETENICIES:  ·      Managing and coordinating team in 3 geographic location on shore (USA), off shore (India). Attending Meeting with client and coordination with application team for current project and future Business development. Involved in provide Estimate and design suggestion for various implementation project.  ·      More than 11 years of experience as Oracle DBA, provided frontline DBA support for 24X7 production, testing and development support on Multi-terabyte 12c/11gR2/11g/10g/9i RAC and Non-RAC databases. First stabilizing critical and/or deteriorating situations then working toward permanent self-sufficiency, stability, and maintaining defined/expected service levels.  ·        Expertise knowledge on Couchbase cluster configuration, setup, backup and recovery, Bucket Management.   . Having Production hands on Cassandra cluster configuration, setup, backup and recovery.  ·      Strong organizational skills and excellent ability to communicate effectively with both technical and business clients.  ·      Used Goldengate for Standby Creation and Standby DB’s are syncing with Golden Gate. Helpful to Switch to DR without any down time.  Implément Cassandra Multi DC setup.  ·      Hadnling DR-DRILL activity and performing DB Failover and Switch over.  ·      Exposure to support and manage very large databases with heavy OLTP and batch activities on 24/7 support env.  ·      Hands on experience of configuring and administering Oracle Data guard, Standby Database, partitioning and compression  ·      Expertise in setup/configuration/management of Oracle Grid Infrastructure – RAC, ASM, Active- Passive,Active-Active cluster  ·      Multitasking credentials with excellent planning, execution, monitoring skills, as well as the ability to handle multiple tasks in high pressure environments under tight deadlines.  ·      Good knowledge and experience in Performance monitoring and tuning activities.  ·      Articulate communicator with strong analytical and interpersonal skills, known for honest, efficient work ethics and delivering projects on time without compromising on quality.  ·      Excellent knowledge in RMAN, Conventional Backups/Recoveries (BCV,Datapump)  ·      Good experience on OEM Grid control, DB console.    Technical skills    Operating Systems : HP-Unix, Sun Solaria NT, Windows 2000.Linux  Languages/Technologies: PL/SQL, C, SQL  Databases: Oracle 9i,10g,11g,12c, Couchbase, Cassandra   Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager, Data guard, MYSQL ,Cassandra, Couchbase ,Hadoop, ASM, PL/SQL, RMAN, Toad. Golden gate, Shell scripting,   Domain Knowledge: Telecom, Banking. DBA Team Lead Amdocs Inc - Pune, Maharashtra December 2009 to September 2015 • Attending Meeting with client and coordination with application team for current project and future Business development. Involved in provide Estimate and design suggestion for various implementation project.Leading Teport Migration project of Migrating HP oracle db to Linux. Designs process of migration with full validation of 30 plus TB of online database in less than 6 Hr. downtime.  • Coordination with clients which includes understanding/ gathering requirements (storage / database/budget), supporting vendor installation, resolution of problems and providing database solutions in a timely manner.  • Attending meetings with customer to discuss about current issues and defects in production and give ETA/updates for them.  • Attending meeting with roadmap teams to formulate the Migration roadmap for each Market.  • Implementation and support Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC), Including installing cluster ware, ASM (and shared disks) and creating new databases.  • Estimating and Validating Hardware & File system requirement & reviewing high level and detailed designs for future releases.  • Attending meetings with customer to discuss about current issues and defects in production and give ETA/updates for them.  • Attending meeting with roadmap teams to formulate the release roadmap for each release.  • Designed a proof of concept environment to facilitate functionality testing and features, built a pilot environment which mirrored production to do in depth testing for all customers, and provided a detailed migration plan to migrate the current production cluster to the new environments.  • DB installations and upgrades, storage allocation, DB application structures changes, maintaining system security, first level backup and recovery for non-production environments.  • MYSQL DB Production Support and Monitoring  • Promote team quality assurance and task cross all activities; Review code/scripts/plans, meet KPIs ad SLA, plan vs. Actual comparisons and LL/RCAs.  • Preparing deployment plan, shift schedule coordinating with all team member, task assignment monitoring, review.  • Identify automation and efficiency opportunities, lead and direct the solution creation and implementation, and assure standards (new and existing processes and initiate enhanced changes).  • Manage and lead Root Cause Analysis, Lesson Learned and prevention processes to meet high standard of deliverables and work according to company methodology.  • Golden gate setup and troubleshooting. Designing Extract Pump and replicate to reduce any Lag. Senior Database Administrator 3i-Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2007 to December 2009 As a Lead Database Administrator (with a team size of 10) is involved independently in the Leading team of DBA supporting Oracle 9i/10G/11G database support for Core Banking database of ICICI BANK.    • Coordination with clients which includes understanding/ gathering requirements (storage / database/budget), supporting vendor installation, resolution of problems and providing database solutions in a timely manner.  • Maintaining Oracle Database, Applying Patch.  • Database Installation, Upgrade, Applying Security Patches  • SQL optimization for Application / Reporting Tuning  • Oracle DB Hardening based on Security protocols defined with Customer  • Oracle TDE Implementation  • Dataguard setup and monitoring  • Worked on Oracle Database migration project - HPUX to Linux using RMAN & Datapump utility  • Support Amdocs Release activities end to end from Delivery to Production rollout  • Preparing DBA Handbook - Documentation of day to day task Database Administrator Gujarat Goverment - Ahmedabad, Gujarat December 2006 to December 2007 • Performance tuning  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Databases  • Creation of databases  • Maintenance of physical files  • Managing RAC Instances  • Day to day monitoring  • Patch application  • Backup and recovery  • Periodically creation of clone databases. Education Bachelors in Engineering Computer Science North Gujarat University 2006 Skills ASM,RAC,Data Guard,Performance Tuning (10+ years), Cassandra (4 years), Couchbase (4 years), Golden gate (6 years), Attunity (2 years), Oracle DBA (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle certified professional Present OCP 9i Certification