SENIOR DIRECTOR, Application Development and Support SENIOR DIRECTOR, Application Development and Support SENIOR DIRECTOR, Application Development and Support - TRION-MMA, A Marsh & McLennan Agency Phoenixville, PA Dedicated team leader and ally to senior leadership poised to define and drive strategies for application  development and enterprise-wide technological growth. Keen ability to build agile, high-functioning teams and to  interface across all departments and levels of management. High technical acumen with record of innovative  problem-solving throughout the software development lifecycle. Committed to superior customer service. Work Experience SENIOR DIRECTOR, Application Development and Support TRION-MMA, A Marsh & McLennan Agency - King of Prussia, PA 2008 to Present Manage the software development life-cycle and application support for suite of products supporting the Benefits  Administration business. Direct team of 60 with $10M+ annual budget.    ? Led successful "project rescue" of marketable benefits enrollment platform, MarketLink, following  14-months of near inactivity. Collaborated with Development Team Managers to introduce and implement  centralized SDLC and new Release Management Team. Enabled successful and frequent delivery of features and status to business teams and more granular user-stories, concise acceptance criteria, and  corporate standard compliance.  ? Built, retained, and continue to lead high-performing team of Application Developers, Business Analysts, Quality Assurance Analysts, Production Support Analysts, Solutions Architects, and Server Engineers,  promoting solution-oriented communications and collaboration.  ? Drive ROI year over year by spearheading projects to eliminate redundant technologies.  ? Collaboratively stabilized software product, EnrollOnline, ensuring its success and marketability. Worked  with QA Team to stress test application in the QA environment and utilize Perfmon/Sysmon, SQL Server  Profiler, and written scripts. Located and systematically eliminated cache bloat through conversion of statements and setting of issues into stored procedures and packaged releases.  ? Drove effort to design, build, and test Trion's Disaster Recovery Plan, enabling recovery site for MarketLink  to be back online in approximately one hour.  ? Ensure that applications are performant, secure, and solve business needs through cross-team  collaboration to create documented procedures supporting the development process.  ? Solve application performance issues with expertise in SQL bottleneck remediation.  ? Lead successful, on-time releases through regular touch-points with business teams to coordinate  schedules, manage enhancement requests and bug fixes, and steer features towards business needs.  ? Create and manage per project budgets ranging $3M through $10M+ annually.  ? Ensure SOC 1 & SOC 2 compliance with no issues by developing policies, processes, and procedures that  produce artifacts and reports.  ? Strengthened company's response to RFPs by establishing well-documented compliance procedures that  prove repeatable processes compliant with privacy laws.  ? Steered efficient and secure database design, implementation, and in-depth troubleshooting.  ? Deliver high-quality customer service with transparent and in-person communications. MANAGER, Application Development and Support SHPS, INC - Philadelphia, PA 2000 to 2008 Responsible for software and production support for a $10M middle market benefit administration system  including client-facing website. Accountable for 24x7 production data center including facility, disaster recovery, security, hardware, network, and telecommunications.    ? Drove database optimization, rewriting SQL queries, adding supporting indexes, and improving  performance of website and batch processing applications.  ? Increased autonomy for affiliate partners by working with System Architects to use custom SQL Server  Replication stored procedures to replicate the affiliate's unique data to a local onsite SQL Server, providing base data for customized, localized reporting needs.  ? Shored up code deployments to Production by creating processes that ensured all code checked in with accompanying ticket, technical design document, QA test plans, and could be traced back to a business  requirement.  ? Collaborated with Business Units and Development to document, respond to, and resolve all software  defects, customer issues, and application enhancement requests.  ? Supported successful relocation of Production Data Center with less than 48 hours downtime from Philadelphia to state of the art Data Center in Minneapolis.  ? Instrumental in two consecutive open enrollment seasons with 100% system uptime and availability by designing and establishing effective processes and procedures.  ? Managed upgrade of entire production infrastructure (80+ servers) twice, once from MS/SQL Server 7.0  and Windows NT 4.0 to MS/SQL Server 2000 and Windows 2000 and once from MS/SQL Server 2000 and Windows 2000 to MS/SQL 2005 and Windows 2003.  ? Database Administrator for high-volume, real-time website using MS/SQL Server 2000 and consisting of  100+ databases replicated to five regionally dispersed office sites using advanced SQL Server  Replication. Led performance tuning, schema modification and analysis, support and maintenance, modifications and design, QA and hands-on QA testing, software debugging, and application release  scheduling and coordination. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR COMCAST CELLULAR ONE - Wayne, PA 1998 to 2000 Responsible for the administration of corporate DSS and OLTP SQL Servers including 35 Production and 25  Development SQL Servers housing 70+ databases. Responsible for maintenance and administration of Corporate Data Warehouse using custom stored procedures and DTS packages. Served as LAN/WAN  Administrator and Senior Support Analyst.    ? Uncovered and resolved critical inventory synchronization issue in point of sale system. Initiated and designed mock setup and located integer overflow due to a code problem. Edited the code and rolled out  the solution to affected stores.  ? Remediated ongoing data load issue, reducing daily report time for Finance Department from 20+ hours to under two hours. Acquired approval to setup a mock and run tests in QA lab during off hours. Uncovered  issue between t-SQL supporting data load and SQL 6.5's query optimizer. Rewrote t-SQL code, which was  moved to Production after rigorous QA cycle.  ? Setup and maintained SQL Server replication, backups and restoration, performance tuning, and support  for all environments.  ? Created and maintained documentation including Installation Guides, Support Guides, Project Guidelines, and Production Standards.    (484) 744-1883 | larry.60.ritter@gmail.com  ? Administered, maintained, and programmed remedy helpdesk system and led its integration with the spectrum monitoring system.  ? Developed sales and inventory tracking by coordinating support of database, application, and network  support for point of sale system used in retail locations.  ? Provided phone and desk-side support and trouble-shooting for end-users in Microsoft Windows  environment. SALES MANAGER SEARS ROEBUCK AND COMPANY - King of Prussia, PA 1989 to 1998 Managed and led sales teams and managers. Developed and implemented training programs. Supported system and process improvements, inventory management, and technological upgrades.    ? Turned Sporting Goods Department around, doubling the annual sales volume and achieving the highest  Customer Service scores in Philadelphia district through keen customer service techniques, staff training, and inventory control.  ? Led Remodel Team to obtain maximum merchandising capability.  ? Managed the installation of a new, state of the art point of sale system based on the latest PC technology  and networking capabilities.  ? Regional Trainer for Philadelphia, Washington D.C., and Baltimore districts. Skills Database administration, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Html, Software development, Visual basic, Microsoft visual basic, Network troubleshooting, Optimization, T-sql, Asp, Soc, Budget, Budget management, Microsoft office Additional Information EXPERTISE  Software Development Lifecycle • Software Release Lifecycle • Large Project Management • Process  Managment T-SQL Query Language • SQL Server Database Administration • Database Schema Design •  Intermediate Network Troubleshooting • IT Quality Management • Budget Management • Application and  Database Query Optimization • SOC 1 & SOC 2 Process Compliance • Research    TECHNOLOGY  Microsoft Visual Basic • Microsoft SQL Server • MySQL • HTML • ASP • Microsoft Office