Founder Founder Founder - Liminal Thealogical Seminar Austin, TX I have a diverse background with over twenty years in operations management in retail  (full-line and new age bookstores) (20 years), wholesale distribution (4 years),  accounting (5 years), administration (10 years), human resources (5 years), purchasing,  sales and marketing support, and customer service. I have a proven record of  accomplishment in coaching, mentoring, supervision and training, event planning,  reflecting excellent problem solving and communication abilities. Full-charge  bookkeeper with broad experience in A/P, A/R, Payroll, General Ledger, Financial  Statements and G/L account analysis (5 years). Human resources manager with 5 years'  experience in placement and benefit administration. Comprehensive computer  experience in Windows 10 environment with MS Office 2016. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Founder Liminal Thealogical Seminar 2012 to Present Online Seminary for students earning upper graduate seminary degrees.  I create and teach the classes in the seminary for the students that I mentor in the spiritual studies. Supervisor Ocean Seminary College - Monmouth Beach, NJ September 2009 to Present Dr. Katherine MacDowell, D. Div., D. Th., MA., M.Ed., Sh., HP, RPDP, OCP,  732-923-0590  Adjunct Professor in an online learning environment. My work here includes  development of new course material and teaching in a tuition free environment.  This is a volunteer position. I have earned my Doctorate degree here while teaching. Part-time Stipend Paid Positions City of Austin Housing Authority September 2014 to September 2016 Computer Lab Trainer  City of Austin Housing Authority  My position was two-fold. The first year I served as lead- lab monitor lab at the Booker T Washington Apartments, a family property for the Housing Authority.  The second year I was a trainer for the computer lab monitors while also serving  as lead-lab monitor at the Gaston Place Apartments for low income seniors and the disabled. Operations Manager, Supervisor New Leaf Distributing Company - Lithia Springs, GA August 2007 to January 2009 401 Thornton Rd., Lithia Springs, GA 30122,  (770) 948-7845. Title: Operations Manager, Supervisor: Alim Thompson, CEO  Supervised Accounting, MIT, Shipping and Receiving/Inventory Control, and Purchasing Departments of large book distributor. Upon arrival, I found a team  of managers who were disgruntled and apathetic. As the new director of operations, I saw this as my first challenge. I was able to make significant  improvements in all departments by delegating appropriately and by supporting the managers, empowering them to excel. By using the concepts of servant  leadership and working with them as a team, together we brought dynamic  change to the business. Manager, Supervisor The Crossings - Austin, TX April 2003 to September 2007 Harry Feinberg 831-233-4759  Designed and created from the ground up and beautiful bookstore and gift shop at The Crossings in Austin, Texas. The process of creating these stores included  designing, bidding with contractors for all furniture and fixtures, locating and  establishing vendors, hiring staff, and stocking with merchandise. Once the store  opened, I hired and trained all staff as well as purchased all inventory. As part of the success of the bookstore I facilitated workshops and events with speakers and authors. While at The Crossings I also created an entirely donated library  maintained by a volunteer staff as well as opening the grounds up for artists to  place their work and sell to those who come to The Crossings. I was responsible for finding, training and supervising volunteers for the bookstore, library and all  art shows. Database Administrator, Supervisor Channel Islands Floral - Carpinteria, CA August 2000 to February 2003 Arius Schiff  Using Excel spreadsheets, I scheduled all production and delivery to thirty-one  Costco stores for a floral distributor. Later, I developed and administered a MS  Access database with a programmer for the same tasks. I interfaced with sales  team, as well as merchandise managers for optimum sales of product.    Prior to this time 6 plus years in full line and specialty (new age) bookstores as well as 2  years wholesale book distribution, human resources management, operations  management in electric motor repair and sales, and accounting office management. Education Doctor of Ministry in Religion Ocean Seminary College - Monmouth Beach, NJ Skills team building, reliabiilty, organized, MS Office, computers,