CEO & President CEO &amp; President CEO & President - Emmry's Global Solutions, LLC Tampa, FL Strong ability to work effectively within a team environment as well as independently. Reliable with a positive personable attitude. Willing to devote energies to a rewarding career in an established organization enabling me to utilize my extensive background in engineering, software, and other office related experiences. Work Experience CEO & President Emmry's Global Solutions, LLC - Tampa, FL January 2014 to Present Responsible for providing H1 candidates an opportunity to expand their career goals and ventures. Emmry's Global Solutions provides H1 serves to candidates that are currently working in the US. Responsibilities include:  • Participated in the screening of potential H1B candidates to determine their key skillsets.  • Performed Background check on the candidate.  • Interviewed potential US clients who want to employ H1B candidates.  • Handled all necessary paperwork required to transfer the H1B candidate to our payroll with the assistance from an Immigration Lawyer.  • Confirmed that all our candidates and clients meet all the required US compliance.  • Developed and administrated the contract between the candidate and client.  • Handled all our candidates' Payroll.  • Performed work visa extensions as well as Green Card Processing for the candidate with the collaboration of an Immigration Lawyer. Senior Project Engineer Wantman Group - Tampa, FL January 2008 to January 2009 Responsible for developing contract documents for various projects, which encompassed all aspects of Geometric Roadway Design. Responsibilities included:  • Prepared geometric plans which included, but not limited to typical sections, cross sections, work plans, earthwork, and plan details.  • Prepared proposed engineering details, including findings and recommendations.  • Participated in preliminary field investigations.  • Developed project plans through the use of Micro station, Geopak, and other CADD related tools.  • Prepared all correspondence related to projects.  • Knowledge of the applications of information processing systems.  • Developed aerial plans for various projects.    Examples of projects for which I developed plans using the CADD system include:    Lutz Lake Fern Road Interchange  • Developed typical sections, construction plans, cross sections, and quantity calculations for an interchange off of the Suncoast Parkway in Pasco County. Assisted Project manager with regards to all necessary correspondences, analyzes of substandard features, as well as revising relevant profiles.    I-95 Malabar  • Developed typical sections, construction plans, and cross sections for guardrail and widening project. Assisted Project manager with regards to all necessary correspondences and geometric design. Senior Engineer Transportation New Jersey Department of Transportation - Trenton, NJ December 2002 to September 2007 Responsible for developing contract documents for various projects, which encompassed all aspects of Geometric Roadway Design. Performed independently, complex engineering phases of design transportation services on various types of projects, which included Resurfacing, Bridge Rehabilitation, and Pedestrian Improvement projects. All of these projects primarily dealt with Interstate and State Highways. Responsibilities were as follows:  • Analyzed and interpreted plans and specifications.  • Prepared proposed engineering details, including findings and recommendations.  • Prepared construction and other geometric plans including, but not limited to typical sections, profiles, construction details, cross sections, ties and grades, and all necessary alignment plans.  • Participated in preliminary field investigations and design studies that involve calculations of alignment, grades, and plan quantities.  • Developed project plans through the use of Microstation, Inroads, and other CADD related tools.  • Analyzed utility impacts within project limits. Implemented contract drawings and specifications necessary to rectify any issues.  • Developed agreements between state, county, and other municipalities for proposed work such as installation and relocation of existing and/or proposed facilities, which include but not limited to poles, conduits, cables, and temporary supports.  • Communicated with associated companies related with my In-House projects to address comments, recommendations, and changes to be made.  • Collaborated with managers and project engineers to address any concerns and related issues that could hamper the progress of the projects; to determine the necessary steps in the completion of the projects.  • Utilized good engineering problem skills to develop timely and effective solutions to minimize impacts to project schedules and budgets.  • Played an important role determining what materials are necessary for each specific project as well as the quantities associated with each specific item.  • Informed higher level managers of progress in the coordination of projects and programs.  • Prepared work plans. Developed operating procedures to implement and facilitate work of the program or unit.  • Prepared all correspondence related to projects.  • Knowledge of the applications of information processing systems.  • Knowledge of project specifics required to make decisions including awareness of external factors which impact upon individual projects.  • Skilled in the process for contacting, and interacting with utility companies for utility relocations.  • Ability to apply federal and state legislation and regulations pertaining to or affecting the various activities of the department.    Examples of projects for which I developed plans using the CADD system include:    Route I-295 Northbound and Southbound Resurfacing  • Input the baseline information, topography and developed quantity calculations for the resurfacing of approximately 7 miles of Route I-295 in Hamilton Township. Assisted Principal Engineer with regards to typical section, substandard features, as well as generating relevant profiles.    State Route 22 Bridge Deck Replacement over Station Road  • Developed the contract documents for the roadway portion of this deck replacement project which included horizontal alignment, cross section development, beam guide rail design, traffic control and detours, and utility relocations for Verizon Fiber Optic Lines.    Pedestrian Improvements  • Developed contract documents for providing pedestrian access (sidewalk and curb ramps) along State Route 130 Northbound and Southbound in East Windsor Township. Database Administrator Bio-Imaging INC February 2002 to November 2002 I was responsible for managing numerous databases, which include loading, troubleshooting, and supporting all aspects of the database for clinical studies. My responsibilities were:  • Involved in the testing, validation, and installation of final application version.  • Took part in database loading, setup, and technical support for reads.  • Prepared documentation and tracking of read progress.  • Participated and supported mock reads.  • Assisted with quality control for export preparation.  • Assisted with installation of off-site equipment and software.  • Database and CD management.  • Facilitated report generation for client review with every read that was conducted. Technical Support Specialist Towers Perrin - Philadelphia, PA August 1999 to March 2000 Implementation and Development of MS Desktop (primarily MS Access and MS Excel) and client/server business solutions for projects that are not possible due to time constraints or feasibility on the current record keeping system platforms such as Account Manager, Pension Manager, Flex Manager, and other Defined Benefit software. Project involved Visual Basic script testing for automation process through the use of the AutoScriptor Inferno Box. This project consisted of 3 team members. My role involved in the testing phase for the Baxter client and assist in the development of scripts for my other colleague who was handling multiple clients. My responsibilities were:  • Maintained daily and weekly documentation on testing progress conducted with the AutoScriptor Inferno.  • Used Lotus Notes to document any errors that were encountered with the device.  • Kept a log sheet for every script that was generated.  • Assisted in reviewing all scripts from other groups. Documented how to improve the scripting process.  • Created and modified Visual Basic scripts to correct any inaccuracies that were generated by the AutoScriptor Inferno.  • Implemented Visual Basic scripts.  • Kept an archive of all scripts.  • Provided viable solutions for script testing in bi-monthly meetings. Documented notes from the meetings.  • Became familiar with the various in-house pension manager packages.  • Provided assistance correlating Excel Spreadsheets with Access Databases for other groups. Education B.S. in Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 1998 Skills Jdbc, Html, Javascript, Ejb, Java, Jsp, Servlets, Unix, Lotus 1-2-3, Lotus notes, Microsoft office, Wordperfect Additional Information COMPUTER EXPERIENCE  Hardware: IBM PC compatibles, Macintosh based computers.  Software: EJB, Inroads, Java 2, JDBC, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Lotus 1-2-3, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office, Microstation V7 and V8, ProjectWise, Pension Manager, RML, Servlets, VB, WordPerfect, and other internet-related software.  Operating Systems: Windows, DOS, UNIX