Customer Service Representative/Garden Cashier Customer Service Representative/Garden Cashier Customer Service Representative/Garden Cashier - The Home Depot Bellingham, MA An IT Professional, Mainframe Support Specialist. Extensive experience in a fast paced, SLA driven, Global environment. An enthusiastic and diligent person who is a collaborative team player.    • High rate of positive feedback from managers and customers for supporting major and minor Production Implementations and resolving incidents.  • Self-directed, can work independently as well as in team settings.  • Committed and invested in performance and outcome of tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Representative/Garden Cashier The Home Depot 2019 to Present Fast paced, multitasking for issues at Self-checkout. Cashier of the month in August. Database Administrator II The TJX Companies 1997 to 2018 • The TJX Companies  • Responsible for overnight Production Support.  • Streamlined Production processing by eliminating recurring incidents using Root Cause Analysis.  • Troubleshooting and resolving issues at the Distribution Centers and Corporate offices, as well as supporting Test Application associates globally.  • Followed incident tickets from beginning to resolution, documenting details.  • Created several 'How To' documents and a Production Support Manual. Production Control Supervisor 1991 to 1997 • Led a five-person team of Production Support members.  • Monitored Batch processing, ensuring Service Level Agreements were met and applications were available.  • Addressed job scheduling issues and Production application incidents.  • Created reviews and objectives for the team members.    TECHNICAL    • Object creation/alteration for DB2  • Troubleshooting negative SQL codes  • Creating/migrating DDL  • Running utilities for data maintenance  • Doing BIND/REBIND for new/existing applications  • Operations for IMS Databases, PSB, ACB, DBD, Pointer Checker, Image Copies, MODBLKS Sysgen, Reorganization, Recovery.    SOFTWARE AND UTILITIES    • BMC Software Administrative Products for DB2  • Queue Control facility  • MainView  • Database Backup and Disaster Recovery for IMS  • TSO, JCL, SAR, ISPF, AR/CTL, DBRC, APPTUNE, MVS/Quick/REF  • Microsoft Office/Excel  • ServiceNow  • Working knowledge of ESP scheduler, SharePoint Education High school or equivalent Skills Customer Service