Office Manager Office Manager Office Manager - Construction Safety Council Bolingbrook, IL Administrative Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office Manager Construction Safety Council - Hillside, IL June 2012 to Present Construction Safety Council   Hillside, Il  Office Manager  Hired as the Administrative Assistant to prepare correspondences, document invoices, including materials for payment of trainers. Maintain in-office calendar and training calendar, keeping track of schedules/appointments. Format monthly newsletter and membership directory create and reconfigure client databases. Received cash and checks print or send scanned receipts, maintained ledger book and computer record of bank deposits wrote and distributed employee and contractor checks. Posted billing and ran various invoices for member and non-member agencies. Maintaining the office condition and arranging necessary repairs. Organized materials for various training sessions, registered participants, prepared room and organized catering. Answering phones, greeted and assisted visitors, and handled general administrative duties, such as filing, faxing, copying and mailing. Organized mailing of monthly newsletter. Preparing orders by processing request and supply orders; pulling materials and packing boxes for orders that were placed through our website. Lifting upwards to 70+ pounds and placing packages in our delivery area. Contributing to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed and providing general administrative support to staff on a daily basis. Also, supplied company credit card to pick up supplies, beverages and pay for catered events as necessary.   Promoted to Office Manager in 2013. Administrative Assistant Adecco/Construction Safety Council - Oak Park, IL March 2001 to June 2001 Hired to work at a Construction firm. Duties include but not limited PowerPoint, Excel, Word, Access, and Q&A. Responsible for helping answer phones. Customer service skills, filing both alpha and numeric, and data entry both alpha and numeric. Computer skills to work in a Windows environment. A lot of general clerical. Support administrative needs of Executive Director, Office Manager and Administrative Manager. Assist with presentation preparation phone reception, meeting coordination, travel arrangements, etc., assist in execution of special customer and internal events. Also, assist with marketing campaigns and projectsreconcile invoices & investigate AP issues, add/maintain customer data in customer data mart. Also, assisting in empyting trash, cleaning up breakroom, moping floors and cleaning upholstered chairs with maintenance engineer. Database Administrator White Cap, Inc - Chicago, IL September 1997 to January 2001 Promoted to the Database Administrator before being hired as the Senior Accounting Assistant at White Cap, Inc. Duties include creating variable and non-variable items within SAP with accuracy to be used by vast and various customers. Building single as well as multi lever bills of materials and routings for inks compounds, cut sheets, and coatings to used by SAP users in Sales, Customer Service, Production and Litho Departments. Verify different usage's for inks, compounds, and cuts sheets with Engineering Department. Troubleshooting problems within SAP. Maintain costing information within SAP by confirming requirements and part utilization. Also maintain existing item numbers which are changed several times a year. Documentation Specialist Olsten Staffing - Chicago, IL March 1994 to August 1997 Placed at the White Cap Facilities to help implement the SAP system. Create documentation manuals to train staff and employees on the new system. Loading and downloading information onto different software. Prepare and assist in writing business procedures for user. Organize and coordinate business meetings, training courses for staff and employees. Order entry and process of orders. Also planned interoffice parties as well. White Cap was also a ISO 9001 company.    Also retrieving prints to build machines for different departments and ensure accuracy of data in the Engineering Department. Clerical Associate Toys "R" - Joliet, IL May 1989 to August 1993 60435 Semi-Tractor Trailer Operator/Warehouse Assistant Warehouse Management 1991 to 1993 Drop-off/Pick-up and sometimes load and unload trailers in the Midwest region. Warehouse Management, stocking, merchandising, pricing, re-packaging, processing returns and expedite transit companies. Cleaning area around me and helping others pick up pallets and clean their areas. Education Business George Westinghouse High School - Chicago, IL 1983 to 1987 Skills Microsoft office (10+ years), Warehouse (3 years), Truck Drive (2 years), Quickbooks, Front Office Certifications/Licenses CDL Class A April 2019 Driver's License Assessments Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/udgdivd2qirm-ts7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Special Skills: SAP (R/2), RFlow, Excel, Access, Quickbooks, Powerpoint, Q&A, Word Knowledge, Customer Service Experience, Cashier, Alpha/Numeric & Numeric Data Entry 12,000 KSP, Warehouse, Cleaning Crew and Commercial