Systems Administrator II Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - County of Riverside University Health Services Baraboo, WI Work Experience Systems Administrator II County of Riverside University Health Services 2003 to Present Chris Veal (951) 955-1407  • Design, program, install, configure and/or maintain computer resources supporting application and database servers in a mid-range/mainframe and/or client server environment and other duties as required.  • Provide tactical and strategic technical support for all systems needs within the Agency.  • Participates in project management decisions and provides solutions that are beneficial to the Agency.  • Administer a 2008 Active Directory network with over 140 servers. Maintain and manage all file and print servers for the entire agency; Servers include Windows, VMWare 5.5.1, EMC CX4 SAN and IBM AS/400 and IBM PureFlex.  • Work with Applications staff and PC Tech staff to provide quality customer service for the entire Agency.  • Manage and coordinate OS upgrades to the AS/400.  • Configure and manage an Enterasys and Cisco network infrastructure.  • Administer Share Point 2010  • Support a 400+ bed County hospital, 20 outside Health Clinics, and over 30 servers.  • Primary technical support contact for the State of California programs, such as Women Infant Care and California Children Services  • Manage rollout projects of software and hardware upgrades.  • Assist in planning of new and relocating WIC sites.  • Work closely with User Technical Support  • Administer approval or suggestions for multiple departments ordering IT equipment.  • Conduct analysis of network and system management, capacity planning, fault tolerance, and disaster recovery  • Assist in training and provide documentation to new employees, on the IT programs and services that the agency supports  • On-call IT support rotation every other week  • Utilize Symantec Backup Exec versions 2012 to 2016 Network Specialist Support Technician County of Riverside University Health Services April 2003 to July 2003 Steve Pate (608) 355-3555  • Provides second level support for technology areas as assigned.  • Coordinates and performs the installation of network work stations, printers and related hardware.  • Supports all aspects of workstation configuration.  • Coordinates with other second level support staff to resolve outstanding user requests for assistance.  • Provides guidance to first level support in resolving issues related to assigned technology areas.  • Provides follow up and resolution confirmation for assigned technology areas.  • Provides evenings and weekends on call coverage for Sauk County computer system on a rotating basis as required.  • Assist with system maintenance, routine administration tasks and upgrades.  • Answers help desk calls for assistance, logs and manage calls. LAN Administrator III County of Riverside Health Services Agency October 1997 to 2003 David Villegas (951) 358-5009    • Support Health Clinics and Riverside County Regional Medical Center (RCRMC), 18 servers  • Manage rollout projects of software and hardware upgrades.  • Represent IT concerns in development of the new hospital.  • Technical support contact for RCRMC Pharmacy, Radiology, Medical Lab, Dictation, and Patient data peripherals.  • Support specific servers with various operating systems PDX, PYXIS, Dictaphone, and PHILLIPS X-Ray servers.  • Included in our 24x7, technical support for our hospital users and backup maintenance  • Manage a staff of 3 IT Administrators when Group Supervisor is out of office Database Administrator Environmental Systems Research Institute September 1990 to October 1997 ESRI)  Brenda Simmons (909) 793-2853    Managed and maintain an archived database. Administered account management for users, creating accounts, setting disk space requirements, access rights. Maintained, UNIX, Windows 95, NT4, and Mac OS hardware. Supported data conversions project between multiple platform systems. Assisted in GIS utilizing, ESRI software ArcInfo and ArcView in topology and cartography mapping.  • Primary Database Administrator for reading tapes of different formats and blocks, and making data available to users on the network.  • Responsible for backups on Sun workstations and servers, as well and mini and mainframe systems  • Project lead for various projects, which include converting tape data written on 9 track tape to 8mm tape, for data warehousing.  • Managed budget of time and resources for various projects  • Evaluated and coordinated office workstation moves  • Maintain performance on Electrostatic and Pen Plotters Education AA in Electronics Engineering Technology San Bernardino Valley College Skills System Admin, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information • Over 20 years of experience in the field of Information Technology  • Comprehensive knowledge of large and small systems requirements  • Experienced in small to large project management  • Excellent oral and written communication skills