ABAP Developer ABAP Developer ABAP Developer - EU Blacklist Scanner for Companies and Individuals. Whole Riverdale, NE • ABAP Developer with project experiences: EU Blacklist Scanner for Companies and  Individuals, Performance Optimization of Slow Software, Dynamic migration program.  • Siebel Developer with project experiences: Siebel Call Center development, Database  integration program that interfaces Siebel Call Center and Siebel Marketing.  • Application Developer with various projects: SAP Sales Distribution, Customer  Relationship Management, Blacklist and Watch-list, Billing, Front-liner, and Oracle  Human Resource Development applications. Work Experience ABAP Developer EU Blacklist Scanner for Companies and Individuals. Whole 2019 to Present project life cycle delivery from analyzing the specification, designing the solution, implementing the project, delivery to the customer, supporting the solution and communicating  with the customer about project details and presenting the  solution to the end user.  • Performance Optimization of Software. Analyzing slow  programs running on SAP system and optimizing the speed and saving the hardware resources.  • Dynamic migration program. Creating a dynamic program  that uploads data from CSV files into SAP database tables.  Based on the name and structure of CSV file, the program  imports data into the tables in a stable and optimized way. Volunteer in Assisting Take 2009 to Present teacher in kindergarten.  • Run a micro-enterprise trading Indonesian goods: import from The Netherlands and sell in France and Switzerland.  • Attending French classes at APP Greta. Siebel Developer Nuon - Amsterdam, NL 2006 to 2008 The Netherlands  • Siebel Call Center application development. As part of a big  team analysing the specification, creating the technical  design, implementing, testing and writing the test scripts.  • Database integration program. Creating an interface program  that synchronizes customer data between Siebel Call Center and Siebel Marketing applications. Analyst Programmer Indosat - Jakarta, ID 1998 to 2005 Indonesia    • SAP Sales Distribution. Socializing SIM Cards order and distribution processes from head to branch offices all over  Indonesia.  • CRM application. Monitoring, analysing, and enhancing SIM  Cards provisioning and Trouble Ticketing processes.  • Front-liner application. Designing and developing an application to simplify many applications used by call center  into a single display and entry point.  • Blacklist and Watch-List application. Designing and developing an application to scan the prospect profile.  • Billing application. Designing and developing a Frame Relay  billing application.  • Oracle Human Resource Management System (HRMS).  Customizing HRMS based on Y2K compliance. Assistant Database Administrator PTT Post - The Hague, NL 2001 to 2002 The  Netherlands  • Assisting Database Administrator on developing and enhancing scripts for database interfaces. IT Support The Jakarta Post - Jakarta, ID 1996 to 1997 - Jakarta, Indonesia  • Electronic Data Processing (EDP) support for sources of news  from all regions in Indonesia and abroad.  • Network Administrator. Education Bachelor Degree University of Indonesia 2000 to 2004 Diploma of Informatics in Informatics Polytechnic Negeri Bandung 1992 to 1995