Senior System Analyst Senior System Analyst Rockville, MD Work Experience Senior System Analyst National Cancer Institute 1997 to Present Project Overview: The CTSU is designed to facilitate access to NCI-funded oncology clinical trials for qualified clinical sites and to support trial management and implementation. It provides centralized access to a wide range of information and operational and informatics support services for trials conducted within NCI-funded networks. CTSU services include a centralized patient enrollment and randomization portal; maintenance of a national roster of investigators and institutions; protocol posting and coordination services; development and dissemination of promotional and education materials; support for a web portal; clinical data management; and development and ongoing support of a complex informatics infrastructure. Under task orders, Westat provides support for Core Support Services and the CTSU Enterprise of Systems, the ETCTN process evaluation, Medidata Rave hosting and maintenance, and the central coordination of NCTN auditing activities. As prime contractor, Westat is supported by subcontractors and collaborates with numerous research organizations.  Responsibilities: Responsible for Oracle schema design for a system with high performance requirements. He developed, implemented, and maintained conceptual and physical data models of source and target systems, using    Oracle Designer 10g. Generated entity-relationship diagrams and process flow diagrams with Oracle Designer. He generated table definition by database design transformer, created module components and generated forms from Oracle Designer, and designed complex structure package, procedure, and function. In addition, Wrote programs that called appropriate editing programs to load data into the application. He created constraint management scripts for mass data loading, which included drop indexes and disable constraints during the data load. In addition to Oracle Designer, he used Oracle Database 10g, SQL*Plus and PL/SQL, Oracle Procedure Builder, and Toad.    In earlier work on this project, Involved in developing a web-based clinical data management system. He developed Oracle forms and reports for entering clinical trials data, prepared a batch data loading program to reformat clinical data and load it into the Thesaurus Management System, and created database stored procedures, functions, package, and triggers for the client/server application. Created a process/function dataflow diagram, created a logical/physical data model that included data definition, prepared entity/attribute relationship diagrams, and generated data model reports using Oracle Designer 2000 and Oracle 8.i.    CPSC Publication Storage and Distribution Services  Client: Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC)  Project Overview: Westat stores and distributes more than 6 million factsheets, booklets, brochures, and publications for CPSC. Westat is also responsible for maintaining and enhancing a web-based Inquiry Tracking and Inventory Management System for entry of publication orders by CPSC call center, field, and headquarters staff.  Responsibilities: Made best use of cascading style sheets for an inventory report.    Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) - Household Component  Client: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)  Project Overview: The MEPS develops a series of comprehensive data files on health care use and expenditures for the noninstitutionalized U.S. civilian population. The survey uses overlapping household panels, with a new panel sampled each year from households participating in the prior year's National Health Interview Survey. MEPS households complete five rounds of CAPI interviews over 30 months, providing information for 2 calendar years. The Household Component (HC) is supplemented by a Medical Provider Component (MPC), in which additional information is collected from providers and pharmacies that provide services to household respondents. (Westat has conducted the HC data collection since the study's inception in 1996 and conducted the MPC data collection for the first 13 years of the study.)  Responsibilities: Migrated the showcol and showfreq utilities from Oracle Forms 5.0 to Oracle Forms 10g web versions. Showcol and showfreq are interactive utilities for querying the value of columns in an Oracle database and for producing frequency distributions from data in an Oracle database, respectively. This work involved migrating WebUtil to interact with the client, integrating WebUtil into showcol and showfreq forms, and writing text files on the client. Contractor Intervise Consultants, Inc - Rockville, MD 1996 to 1997 for Booz Allen    On the Administrative Systems Automation Project (ASAP) for FDA, Involved in developing a core directory module that provided a central directory of personnel and organizational data for use by other ASAP modules. He used Oracle 7.x and Oracle development tools (including Forms 4.5 and Reports 2.5). Ceated database stored procedures and triggers. Ceated COBOL programs to retrieve and load specified data from the current pay period into Oracle database tables using SQL Loader, then update leave tracking and reconciliation tables using PL/SQL scripts running under VAX/VMS Alpha server. senior systems analyst and Oracle database administrator U.S. Department of Justice/DynCorp - Washington, DC 1995 to 1996 Washington, DC (1995 to 1996)  (U.S. Citizen and pass a U.S. Security Clearance Background investigation)    Worked as a senior systems analyst and Oracle database administrator in the Management Division. As the database administrator for daily and weekly backups of a system running in a Sun Solaris (5.1)/UNIX/Oracle Server environment. Upgraded the system with new releases and was responsible for performance tuning. Ceated databases and allocated tablespaces for new applications. Created internal and external Oracle application users, created roles, and granted access privileges. In addition, Created tables, views, indexes, synonyms, and database procedures and functions. Designed a menu-driven application using SQL*Forms (3.0) and PL/SQL (1.1). He also developed a GUI application, using Oracle Developer 2000 (Forms 4.5) for a client/server application, and created reports using Pro*C, Pro*COBOL, and ReportWriter (1.0/2.0). Education M.S. Saint Joseph University