SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SQL SERVER <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Management Technology Inc Woodbridge, VA Work Experience SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Management Technology Inc November 2017 to Present Job Responsibilities:  • Working and supporting various groups and team for SQL Server 2012, 2014/2016 managing, installing and configuring on Windows Server 2012R2/2016 failover cluster and always-on environment.  • Supporting end-users, customer, pathing, updates and service pack apply.  • Managing account, creating login, mapping users for database and server level access as needed.  • Working day to day to manage security; manage windows authentication and SQL Server authentication login/user as require.  • Installing SQL Server and Management tools for users.  • Helping with deployment, developing report, creating/developing enterprise dashboard reports by using ETL tool (SSIS), SSRS and Report Builder.  • Working on data export, import, managing and maintaining database health check, backup/recovery plan.  • Help to query and create a report for identifying security vulnerabilities by using database and SQL Server tool.  • Performance monitoring, troubleshooting problem and supporting customer as require.  • Always meet project dead line, manage time proficiently and help other team members.  • Always communicate and cooperate with customer, manager, team member in positive manner.  • Installing SQL Server, Microsoft Visual Studio, SharePoint for individual users, configured and managed  • Worked daily in SQL Clustered environment, maintaining, failover and server management  • Apply service packs for SQL Server, Cluster server, SharePoint server and other windows update as needed  • Database Migration from Oracle to SQL, update, upgrade from SQL and SharePoint  • Create stored procedures, triggers, function, views, tables, run updates by request  • Create and managed SQL and SSIS package jobs, monitor them, modify them  • Managed SharePoint 2013 content databases, site collection databases, create site collection, maintenance backup and restore plan or script, create jobs using powers hell and batch file for scheduling job to run by using windows task scheduler  • Create database, create new table, set identity, set constraints, modify design, create index, update index, defrag index, rebuild and update statistics, file upload from different source to destination and directly worked with app/web team for any release and migration.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning is one of the most important tasks over here. I closely work for keeping all databases, applications running smoothly.  • Assisted the System Administrator with Windows Server Operating system at the hardware and Operating system level.  • Patching, Updating and mitigating SQL vulnerabilities using the Standard Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) and installing patches and service packs SQL SERVER DBA Bluewater Federal Solutions February 2015 to October 2017 Job Responsibilities:  • Migrated numerous SQL 2008/2012 databases to SQL 2008/2012  • Provided strong technical troubleshooting skills in Microsoft SQL server  • Patched all SQL servers with latest patches, hot-fixes, service packs  • Supporting regularly scheduled software release and infrastructure release nights and ensure SQL servers are compliant with Agency security configurations standards  • Provided database support to application developers during application installations and upgrades in addition to general troubleshooting  • Developed and manage backup strategies in all environments.  • Assisted other technical teams to recognize, diagnose, and resolve complex problems or potential conflicts between technologies and platforms within the HR IT environment  • Systems design, performance tuning, administration, maintenance, and support of SQL and  • Assisted application developers on applications that use the databases to ingest and retrieve data  • Have worked the early and late shifts (7AM - 3:30PM & 9:30AM - 6PM) and have work one Friday evening a month and one Sat. every 2 months to support production issues, maintenance, migrations, backups Consultant SQL Server DBA Technisource July 2012 to January 2015 Job Responsibilities:  • Provided O&M support of four mission critical SQL Database clusters. Tasks include database optimization, managing drive space, working with SQL Errors, troubleshooting SQL Agent job problems and installing Windows and SQL updates and patches.  • Writing SQL Queries to support project requirements  • Worked with customer to deploy software.  • Responsible for operations and maintenance as well as physical database infrastructure for a large mission critical SQL Server environment consisting of SQL Server 2005 and 2008  • Provided SQL Server 2005 & 2008 Database Administration of twenty-eight SQL instances  • Responsible for building, maintaining and troubleshooting SQL Server failover clusters  • Provided recommendations to improve database reliability  • Assisting .Net Developers providing database and table information as well as SQL queries  • Implemented Application Security "DB Protect" data security platform to security the SQL databases Consultant SQL Server DBA Buchanan & Edwards March 2009 to July 2012 Job Responsibilities:  • Provided support for SQL Server multiple servers for various customers/agencies  • Troubleshoot and resolve day to day database issues like connectivity problems, user permissions, unlock user accounts, deploy code on databases in different environments. Create new databases as requested  • Implemented and enforce agency's security standards for all databases  • Developed and maintained Extract, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mappings to extract the data from multiple source systems like Oracle, SQL server and Flat files and loaded into Oracle  • Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include new rollouts and upgrades  • Responsible for the implementation and release of database changes  • Proactively monitored database performance and issues; install scripts, applying patches  • Responsible for database installations and configurations  • Resolved complex database problems.  • Worked with development team on promotion of new development efforts to production  • Installed and configured new instances on-line and integrate in current environment  • Provided support for multiple environments  • Setup and insure that database backups run correctly  • Performed database recoveries as needed  • Ensured that patch levels are kept current  • Assisted in creating and documenting policies and procedures  • Created and maintained all Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Education Bachelor's