IT Data Architect/BI Architect IT Data Architect/BI Architect IT Data Architect/BI Architect Austin, TX Work Experience IT Data Architect/BI Architect Austin Water, City of Austin June 2011 to February 2018 • Responsible for the integrity and quality of data and information stored and flowing between business applications, the data warehouse, data marts and business intelligence applications.  • Responsible for analyzing and presenting Utility wide data to executives, managers and end users for decision making in the areas of Budget, Finance, Operations, Engineering, Safety, Human Resources, Environmental and Regulatory, Customer Support, and Planning,  • Develop reports, dash boards based on end user needs and requirements.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained Utility wide reports portal for end users to easy navigate and to customize  • Provided workable solutions to solve complex business problems using data and analytics.  • Created various functional and specific need data marts.  • Created t-sql procedures for data mart loads and for data logic for various reports.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained List reports, crosstab, and Dashboard reports.  • Developed Relational and Dimensionally Modeled Relational Models in Framework Manager.  • Scheduled Report Studio and Query Studio reports and set up automated reports via email to several end users with varied accessibility.  • Responsible for Cognos BI Administration and security.  • Responsible for EIM Services including data quality management, data administration, data analytics and business intelligence for the entire Utility Organization Database Administrator Austin Water, City of Austin September 2004 to May 2011 • Responsible for the creation of databases, management of data for its integrity, usability, safety, storage, and maintenance  • Installation and creation of new instances of SQL server databases, Manage user creations, assign roles, and provide security to SQL databases.  • Expertise in writing T-SQL Queries, sub-queries and complex joins for generating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors.  • Responsible for General Database Administration, Query Performance tuning.  • Proper use of Indexes to enhance the performance of individual queries for very fast and efficient reporting process. Programmer Analyst Communications and Technology Management, City of Austin September 1996 to August 2004 • Performed a variety of software analysis and development functions in support of various user department needs.  • Code, debug, test and document routine application programs. Software Consultant Ami Data Systems, Austin - Kirkland, WA June 1995 to June 1996 • Designed and Implemented application to extract detailed operational information from cellular switches.  • Provided customer support to switch sites in trouble shooting data logging problems, and providing appropriate reports as required. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1991 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering Nagarjuna University 1985 Skills Data modeling, Oltp, Sql, Cognos, Olap, Datawarehouse, Application development, Bi, Visualization Additional Information • 25+ years of experience in data architecture, management, and security  • 8+ years implementing and developing solutions with Cognos BI Suite.  • 15+ years experience managing MS SQL Server and Oracle  • Self-motivated personality, able to work efficiently both independently, as well as, in a team.  • Strong proven ability to work successfully with business stakeholders and IT Team and manage multiple competing priorities.    Skills:  • SQL expertise.  • Expertise in Cognos 10.2.1 BI Suite (framework Manager, Cognos connection, Report Studio, Analysis Studio, Event Studio and Query Studio).  • BI reporting and visualization tools.  • Building Datawarehouse/Datamarts.  • Logical and physical (OLTP and OLAP) data modeling experience.  • Working with various central Corporate databases to use on Departmental application development