Medical Support Assistant Medical Support Assistant Medical Support Assistant - Cardiology Clinic Springfield, VA To obtain and maintain an office administrative position where I can enhance my administrative skills and contribute to the efficiency and success of a solid, rapid and productive environmental workplace. Work Experience Medical Support Assistant Cardiology Clinic - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2016 to Present Working collabaratively at a very busy but productive desk in the Cardiology Clinic. Carry out administrative duties that consist of but not limited to using the CHCS system to do the End of the Day, create and build schedules; book or reschedule appointments, print labels, medication list and referrals. Use the Ahlta system frequently to input Telephone consultations for the providers, check in patients and print out labs and test results as needed per patient and/or doctor. Genuinely greet patients and patrons for check in by verifying identification and eligibility and then distribute paperwork that needs to be completed prior to the patient being seen. Answer and screen incoming phone calls and direct patients, vendors and visitors to the correct places in the hospital as needed. Maintain patient confidentiality and fax requested test results to other doctors outside of our network. Medical Support Assistant Warrior Transition Unit (WTU) Clinic - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2012 to August 2016 Provided excellent customer service when answering telephone calls and greeting visitors in the clinic. Screened the nature of calls or visits by obtaining identifying information and determined the nature and urgency of the patient's request. Applied clinic guidelines concerning release of patient information and referred patients to the appropriate staff members. Was responsible for verifying patients elegibility for treatment through the Defense Eligibility Enrollment Reporting System (DEERS) and checked patient's military ID card. Efficient in scheduling and coordinating appointments for patients to ensure that all treatment requested by the physician had been scheduled. Rescheduled appointments when needed by patient and providers. In charge of coordinating the scheduling in order to avoid conflicts in different clinic schedules. Database Administrator FDA, Center for Food Safety and Nutrition ("CFSAN") August 2011 to July 2012 Was responsible for CFSAN regular Dockets and reviewing of public and organizational comments in conjunction with the Dockets for research and analysis by CFSAN regulators. Performed database backups weekly and monthly and reported on a per Docket basis. Illustrated close-out accounting of legal questions combined with all public and industry comments. General Clerk II-Appointment Center Fort Belvoir Community Hospital October 2009 to July 2011 Provided prompt, courteous and thorough dedicated service in a call center environment. Scheduled and coordinated appointments for patients with the various clinics within the National Capital Area. Determined patient eligibility for services based on information provided by TRICARE standards. Verified and updated patients demographics. Utilized protocols and provided patients with necessary information Administrative Assistant Washington Hospital Center- Heart Transplant & Heart Failure Program April 2007 to August 2009 I assisted patients and physicians by obtaining referrals from insurance plans. Pre-certified patients for all phases of the heart transplant process. Verified patient's qualifications as well as patients' insurance status relative to heart transplant procedures. I played an advocate in the periodic and systematic re-evaluation of heart transplant candidates and recipients' insurance status. Answered and screened multiple triage telephone calls. Completed and submitted United Network Organ Sharing (UNOS) forms to ensure that all the heart transplant patients were registered accordingly with their donor information. I effectively maintained all current records of routine post-transplant surveillance procedures. Education Northern Virginia Adult Education Center 2004 Skills 55 wpm, Microsoft office Additional Information ? Customer Service  ? Office Automation  ? Project Management  ? Excellent organizational skills  ? Timekeeping/Timecards    ? Detailed-oriented  ? Self-motivated and directed  ? Spanish Interpreter  ? Preparation of Travel Orders    Computer (Software) Skills    ? Microsoft Office Programs  ? Composite Health Care System (CHCS)  ? Essentrics    ? Ahlta  ? Type 55 wpm