Principal Engineer Principal Engineer Principal Engineer - DBA Unlimited, LLC Edmond, OK Over the course of the past twenty-four years, I have lead projects and worked on application development, database administration, cloud migrations, BI analytics, AI machine learning and a vast array of other technologies. I am also an expert with ITIL, Agile and DevOps methodologies using Bamboo. The bulk of my experience has been via contract engagements, which has exposed me to a wide variety of existing infrastructure and allowed me to add value to any environment. Work Experience Principal Engineer DBA Unlimited, LLC - Edmond, OK January 2018 to Present 73013  • Working directly with local Oklahoma government, I am an acting senior Oracle Apex developer.  • Managed existing FAA Oracle RAC 12g including PL/SQL reviews and implementation as well as general database administration.  • Developed custom C# console applications to support FAA flight safety programs.  • Worked with OCHIN to provide a DevOps solution for their Microsoft SQL Server environments using Bamboo and Redgate CLI.  • Developed custom application enhancements for ElmTree Systems using PowerBuilder as well as providing support and training for their customer sites across the USA. Cloud Data Engineer American Farmers & Ranchers Insurance - Oklahoma City, OK October 2016 to December 2017 73108  • Architected production enterprise migration from VMWare SQL Server to AWS based MongoDB.  • Worked with developers and vendors of existing applications to ensure a smooth transition with a through QA testing period.  • Developed custom AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB CRUD interface for managing policies.  • Developed custom C# .NET application, integrated with PowerBuilder to manage IBM Netezza and SQL Server database management and administration tasks.  • Managed integration of IBM Netezza BI appliance using IBM DataStage.  • Trained users on Tableau and Power BI to leverage their IBM Netezza. MongoDB System Administrator HostWinds - Tulsa, OK February 2016 to October 2016 74103  Architected cloud solutions for all sizes of business and technology customers.  Developed custom CentOS bash scripts to migrate MySQL databases to MongoDB.  Implemented custom DevOps using Jenkins, Chef, Puppet and Ansible.  Developed custom PHP based web support software that integrated with Google Translation API.  Implemented custom cPanel, CentOS, Ubuntu, Red Hat Linux & Windows server solutions for on-premise, shared and private cloud infrastructures. Managed Big Data solutions using NoSQL in MongoDB, and Apache Cassandra environments. Daily production relational database administration using Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL. Microsoft Azure Cloud Developer Community HigherED - Tulsa, OK September 2015 to February 2016 74145  Migrated existing custom College Student Management system from a client-server Visual Basic 6 application to a PHP/Zend enabled Microsoft Azure hosted Cloud based solution. This did include engineering the new Azure Cloud Infrastructure. Also responsible for managing the existing Microsoft SQL Server 2012 database environments and the development and test environments on the Microsoft Azure SQL Server platform. Also migrated MySQL database environments to Microsoft SQL Server 2012. Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator DBA Unlimited, LLC - Tulsa, OK April 2013 to April 2015 74011  Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle database management implementing changes and following up with business customers to ensure all SLAs were maintained using ServiceNow review process through implementation. Migrated existing VMWare and physical servers from their current environments into Microsoft Azure. Designed and implemented the ONEOK custom Microsoft SQL Server BI solution utilizing SSAS, SSRS & SSIS. Utilized Matlab and R when necessary for custom statistical analysis. Engineered additional BI environments using Cognos and Oracle for ONEGAS. Developed custom ETL packages using SSIS, PowerShell and Python. Utilized custom Postgres, PHP, Node.js solution for developers which integrated with ServiceNow to provide a higher degree of agile workflow management. Architected solutions to automate backups, restores, and storage expansions utilizing the ITIL framework and developing custom workflow integrations utilizing C# .NET with Microsoft PowerShell. Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator Hobby Lobby Corporate - Oklahoma City, OK April 2012 to April 2013 73179  Developed custom Microsoft PowerShell scripts to monitor and administrate separate Microsoft SQL Server instances at each of the 500+ Hobby Lobby retail locations. Managed all corporate ETL through SSIS Packages, to transfer data between SAP, Sybase Anywhere and Microsoft SQL Server both virtual and physical in clustered and non-clustered environments. Provided Microsoft SQL Server performance monitoring to establish baselines and adjust resources and/or database settings to achieve higher performance. Led weekly code reviews with development teams, provided training on the correct corporate standards and syntax of each database with all T-SQL and C# code. Also responsible for migrating Enterprise MySQL environments to Microsoft Azure SQL Server 2012. Database Infrastructure Team Lead Devon Energy, Inc - Oklahoma City, OK October 2011 to April 2012 73102  Led a team of DBAs (Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase Anywhere) to provide all of the database administration, business intelligence support, documentation, and server maintenance as required. Developed custom ETL packages using Informatica to manage transparent data warehouse replication from both Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server databases of record. Provided custom Business Intelligence reports utilizing Cognos reporting tools. Fine-tuned existing Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services OLAP cubes to increase business intelligence processing times by over 400%. Release Manager MSPRC - Norman, OK June 2009 to October 2011 73071  Planned and implemented the MSPRC data center in Oklahoma City with the help of the IT Director, Network Engineer, Incident Manager and VMWare System Engineer. Developed highly encrypted Python scripts customized for use as ETL and EDI (x12 compliant) solutions to automate collections for three call centers operating under the guidance and support of the Chickasaw Nation and the Federal Government. Worked directly with CMS (Medicare) to develop new EDI standards for Medicare collections and custom CPT (Care Patient Terms) for specific Medicare billing resolutions. Administrated all SQL Server database server environments, including migration from physical servers to VMWare virtual machines, with the planning and scalability of VMWare high availability using dual NetApp storage area networks with Cisco routing equipment. I also served as the Release Manager and gained COTS customization certification in HP Service Manager, HP Connect-It and HP Orchestrator. Also responsible for the daily production MySQL database administration and maintenance. Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator Federal Aviation Administration - Oklahoma City, OK May 2004 to April 2009 73169  Single point of contact for all of the Microsoft SQL Server database administration, application development, and Compco MySoft.net Telecommunications Workflow software. Saved Washington D.C. (ATOW) over 4 million in annual revenue by designing custom a custom Microsoft Visual Basic 6/Microsoft SQL Server client application with Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) dashboards and Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) integrated reporting. Re-Engineered Compco MySoft.net tool to allow custom billing using Oracle Financials (Delphi). Administrated all Microsoft SQL Server database server environments including upgrades, backups, and maintenance. Senior Software Engineer Alternative Database Solutions, LLC - Edmond, OK September 1999 to April 2004 73003  Developed and implemented custom business intelligence and reporting solutions for local companies using Visual Basic 6, SQL Server, MySQL & Oracle databases along with SSRS, Business Objects, Cognos and Crystal Reports. Consolidated CRM & BI solutions for the entire Williams-Sonoma corporate and all call center locations. Saved the company an estimated 2.8 million in annual IT support costs. Developed 345 highly customized Crystal Reports for Abbott Labs medical diagnostic equipment infrastructure in Chicago, Illinois. Engineered custom LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL & PHP) web application for use by Mary Kay cosmetics consultants (known as pinkoffice.com). Software Developer Simons Petroleum, Inc - Oklahoma City, OK September 1998 to September 1999 73102  Engineered an Informix Online v7.3 RDBMS running with AIX OS on an IBM RS/6000 server mainframe platform. Developed a fuel network tracking system using Microsoft Visual Basic 6, involving the persistent parsing and loading of data (ETL) from fuel terminals throughout the USA into the corporate Informix database management system. Implemented hundreds of real-time fuel network reports utilizing Crystal Reports Enterprise server. Business Intelligence Consultant Plaza Medical Group, Inc - Oklahoma City, OK August 1997 to August 1998 73112  Designed and implemented all clinical reporting utilizing Crystal Reports and Matlab with NexGen EMRS. Engineered and maintained Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 production RDBMS environment. Supported existing InterSystems Cache (including custom JavaScript development) & MUMPS EMRS production environments. Developed custom data warehouse utilizing Red Hat Linux and MySQL to provide high quality data analytics at a fraction of the traditional data warehouse cost. Senior Technical Representative Fidelity Investments, Inc - Westlake, TX September 1995 to July 1997 76262  Managed new development of call center tracking application in Microsoft Visual Basic 6. Developed custom Cognos & Crystal Reports as well as administration and development of modules for the Intellisystems voice response system. Directed the interview and hiring process of new employees. Provided third tier support for the Fidelity Online Xpress software for pre-internet online trading. Education High school or equivalent Skills Devops, Python, Puppet, Azure, AWS, Docker, Powershell, Jenkins, Hadoop, SCCM, Linux, Mobile Device Management, Ansible Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/timothycloud Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ijtobtbcbxawumb0 Search Engine Optimization — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iw27-pkc-vbelxrp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.