Grants Management Administrator Grants Management <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Grants Management Administrator - Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts Foundation Boston, MA Versatile professional with strong organizational, grants management and administrative skills that have been developed and demonstrated in a variety of corporate and nonprofit settings, particularly finance and health care. Work Experience Grants Management Administrator Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts Foundation - Boston, MA November 2012 to Present • Manage the online grants management process utilizing the Foundation Connect application.  • Maintain the Foundation's constituent relationship management system (Salesforce.com) to manage contact lists, mass mailings, as well as various business and funding reports including assisting with development and maintenance.  • Assist the Senior Program Officer in managing all aspects of the Foundation's Catalyst Fund mini-grant program.  • Prepare minutes from review meetings with the Board Program Review and Grants Committee.  • Assist with preparation of quarterly Board meetings.  • Manage all administrative responsibilities for the Massachusetts Institute for Community Health Leadership (MICHL) program.  • Coordinate scheduling and preparation of grantee site visits by grantmaking and evaluation.  • Respond to telephone and in-person requests for information as well as troubleshoot with grantees having issues with on-line portal.  • Provide extensive calendar management and meeting coordination for Foundation staff as well as coordinate all logistics for off-site grantee learning sessions including working with vendors for catering, AV needs, generating materials etc.  • Work closely with BCBSMA Treasury department to coordinate the process of all grant checks being distributed to Foundation grantees including creating and maintaining all appropriate documentation.  • Compile various reports containing grant information in response to requests from multiple areas throughout BCBSMA i.e. Treasury, Corporate Citizenship as well as the President of BCBSMA including annual report data in addition to working closely with the Senior Director of Communications and Administration for reporting relative to Foundation budget items.  • Perform other administrative duties upon request. Consultant Relations Database Specialist Pioneer Investments - Boston, MA September 2008 to October 2012 Maintained all consultant and third-party databases describing Pioneer's investment products, strategies and services to support institutional sales and new business. Responsible for modifying and updating product information in databases including performance, characteristics data, portfolio holdings, fees, personnel and overall qualitative descriptions of the firm's capabilities. Working with portfolio managers, investment strategists, operations, trading, marketing, legal and compliance to ensure that Pioneer communicated accurate and consistent firm and product information to the databases. Coordinated with global offices to ensure consistent representation of the firm's capabilities. Responsible for the addition of new institutional product offerings to the databases. Assisted the Sales & Consultant Relations team with ad hoc requests such as competitive analysis, fee analysis generating various reports etc. Marketing Assistant March 2000 to September 2008 Provided support to Director and the Institutional Marketing Department in all capacities, extensive administrative responsibilities. Managed the department's database with Satuit application, prepared new business PowerPoint presentations and Requests for Proposal, prepared reports, and coordinated all aspects of preparation for conference and trade show participation. Performed extensive travel arrangement coordination, and performed other projects as assigned. Executive Assistant Funds Distributor - Boston, MA December 1998 to February 2000 Provided support to General Counsel, Director of Client Services as well as served as liaison between Legal and Client Service departments. Duties included supporting both departments in all capacities including tracking all attendance, maintaining conference schedules, preparing materials to be presented at Board meetings, maintained client database, processed department expenses, executed company Fund Officer requirements, processed all Legal bills, performed occasionally projects for CEO and various other responsibilities upon request. Administrative Assistant Funds Distributor - Boston, MA January 1998 to December 1998 Provided support to entire Legal Department in all capacities including typing various business correspondence, creating and editing documents, creating and maintaining department files, making travel arrangements, processing all travel and expense reports, maintained attorney schedules, provided phone coverage for attorneys as well as receptionist, Xeroxed various fund agreements and documents, assisted in creating and forwarding quarterly board books, maintained all department publications, filed advertisements with the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), entered hours worked by attorneys into time tracking database, maintained and updated all legal client contacts into Act Database, performed occasional projects for Human Resources and other responsibilities upon request. Claim Secretary Harvard Risk Management Foundation - Cambridge, MA May 1996 to January 1998 Assisted in processing medical malpractice claims, setting up claim files as well as claimant medical records, typed various business correspondence, transcribed medical and legal correspondence, distributed mail, data entry, provided phone coverage to claim reps as well as other department employees, processed legal billing, requested physician profiles via phone and internet, prepared and maintained weekly schedules and messages for claim representatives and provided overall support to department as needed. Receptionist The Office of Senator John F. Kerry - Boston, MA January 1994 to March 1996 Operated a busy switchboard, served as greeter and assisted walk-in constituents and performed an extensive variety of administrative responsibilities, including processing Washington tour tickets requests. Education Associate