Engineering Specialist (Data Engineer) Engineering Specialist (Data Engineer) Engineering Specialist (Data Engineer) - JACOBS TECHNOLOGY Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Engineering Specialist (Data Engineer) JACOBS TECHNOLOGY - Colorado Springs, CO 2017 to Present COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO, 2017 - PRESENT  Delivering highly valued solutions for clients by applying an unrivaled depth and breadth of capabilities; 80,000 employees, $15.4 billion in annual revenue  Engineering Specialist (Data Engineer): At the Missile Defense Agency (MDA, IRES contract) assisted in the design and build of the Global Analytics & Reporting Network (GARNet) Hadoop data lake. Designed the ingest process for disparate data sources (SQL, csv, Excel, API call, PostgreSQL, etc.) into the data lake and Elasticsearch using the ELK stack and Kafka. Let the ETL (Extract Transform Load) team as they gathered data, implemented the ingest design and created pipelines. Was the go-to person for questions on the environment, Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS), and new tools for the new data solutions being implemented.  Selected Achievements:  • Received the GARNet Award (multiple times) for significant contributions to the team  • Trained in ELK stack solutions as well as Cloudera Hadoop management  • Planned and implemented a library of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for using the various ingest, data manipulation and dissemination tools used by the ETL team.  • Outside of standard job duties, was tapped to complete a Change Management AS-IS review and presentation for MDA and Jacobs senior leadership at the beginning of the new contract. It was recognized as one of the most comprehensive, well-researched and well-presented reports to this audience Database Engineer IV SCIENTIFIC APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION - Colorado Springs, CO 2013 to 2017 Colorado Springs, Colorado, 2013 - 2017  Leading technology integrator providing full lifecycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise IT markets; 13,000 employees, $4 billion in annual sales  Database Engineer IV: At the Missile Defense Agency (MDA, JRDC contract) promoted to be the primary SQL Server Database Administrator for the Enterprise Data Analytics Services (EDAS) team performing all duties noted below as well as facilitating all SQL imports to a hybrid database warehouse that used SQL Server 2014 for structured data and Cloudera Hadoop for unstructured data. Built parameterized SSIS packages to mine SharePoint, other SQL Servers and Excel spreadsheets performing extract, transform and load (ETL) processes to add the records to the database warehouse.  Selected Achievements:  • Received the JRDC Outstanding IT Service Award (awarded multiple times)  • Achieved the highest allowed Performance Review scores for three years running  • Persuaded management to move from a Hadoop-only architecture to a hybrid Hadoop/SQL Server architecture because most of our data was structured    Database Engineer III: At the Missile Defense Agency (MDA, JRDC contract) was responsible for all facets of database management in a SQL Server mixed environment, including both clusters and stand-alone servers, across multiple domains. Monitored, installed and configured SQL Server instances (2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and 2014) as well as individual databases supporting a variety of applications. Upgraded, backed up, recovered, and tuned database performance as well as maintained security of systems and databases. Provided expertise in architecture and design of new systems along with researching, benchmarking, documenting, and introducing new database technologies to enhance existing systems. Advised on, installed and configured Log Shipping, Mirroring and Replication as needed. Installed and maintained instances of SSIS, SSAS and SSRS. Collaborated with management, application developers, business owners and architects in design and implementations. Hired and provided informal leadership to the Enterprise Database Services team including mentoring junior team members.  Selected Achievements:  • Single-handedly performed the work of four database administrators during a six-month period and successfully prioritized, coordinated, completed and followed up on all projects as a single point of contact for the Enterprise Database Services team (EDS).  • After hiring a full team, mentored junior members and was still recognized by stakeholders within both the Application Services area as well as Missions as the "go to" person to get results during projects and troubleshooting.  • Recognized by peers and management for exceptional communication skills, both verbal and written.  • Received the JRDC Outstanding IT Service Award (awarded multiple times) Database Administrator AECOM TECHNOLOGY - Colorado Springs, CO 2012 to 2013 At Peterson Air Force Base, audited and supported SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 database instances on Windows Server 2003, 2003 R2, 2008 and 2008 R2 platforms for the 561st Network Operations Squadron (NOS) which includes five Air Force Major Commands supporting over 60 bases. Wrote all Communication Special Instructions (CSI's, Air Force equivalent of a Standard Operating Procedure) for my functional area. Administered, optimized and supported systems and databases for Directory Services and Information Assurance shops.   Selected Achievements:  ·        Designed and deployed multiple databases for AECOM corporate allowing management to track and report on all clearance information regarding facilities and employees of the government services division as well as report weekly activities to the government customer in a consistent manner across multiple teams and regions.   ·        Became the primary team resource for all documentation of organizational tasks. Authored over 35 documents on how to complete tasks ranging from installing and configuring database instances and supporting software to writing SQL queries for data mining.   Data Analyst KAISER PERMANENTE - Aurora, CO 2011 to 2012 through Apex Systems, Inc.), Aurora, Colorado, 2011 - 2012  Largest managed care consortium in the U.S.; 167,000+ employees;  Data Analyst: Imported, transformed, validated and modeled data and presented it in charts, graphs or tables as requested by the end user. Designed and developed relational databases for collecting data and designing/building data input and screens. Wrote SQL scripts to perform processes to improve data quality and for presenting conclusions gained from analyzing data using statistical tools including Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access. Evaluated and rewrote complex VBA operations to provide automated reporting services on compliance with Evidence of Coverage (EOC) requirements for Medicare members.  Selected Achievements:  • Even as a temporary contractor became instrumental in the project to nationalize EOC reporting, working closely with the national team to validate queries, tables and fields. Database Administrator NORTHROP GRUMMAN - Fairmont, WV 2009 to 2011 Fairmont, West Virginia, 2009 - 2011  Leading global security company; 120,000 employees; $3 billion annual sales.  Database Administrator: Administered, optimized and supported systems and database for company's Biometric Identification System for Access (BISA) contract. Performed system troubleshooting, installation and upgrades, as well as system-wide backup and restore. Developed and deployed daily system maintenance plans and protocols, ensuring high levels of system stability/reliability. Assisted in testing and rollout of new software/upgrades. Wrote the entire library of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for technical maintenance activities.  Selected Achievements:  • Credited with maintaining 97% system up time and authoring multiple Standard Operating Procedure documents.  • Investigated and resolved key performance issues, initiating process and system improvements to increase system stability and staff productivity.  • Built productive relationships with clients, colleagues, and managers, earning reputation as 'go-to' resource for high-risk projects and technical issues. Financial Analyst SPARTA, INC 2007 to 2009 Promoted to perform tracking, analysis, and reporting of key financial data for a multi-million dollar, multi-year Department of Defense Contract. Designed and implemented scalable data collection, management, and reporting solutions. Developed and delivered regular and ad hoc reports on monthly expenditures, payments, budgets, billing and hours; vital for strategic business, staffing, and project management initiatives. Drove 100% on-time delivery and accuracy of Prime Contractor reports; reversing previous trend of consistently late, inaccurate reports. Key contributor to successful achievement of project deliverables and budget requirements. Jr. Systems Engineer / Database Administrator SPARTA, INC 2005 to 2007 One of a select group of individuals focused on development, maintenance, and administration of databases in SQL Server 2000, supporting mission critical DoD system and information architectures. Oversaw capacity planning and monitored database growth, liaising with application teams to resolve technical issues and optimize performance, security, and data quality. Analyzed and monitored business processes, conducting research and specifications for major system upgrades and implementations.  Selected Achievements:  • Designed and documented software and file configuration requirements to build a lab dedicated to classified DoD architecture planning.  • Architected a stand-alone documentation tracking database for a Command at Peterson AFB, to allow tracking location and status of any item of correspondence received.  • Acknowledged for maintaining research tracking database for U.S. Air Force with over 99% uptime and 100% security.  • Maintained high levels of business continuity through proper administration, support and documentation of all database functions. Operations Analyst II WELLS FARGO CONSUMER CREDIT GROUP 2002 to 2005 Promoted to design, build and maintain multiple databases gathering raw data from up to three separate data warehouses to track and report employee production and sales performance encompassing numerous products, campaigns, and geographic areas. Gathered and defined data requirements then, utilizing SQL, Microsoft Access and Microsoft Excel generated daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and ad hoc reports for upper management. Collaborated with senior management to gather requirements, create meaningful reports, and translate business requirements into strategic action plans for maximizing sales force productivity. Analyzed and optimized database performance, ensuring stability, scalability (within the toolsets capabilities), and integration of quality data architectures. Optimized performance and productivity by spearheading transition of reporting processes into automated dashboard format. Achieved fast track, successive promotions based upon consistently exceeding corporate productivity and performance expectations. Supervisor I & II WELLS FARGO CONSUMER CREDIT GROUP 1999 to 2002 Supervised up to 10 employees each in two departments (20 total). Mentored, coached, and trained new Sales Support Team, and instituted policies, procedures, and best practices to increase customer satisfaction and staff productivity. Provided high-level database administration and support of call monitoring software. Led implementation of Witness Systems Call Monitoring Program, expertly coordinating all project phases, from initial installation and configuration through end user training, database administration, and daily monitoring. Data Entry and Secretary/ Executive Administrative Assistant WELLS FARGO CONSUMER CREDIT GROUP 1995 to 1999 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management Colorado Technical University 2008 Skills Data Analysis, Data Entry, ETL, Data Management, Microsoft Office (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Database Management, Databases, Database Administration, SQL, Hadoop, ELK Stack Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/evon-m-bateman/ Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2018 to August 2021 ITIL July 2012 to Present Secret Security Clearance June 2001 to June 2021 DoD