Advanced Support Analyst - L2 Advanced Support Analyst - L2 Advanced Support Analyst - L2 Atlanta, GA Work Experience Advanced Support Analyst - L2 Spring Mobile Solutions - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to March 2018 Member of on-site implementation team responsible for deploying Springs CPG mobile sales application to over 117,000 users. Empowering North American bottlers to reduce operating costs, increase workforce efficiency and drive revenue growth.  • Provided level two support of all incoming incidents, ensuring communication between integrated systems and successful processing of customer orders and deliveries.  • Utilized Service IT to manage technical support tickets, adhering to ITIL incident management process flow and within business SLA's.  • Built and executed SQL queries to troubleshoot and validate data inconsistencies.  • Implemented and managed resource monitoring solutions to report real-time metrics of network and server performance to business partners and senior management.  • Coordinated with business users and technical groups to review open incidents, validate data configurations and coordinate the implementation of network and system updates. Senior Software Support Analyst Intradiem, Inc - Alpharetta, GA February 2015 to April 2016 Member of Tier 3 helpdesk team tasked with providing technical support and case management until ticket resolution.  • Drove the resolution of customer issues by defining and diagnosing issues utilizing technical expertise, product knowledge, communication and problem-solving skills.  • Prioritized issues of varying severity, and effectively managed the resolution or escalation of all issues within accepted service levels.  • Conducted root cause analysis for high priority technical issues and keep detailed documentation of all steps in Salesforce CRM.  • Interfaced with Technical Operations and Success Management teams to escalate cases with significant business impact to the company or the customer. Interactive Designs, Inc - Alpharetta, GA March 2006 to February 2015 Software Support Manager Interactive Designs, Inc 2011 to 2015 • Managed the support team in the day-to-day support of proprietary POS application.  • Oversee vendor and client relationships, resolution of escalated support requests and direction of department workflow through project assignment and responsibility delegation.  • Assisted in the development and implementation of problem tracking and reporting system and policies to document and track problem tickets to issue resolution.  • Designed and initiated procedures for problem identification, tracking and documentation reducing problem ticket resolution time in half.  • Utilized SharePoint platform to manage customer support issues. Database Administrator Interactive Designs, Inc 2008 to 2011 • Conducted SQL Server database installations, configurations and maintenance.  • Configured LAN and WAN implementations utilizing SQL replication to provide data sharing between multiple offices and ensure redundant backups of transactions.  • Synced SharePoint lists to SQL Database servers to store user content.  • Scheduled and perform weekly database audits to maximize system performance.  • Utilize SQL Server Reporting Services to improve processes and drive system efficiency. Software Support Technician 2006 to 2007 • Utilized SQL queries to identify problems with data and determine steps for resolving product issues.  • Conducted software installations, pc hardware configuration, maintenance, and technical support for end users.  • Completed Microsoft certifications to earn quick promotions and elevated responsibilities. Education Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Morehouse College - Atlanta, GA Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zg-flai5qid3sccq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.