Database Administrator/ Financial Budget Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Financial Budget Analyst Database Administrator/ Financial Budget Analyst - Rutgers University Union, NJ Experienced Analyst - Financial, Data, Database Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/ Financial Budget Analyst Rutgers University December 2014 to Present • Advanced database management, maintenance, planning and development.  • Major support of PeopleSoft financial software transition project including testing, implementation and security.  • Department wide technical support for Excel, Access, Citrix, and Banner systems.  • Complex ad hoc financial data reporting in Excel and Access including pivot tables, lookups and macros.  • Tested and printed W2 and 1042S forms for entire workforce. /  • Managed major clinical trial budgets testing new cancer drugs and treatments.  • Acted as intermediary between large pharmaceutical companies and CINJ for negotiations, budgets, planning and amendments.  • Produced trial budgets based on requirements of medical staff and corporate management.  • Reporting and detailed analysis in Excel utilizing university systems, OnCore, Banner, and Citrix. Accounting Analyst Nawrocki Smith September 2013 to December 2014 • Worked in consulting division of CPA firm specializing in tax services and audit.  • Reviewed accounting information systems including Microsoft Dynamics, Sage, SAP and Oracle to enhance efficiency and ensure proper financial reporting.  • Prepared budgets, forecasting, and financial statements to enhance medium and long range planning.  • Assisted in organizational analysis, policy improvements, and legal compliance.  • Various ad hoc analysis with reporting in Excel including pivot tables, lookups, macros and Powerpoint. Inventory Portfolio Manager Luxottica July 2011 to July 2013 • Managed order portfolio from product planning and manufacturing through to retail end user logistics.  • Created and produced comprehensive metrics package for executive management.  • Reduced inventory levels, improved JIT characteristics for lean supply chain.  • Conceived and carried out various efforts to improve open order levels, reduce back orders and save cost.  • Complex analysis and project management tasks using SAP, Access and Excel. Loan Ops Associate - Consultant Citigroup July 2010 to April 2011 • Worked in loan ops division of private bank as contact coordinating invoices to bankers and clients, ensuring accuracy and timely distribution using Excel and Access.  • Produced monthly statements for foreign currency loans. Financial Analyst World Alliance Financial Corp October 2007 to March 2010 • Worked in corporate finance department reporting to CFO and Director on all budgeting and forecasting matters.  • Produced complex analysis including modeling DCF, NPV, IRR, FCF, MTM, GOS and rate and volume metrics and financial statements in Excel for accurate projections and trend analysis.  • Assisted in process improvement for month end close team, approved manual posting, managed and journalized expense allocations.  • Produced monthly financial presentation (ALCO) slides, materials and market analysis in Excel and Powerpoint for executive policy development. Education Bachelor of Science in Finance St. John's University - Jamaica, NY Skills Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Microsoft Access (5 years), Financial Analysis (10+ years), Financial Reporting (10+ years), Financial Modeling (10+ years)