Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Oakbrook Terrace, IL • Extensive experience as a Database Administrator / Database Developer involving analysis, design and implementation of project requirements through interacting with client and development team for Data Management.  • Expertise in installation, configuration, coding and administration.  • Strong communication skills and ability to interact with all levels of management as well as external customers.  • Organization, documentation, problem solving, and project management skills.  • Ability to work in a fast-paced and demanding environment.  • Ability to clarify complicated technical solutions to business users resulting in successful implementation.  • Demonstrate commitment to company's core values and superior customer service through positive attitude, leadership, and hands-on teamwork. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Surepayroll Inc, A division of Paychex Inc. May 2013 to Present Description: Surepayroll is a wholly owned subsidiary of Paychex Inc, providing an easy, online, convenient payroll service that keeps Paychex small business customers in control. Surepayroll also offers efficient online solutions for managing 401(K) Plans, health insurance, workers' compensation, employee screening and more. I am an employee of Surepayroll Inc, a division of Paychex Inc and I am working as a Database Administrator, Maintaining and supporting application using databases on MS SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 and Oracle 11g.  Responsibilities:  • Create and maintain databases and database maintenance plans.  • Installing Multiple Database instances, applying service packs, Creating Schemas and keeping it synch with different Production, Development, testing and staging Environments.  • Managing database structures, disk spaces, storage allocations, and table's constraints, database access, roles and privileges. Creating Users and Roles.  • Analyze database requirements of the user department, applications programming, and operations. Work with application, system architects Business Analysts and subject matter experts to evaluate the logical data models and design physical database structure; evaluate the impact of proposed changes to the physical database.  • Perform server upgrades from SQL Server 2008 to 2012, SQL Server 2012 to 2014 and SQL Server 2014 to SQL Server 2016, performance tuning, capacity planning, and back-up/recovery activities.  • Coordinate research, planning and implementation of new SQL Server installations, upgrades and patches. Control system capacity for existing requirements and plan for future needs.  • Working on data migration, data conversion, data mapping and ad hoc data request by different departments. Worked on migration of old billing system to Zuora Subscription billing system.  • Working with Agile teams for creating and maintaining software applications, work closely with Application developers and QA teams in creating stored procedures and other database objects, optimizing the query performance, Tuning stored procedures taking long time in production environment, performance monitoring and tuning using sql profiler and sql ignite and other tools and help QA team member with database support on their uses cases.  • Facilitate root cause analysis on SQL Server database issues.  • Submit recommendations for solutions that require definition of the physical structure and functional capabilities of SQL Server databases and require data security and data backup/recovery.  • Creating Stored Procedures, Views, Tables, Constraints, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions and other database objects as required.  • Help the developers on database related issues. Identify and resolve all database performance issues, act as a subject matter expert for less experienced team members. Collaborate, coordinate, and communicate across disciplines and departments.  • Creating SSIS Packages for extracting data from different systems with special emphasis on data cleaning and error handling while loading the data. Implementing ETL business logic using SQL SERVER SSIS.  • Working on reports development using SQL Server SSRS 2016, 2014 and 2012, involved in migration of old reports and reporting application to a new reporting system using SQL Server SSRS.  • Review/audit overall system security and data integrity, Define and develop a database monitoring facility.  • Experience with database level audit logging and server/instance level audit logging using DLL or DML triggers.  • Configuring linked server, set up of Transactional Replication, Working on Sql Server clustering and set up of SQL 2012 always on availability group for high availability and disaster recovery.  • Working on resolving incident assigned to the DBA/Application support queue by service desk and working on incident management using sales force application.  • Working with the Surepayroll and Paychex IT change management system in moving changes from development/test to production.  • Versioning, building, deploying and maintaining code and SSIS packages in all environments.  • Maintain technical documentation relating to SQL Server database management.  • Provide 24/7 production support on a rotation basis.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008/2005, SSIS, SSRS, Share Point 2012, ASP.NET, VB.NET.  Project: Senior Database Administrator Dallas ISD May 2008 to May 2013 Description: The Dallas Independent School District (DISD) is "one of the nation's fastest improving school districts," according to the Council of the Great City Schools. With 230 schools and more than 157,000 students, Dallas ISD is home to the top two public high schools in the country (Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center's School of Science and Engineering and School for the Talented and Gifted) as reported by The Washington Post and Newsweek. Dallas ISD boasts several U.S. Blue Ribbon Schools, 30 Exemplary and 67 Recognized schools as determined by the Texas Education Agency and is steadily increasing its graduation rate.    I was an employee of Dallas ISD and I worked as a Senior Database Administrator from May 2008 Till May 2013. I was involved in the implementation of a new Student management system (Chancery SMS) and worked as a lead DBA during the implementation of this project. We migrated a 1970 technology based Delta system to sql server 2005. Chancery SMS application is used as the student system for all the 250 schools in DISD and has student's data for all 160,000 district students. Apart from being the DBA for Chancery student management system I have been involved in supporting other databases and applications used in various departments of DISD like the student discipline system, Operation data store/dataware house, Audit Leverage for Internal Audit department and DRM databases for District Record Management department and Gradespeed for attendance and grades and have worked on implementation of sharepoint 2010 in MIS, Dallas ISD.  Responsibilities:  • Creating and maintaining databases and database maintenance plans.  • Installing Multiple Database instances, applying service packs, Creating Schemas and keeping it synch with different Production, Development and testing Environments.  • Planning and scheduling database backups, restoring databases, created automated processes to refresh databases of downstream environments from production systems.  • Managing database structures, disk spaces, storage allocations, and table's constraints, database access, roles and privileges. Creating Users and Roles.  • Working on Installing Reports, customizations, patches and fixes.  • Creating Stored Procedures, Views, Tables, Constraints, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions.  • Creating SSIS Packages for extracting data from different systems with special emphasis on data cleaning and error handling while loading the data. Implementing ETL business logic using SSIS and T-SQL.  • Working on reports development using SSRS 2008 reports for special Ed system.  • Working on data conversion, data mapping, data migration and adhoc data request by different departments.  • Configuring linked server, worked extensively on Cross Instance and cross database queries and worked on Merge Replication.  • Working on Sql Server clustering.  • Working as a Production support DBA, worked on call 24X7 for maintenance of database systems, involved in change management, code migration, Data migration and product upgrades.  • Working on resolving incident assigned to the DBA queue by help desk and working on incident management using Remedy force application.  • Working with the DISD IT change management system in moving changes from development/test to production.  • Involved in upgrading applications to a new version as released by the vendor.  • Helping the developers on database related issues.  • Working closely with Application Developers in optimizing the query performance, Tuning stored procedures taking long time in production environment and performance monitoring using sql profiler.  • Analyze problems and develop solutions to meet customer needs, involve writing code  • Working closely with the top level management, clients and end users of Application for new changes (New releases) by making modifications to the database schema, Bugs and Error fixing, change and Information Request.  • Involved in implementation of MS Sharepoint 2010 in MIS, Worked as a SME, DBA and developer and Admin during and after the implemenation of this project.  • Versioning, building, deploying and maintaining code in all environments using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2005/2008, SSIS, SSRS, Share Point 2010, ASP.NET, VB.NET.  Project: Senior SQL Server Database Administrator NEC America March 2007 to May 2008 Description: Network Operation Center (NOC) at NEC provides network monitoring services to their customer around the world. Notification and events from customer's network and devices are captured through different services in NOC portal database. NOC Portal is a web based application where notification and utilization data is presented to the customers and NOC support engineers to provide information about customers sites and devices and to know if any of the devices are down and if they are generating any alarms and need to troubleshoot to get them up and running. Based on severity and type of customer (either managed or monitored) Noc Support Engineers troubleshoot the respective devices based on alarms generated for a particular site and devices. Noc Admin is the admin portal to manage and configure the customer information. Noc Portal has different modules. Dashboard, Report Central for generating different Reports, Service central to show customer ticket information, number of opens tickets, closed tickets, and average resolution rate in days.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed problems and develop solutions to meet customer needs, involve writing code  • Worked closely with higher level management for implementing new functionality (New releases) by creating new database schemas, making modifications to existing database schema, Bugs and Error fixing.  • Created reports as needed by the top level management.    • Managed Database Structures, Disk Spaces, Storage Allocations, and table's constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges. Creating Users and Roles.  • Worked Extensively on MS SSIS and SQL DTS for Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data from various applications which uses Oracle databases.  • Responsible for creation and maintenance of Data ware house database for reporting purpose.  • Helped the developers on Database related issues.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Tables, Constraints, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions on Database objects  • Worked closely with Application Developers in optimizing the query performance, Tuning stored procedures taking long time in production environment and performance monitoring using sql profiler.  • Planned and scheduling Database Backups, Restoring Databases. Created Database Maintenance plans.  • Versioning, building, deploying and maintaining code in all environments using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2000/2005,ASP.NET,VB.NET, Visual Basic.  Project: Sr.Applications Support Engineer The Scooter Store - San Antonio, TX January 2007 to February 2007 Description: Worked as Senior Applications Support Engineer at The SCOOTER Store. They help provide freedom and independence to people with limited mobility. They sell power chairs, mobility scooters, lifts, ramps and other accessories and provide expertise and quality service for their patients with locations in over 47 states.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on IT support helpdesk to solve magic tickets opened by users of Great Plains and savant Applications.  • Update the database pricing catalog to provide up to date information for billing personnel.  • Analyzed and troubleshoot problems, develop solutions to meet customer needs, involve writing code.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2000/2005, Savant, MS Great Plains.  Project: Senior SQL Server Database Developer Capital One Auto Finance July 2006 to December 2006 Description: Worked as Sql server DBA /developer in the data warehouse team. I worked on IPP -Integrated Prime Program, Refund Automation and Online Notification. Integrated Prime Program aims to provide better service to customers by differentiation between the Prime and non Prime customers and helps in support of different credit model scoring to better serve the customer community. Refund automation deals with providing refund and payback to customers after the customer payoffs the loan. Online notification helps in analysis of customer online notification experience to better server the customer community.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed problems and develop solutions to meet customer needs, involve writing code  • Versioning, building and deploying code in all environments which include third party tools like Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Rational Clear Case  • Created Stored Procedures, Views,Tables,Constraints,Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions on Database objects  • Helping the developers on database related issues.  • Working closely with application developers in optimizing the query performance, tuning stored procedures taking long time in production environment and performance monitoring using sql profiler.  • Creating DTS Packages for extracting data from different Legacy systems with special emphasis on data cleaning and error handling while loading the data. Implementing ETL business logic using DTS and T-SQL.  • Building fact and dimension tables used by various dataware cubes, extracting data from OLTP and Legacy Systems to populate fact and Dimension tables.  • Creating reports as needed by the top level management.  • Worked closely with the top level management, clients and end users of Application for new changes (New releases) by making modifications to the database schema, Bugs and Error fixing, Change and Information Request.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2000, Analysis Services, Visual Basic, AB Initio.  Project: Developer Support Engineer - Microsoft SQL Data Services Irving, TX December 2005 to June 2006 Description: Part of Microsoft Product Support Services team, for delivering technical support to developer communities with a focus on database application development. This group handles SQL Server and all technologies that are used to connect to a database from other Microsoft Development Products such as Visual Basic, Visual C++, VBScript, Visual C#.NET and Visual Basic .NET. Utilizing knowledge of the customer environment, deliver timely and high quality incident resolution focusing on root cause analysis, prevention, and knowledge transfer. The primary focus is to ensure that all Microsoft customers are very satisfied with the effectiveness and efficiency of the support they receive. Effectively manage cases and sub-cases to ensure timely and high quality communication with customers and resolution of all issues. Develop a relationship with technical peers for the technology being supported and related technologies in order to ensure improved collaboration and satisfaction in support. Support services will be provided for a broad range of customers from small development shops and independent software vendors to Fortune 500 companies. Other responsibilities include identifying and documenting issues with Microsoft products and technologies, developing sample code, and ensuring the highest levels of customer satisfaction.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed problems and develop solutions to meet customer needs, involve writing code and recreating and analyzing the errors faced by customer for proper diagnosis.  • On call Support provided for a broad range of customers from Fortune 500 companies, small development shops and independent software vendors for issue relating to configuring, installation, development, performance tuning ,Maintenance of MSSQL SERVER and all technologies that are used to connect to a database from other Microsoft Development Products such as Visual Basic, Visual C++, VBScript, Visual C#.NET and Visual Basic .NET  • Reproduce customer's problem in the product support services labs and provide accurate and complete solution to the issues faced after extensive research and test.  • Creating tables, constraints, stored Procedures, triggers, functions, setting up replication, set up virtual instances of sql server on cluster, back up and restoring databases, creating DTS packages, configuring linked servers as part of reproducing the customer's problem.  • collecting and analyzing sql profiler trace,Netmon Traces,Pss diag, Mpsreports for root cause analysis of performance related problems  • Suggest Guidelines and recommendations to the customer for efficient technology usage and to avoid pitfalls  • Communicate with corporate customers via telephone, written correspondence, or electronic service regarding problems identified in SQL Server software and provide fix.  • Participate in daily triage meetings to share knowledge with other engineers and develop efficient customer solutions  • Identify and report both software bugs and customer suggestions  • Learn prerelease products in area(s) of support responsibility in order to support them when released  • Learn entire product or product family supported and continually improve personal knowledge and skills  Project: 1) BASESII - Bell Atlantic Service Entry System, DBA Verizon Data Services June 2005 to September 2005 Project: 2) One Source, June 2005 - September 2005.  Description: One Source is an Integrated Application developed for Call centers and Agents of Verizon for Pricing of products, Proposal and quotes generation of different products as requested by customers and Order submitting System.  Responsibilities:  • On Call 24x7 for maintenance on database systems of Bases II and One Source applications., Worked as Production support DBA  • Versioning, building and deploying code in all environments which include third party tools like Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Rational Clear Case  • Creating Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions, views on Database objects  • Managing Database Structures, Disk Spaces, Storage Allocations, and table's constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges. Creating Users and Roles  • Planning and scheduling Database Backups, Restoring Databases  • helping the developers on Database related issues.  • Worked closely with Application Developers in optimizing the query performance, Tuning stored procedures taking long time in production environment and performance monitoring using sql profiler.  • Installing Multiple Database instances, applying service packs, Creating Schemas and keeping it synch with different Production, Development and testing Environments.  • Configuring linked server, worked extensively on Cross Instance and cross database queries.  • Creating and Maintaining Databases and Database Maintenance plans  • Creating DTS Packages for extracting data from different Legacy systems with special emphasis on data cleaning and error handling while loading the data. Implementing ETL business logic using DTS and T-SQL.  • Creating reports as needed by the top level management.  • Worked closely with the top level management, clients and end users of Application for new changes (New releases) by making modifications to the database schema, Bugs and Error fixing, Change and Information Request.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2000, ASP.NET, C#.NET & Visual Basic. Database Administrator /Developer Verizon Data Services September 2004 to September 2005 Description: Bell Atlantic Service Entry system II (BASESII) is an ordering Application used by various calls centers and Agents of Verizon, Spread over different geographical locations. The Application is used to take and Submit Orders from customers to different Ordering systems (Back End Systems /Main Frame Systems), from there the order is send out for Provisioning. The access to application is maintained by different roles assigned to different users and there by curtailing the access based on role. The system provides the flexibility to take in new orders, Conversion and change services. The order is submitted and the status of the order is tracked based on the regular feed received by different backend system and the status is updated and thus keeping track of the order. Database Administrator Verizon Data Services as Client September 2003 to June 2004 Description: National Sales Tracker is a sales tracking tool to aid the sales department of a leading Telecom company to keep track and evaluate their business activities. Developed for Verizon sales department NST comprises of three related modules: DMT (Data Manipulation Tool), RGT (Report Generation Tool) and AT (Analysis Tool). NST helps in increase data quality, provide more user-friendly business definitions and language augment business functionality and employs Consumer Business Model with the integrated database structure. It enables end-user real-time data entry. Produces a foundation to incorporate new business functionality in a more efficient and cost-effective fashion. RGT (Report Generation Tool) helps in De-commission current reporting systems and associated support. Significantly reduces time and effort required to produce reports manually. Client's access information on demand via their current web-browser centralized reporting system across the Verizon consumer sales organization. AT (Analysis Tool) increase service levels to Consumer field and senior management.  Responsibilities:  • Creating and Maintaining Databases and Database Maintenance plans  • Creating DTS Packages for extracting data from different Legacy systems with special emphasis on data cleaning and error handling while loading the data. Worked as an ETL lead, responsible for implementing the entire ETL business logic using DTS and T-SQL.  • Creating Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, functions, views on Database objects.  • Managing Database Structures, Disk Spaces, Storage Allocations, table's constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges. Creating Users and Roles.  • Planning and scheduling Database Backups, Restoring Databases.  • Helping the developers on Database related issues.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of database.  • Creating Schemas and keeping it synch with different Development and testing Environments.  • Participated in implementation and support of the application.  Technologies Used: SQL Server 2000, ASP.NET, C#.NET & Visual Basic. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce Osmania University Skills databases (10+ years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Databases: SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008/2012/2014/2016, Oracle 7.0/8.0/9i/11g.  Languages: VB, Asp, ASP.net, C, T-SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX shell scripting, MS Dos batch programming.  Operating Systems: DOS, Windows NT, Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012.  Others: MS Office, MS IIS, MS-Exchange, MS outlook, MS project, MS Great Plains, MS Visio, MS SharePoint 2010/2012, Confio Solarwinds, Red Gate Tools, SQL Ignite, ASP, Visual Basic 6.0, Developer 2000, JIRA, Confluence, Slack, SQL Sentry performance monitoring tool, Zuora.