Technician Technician Cedar Park, TX • Business Analyst with a proven track record of optimizing the performance of marketing and sales initiatives by developing and deploying focused, standardized, and comprehensive diagnostic tools and analysis.  • Recognized leader committed to significantly improving revenue results and ROI, adapt at providing concise executive summaries and strategies by building and working with cross-functional teams.  • Excellent communication skills.    HARDWARE/ SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS    • Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Microsoft Access, RDBMS Programming & Architecture, Salesforce  • C, C++, Visual Basic, Perl, Java, CGI, MS Office, MS Project, CRM, BI tools Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technician Spectrum - Austin, TX 2017 to 2019 Comfort Air Solutions HVAC Owner Comfort Air Solutions - Austin, TX 2010 to 2017 Business Analyst, World Wide IBM 2008 to 2010 • Directed and deployed marketing support and analysis for US and Canada creating root cause analysis and strategic recommendations for marketing executives. Led an analyst team crucial to the delivery of $3.4B of marketing win revenue.  • Orchestrated a management system for an end to end comprehensive analytic model within all levels of the marketing team providing identification, root cause analysis and solutions to critical business issues.  • Mentored and trained a marketing analyst team of 6 providing 100% coverage for the geography.  • Enhanced marketing tools by defining requirements, metrics and deployment of standardized marketing tools saving 80 hours per week of the operations team's time.  • Led delivery of best of breed technology solutions for marketing, achieving 100% geography usage. Operations Strategist, Americas IBM 2005 to 2008 • Compiled and presented exhaustive views of business execution in all IBM brands (services, hardware, and software) by collaborating with various departments to gather business requirements, develop training modules and provide continuing enhancement to the entire marketing community in North and South America.  • Gathered and analyzed data relating to marketing campaigns, translating the information to pipeline and business performance reporting which enabled executive oversight contributing to an increase of ROI by 15%.  • Provided analytic and diagnostic leadership with key metrics that facilitated sufficient and accurate sales pipeline allowing marketing to build the next quarter pipe to 90 - 100% requirement to meet revenue goals.  • Streamlined reporting delivering high value solutions and reducing total man hours by over 50% Operations Specialist IBM 2001 to 2005 • Provided operational support and leadership as a Subject Matter Expert in Software Group's marketing structure applying insights into the sales and opportunity management process with targeted strategies and insight.  • Developed and managed tools which increased reporting and analytic capabilities for marketing while strengthening interactions with sales resulting in greater focus on closing the pipeline.  • Deployed the Siebel Customer Relationship Management Business Partner module allowing greater visibility pipeline, grew channel market share and exceeded the goal of $18M of win revenue. Marketing Database Manager IBM - Austin, TX 1998 to 2001 • Implemented and managed a database solution for marketing and inside sales decreasing costs while increasing ROI/revenues. Managed vendor contractors with a $1M budget.  • Decreased operating expenses by 30% with analysis outlining campaign effectiveness and lead generation programs resulting in 22% increase of revenue for direct sales and business partners resulting from marketing initiatives.  • Initiated and launched a new marketing database architecture and web solution for opportunity management that increased telesales revenue by 18%. Database Administrator PcOrder.com/Trilogy - Austin, TX 1993 to 1998 Resolved data timeliness and scalability needs of single data base server by creating a distributed server system, resulting in a significantly, more scalable data base farm. Increased the timeliness of data from 24 hours cycle to a few hours while accurately managing price books for over 50 distributors and 1000 computer resellers. Education BS in Information Technology American InterContinental University - Hoffman Estates, IL Skills BUSINESS PLANNING, DATABASE, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, DATABASE ARCHITECTURE, ARCHITECTURE