Data Migration and Integration Specialist Data Migration and Integration Specialist Data Migration and Integration Specialist - White Box Technologies Springville, UT I am a dedicated and motivated database administrator and developer with over 30 years of experience. I am  a self-starter and strong independent worker and also a good team player able to learn and implement new  technologies/methodologies. I have designed, developed, and implemented scores of systems using a wide  variety of languages and tools. I am adept at isolating issues/bugs/flaws in systems and determining and  implementing the appropriate solution. Work Experience Data Migration and Integration Specialist White Box Technologies 2019 to Present Perform data migration and integration for public sector software moving to different platforms. Engineer Dell 2019 to 2019 2019  Abbtech  Upgraded older computers and Windows versions to new computers using Windows 10. SQL Developer Gospec Marketing 2019 to 2019 Created SQL scripts to restructure data extracted from Eloqua marketing automation software to SQL Server for querying and reporting purposes. Database Administrator/Software Engineer/SQL Developer/Data September 2008 to July 2018 Conversion Specialist  Modere    Database Administrator responsible for multiple Informix databases. Duties included design and creation  of databases, tables, indexes, triggers, stored procedures. Also responsible for database monitoring and turning.  Design and implement, and maintain a variety of systems to support a Multi-Level Marketing Company on Informix databases. Systems developed using Informix 4GL and SQL included commission system, data  entry, AR, electronic funds transfer, etc.  Responsible for c# back end processes to SQL Server databases performing a variety of functions. These  functions included: data validation, commission calculation, data manipulation, etc. Systems were  developed using Visual Studio, asp.net, Microsoft SQL Management Studio and Team Foundation Server.  Design and implement, and maintain a variety of systems to support a Multi-Level Marketing Company on Informix databases. Systems developed using Informix 4GL and SQL included commission system, data  entry, AR, electronic funds transfer, etc.  Extended in-house APIs to communicate with third party APIs and perform functions against SQL Server  database.  Created processes to access and update Exigo Direct Marketing Software through API calls, c#, and SQL  Designed and implemented processes for gathering and calculating data for use by the Eloqua marketing  automation platform using c# and SQL to be transmitted via APIs and Web Services.  Implement multiple interfaces to send and receive data from a variety of banking institution and payment  services.  Converted legacy COBOL system to Informix DBMS.  Converted Informix system with multiple character encodings for Asian Markets to UTF8.  Technologies used: SQL Server, asp.net, T-SQL, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server, c#, c, Informix  DBMS, Informix 4gl, SFTP, ksh, nawk, sed, grep, COBOL, Oracle Eloqua, Exigo. Data Migration Specialist Decade Software January 2006 to January 2007 Designed and implemented data conversion process to populate Environmental Health software using  SQL Server 2000 and SQL 2005 from client's legacy data. The processes included the conversion of historical data, user security, data scrubbing, etc; and were implemented with Microsoft Data  Transformation Services and SSIS.  Technologies used: SQL Server, T-SQL, Access, Visual Basic, DTS, SSIS Independent Contractor Rancho Vitello Veal Farm 2003 to 2006 Designed and developed Calf Tracking System using Microsoft Access/Visual Basic. Calves added or removed from inventory, medicinal treatments, weights, etc. were entered into portable Psion computers.  This data was then imported into an Access database where it was used for invoicing, inventory, and analysis.  Technologies used: Access, Visual Basic, Psion Independent Contractor Vans Shoes 2003 to 2006 Designed and developed Order Entry/Sales Tracking System using Microsoft Access/Visual Basic for Regional Sales Manager of Van's footwear company. At that time, regional managers of Van's were  independent contractors and were not provided software with which to conduct business.  Technologies used: Access, Visual Basic Software Engineer/ Database Administrator/System Admin Dairyman's - Tulare, CA January 1991 to January 2003 Asa Database Administrator, designed, implemented, and maintained 100+ user Informix  Database system. Duties included database analysis and design/creation/population, indexing, stored  procedure design/implementation, trigger design/implementation, backup and recovery plan, monitoring  and troubleshooting performance issues, data migration from legacy systems, data purging, security, and user and role setup.  As a Senior Programmer, designed, implemented, and maintained database applications including, but not  limited to: GL, AR, AP, Order Entry, LIMS, Production Scheduling, Production Recording, Shipping/Receiving, Parts and Maintenance, Helpdesk, Human Resources, Time and Attendance, RF, Electronic Funds Transfer, and EDI using Informix 4gl and Fourgen development tools.  As a DBA/Programmer, wrote scripts (ksh, csh, sh, nawk, sed, grep, etc.) for environment switching,  database monitoring, importing/exporting/validating data, system monitoring, etc.  As a backup Network Administrator, maintained UNIX LAN. Duties included user account creation and maintenance, monitoring and troubleshooting performance issues, and printer setup and administration.  Technologies used: Informix DBMS, Informix 4gl, Informix ESQl, Informix SE, SQL, Fourgen, Solaris, c, COBOL, Dbase, CPM, Kermit, ProComm Plus, MySql, Dreamweaver, PHP, FTP. Software Engineer/ Database Designer Total Image 1988 to 1994 Designed and created Multi-Level-Marketing software using Access and Visual basic to record distributors and sales and calculate commissions. Education Bachelor of Science Computer Science Fresno State - Fresno, CA Skills Data conversion, Data mapping, Database administrator, Database, Database design, Dbms, Informix, Sql, Stored procedure, Back end, C#, Scripting, Software engineer, Visual basic, Cobol, Shell scripting, Asp.net, Engineer, Optimization, Mapping Additional Information Skill Highlights    Database Administrator  Over 20 years Informix experience including database design,  maintenance, data mapping, integration, trigger and stored procedure  creation, index creation and tuning, and query optimization.    Software Engineer  Fluent in Informix 4gl, c#, shell scripting, SQL. Intermediate asp.net  skills. Intermediate Visual Basic Skills. Exposure to many languages over  my career.    SQL Developer  Designed, developed and optimized queries for Informix and SQL  Server queries for front and back end solutions. Created, designed,  and analyzed new and existing tables, indexes, triggers, constraints,  etc.    Data Conversion Specialist  Converted Legacy COBOL system to Informix DBMS. Converted  Informix system with multiple character encodings for Asian Markets to  UTF8.