Senior Marketing Systems Analyst Senior Marketing Systems Analyst Senior Marketing Systems Analyst Glendale, AZ To work in an Analytics position that utilizes my skills. Work Experience Senior Marketing Systems Analyst a Hearst Corporation - Scottsdale, AZ 2013 to 2019 Created and supported client and internal dashboards using Tableau and Datorama, connecting to various data sources and creating formulas and workarounds when solutions  were not pre-programmed into the Tableau or Datorama software.  - Collaborated with offshore engineering team to integrate systems and data sources, and to troubleshoot system bugs.  - Managed re-coding of materialized views within PL/SQL Developer during systems  migration from Ares to Kenshoo data feeds into a proprietary iCrossing dashboard.  - Supported client dashboard updates and requests on an ad hoc basis through Oracle, providing the Product Development (PD) team with SQL code updates for the Graphic User  Interface (GUI) display and integrations of new business intelligence technologies.  - Worked with Visual Studio and Report Builder to automate SQL queries and tables for reports through Microsoft SharePoint. Senior Natural Search Reporting Analyst a Hearst Corporation - Scottsdale, AZ 2012 to 2013 Mentored new analysts and trained team members on reporting and analysis, website  analytics tools, and dashboards.  - prior responsibilities of Natural Search Reporting Analyst role. Natural Search Reporting Analyst a Hearst Corporation - Scottsdale, AZ 2008 to 2012 Created and analyzed website traffic and search engine position data reports for several  Fortune 100 and 500 clients.  - Collaborated with natural search engine optimization team as well as project leaders to strategize methods to improve website traffic and search engine position to increase client  sales and market exposure.  - Researched keyword trends and search engine positioning data.  - Led monthly analytics client calls, presenting historical and current data sets via client  dashboards and other analytics tools.  - Created baseline traffic and position data reports for sales team and built ad hoc reports for existing and potential clients. Merchandising Database Administrator Publisher's Clearing House - Port Washington, NY 2005 to 2007 - Maintained entire database of Publisher's Clearing House products.  - Created charts, formulas, and macros to show categorized items and their performance.  - Trained new employees on mainframe system and procedures.  - Implemented new procedures to utilize time more effectively. Education B.S. in Marketing Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 1997