Database Administrator / Assistant Controller <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Assistant Controller Database Administrator / Assistant Controller - Star Extruded Shapes, Inc Austintown, OH • More than 10 years management and IT experience with a strong IT, accounting, and sales background.  • Skilled at learning new concepts quickly, working well under pressure, and communicating ideas clearly and effectively.  • Extensive computer training and experience, including knowledge of networking, business software packages and programming languages. Work Experience Database Administrator / Assistant Controller Star Extruded Shapes, Inc - Canfield, OH 2007 to Present Manage and maintain computer and accounting systems for four manufacturing corporations. Work directly under company CFO.  • Oversee and monitor inventory management systems and supervise all physical inventory of materials  • Developed and manage product quoting applications based on costing data  • Perform cost analysis and efficiency studies of manufactured products  • Develop profit and variable margin projections, develop and study various department budgets  • Assist in monthly and yearly closing of four companies, including financial statement generation  • Manage and maintain computer systems and network for Star Extruded Shapes and three associated companies consisting of over 350 total employees  • Perform all computer equipment repairs, upgrades and maintenance.  • Maintain company databases and create custom reports from data for various departments Sales and Service Manager Generator Specialist Inc - North Lima, OH 2000 to 2007 Managed all aspects of Sales and Service department. Supervised group of four technicians.  • Primary responsibilities included management of office, sales and service departments  • Performed quoting, scheduling, invoicing, billing and inventory management  • Developed, maintained and updated contract service work scheduling database system  • Developed, maintained and updated company website  • Managed and maintained company computers and network Shipping and Receiving Clerk Youngstown Electric Service, Inc - Youngstown, OH 1998 to 2000 Performed inventory management and control.  • Primary responsibilities included scheduling delivery and pickup of materials and equipment  • Assisted in placing orders to maintain required stock levels of product Assistant Dairy Department Manager Rulli Brothers Market West - Austintown, OH 1994 to 1998 Performed inventory management, ordering and stock maintenance of department.  • Managed operations and inventory of dairy department  • Performed customer service and assisted with weekly advertisements Education BS in Computer Information Systems - Accounting Minor Youngstown State University - Youngstown, OH 2000 to 2006 Skills Financial Reporting, accounting, Payroll, budget, cash