Marketing Project Manager Marketing Project Manager Marketing Project Manager - CBT Nuggets Eugene, OR Work Experience Marketing Project Manager CBT Nuggets - Eugene, OR May 2018 to Present Key Responsibilities:  ? Lead cross-functional projects and teams: Manage multiple Marketing projects, campaigns, and teams at any given time. Develop project plans, assemble and lead project teams and meetings, select and manage vendors, develop and manage budgets, report on project status'.  ? Manage marketing projects and campaign portfolio: Manage Marketing project and campaign portfolio, resources, and work.  ? Manage marketing PMO: Oversee and manage Marketing PMO team members.  ? Marketing strategy: Work with CMO to develop and implement marketing strategies.  ? Manage marketing development: Manage Marketing's development team priorities and work.  ? Cross-functional liaison: Own the relationship between Marketing team and other departments like Development, Design, Product, Legal, Business Process, etc.  ? Marketing team product owner: Represent marketing on Product team.  ? Manage trade shows and marketing events: Manage trade show planning, exhibiting, and promotions Project Manager SELCO Community Credit Union - Eugene, OR January 2017 to May 2018 Key Responsibilities:  ? Lead multiple cross-functional projects and project teams at any given time. Develop project plans, assemble and lead project teams and meetings, select and manage vendors, develop and manage budgets, report on project status'. Projects range across the organization from marketing to construction to information systems and more.  ? Manage employee Intranet: Lead Intranet committee and subcommittees (content, governance, enhancements), strategize and manage features/functionality and upgrades, manage vendors and budgets, work with internal stakeholders to accomplish strategic goals, report to senior leadership on engagement and roadmap. Digital & Database Marketing Strategist SELCO Community Credit Union - Eugene, OR April 2011 to December 2016 Key Responsibilities:  ? Lead marketing projects and teams: Develop project plans, assemble and lead project teams and meetings, select and manage vendors, develop and manage budgets, report on project status', and more.  ? Develop and manage digital marketing strategies: Develop annual digital marketing strategies and budgets, implement and manage strategies, manage vendors and budgets, report on campaigns, and more.  ? Develop and manage data-driven marketing strategies: Develop annual data-driven marketing strategies using internal and external data sources, maintain member database, manage vendors and budgets, analyze data and report on data-driven marketing efforts, and more.  ? Develop and manage web strategies: Lead website/mobile implementations and enhancements, lead search engine optimization efforts, manage vendors and budgets, work with internal programmers and systems administrators, maintain website content, and more.  ? Manage employee Intranet: Lead Intranet committee and subcommittees, strategize and manage enhancements and upgrades, manage vendors and budgets, work with internal stakeholders to accomplish strategic goals, report to senior leadership on engagement and planning, and more.  ? Develop and manage social media platforms: Implemented and managed social media platforms and communities, report on engagement and growth, and more.  ? Manage and develop Marketing Intern: Manage Marketing Intern's work, mentor and develop skills, seek training opportunities, performance reviews, and more. Information Technology Administrator Educational Policy Improvement - Eugene, OR June 2005 to April 2011 Key Responsibilities:  ? Web application project management: Develop project plans, assemble and lead project teams and meetings, work with programmers, report on project status, and more.  ? Web application development: Design, build, test, launch, maintain PHP-based websites and data collection tools, and more.  ? Website management: Maintain and develop company websites, lead redesign/redevelopment projects, and more.  ? Manage employee Intranet: Lead Intranet development, updates and content management, and more.  ? Develop and manage social media platforms: Implemented and managed social media platforms, create and lead social media team of employees, and more.  ? Quality assurance management: Develop, train, and lead the quality assurance and testing program and team, create testing station, and more. Education BS in Business Information Systems University of Idaho - Moscow, ID 1999 to 2003 BS in Business Information Systems University of Waikato - Hamilton, BM 2001 Skills PMP CERTIFICATION, PMO, PMP, TEAM MANAGEMENT, ASP, CSS, SEARCH ENGINE, SHAREPOINT, ADS, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MS PROJECT, PHP, SVN, VISIO Links http://@Task Awards Employee Excellence Award 2016-11 Willamette Chapter of Credit Unions National Outstanding Charity Project 2013-03 Active 20-30 Club of the United States Outstanding New Member 2010-03 Active 20-30 Club #920, Eugene Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) August 2014 to August 2020 License #1743138