Senior System Administrator Senior System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior System Administrator Owings Mills, MD Knowledge of procedures and responsibilities concerning the operation of large networks; practice and procedures for installing, maintaining, troubleshooting computer systems/networks; wiring techniques and wiring maintenance for large areas; software and hardware installation; maintenance for desktops and laptops. With an active Top Security clearance. Work Experience Senior System Administrator American Systems Corporation - Fort Meade, MD May 2017 to Present Worked closely with Customers, Vendors and cross platform organizations to complete a variety of server implementations to meet customer requests and enforce DOD standards. System administration of over 100 virtual servers including Windows and Android OS. This included the DOD domain controllers and Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS, WSUS and remote access.  • Performed full-scope server administration, upgrades and service pack application, performance tuning, and infrastructure enhancement. Hardening of Windows security (patching).  • Established, nurtured and maintained excellent end user relations to expedite incident response and boost customer satisfaction levels.  • Relied on to drive and ensure business continuity via backup procedures, restores, cluster fail-over testing, network load balancing, and disaster recovery planning and testing.  • Assisted with preparing the environment for Risk Management Framework (RMF) compliance Information Technology Specialist U.S. Army National Guard - Fort Indiantown Gap, PA February 2016 to Present Providing customer and personal services; to include customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction. Devised logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weakness of network related incidences; coming up with alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems.  • Used practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services.  • Devoted full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times. System Administrator II CACI Technologies Inc - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD January 2016 to May 2017 Technical foundation and structural support required to deliver and operate business solutions in an Enterprise environment. Implementing, integrating, and supporting the Army customer infrastructure with technical applications and related vendor software/hardware. Information Technology Manager U.S. Army National Guard - Fort Stewart, GA January 2011 to February 2016 Performed maintenance and troubleshooting for organizational level client; Under immediate supervision, monitor the infrastructure and networks, responding appropriately to alerts and events. Administered operating systems and configured networks for 500 end users; developed routing tables; configured routers and switches; administrated networks and reviewed legal and regulatory compliance.  • Reacted quickly to incidents from triage through resolution, including escalations, where appropriate.  • Responded to infrastructure repairs, including directing remote activities to maintain operational effectiveness for services  • Implemented data center support where appropriate.  • Documented daily shift activities in appropriate reporting and ticketing tools and ensure proper pass down of any outstanding issues.  • Delivered incident notification to Government representatives. Database Backups and SQL Server Agent Security and General Administration 2008 to 2012 • Ability to work well with application development team to assist in deploying, trouble shooting and supporting application development cycle. Installation and Administration of SQL Server Instances (2008/2012). (Installing SQL Server) Create Users and assign permissions based on the level of database access the user would need. (Security and General Administration). ( Database Backups and SQL Server Agent). Recover the databases to a specific point of time. ( Database Backups and Recovery).  • An understanding of routers, firewalls, switches and VLans.  • Experience in virtualization/consolidation of an information technology environment.  • Knowledge of TCP/IP, information security/authorization profiles, or system administration of Unix or Windows networks/systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Strayer University - Owings Mills, MD 2019 Skills CCNA, CISCO, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION (6 years), VIRTUALIZATION (5 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2015 to May 2021 CompTIA Network+ January 2015 to May 2021 Additional Information Core Competencies  • I.T. Essential I&II  • Windows Administration and Virtualization  • Virtualization Machine Software (VMware)  • Routing & Switching  • CISCO Certified Network Associate (CCNA) LV I&II  • Network Administration  • System Administration    • VoIP  • Attention to Detail  • Customer Service  • Troubleshooting  • Effective Team Leading  • Complex Problem Solving  • Self-Motivated