Senior IT Risk Auditor Senior IT Risk Auditor Senior IT Risk Auditor - WellMed HealthCare Dallas, TX Proven knowledge of Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) applications, building out foundational components and driving transformational maturity efforts in IT Governance, Enterprise Risk Management, Information Security, and Compliance programs.  Execution of multimillion dollar initiatives in support of PCI DSS, COBIT 5, ISO27002, HIPAA, NIST Framework and FISMA Requirements.  Ability to perform moderate to complex review of applications and network infrastructure. The ability to effectively communicate / explain difficult concepts (both written and verbal); strong reading skills; the ability to perform moderate to complex-level mathematical calculations; and strong interpersonal skills. Work Experience Senior IT Risk Auditor WellMed HealthCare - Dallas, TX June 2016 to Present Thorough knowledge of general computer controls related to operations, information security and change management of systems software, application source code, network, and system database technologies (SDLC).  ? Perform risk analysis on newly acquired clinics to find out if any threat exists, what the level of threat is and in turn make recommendations on my finding to my director.  ? Assists with documentation and testing of ITGCs for the Company's Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts.  ? Regularly interact with senior/executive management levels on matters concerning status of Sarbanes-Oxley procedures performed and issues identified.  ? Review change management access for users returning from different types of leaves to make sure the change tickets went through the proper approving quarters before accesses was restored to these users.  ? Meet with process/application owners to make sure they're abiding by the WellMed HealthCare rules and regulations when performing SOX User Access Reviews.  ? I make sure the Compliance team are thoroughly reviewing the contracts from the newly acquired/merged hospitals/clinics in compliance with the internal Controls we have in place for the year and HIPPA rules and regulations.  ? Review the adequacy of critical controls such as Access Control, Audit log events, Data Integrity and Security, Segregation of duties, Change controls and management, Quality Assurance testing, Incident Management, Release Management.  ? Make sure PHI and PII are strictly adhere to in accordance to HIPPA rules and regulations.  ? Performed SOC 1 type 2 audit on data security for medical claims processing to make sure the controls in place are being properly implemented.  ? Thorough knowledge of auditing policies, practices, and systems.  ? Assist the department in the use of computer assisted audit techniques, as necessary Assists supervisor in the drafting of IA reports based on findings and recommendations.  ? Check the internal controls of any acquired primary care clinic before integrating it into the WellMed/UnitedHealth systems.  ? Perform procedures to examine the effectiveness of IT general controls.  ? Monitors testing results of ITGCs, and provides feedback to management.  ? Assisted management in developing remediation plans to address deficiencies.  ? Ensures that changes to the strategy and structure of assigned business units are evaluated for the potential impact to Sarbanes-Oxley responsibilities.  ? Assists management in developing remediation plans to address deficiencies. Database Administrator US Army National Guard (Veteran) August 2013 to December 2017 Deployed back to back to Kuwait.  ? Assisted users with issues relating to their common access card CAC.  ? Changed Management for patches and upgrades.  ? Scheduled jobs to automate different tasks such as monitoring database health, disk space, job alerts, index monitoring, stats monitoring.  ? Administration of all aspects of Windows Server environment.  ? Upgraded the Oracle 11g database from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.4 by applying the Oracle patch set update PSU patches.  ? Performed database Backup and Recovery, restore operations, error log monitoring and troubleshooting when required.  ? Clear print queue stuck jobs for users.  ? Coordinate with other development teams to review database changes.  ? Provided support for Active Directory, assigned roles and permissions. Contractor 7 Eleven - Atlanta, GA November 2010 to March 2014 IT Risk and Assurance Auditor    ? Review the end to end processing, transmission and storage of credit card/debit card information in adherence to PCI DSS standards.  ? Ensure the customer's privacy is maintained at all times by protecting the PAN information in the custody of the Organization, as well as conduct privacy compliance reviews.  ? Conduct detailed review of all PCI DSS control elements covering wired and wireless Networks, Security policies and procedures, Firewall, access controls, Security Awareness Programs, Vulnerability analysis, Penetration testing and Segregation of Duties control amongst others.  ? Conduct detailed review of the Approved Scanning Vendor (AVS) results and internal vulnerability scan report.  ? Ensure compliance element exceptions are brought to the attention of senior management for immediate resolution (Attestation form completion, inventory of PCI applications etc.  ? Advise management on the best IT strategy to achieve compliance at minimal cost such as Network Segmentation.  ? Conduct full review of the organization's Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) and readiness. Contractor AT&T - Atlanta, GA August 2008 to January 2014 System Administrator    ? Responsible for all aspects of the data systems, including hardware and networking, application and database design, implementation, backups, and software lifecycle, including the Microsoft Office Suite and Office 365.  ? Coordinate and implements changes to development, test, and production environments.  ? Image hardware for new hire; install Computrace for machine tracking, Bitlocker for drive encryption and SEP (Semantec Endpoint Protection) for antivirus.  ? Periodically check SCCM for machines that have not being on the network for more than 30days.  ? Responsible for the administration and maintenance of all installed enterprise-class applications and systems.  ? Disable NT accounts of terminated employees using Active Directory.  ? Prioritize tickets received from Service Now to assist remote users via Bomgar and on-site users.  ? Create windows NT access using Active Directory for new employees and send to user's manager for on-boarding.  ? Coordinate with software vendor technical support if some anomalies was detected.  ? Primary contact for vendor escalation to diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve issues for supported systems.  ? Primary contact for all frontline help desk operations. This included helping clients with issues related to all enterprise applications, desktop systems, hardware integrations, and OS deployments.  ? Worked heavily with the configuration, installation, and maintenance support for virtualization technologies in a mixed OS environment.  ? Provides incident management escalations on related incident tickets received.  ? Developed and maintained an inventory of all site assets, hardware, and software  while properly updating our asset management and configuration management  processes. Freelancer Abuja Nigeria March 2004 to January 2008 Java Developer    Created application for various small business owners and also provides website optimization to help improve marketability of their products.    ? Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  ? Implemented Spring, JSP and Ajax to design the user interface.  ? Created Technical design documents (TDD) which includes system design and flow further involved in TDD reviews for validating the design documents.  ? Follow the Agile SDLC process when dealing with any client.  ? Used HTML jQuery, JavaScript and JSON for the front UI development.  ? Provided production support for the application developed for couple months to make sure clients are happy with my work and also they understand how to use the application. Education Bachelors of Science in Physics in Physics University of Abuja 2003 to 2007