Head of PMO Head of PMO Head of PMO - CoServ Lake Kiowa, TX An accomplished Technology Professional with a Bachelor's degree in Information Technology from the University of Johannesburg. More than 25 years as a proven, global IT Leader. An innovative team builder, skilled at identifying and finding solutions to systems and personnel areas that need strengthened. A wide array of experience that provides a breadth of solutions knowledge and progressive business practices, including health care, financial services / banking, energy, manufacturing, high-tech, government, industrial, and consulting.  Adept at identifying revenue generating opportunities and areas where data intelligence is not serving the best interests of departmental heads, especially the CFO. Able to identify the quickest route to profitability when making decisions on best practices related to business intelligence associated with ownership of software versus outsourcing.  A skilled technician and negotiator accustomed to the impact that data structure has on an organization, and the ability to seamlessly integrate disparate systems to produce meaningful data to the entire organization, and provide a competitive advantage.  Exceptional financial acumen combined with extensive technical expertise and operational knowledge to create excellent business solutions and transformational business improvements. Implemented Business Intelligence solutions, and more efficient operational procedures in organizations around the world.    Successful project leadership of multiple concurrent, vast, complex projects delivered on time, on budget, and aligned with business objectives.  Years of experience leading international delivery organizations and multinational teams to exceed revenue and profit goals. Manage and develop budgets, complex fund allocation programs, auditing, and business practices that continually realize business goals.  Exemplary success negotiating positive operational outcomes on behalf of Information Technology programs for Fortune 500 clients and governmental entities.  Solid knowledge of business etiquette and protocols in the international business arena, and ability to handle negotiations with both dignity and respect to local customs across the globe.  Expert relationship builder, channel developer, negotiator and technology strategist. Work Experience Head of PMO CoServ - Corinth, TX 2012 to Present Responsible for the successful delivery of demand management, governance and project management - ensuring the organization meets strategic goals by continuously driving the successful execution of critical projects and initiatives. Partner with key stakeholders to determine strategic prioritization of demand, allocation of resources and capacity aligned with budget. Oversee all phases of PMO including project definitions, initiation, planning and execution (building of deliverables and monitoring) and closure. Define and implement effective methodologies, establishing a stable framework (methods, tools, guidelines and standards) to support project teams and drive successful outcomes.) Senior Director, Global Consulting Services Software AG 2006 to 2012 Directed customer and project relations logistics to support all aspects of professional services, sales, and delivery for North America. Direct information technology implementation projects generating $100M in revenue per year for numerous Fortune 500 clients and governmental entities. Provide the vision and tools to internal and external customers, to realize sales goals, project scope, specifications, construction, testing, and quality outcomes. Manage backlog and pipeline revenue forecasting, project schedules, project profitability, resource allocation, multi-department communications, executive briefings, and customer satisfaction issues. Successfully negotiated and secured multi-million dollars in implementation services business contracts within North America. Maintain an aggressive communications and executive meeting schedule, integrating worldwide accounts, information technology projects and customer relations issues. Chief Architect Software AG 2004 to 2006 Chief Architect with responsibilities, including strategic planning, customer enterprise design, research and development product strategy, and provide solution and implementation support around Legacy Modernization and SOA to all the Software AG country organizations and their customers. Manage global specialist team with people in Spain, Israel, Germany, USA and South Africa. Director, Sales Support Software AG USA, Inc. 2001 to 2003 Directed a full range of presales services consisting of employees, subcontractors, and technical professionals. Assist sales staff in achieving the sales goals by providing competent technical pre-sales resources. Develop and deliver technical presentations, structuring and implementing "proof of concept" requests and deliver product and related technical demonstrations Director, Project Management Office Software AG USA, Inc. 1999 to 2000 Manage multiple development projects for various clients. Projects involve coordinating all activities related to customizing and implementing solutions. Develop work plans, scheduling deliverables and coordinating externally with clients and internally with business development, services, Quality Assurance and engineering teams. Complete project P&L responsibility. Consultant Software AG USA, Inc. 1996 to 1998 Product installation and implementation of business solutions (product customization, web enablement, client/server migrations) for customers. Consultant Sprint - Dallas, TX 1994 to 1996 Provide support on the Customer Information System and interfacing systems. This entails analysis and corrections of problems, making recommendations for system performance and functional enhancements and business solutions. Consultant Morgan Stanley - New York, NY 1993 to 1994 Responsible for analysis, design and implementation of the following systems.  ? Syndicate Controller System - Keep track of all deals to monitor broker performance.  ? Brokerage Payout System - Payment of Broker commission based on performance.  ? Client Coverage System - Tracks client billing for all broker transactions. Database Manager Eskom - Johannesburg, Gauteng 1989 to 1992 Responsible for planning, coordinating and controlling the activities of the DBA team and development of policies and standards. Responsible for Quality Assurance, Strategic database planning, Capacity Planning, Software evaluation, Software installation and support, user liaison and support and training of development staff. Database Administrator Eskom 1987 to 1989 Responsible for database performance, evaluating data models and physical file design, evaluation, installation and software environment support, monitored program and system efficiency, Adabas and Oracle - performance tuning, maintenance and utility procedures. Programmer/Analyst Eskom 1985 to 1986 Responsible for all stages of software development life cycle for various systems. Provide technical leadership for a team of programmers and responsible for code reviews and code inspections. As a programmer coded programs in Natural and COBOL. Responsible for debugging, making resultant changes and maintaining documentation. Education Bachelors in Computer Technologies in metrics & management University of Johannesburg - Johannesburg, Gauteng 1984 Skills Data analysis, Data modeling, Data mining, Data warehousing, Program management, Portfolio management, Integration Additional Information Key Skills  Global Market Expansion Strategies  Business & Channel Development  Complex Negotiations & Sales Cycles  Cloud Computing  Integration  Project Management  Program Management  Portfolio Management  Data Warehousing  Data Analysis  Data Mining  Data Modeling