Foundation Coordinator Foundation Coordinator Phoenix, AZ Strong community and social services professional with a demonstrated history of providing support to high level executives and volunteer boards. Skilled in Microsoft office software, ADP payroll, databases, project coordination and can easily work independently or as part of a team. Work Experience Foundation Coordinator CREW Network - Lawrence, KS September 2014 to Present As the Foundation Coordinator, I provide high-level administrative support of the Foundation by working closely with the CREW Network leadership team, and act as liaison to the Foundation Board of Directors and Champion Directors. I manage the annual scholarship application and review process, internship program, career outreach, award recognition, and assist in the planning and coordination of the major annual Foundation fundraiser.    Other duties:  • Maintains and processes all charitable donations and pledge commitments.   • Tracks and provides proper acknowledgement for lifetime giving totals for all donors.  • Manages charitable fundraising activities of our chapters.  • Prepares promotional materials to encourage giving.  • Compiles information for the annual report, member emails, convention marketing.  • Schedules and coordinates conference calls/zoom meetings.    Accounting Assistant  As Accounting Assistant, I was responsible for assisting with accounts payable, accounts receivable, account reconciliations and other basic accounting duties, i.e. journal entries, general ledger, etc. for multiple chapters. Through this position, I was able to expand on my experience in Accounting by working closely with the marketing, chapter management and IT departments.    Other duties:  • Assisted CFO with document preparation, filing, and reports.  • Created Chapter Dues Reconciliation Report.  • Entered vouchers, print & mail checks for CN and FOU & chapters.  • Acted as backup for electronic deposits.  • Managed staff payroll. Project Management Assistant Sunflower Paving/Kansas Trucking - Lawrence, KS May 2014 to August 2014 As Project Management Assistant I reported to four Project Managers in management of current projects. I was responsible for creating & setting up jobs in a construction management database, job billing, and submitting bonds, plans/specs, insurance, bid distribution, etc.    Other duties:  • Reviewed Certified Payroll reports weekly - including subcontractors.  • Set up new projects in Viewpoint - contract items, phase code and budget.  • Requested Bid Bonds and report bid results.  • Placed locate requests to Kansas One Call and keep current.  • Reviewed and code job invoices.  • Kept Master Job List updated with new and completed jobs. Database Administrator Black & Veatch - Overland Park, KS December 2013 to May 2014 As a Database Administrator, I provided support to project and management team. Maintained and managed relationships while assuring that work performed in accordance with project requirements. Performed complex database activities and utilized complex databases.    Other duties:  • Updated project trackers.  • Reviewed, analyzed, and evaluated supplier and contractor activities, products, and reports.  • Monitored and updated all open transactions.  • Located documents in multiple electronic databases.  • Maintained multiple projects & priorities & effectively completed in a timely manner.  • Coordinated deliverables with other groups on the project to minimize interference or errors.  • Expedited and confirmed large volume of submittals have been received from subcontractors.  • Completed moderately complex filing activities such as scanning and electronic filing. Project Management Assistant SSOE Group/Evergreen EDC - Chandler, AZ October 2012 to December 2013 As Project Management Assistant in Project Controls, I was responsible for managing several projects at a time and ensuring that all deadlines were met. I assisted the Project Controls Specialist on client and vendor invoices, & accounts receivables. I prepared and processed project documents such as design change notices, schedule change notices, RFI’s, logs, and multiple client indicator reports.    Other duties:   • Reviewed and maintained client folders with expense documents, invoices.  • Researched any unbilled issues to optimize the billing possibilities for the billing period.  • Prepared final invoice packages containing draft and final invoices for all billable projects.  • Assisted with the set-up of new projects in the accounting system.  • Monitored and updated client schedules.  • Tracked and reported project status and timelines.  • Prepared transmittal documents for all outgoing hard-copies.  • Archived and retrieved all project documentation. Membership Coordinator CREW Network - Lawrence, KS February 2007 to August 2012 As Membership Coordinator I tracked and managed 8,000 members in 76 chapters across the US and Canada. My daily functions included data entry, adding/renewing memberships, processing/posting payments, data summaries, report preparation, and data analysis. Through this position, I was able to showcase my organizational abilities and attention to detail by working closely with the membership and the Network Board of Directors.    Other duties:  • Created membership invoices, welcome packets, membership cards, etc.  • Prepared reconciliation reports to board leaders.  • Maintained & updated historical chapter board information.  • Coordinated the preparing, editing, & distribution of the national membership directory.  • Produced & provided reports to chapter board leaders detailing current membership trends.  • Assisted on special projects including quarterly meetings and the annual convention. Medical Marketing/Registration Specialist Connex International - Lawrence, KS October 2005 to February 2007 My primary duty as a Registration Specialist was to register medical professionals for events through a dashboard database. In addition to performing general clerical duties, I was also tasked with marketing new products and services to potential and existing clients.    Other duties:  • Coordinated teleconferences for businesses around the world.  • Identified, escalated, and assisted in the resolution of problem cases.  • Supported operations staff with general office duties and training.  • Assured business was serviced successfully. Project Administrator Pearson Government Solutions - Lawrence, KS April 1999 to August 2005 As a Project Administrator, I provided administrative support to Project Managers on a contract for the Department of Labor. I gathered, organized, and tabulated a variety of specialized information for my manager's use in completing reports and special projects. Through this position, I was able to utilize my analytic and reporting skills and in addition gain valuable project management experience.    Other duties:  • Scanned & processed employee benefit plan forms.  • Ensured accurate and efficient tracking of files, databases and records.  • Supported in the development of quality assurance plans.  • Assisted in the audit, verification, and validation of EFAST activities.  • Performed routine analyses in the processing of data for recurring internal reports. Education Master of Liberal Arts in Creative Arts Baker University, School of Professional & Graduate Studies, Overland Park 2009 to 2011 Bachelor of Integrated Studies in Liberal Arts Washburn University - Topeka, KS 2005 to 2008 Associate of Applied Science in Business Administration Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS 2000 to 2004 Skills MS Office (10+ years), Project Management (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License September 2014 to November 2020 Photoshop Fundamentals June 2017 to Present Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dhvlukrgfcubhke9 Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ddswz5nle6zedcd5 Scheduling — Proficient May 2019 Cross-references agendas and itineraries to avoid scheduling conflicts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4drf4fepg-qj-8nk Basic Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Word techniques for word processing, including the use of tools to format or edit text. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hplviax0bsjy-q4i Email — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/odc0psj4nn-g-r-a Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qui-acmhunzhmuzs Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient June 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qp7uhjl0veu7wpgu Organizational Skills — Highly Proficient June 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/29t5xgql1dpgvtsh Social Media — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tunbzezpvb0kfaio Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS:  • Excellent organizational, planning, administrative and project management skills.  • Able to prioritize/execute tasks to shifting priorities, demands and timelines with minimal supervision.  • Strong written and verbal communication skills.  • Experienced with maintaining complex, accurate and confidential records.  • Proficient with many types of software, including MS Office, AMS, Adobe Creative Suite.