Athletics Communications Director Athletics Communications Director Drexel Hill, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Athletics Communications Director Rosemont College - Rosemont, PA September 2010 to Present Manage all communications including social media, for Rosemont College. Detail-oriented position involves writing, support of web site, knowledge of statistics for all 13 sports at Rosemont, training and scheduling student-workers for every home event, technical contact for Athletics and Campus-wide on Jenzaber, the campus' Enterprise Management System.    I replaced the outgoing Sports Information Director and negotiated a new web site, started the college athletics program's Facebook and Twitter sites, enabled systems interfaces to help coaches and administrators to manage sports recruits, developed reports specifically for the athletics department, wrote SQL scripts against the Enterprise Database to assist in generating required athletics reports for the department, the Athletics Conference, and for the NCAA.    Known as "The Voice of Rosemont," I have an excellent speaking voice that I use as the college's Public Address announcer for many athletics events. Database Administrator ROSEMONT COLLEGE - Rosemont, PA February 2007 to September 2010 Learned the college's Enterprise Management System, Jenzabar. Initiated the Information Technology Help Desk for the college. Maintained Jenzabar and it's associated web application (iWay). Wrote SQL scripts and converted data to assist multiple departments across the entire campus.    Managed by consistently visiting system users to determine if user community was experiencing issues with the Jenzabar system or the IWay, and to come up with solutions to fix multiple issues.    Controlled access to college-wide database, which must be protected as to the confidentiality of the information contained within the database (e.g. social security numbers, salaries, budgets).    Managed implementation of additional functions provided by Jenzabar, and helped to instruct the Rosemont user community in how best to use the new functionality.    Supported user community in Microsoft Office suite of programs. (e.g. Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Publisher, etc.) Project Manager Philip Morris International - Lausanne, VD January 1997 to July 2006 Project Manager in charge of managing support of large systems projects. Earned certificate as a PMP (Project Management Professional).    Responsible for release of all-access mode to users across the organization. Managed implementation of a global coding standard known as Internation Data Management (IDM). Manager Philip Morris International - Rye Brook, NY July 1996 to January 2003 Managed the help desk, supporting the user community for business reporting applications. The user community was made up of hundreds of individuals cutting across all corporate departments. Managed systems analysts and contractors to develop systems and to make changes to systems to meet the approved requirements of the user community. Education MBA in International Business Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT 1999 BS in Computer Science Rider University - Lawrenceville, NJ 1977 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Database Management (6 years), Help Desk Management (6 years), Project Management (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) June 2006 to June 2011 Groups CoSIDA September 2010 to Present College Sports Information Directors of America NASPAA February 2007 to September 2010 North America Sports Public Address Announcers Association Additional Information Umpire in the USAFL, the United States Australian Football League