Sr. Business Systems Analyst Sr. Business Systems Analyst Sr. Business Systems Analyst Hamburg, MI Versatile IT leader with expertise in all phases of software development life cycle. Expertise in CRM and ERP systems. Highly proficient in database design and management. Adept at assessing business needs and developing applications to enhance efficiency. Outstanding training, technical support, and communication skills. Analytical, organized, and conscientious. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Business Systems Analyst Avfuel Corporation 2002 to Present • Determine business needs and provide full life cycle support, including: application design, development, implementation, technical documentation, administration, project management, user training, and support of UNIX accounting application and multiple SQL CRM databases, Microsoft Dynamics AX, SSRS.  • Facilitate ad-hoc report creation; manage data retrieval/data mining across platforms.  • Supervised both internal and external resources for development and implementation of business application programs and initiatives.  Major Achievements:  • Technical lead for Dynamics AX implementation, design of integration specifications from front end system into AX.  • Process change management to utilize best practices for business segments in AX including workflows and efficiency patterns in an agile environment.  • Analyzed business environment; designed, developed, and implemented program to enable tracking of customers and current pricing; new program increased knowledge of pricing and profit margin, which enhanced competitiveness in marketplace and increased profit margin.  • Exposed a need for informational data transfer between the CRM and accounting program to reduce duplication of work. Designed and tested the workflows, implemented, documented, and trained end users on proper usage.  • As part of a team designed, tested, implemented a new POS software program for over 600 merchants that provided enhanced reporting, tracking, invoicing capabilities to both the merchants and the company. Sales / Database Administrator LK Metrology Systems, Inc 2000 to 2002 • Led and supported major CRM database implementation projects.  • Oversaw database administration and support, including report writing and data query.  • Trained new users. Sales Administration Manager, ERP Implementation Clover Technologies 1997 to 2000 Contributed to BaaN ERP implementation, which involved end user training, technical support, and systems integration product support. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Cleary University - Ann Arbor, MI 2004 Skills DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS AX, ODBC, SQL, SSRS, VB.NET, VBSCRIPT, CRYSTAL REPORTS, MS OFFICE, SALESLOGIX, Business Intelligence, Microsoft Office, Excel, Powerpoint, testing, access, Visio Additional Information Technical Expertise  Software: Saleslogix, Dynamics AX, SQL, SSRS, SSIS, PAMS, TotalFBO, Crystal Reports, ACUCorp ODBC/XDBC, and MS Office, vbScript, VB.NET