Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Project Coordinator - Goldies BC Consulting Somerville, NJ Work Experience Project Coordinator Goldies BC Consulting - Somerville, NJ 2016 to Present Provide contract and project coordination and consulting services to clients across industries. Leverage my unique experience in construction and technology to interpret needs of key stakeholders in support of efforts that achieve operating efficiencies and cost savings.    Clients include:    • Fairway Architectural Railing Solutions: Worked as Estimator; learned to create takeoffs using PlanSwift and completed bid proposals for aluminum railing balconies, Juliet, and fences. Proposals included determining cost of special mounting requirements based on architectural drawings and code requirements.  • Shadow Financial Systems: Served as Project Coordinator and Oracle DBA to support post-trade processing application and upgrade of all instances of Oracle. Proactively investigated and resolved identified issues. Created and sustained good working relationships with internal and external vendors.  • Plan/NJ: Established and reported on project milestones and outcomes, working with vendor on new document system to ensure this nonprofit organization serving as 'guardian' for disabled adults understood and achieved value from vendor software solution. Analyzed existing paper documents and collaborated with technical specialist to establish and define documents to be uploaded to new system.  • PSG of Mercer County: As project coordinator, advised local professional networking chapter on correcting broken links and verifying accuracy of data on web pages. Provided timely project status updates and delivered on schedule. Continue to act as advisor to web team.    908 334 9738 pschneiderv2.0@gmail.com Project Coordinator and Information Technologist JPMorgan Chase - Brooklyn, NY 2013 to 2015 • Delivered ongoing value as Lead Architect and Project Manager on various technology projects, which included leveraging agile software methodologies on all projects to reduce time and costs associated with implementations.  • Established expectations of project scope, deliverables and procedures for project communications and dissemination of information to team members.  • Conducted project kick-off meetings, defined project objectives and scope, tracked risks and assumptions, and managed detailed project schedules.  • Leverage Jira to plan track and manage agile and software development projects.  • Planned and facilitated project review meetings to expedite requirements and resolution of project issues.  • Guided the team on resource requirements, methodologies, tasks, dependencies, deliverables, risks, and other issues through the project lifecycle. Database Administrator Citi - New York, NY 1996 to 2013 • Delivered ongoing value as member of dynamic, cross-functional teams and contributed to new system implementations; efforts included improving operating performance and facilitating troubleshooting.  • Engaged with business teams to gather and document requirements.  • Project managed upgrade of SAP Sybase ASE application and transition from HP platform to AIX; completed project three months ahead of schedule.  • Built, managed, and maintained numerous applications for finance, accounting, human resources and other departments.  • Led and trained offshore India team in company's best practices. Provided 24/7 production support. Education Construction Blueprint Reading Mercer County College June 2019 Morris County College January 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Applied Mathematics in Applied Mathematics BLOOMFIELD COLLEGE - Bloomfield, NJ Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulineschneider Assessments Organizational Skills — Proficient June 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d0pxecrso-ufgzt6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.