Director of IT and Engineering Director of IT and Engineering Director of IT and Engineering Highlands Ranch, CO ? Passionate about enhancing the brand through product offerings, and by protecting the brand  by limiting client impacting problems; all achieved through operational excellence.  ? Lead by creating teams that are catalyst and enablers of business success.  ? Utilize budgets, effective architecture, and effective vendor management to provide results.  This allows for an ecosystem that drives down IT budgets while providing required availability,  security, disaster recovery, and business continuity for the enterprise.  ? Passionate that IT needs to be aligned with the strategy of the business. I work closely with the  business leaders to ensure that our quality of product delivery and time to market is in support  of customer and strategic needs.  ? Have a strong security background in many areas including PCI-DSS, FFIEC, GLBA, NYDFS and  GDPR and successfully align Security, Governance, Legal, and Compliance.  ? Have managed diverse and extremely technical teams while also with C-Suite leadership for  most of my career.  ? Strategic thinker who can also execute on vision. Work Experience Director of IT and Engineering Email on Acid - Denver, CO January 2019 to April 2019 Report to CEO  ? Led Software Engineering, QA, IT Operations, Dev/Ops - Approximately 11 employees.  ? Was a part of the executive team. Worked to align on goals, vision, culture, leadership styles, and brand definition and recognition.  ? Worked with Executive Team to create the 2019 corporate budget and set goals and strategy- based goals and meeting by product delivery objectives.  ? Set up first IT budget. Outlined all licensing and maintenance costs, consulting, contracting, and cloud providers. Worked closely with AWS to understand how to save money as the overall cost  of cloud were exorbitant.  ? Implemented Dev/Ops with first engineer. Set roadmap for Ansible and Jenkins deployments  are started automating deployments and server updates.  ? Set up Project Roadmap for 2019 and presented in company meeting. IT goals, organizational  plans were presented after being there only 6 weeks.  ? Hired first middle manager for the company and worked to train and set precedence on how  middle management would work.  dupree.ta@gmail.com 970.769.0439  ? Worked to help improve the Agile Development Process. These teams were not aligned.  Worked closely with product and through management of the Development improve morale.  ? Created Epic, Spike, and Large Technical Project Process to align with Agile Development.  ? Was successful in pulling together a suffering project to gain requirements and get technical  solutions and document in backlog tickets. Were able to point project within 2 weeks of these  efforts, when no process existed prior.  ? Worked with and negotiated with offshore contract labor. Interviewed numerous candidates  for Node.js and PHP development.  ? Worked on architectural documentation on how to reduce risk due to growth scenarios. IT Management Consultant Lexico Consulting - Denver, CO October 2018 to December 2018 Independent Contract  Accomplishments    ? Worked with large national utilities company to create Business Capabilities Model.  ? Categorizing key systems by business functions and capabilities; discretionary - non- discretionary, core - non-core.  ? Associated all budget line items to business capabilities including labor, managed services, infrastructure, network, software and hardware maintenance, and all operational expenses.  ? Worked through all enterprise architecture and operational overhead of each application to tie  to capability through understanding of all activities in the Plan, Build, Run model of IT.  ? Worked with Office of CIO to tell the story of spend to capability to align priorities.  ? Assisted in creation of two presentations; One C-Suite and one Board Presentation.  ? Providing recommendations on operationalizing final model. SVP, IT Operations and Security LenderLive Holdings, Inc - Denver, CO 2015 to August 2018 Promoted from VP, IT Operations  Reported to CIO  Accomplishments  ? Led Network Engineering, Systems Engineering, NOC, Database Administration, Business  Intelligence, Desktop Support, Enterprise Application Administration, Service Desk, Security, and IT Finance - Approximately 50 employees.  ? Led the introduction of cloud. We were able to implement Mimecast to traverse email through the cloud for AV, DLP and Spam Filtering. We are also working on archiving in the iLand cloud  environment. Approved, negotiated and started implementing Microsoft o365 and ADAzure.  ? Saved >$4M total with, $2M run rate. This was done through IT finance practices and improvements in architecture.  ? Successfully completed 3 data center moves in a 2-year period, including moving and reducing  footprint of the primary data center. This led to savings of $30K/mo. on data center spend  alone. This also required a full re-architecture of the network. We implemented failover  capabilities and introduced savings on the network's spend.  ? Led all activities related to M&A's from an IT perspective. I created artifacts for the M&A  playbook. This allows for pre-documented processes, technology, and procedures for integrating  a purchased company. I managed 4 acquisitions that required full IT and corporate integrations.  dupree.ta@gmail.com 970.769.0439  ? Successfully built the Security department to be equipped to be its own entity for proper checks  and balances. I successfully built the autonomous Security and IT Governance Departments and was able to hand this off to our new CISO. Director, IT Architecture and Engineering Vantiv - Denver, CO 2013 to 2015 Mercury Payment Systems was  Reported to VP Infrastructure Purchased by Vantiv    Accomplishments  ? Led Solutions Engineering, Infrastructure Enterprise Architecture, IT Finance, and Enterprise Data  Management split into 3 teams; SQL, Oracle, and DB2 - Approximately 50 employees.  ? Led infrastructure architecture plan for Merger and Acquisition integrations to include  consolidation of 14 data centers and full network re-architecture.  ? Led the Solutions Engineering team to be liaisons between Dev and Ops. They wrote user  stories from the infrastructure side to ensure that the infrastructure teams could have all  foundations ready for a release.  ? Re-architected the infrastructure behind the pre-production environments to have full  continuous integration to support effective Agile Development and Product Management.  ? Aligned IT Finance with new purchasing company. Successfully managed $40M infrastructure  budget as part of the integrated IT budget of $140M. Through infrastructure architecture, was  able to document plans for integration and synergies saving $10M/year.  ? Created architectural plans for horizontal standardization and development practices to more  effectively support all verticals. Director, Information Technology Mercury Payment Systems - Denver, CO 2008 to 2013 Reported to CTO  Accomplishments  ? Led Infrastructure Architecture, Network Engineering, Systems Engineering, Database  Administration, QA, Business Intelligence, NOC, Desktop Support, Service Desk, and IT Finance - approximately 85 employees.  ? Worked directly with the executive team on enterprise initiatives and was an adviser for board  presentations.  ? Worked closely with CFO to create IT Finance practices and build zero-based budgeting with slippage reporting. Did regular BvAs with Finance and maintained the budget within +/- 4%.  ? Worked very closely with the Agile implementation. We created all Agile processes, trained, and brought in experts. We became very successful in improving time and product quality to  market.  ? Grew size of IT team 16x as part of high growth scenario.  ? Provided 5-9s credit card processing for integrated payments.  ? Led activities to ensure recognize and implement Dev/Sec/Ops practices.  ? Implemented ITIL practices.  ? Built Security organization and best practices. Successfully helped implement then supported  PCI-DSS annual ROC audits and maintained PCI-DSS standards and certifications.  ? Drove implementation of Quality Assurance tool suite to introduce automated testing practices.  Achieved full continuous integration.  dupree.ta@gmail.com 970.769.0439  ? Improved Business Intelligence with reporting dashboarding, Power User Data Mining  capabilities, and structured data handling on the backend for quick processing of an abundant  amount of data. Database Administration Manager (promoted) Mercury Payment Systems - Denver, CO 2007 to 2008 Reported to Director of IT  Accomplishments  ? Built Database and Business Intelligence teams from ground up - Approximately 10 employees.  ? Implemented SQL backup and failover capabilities.  ? Implemented partitioning for inordinate amount of data.  ? Implement SQL Virtualization.  ? Built Database Development and Operations Standards  ? Grew team to be highly certified and qualified professionals. Database Administrator Mercury Payment Systems - Durango, CO August 2007 to August 2007 Developed SQL encryption package of stored card data for disaster recovery solution. This was  successfully presented to PCI-DSS auditors as an early resolution to transaction processing risk. Quality Assurance Engineer Mercury Payment Systems - Durango, CO August 2006 to August 2006 Created manual and scripted test plans. Built and tested end to end release with full rollback  capabilities. Database Administrator Gateway Reservations - Durango, CO August 2004 to August 2004 Managed Oracle database along with Corporate Website for a Central Reservations company.  Automated many updates for reduced operational overhead as there were constant updates  due to changing tourism offerings and rates. Education BA in Management Information Systems Fort Lewis College - Durango, CO 2004 Skills Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Exchange, Vendor Management, Itil, Excel, Vmware, Customer Service