SENIOR DATA CONSULTANT SENIOR DATA CONSULTANT SENIOR DATA CONSULTANT - Apex Systems - Wells Fargo Phoenix, AZ Work Experience SENIOR DATA CONSULTANT Apex Systems - Wells Fargo - Tempe, AZ 2019 to Present Support formation and execution of data governance framework, policies, procedures and standards. Develop and promote information standards and management principals. Facilitate cross domain data integration and quality controls. SENIOR SOLUTIONS ARCHITECT Abt Associates 2017 to 2018 Hands on SQL developer and team leader that managed and mentored teams developing custom solutions. Liaison to clients, non-technical project management and development teams. Analyzed the technology environment to focus on solution-level decisions to determine their impact on overall business goals and outcomes. Certified Scrum Master responsible for all phases of project life cycle including requirements gathering, systems architecture, SQL database and .Net application programming, quality assurance, deployment and post-production support.  • Developed a custom database reporting platform for a large government healthcare contract, integrating several disparate data sources, resulting in a 40% decrease in project overhead and a 50% reduction of application maintenance.  • Within 6 months, designed and deployed a new backend, survey data collection platform solution that fully integrated and replaced a legacy platform, with no disruption to existing projects  • Engineered an enterprise call center management system that centralized staffing and resource management systems that decreased call center staffing efforts by 60% Abt Associates - Scottsdale, AZ 2005 to 2018 DIRECTOR OF IT APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT Abt Associates 2005 to 2017 2005 - 2017)  Managed end-to-end development of database and web applications and related systems. Communicated technical solutions and recommendations to internal and external stakeholders. Responsible for security and compliance of sensitive data, including HIPAA, PHI, and PII, for healthcare and financial institutions. Established metrics, key performance indicators and service level agreements; analyzed, evaluated, and recommended technologies for new systems, software and services.  | 480.232.8856 | CraigRonca@gmail.com  Abt Associates )  DIRECTOR OF IT APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT )  • Developed, implemented and maintained continuity for a company-wide policy governing development practices and standards  • Provided leadership with the development of an Azure cloud-based data warehouse and data analytics solutions. Introduced a hybrid cloud network that offered scalable solutions in a more manageable fashion, reducing costs by 30% and deployment time by 60% for projects deployed in Azure.  • Managed processing of incentive checks paid to individuals for their participation in studies. Improved the process that paid research participants by automating the data flows which reduced manual efforts by 60% and reduced returned checks by 90%.  • Transitioned a newly acquired multimillion-dollar contract by executing a migration plan and systems redesign within a 45-day timeframe with 50% of the original staff, incurring no downtime or disruption to client services which included 20,000 electronically distributed deliverables per day. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR III Direct Alliance - Tempe, AZ 2002 to 2005 Designed and delivered a balanced scorecard system allowing management to drive performance evaluations based on corporate goals. Involved in capacity planning, installation, configuration, database design, migration, performance monitoring, security, troubleshooting, as well as backup and data recovery. Developed a custom CRM application for the sales force that allowed for seamless transition of customer information. Led a team of database developers responsible for developing and supporting various high availability e-commerce web sites as well as various mission critical in-house applications.    • Spearheaded database development, architecture and project planning on a custom-built CRM system.  • Developed a custom CRM application for the sales force that allowed for seamless transition of customer information.  • Planning and documentation of database systems and services. PROJECT MANAGER II Apex Systems - Wells Fargo 2001 to 2002 Managed SQL development, database design and architecture; created a standardized data warehouse for analytics, migrating data and processes from other SQL servers, Oracle and SAS, as well as Aspect and Rockwell Phone systems.  • SQL Server development  • Performance tuning Apex Systems - Wells Fargo - Tempe, AZ 2000 to 2002 DATABASE DEVELOPER/CONTRACTOR 2000 to 2001 SQLDEVELOPER / PROGRAMMER MicroAge Inc - Tempe, AZ 1997 to 2000 SQL Server developer and administrator. Created stored procedures and views for both OLTP and data warehouse environments. Education Rutgers University Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Database development, Data mining, Data warehousing, Clustering, Etl, Power bi, .net, Visual studio, Server administration, Systems architecture, Ssrs, Tableau, Architecture, Business intelligence, Bi, Requirements gathering Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • Database Development • SQL Server Administration • SQL Clustering  • SSIS / SSRS • Data Warehousing • ETL  • Systems Architecture • Azure SQL • Data Mining  • Team Leadership • Business Intelligence • Power BI / Tableau  • Performance Tuning • MySQL • Visual Studio  • Requirements Gathering • Quality Assurance • Technical Writing  • Project Management • KPIs • .NET