Y-SBIRT Data Coordinator Y-SBIRT Data Coordinator Data Coordinator - Y SBIRT Barre, VT Work Experience Y-SBIRT Data Coordinator Centers for Behavioral Health, LLC - Montelier, VT October 2018 to Present Assist in the development of data collection, data management protocols. Provide technical assistance to primary care service providers concerning their gathering of data from implementation to data maintenance to grant end. Monitor data collection, ensuring that the information is obtained in a comprehensive and timely manner.  Assist with the preparation and submission of periodic reports for the Evaluation Director.  Develop and implement training webinars for site data coordinators related to SBIRT data maintenance tasks, including data entry on the federal website.  Perform revisions to the data entry protocol documentation.  Develop quality control checks on the state and federal data sets to ensure data integrity. Develop and implement training webinars for site data coordinators related to SBIRT data maintenance tasks.   Sobriety Support Worker AdCare Educational Institute/Center for Behavioral Health Integration - Montpelier, VT November 2014 to March 2018 Provide 1:1 monitoring and support to program participants of a Sobriety Support shelter bed program. Supporting participants with basic needs. Completing documentation during a 24-hour admission period, to include admission to the program, during their stay, and follow-up action upon discharge. Offering information on connections to the recovery community, including Turning Point Recovery Center. Offering information and referral for clinical assessment and follow-up with Central Vermont Substance Abuse Services case manager, if needed. Participate in the required training program, to include Basic Recovery Supports, universal precautions; program protocols; signs of a need for emergency assistance, and other identified training as arranged by the Program Coordinator. Data Coordinator VT SBIRT - Montpelier, VT 2014 to 2018 Policy Support Technician Washington County Mental Health - Berlin, VT 2014 to 2014 E9-1-1 Database & Compliance Specialist National Life - Montpelier, VT 2010 to 2013 E 9-1-1 Database Administrator 1996 to 2010 Administrative Assistant A State of Vermont Enhanced 9-1-1 Board - Montpelier, VT 1994 to 1996 Education Bachelor's in Professional Studies Northern Vermont University - Johnson, VT January 2013 to Present Associates in Office Systems Technology Notre Dame Secretarial College - Montréal, QC 1985 to 1988 Skills Data analysis, Database, Geographic information system, GIS, Data collection, Data management, Wireless, Office management, Office management skills, Budget, Collection, Greet, Telephone, Data entry, Municipal, Audit, Telecommunication, Maintenance, Filings, Proposals, Excel, MS Office, Management, SQL, Customer Service, Typing, MYSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Design, develop, maintain statewide project databases.  • Coordinate the development & maintenance of a statewide Geographic Information System (GIS) database  • Develop audit procedures for statewide project databases  • Perform data analysis using GIS  • Develop data collection and data management protocols  • Prepare data required for periodic reports to program's funders and project participants    COMMUNICATION/PUBLIC EDUCATION SKILLS  • Established and maintained effective communication and working relationships with vendors,  Regional Planning Commissions, municipal officials, emergency service personnel, government  agencies, telecommunication providers (Wireline, wireless and VolP) and the public.  • Presentations to Vermont telecommunication providers, municipal officials and emergency service providers. Testify before the Public Service Board and Legislative Committee.  • Provided trainings on VT-SBIRT Data entry maintenance requirements to clinicians and data entry specialists.    OFFICE MANAGEMENT SKILLS  • Answer telephone and electronic inquiries and forward telephone calls and messages to appropriate  person  • Greet visitors, determine nature of need, connect visitor to appropriate person.  • Compose job descriptions and responsibilities for supporting database staff.  • Interview and hire supporting database staff. Perform yearly evaluations.  • Supervise, motivate, schedule and delegate tasks to staff of two.    FINANCIAL SKILLS  • Perform cost/benefit analysis of vendor proposals.  • Research and prepare annual budget request considering inflation and up-coming projects.  • Manage department and budget projection for upcoming projects. Prepare budget documents for rate  filings with the Public Service Board.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT SKILLS  • Prioritize multiple tasks to meet statutory and department deadlines.  • Coordinate the administrative rules process for the addressing standards and the technical and  operational standards.  • Coordinate the statewide address notification process, prior to 9-1-1 system implementation.  • Organize and coordinate activities associated with board meetings, public hearings, conferences,  meetings with municipalities.  • Perform long and short-range planning that includes planning of use of future technologies for  enhanced 9-1-1 databases.