SAP Security Consultant SAP Security Consultant SAP Consultant Bellevue, WA Work Experience SAP Security Consultant Recreational Equipment, Inc April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in business and system requirements sessions  • Requirements elicitation and translation to technical specifications  • Provide support for SAP Security space and across identity and access management technologies  • Configure and maintain access controls both in cloud and in on-premise enterprise systems.  • Handle support incidents enforce security policies and procedures  • Support with security User/Role administration across all SAP hosted applications  • Provide technical support for the REI implemented SAP-based technology  • Participate and support disaster recovery initiatives and change management standards  • Work closely with other team members, locally and globally, proactively sharing expertise to improve and ensure team success  • Create SAP and IAM metrics/measures weekly and monthly to drive improvements in the IAM program  • Perform analysis on, and maintain, security requirements dealing with application authorization  • Ensure that the SAP systems are in compliance with REI security policies SAP Hana Consultant McKesson Corporation June 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Perform Basis support for ERP applications which includes SAP ECC, BW, HANA, Portal, Solution Manager, MII, SRM, SLT and Process Orchestration(PO)  • Troubleshooting HANA system log volume full situation on Primary and DR nodes  • Performing daily health checkups of all SAP servers in landscape whenever required.  • Working on Incident Management, Change Management and Problem Management.  • Working on HANA memory/CPU issues, HANA DB standstill situations and its performance tuning  • Performed SAP HANA update and Patching  • Configure SAP HANA Studio and Start LOADING and REPLICATION for Tables.  • Stopping, starting and restarting SAP HANA services.  • Backing up and Recover activities in SAP HANA Database.  • Configuring the SAP Landscape Transformation (SLT)  • Installation of Oracle Instant client on SLT server for connecting to Oracle database 10.0.2.0  • Taking backup/recovery using HANA Studio & Modifying of Configuration files *.ini  • Analyzing and resolving the system errors & ABAP dumps.  • Starting and Stopping HANA DB Appliance Services during maintenance activity.  • Starting and stopping of database services (nameserver, index server, statistics server, xsengine)  • Installed SAP HANA Permanent License key using HANA STUDIO.  • Performed Source system Initial Data Load and Replication activities using HANA Studio.  • Execute HANA transports using delivery Units and export and import.  • License updates in HANA servers. SAP Basis and Security Consultant Daiichi Sankyo, Inc February 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  * Performing risk analysis in GRC system and assigning roles in SAP ECC through positions.  * Analyzing and resolving the system errors & ABAP dumps.  * Performing Security tasks like user creation, roles creation, roles assignment.  * Handling a team of 5 members of SAP Basis and Security team and assigning activities.  * Performing daily health checkups of all SAP servers in landscape whenever required.  * Transports import to Quality and production systems for ECC, BW, BPP and portal systems.  * Performing monthly maintenance activity for production servers.  * Monitoring and releasing mails from SAP by using SOST & SCOT.  * Performed upgrade from SolMan 7.1 to 7.2  * Performed Abap and Java split after upgrade from SolMan 7.1 to 7.2  * Preparing problem management reports, weekly and monthly reports.  * Providing report and clarifications to the audit team for yearly review.  * Understanding and executing the change order process for GxP validated sap systems. SAP Basis and Hana Consultant SAP Infra COE - Pune, Maharashtra August 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  * Homogenous system migration of ECC 6.0 Windows SQL server database.  * Handling issues and errors related to SAP Infra systems.  * Handling a team of 12 members of SAP Infra and assigning COE related activities  * SAP Hana migration using Data migration Option.  * SAP Hana database SPS9 Installation.  * Have worked on SAP performance tuning project to investigate bottle necks in the systems for The Body Shop Client.  * SAP HANA Database Revision upgrade from SPS06 to SPS07 to SPS08  * Monitoring and Troubleshooting SAP HANA through SAP HANA Studio and DBACOCKPIT.  * Homogeneous System Copy of HANA system  * SAP HANA License Installation  * Diagnosis of problems and resolution for HANA software  * Monitoring HANA Database errors  * Analysis of Alerts, Expensive sql statements, Performance, Database traces on HANA  * Analysis of Alerts, logs on HANA SAP Basis Consultant Nike Inc - Pune, Maharashtra February 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • System refresh for ECC, BW, SCM APO, and SRM systems via UC4 tool (Cloning and brbackup method).  • Applying OS patches for UNIX and Linux systems using scripts.  • Generating and analyzing EWA reports monthly.  • Resolving problems/incidents in SAP systems which requested by end user.  • Debugging and troubleshooting of request while provisioning in GRC 10.0 CUP components.  • Role create, modify and deletion of roles in GRC  • Allocation of support tickets amongst the team.  • Proactively identifying the issues in SAP Production Systems from Nagios alerts.  • Provide SLA based delivery for tickets raised by service-now and clarify tools.  • Mass outage activities (system restart) for ECC, BW, MDM, BOBJ, Portal and SCM systems.  • Client administration like client creation, open, close, Export and import.  • Performing routine health check for SAP systems  • Maintain system profiles and defining operation modes.  • Administration of SAP R/3 database using BRTools.  • Spool device creation and administration in sap level.  • Administration of BIA servers (Business Intelligence Accelerator) and pre calc server.  • Importing java transports via NWDI for DEV, QAS and PRD environments.  • Problem analysis for XI related issues.  • Table re-org and other related maintenance activities.  • Restore & Recovery of offline and online backups.  • Creating and monitoring OSS messages, SP download through Service Marketplace.  • Worked on biller direct application in retail environment.  • Supported Retail, Apparel and footwear environment in NIKE landscape  • Supporting large landscape with 220+ systems in the landscape. SAP Basis Consultant Turbo Energy Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Providing operating system pre-requisites for SAP system installation.  • Installation of Solution Manager 7.1 Distributed System.  • Installation of ERP 6.0 Ehp6 on AIX 7.1.  • Installation of SAP Router.  • Installation of IDES ECC 6.0 Ehp5 and Netweaver 7.3 on Linux Server.  • Installation of Production High Availability System, ERP 6.0 Ehp6 on AIX 7.1.  • Install latest patches on ERP and SOLMAN systems.  • Configure ChaRM on Solution Manager 7.1  • Configure Service Desk on Solution Manager 7.1.  • Implementing Roles and Authorizations. SAP Basis and Security Consultant Anna Group - Kochi, Kerala March 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Installation of ERP 6.0 Ehp4, Ehp5 and Solution Manager7.0 EHP1.  • Installation of ERP 6.0 EHP4 High Availability System.  • Installation of CRM 7.0 EHP1.  • Upgrade from ERP 6.0 Ehp4 to Ehp5 on High Availability System.  • Upgrade of ERP 6.0 Ehp4 to Ehp5.  • Configuring Maintenance Optimizer in Solution Manager.  • Configuring Service Desk in Solution Manager.  • User Creation and Administration.  • User Authorizations and Role creation.  • Scheduling standard background jobs to keep system running smoothly.  • SAP System monitoring.  • Client Administration (Create/Copy).  • Implementation of Support Package and latest kernel upgrade.  • Starting up and shutting down SAP Systems.  • Maintaining SAP profile parameters (Static / Dynamic).  • Configuring printer in SAP.  • SAP system Backup and Restore.  • Maintaining and Administration of IBM DB2 database.  • Implementing Backup Strategy in the project.  • Configuring TMS and importing the Transport requests.  • Installing the SAP Router.  • Troubleshooting issues in the system and contacting SAP if required for resolving the same if required. Oracle DBA Amdocs - Pune, Maharashtra April 2010 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • General Administration Tasks.  • Creating Database on AIX and Linux servers.  • Creating and maintaining users.  • Troubleshooting issues like archive log file system full, sequences, synonyms, materialized views.  • Checking the alert logs files for errors and troubleshooting them.  • Oracle Backup tasks using export/import and expdp/impdp utilities.  • Managing Oracle ASM and Oracle Grid.  • Creating and maintaining database objects.  • Managing Timesten Databases.  • Managing Amdocs Applications like Amdocs Billing Product, CRM. Oracle DBA Canara Bank. Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Checking the Log replication status between Primary and Disaster recovery databases.  • Manually copying and applying the logs if any delays are noticed between Primary and Disaster Recovery databases.  • Zipping and Trimming Redo log Archives files.  • Performing Switchover activity whenever required.  • Checking the alert logs files for errors and troubleshooting them.  • Oracle Backup tasks using import/export utilities.  • Backup Tasks: - Operating System Backups and Software Specific Backups.  • Regular check on the resources at OS and DB Level. Oracle DBA Maharashtra State Co-op Bank Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Oracle Installation on Windows  • Oracle 9i and Database, Installation and configuration  • Managing physical files of the database  • Creation and Maintenance of Table spaces  • Taking regular backups including physical and logical  • Backup and recovery of Oracle database.  • Creation of new user accounts, setting user permissions and managing profiles Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology J.N.T. University Skills Sap, Db2, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, Hana, Aix, Hp ux, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Windows server 2008 Additional Information * SAP Technical consultant with over 10+ years of experience in IT with 7 plus years of professional experience in SAP Basis domain.  * SAP Certified Technology Associate in Hana, SAP Certified Technology Associate - OS/DB Migration and Oracle 10g Certified Associate (OCA) complimented by B. Tech in Computer Science.  • Good understanding & Experience in implementation of FULL LIFE CYCLE. Worked in two full life cycle implementations and post production support.  • Good experience in SAP Hana related activities.  • Have worked on SAP performance tuning project to investigate bottle necks in the systems.  • Worked on SAP Security and GRC 10.0.  • Good experience of Oracle and MS SQL Database administration including general administration, maintenance and backup and recovery.  • Excellent communication, problem solving skills, ability to work with teams effectively in a fast-paced environment. Good time management skills with a record of meeting tight schedules and deadlines.    TECHNICAL SKILS    ERP Packages: SAP release ECC 6.0.    Operating Systems: Unix (IBM AIX, HP UX), Solaris, Linux, SUSE Linux, Windows server 2008/2012.  Databases: SAP Hana, ORACLE 9i, 10g, 11g and 12g, DB2 9.1, SQL Server 2008/12.