Advanced Database Analyst/Programmer (Remote) Advanced <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst/Programmer (Remote) Advanced Database Analyst/Programmer (Remote) Woodbridge, VA Work Experience Advanced Database Analyst/Programmer (Remote) Digital Management (DMI) March 2018 to February 2019 Contractor support to the U.S. Army Human Resources Command (HRC) Enterprise Technology Support Order Bridge (ETSO Bridge) and ETIGER project.  • Lead data team on database design/modeling.  • Advise HRC project officers on effective IT solutions to meet government requirements. Sr. Oracle DBA / ETL (Remote) Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) August 2017 to March 2018 Contractor support to the U.S. Army Human Resources Command (HRC) Enterprise Technology Support Order Bridge (ETSO Bridge) and Surge project.  • Develop Master Data Management (MDM) plan for data quality and data governance.  • Evaluate and analyze the most current Database Management System (DBMS) criteria - availability/cost/security/scalability - over Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL (relational database) and MongoDB (NoSQL). IT Specialist / Database Administrator JRH Consultants - Springfield, VA December 2016 to August 2017 Contractor support to the U.S. Department of Commerce / Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).  • Develop ERD to illustrate the logical structure of database according to DOC/BIS requirements.  • Implement open data to existing and newly created datasets making appropriate data public, accessible, reusable, complete, timely, and manage post release. Database Administrator Progressive Data Systems, Inc - Fredericksburg, VA July 2012 to November 2016 Contractor support to the Marine Corps Systems Command (MCSC).  • Successful migration of USMC Information Technology Strategic Sourcing (ITSS) Shopping Cart database from Marine Corps Systems Command (MCSC), Quantico, VA to Marine Corps Enterprise IT Services (MCEITS), Kansas City, Mo. The migration involves changing the operating system from Unix Solaris to Linux Red Hat.  • Install and configure Oracle 11GR2 on Linux Red Hat Enterprise 6.5 and Solaris 10. Oracle DBA / Project Manager Powersolv Inc. / AccountAbilities Inc - Washington, DC June 2006 to April 2012 Contractor support to the EPA Office of Transportation and Air Quality (OTAQ) FFARs, RFG, and RFS fuel programs. Supervise three Programmers and one System Administrator.  • Provide database design recommendations and development plans to support EPA fuels and fuel additive program.  • Conduct SQL queries of fuel and fuel additive data and preparing reports in response to upper management, EPA OECA, and Congressional requests. Education Master of Database Design and Management in Database Design and Management Charles Sturt University 2018 Skills Database administration, Data model, Data modeling, Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Hyper-v, Erd, Erwin, Security, Encryption, Rman, Backups, Vmware