Sr. Marketing Manager Sr. Marketing Manager Miami, FL Accomplished high-energy hands-on Manager with stellar analytical, organizational and leadership abilities. Spearheaded execution of marketing email campaigns, email list procurements, budget creation and reconciliation, KPIs and executive dashboards. Able to work in a fast paced environment, with a proven ability to plan, manage and execute multiple projects simultaneously. Experience providing high-level support to CMO and other top executives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Marketing Manager TRADESTATION SECURITIES 2007 to 2019 • Managed and procured all communication lists for company-wide campaigns.  Edited and deployed all electronic offers, newsletters, upcoming events, regulatory client notifications.  Defined SQL procedures ensuring accurate client lists for Regulatory Notifications.  Regularly engaged up to 100,000 current and prospective clients.    • Owned the financial accounting and reporting objectives for a marketing department budget of 10M for TradeStation Securities and TradeStation International.  Prepared, facilitated, and communicated monthly Corporate Marketing channel allocations, which included  reconciling invoices, reviewing spend and allocation variances, updating Marketing Outlook with Actual  spend, and preparing monthly accruals with key members of finance.    • Analyzed marketing campaign performance.  Created and monitored marketing KPIs and dashboards.  Implemented tracking mechanisms to provide ongoing effectiveness of all advertising initiatives. Database Administrator TRADESTATION SECURITIES 1997 to 2007 • Created and updated website performance reports using WebTrends.  Analyzed and researched data logs to identify irregularities in performance.  Assisted in the design, implementation, maintenance and support of database by creating business rules and defining user interface and functional specifications.  Migrated database to Onyx improving overall efficiency and data integrity. Assistant Controller/Personnel Director TRADESTATION SECURITIES 1992 to 1997 • Coordinated accounting data from multiple locations, supervised daily work flow including AP and AR.  Month-end, year-end close, analysis and reconcilement of balance sheet accounts.  Created a collections department which resulted in 30% decrease of delinquent accounts.  Developed, implemented and managed the Quarterly Profit Sharing Plan.  Managed 6 direct reports.    • Healthcare Administrator, 401K Plan Administrator and Company Recruiter Sr. Executive Secretary AMBASSADOR CONSTRUCTION - New York, NY 1986 to 1992 • Formulated client bids, job manuals and estimates.  Managed construction projects including new start-ups, change orders and purchase orders.  Formulated job schedule presentations for company brochure.  Maintained database, General Liability and Workers' Compensation Insurance systems.  Interacted with clients, architects, engineers and subcontractors.  Supervised secretarial staff and trained all new hires. Assistant Editor HAMMOND/KHEEN, NY 1985 to 1986 • Designed Portfolio Center Spread for the 225 Fifth Avenue Showrooms.  Obtained, selected and edited press releases for all new products being showcased.  Responsible for telephone and written communications for Publisher/Editor-in-Chief. Executive Secretary MEADOWS COMMUNICATIONS 1984 to 1985 NY  • Interfaced with firm's production, creative and account management personnel.  Created, printed and edited Sales Manager training manuals for Discover Card.  Responsible for telephone and written communications for Vice President.  Scheduled appointments and arranged travel itineraries. Education A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems Queensborough Community College Skills Customer relationship management (5 years), Marketing (10+ years), Microsoft office (10+ years)