Cashier/Customer Service Cashier/Customer Service Database Administrator - RITTENHOUSE BOOK DISTRIBUTORS Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Cashier/Customer Service Wegmans - King of Prussia, PA December 2017 to Present *Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic debits.   *Issue receipts, refunds, credits, or change due to customers.  *Give excellent customer service from beginning to end. Database Administrator RITTENHOUSE BOOK DISTRIBUTORS - King of Prussia, PA April 2006 to Present Store completed documents in appropriate locations.  • Create or implement metadata processes and frameworks.  • Verify the structure, accuracy, or quality of warehouse data. Customer Service Representative AEGON - Frazer, PA December 2005 to March 2006 Check to ensure that appropriate changes were made to resolve customers' problems.  • Review insurance policy terms to determine whether a particular loss is covered by insurance.  • Solicit sales of new or additional services or products. Claims Representative THE SIGNAL - King of Prussia, PA May 2001 to September 2002 Investigate, evaluate and settle claims, applying technical knowledge and human relations skills to effect fair and prompt disposal of cases and to contribute to a reduced loss ratio.  • Pay and process claims within designated authority level.  • Examine claims forms and other records to determine insurance coverage. Call Center Associate ADVANCED TELECOM SERVICES - King of Prussia, PA July 2000 to January 2002 Keep records of customer interactions or transactions, recording details of inquiries, complaints, or comments, as well as actions taken.  • Confer with customers by telephone or in person to provide information about products or services, take or enter orders, cancel accounts, or obtain details of complaints.  • Type personal ads daily via telephone messages. Education Diaploma Phoenixville Area High School - Phoenixville, PA August 1994 to June 1998 High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service, Crew Member Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient May 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vpdxobex-o7hmghi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Intermediate to Expert computer skills and Knowledge of office equipment  • Great Interpersonal, Organizational and Communication skills  • Knowledgeable with Excel and Microsoft Word