FMS COMSEC Manager FMS COMSEC Manager San Antonio, TX Accomplished and proven leader who possesses the ability/knowledge to provide closed-loop communication to internal customers, manage complex situations, and prioritize multiple projects is essential. Knowledge of the procurement process and supply chain management with strong commitment to promote team success, professional growth, and customer service. Extensive experience handling of operations, logistics, aviation, and associated customer services. Comprehensive background in leadership, strategic planning, and critical thinking. A catalyst in risk management, aligning and leveraging cross-functional disciplines to mitigate risk, deliver efficiency and results. Highly capable of thriving in different venues with strong track record applying leadership skills in diverse environments. Currently hold a Secret clearance while TS/SCI eligible.    • International Logistical Operations  • Strategic Planning  • Business Integration  • Personnel Management  • Change Management  • Patriot Excalibur (PEX)  • Contract Management  • Security Manager  • Inventory Management  • Supply Chain Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FMS COMSEC Manager North American Consulting Services - United Arab Emirates ( Al Dhafra Air Base) November 2015 to Present Alternate FMS COMSEC Custodian working for UAE Armed Forces through coalition relationship with United States government handling over 1600 individual pieces of Controlled Cryptographic Item (CCI) equipment.    Responsible for ordering, receiving, storing, processing, distributing and managing the U.A.E COMSEC account; coordinate with NATO and Coalition Forces on all COMSEC related issues.    Performs COMSEC auditor duties, personally conducted and assisted in COMSEC Site Assisted Visits and/or Internal Audits of hand-receipt holders to ensure that the maximum safeguards for COMSEC material.    Manages the proper handling, storage, packaging, shipment, accountability and administration of all cryptographic materials for the primary COMSEC account.    Track all CCI equipment such as encryption devices that are located in Distributed INFOSEC Accounting System (DIAS).    Supports U.A.E armed forces in troubleshooting and resolution of Crypto and COMSEC related encryption problems.    Develops comprehensive COMSEC User Training. Conducts and documents approved COMSEC User training semi- annually.    Drafts written emergency and destruction plans for customer approval. Includes plans in COMSEC access briefing. Materials Management Manager Future Technologies Inc - Honolulu, HI October 2015 to November 2015 Responsible for the Purchasing, Production Scheduling, Inventory Management, Warehouse Distribution and the Molding Manufacturing Operations. Utilized demand flow scheduling for high volume DoD goods.    Maintained complete oversight of all material/inventory management operations at the Fleet and waterfront level, \managed Military Sealift Command (MSC) distribution facility.    Optimized internal team processes, and shifts necessary business models to achieve prosperity.    Communicated effectively, instituted innovative initiatives and lead project teams to achieve high-level goals, create positive change, efficiency and minimize associated transportation cost which increased profitability.    Supervised warehouse staff, material packaging, handling, storage & transportation (PHS&T) requirements, procedures, to include HAZMAT and controlled material w/special handling processes. Database Administrator/Aviation Management United States Air Force - Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam - Honolulu, HI November 2014 to October 2015 Responsible for the performance, integrity and security of government database for 30 F-22 assigned aircrew.    Involved in the planning and development of the database, as well as troubleshooting any issues on behalf of the users.    Monitored performance and managed parameters to provide fast responses to meet operational needs of aircrew.    Directed planning, budgetary requirements, User Test and Evaluation (UT&E) of $25M operations and $2M aircraft support budget.    Monitored progress within each department toward goal attainment utilizing measurable data in spreadsheet applications with Knowledge of SharePoint analysis and reporting capabilities.    Met daily deadlines to provide time sensitive and operational feedback to senior leadership. Operations Manager United States Air Force - Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam - Honolulu, HI June 2010 to November 2014 Accountable for the day-to-day operations, training, planning, coordination, and execution of initiatives for 50 mobility positions and two VIPSAM (Very Important Person Special Airlift Mission US DoD) C037 Gulfstream and C040B executive aircraft.    Oversaw the unit supply discipline program with oversight of over $150M including equipment and support elements.    Advised leadership on operational plans and procedures; reviewing all Standard Operating Procedures(SOPs) and advised leadership on operational and most efficient use of trained personnel.    Prepared briefing materials and conducted technical briefings to senior leadership on logistical operational trends, personnel movement, and equipment maintenance status/capability for scheduling purposes.    Designed training program that increased scheduling capability by 33%; instrumental to Special Airlift Missions for United States political/ military leaders traveling throughout the Asian peninsula.    Redesigned records program, reviewing in excess of 100 training records, eradicated 6 years of record discrepancies. Operations Scheduler United States Air Force - Misawa Air Base - Amouri September 2006 to June 2010 Overseen the day-to-day operations of the 35th Fighter Wing. In addition to being trained in management and business administration, aviation managers need training in aeronautical sciences and air transportation principles.    Performed technical aviation/missile/operation resource management functions. Reviewing personnel action requests  on aircrew members and monitors individual entitlement to over $750K in incentive pay.    Planned, organized, scheduled, and evaluated workloads and duty assignments of aviation personnel.    Evaluated work methods and procedures to achieve the most economical use of resources and ARM functions.    Working knowledge of Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) operations and equipment.    Requisitions and accounts for equipment, space, supplies, and other required resources to support ARM functions.    Communications Security (COMSEC) Program Manager, validated security authorizations for 90 aircrew personnel, resulting in a 100% pass rate during critical wing inspection. Education Master's in Master of Business Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2019 Master's in Acquisition/Supply Chain Mgmt University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2018 Bachelor's in Project Management Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA 2015 Associate in Aviation Management Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL 2014 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ejones510 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Technical Sergeant