Oracle Applications Database Administrator Oracle Applications <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Applications Database Administrator Riverton, UT Work Experience Oracle Applications Database Administrator Overstock.com - Salt Lake City, UT March 2006 to March 2019 Support and maintain Oracle Applications ERP system 12.2.3 and Oracle Database 11g product versions in Linux Operating  systems and the associated Oracle Technology stack in a multi-tier environment including: Oracle RAC database server, Oracle  application server, web server, concurrent processing server, reports server, forms server, admin server and WebLogic server  environment including patching, cloning, monitoring, upgrades, and maintenance.  • Support and maintain 26 Oracle Applications ERP cloned instances running on Linux platform providing services for internal  testing and development teams.  • Monitor Concurrent Managers, troubleshoot error concurrent requests and verify concurrent requests are running within an expected time frame.  • Maintain the production database with 24X7 on call support.  • Support and maintain a physical standby database and disaster recovery database using Oracle Dataguard.  • Install and maintain ReadSoft vendor software, implementation and ongoing maintenance for this third-party Accounts Payable  invoice document imaging system which is integrated into Oracle's workflow including administration and backup of a separate  11g database.  • Install and maintain EIS vendor software, implementation and ongoing maintenance for this third-party Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable reporting tool.  • Monitor production systems on a daily basis using TOAD and sqlplus, SQL developer.  • Installation, implementation, patching, and maintenance and ongoing support of ERP data masking system by MENTIS including  administration and backup of a separate 11g database.  • Document, comply with and follow SOX standard operational procedures.  Applications Performance Specialist  • Developed robust, reusable, performance and load test scripts and enhancing existing load test scripts according development  team requirements using Apache JMeter.  • Worked with operations and infrastructure teams to ensure Load Test environment availability and stability.  • Analyze performance testing results and present to development teams a pass / fail status.  • Worked with Development and Architecture teams on identification and troubleshooting of performance related issues.  • Contributing member in all team activities with an eye on quality Systems Performance Specialist Automatic Data Processing - Salt Lake City, UT May 2005 to March 2006 • Responsible for ongoing maintenance of benefit system database for clients outsourcing benefit administration with ADP  • Complex configuration changes to client databases and troubleshoot complex issues Senior IT Support Technician IKON Office Solutions March 1999 to May 2005 Serve as technical support on computer systems, network access, and phone systems for the western region through the company  IT help Line. Troubleshoot problems over the phone and assist with computer needs in an efficient and courteous manner  • Set up and maintain company computer systems including exchange administration, network account administration and access  permissions on Microsoft Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, and Windows 2003 Servers  • Phone switch programming on Nortell telephone systems Education Bachelors Degree in Information Technology University of Phoenix April 2004 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba