CDL Class A Driver CDL Class A Driver CDL Commercial Truck Driver Las Vegas, NV A position utilizing my education and experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CDL Class A Driver American Furniture Rental - Henderson, NV March 2018 to Present Transportation of rental furniture for tradeshow or special events in Nevada, California, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado. Operations Manager/ CDL Driver Sierra Moving Systems - Las Vegas, NV September 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities  Inventory Management, Logistics, Accounting,Purchasing, Dispatching, Scheduling, CDL Driving (Double/Triples, and Tankers endorsement?, forklift operating, Customer service, Quality Assurance, and Marketing.    Accomplishments  Increase of company revenue by 38% in 6 months of working there, cut costs and accidents since I've started work there.    Skills Used  Project management, accounting, safe driving, customer service, risk analysis, and logistics. Programs used: SiteLink, Maximo, and Unigroup portal. Warehouse Coordinator Brede Exposition Services - Denver, CO 2008 to 2010 Responsibilities: Deliveries of expo equipment, repair and stage floor booths and construct  customer equipment, and service from beginning to end of expo shows. Database Administrator Battelle Memorial Group & Kalman Company, Camp - Pendleton, CA, US 2005 to 2008 Responsibilities: Input of specialize military gear, Training Manager, reconcile of returning  gear with customers. Logistics Embarkation Specialist United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA 2001 to 2005 Responsibilities: Prepared supplies and equipment for embarkation and performs various  Force Deployment Planning and Execution functions to support the movement of personnel,  supplies, and equipment.  Programs used: embark log 3.8, Maximo, ad-hoc. Education Bachelor of Science in Project Management in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Las Vegas, NV 2013 to 2015 Associate of Science in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Vista, CA March 2013 CDL License in Commercial Truck Driving South West Truck Driver School - Las Vegas, NV 2013 to 2013 Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Class A Expires: May 2021 State: NV Endorsements: T (Double/triple trailers) - N (Tank vehicles) Skills Cdl Driver, CDL, OTR, Flatbed, Class B Links http://grantwilsonwright.foliotek.me/ Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 May 2001 to May 2005 Certifications Tanker endorsement CDL Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS: Over four years education and ten years experience, with increasing responsibility, including  warehousing,customer service, supervisory experience, sales, account maintenance, and computer and  networking support.