Sr Oracle Database Administrator Sr Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle DBA Los Angeles, CA ? Overall 10+ years in IT experience, 7 years of experience as Database Administrator, providing 24X7 Production, test and development support 11g/10g/9i/8i Oracle databases on different platforms like HP-UX, SUN SOLARIS, AIX, Redhat Linux and Windows.  ? Experience in installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Databases.    ? Proficient in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, migration, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, capacity planning, space management, database security, auditing, troubleshooting, physical and logical database design, Oracle SR support and documentation.    ? Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g/10g/9i RAC/ASM, Physical and Logical Standby Databases (Data Guard)    ? Knowledge of Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG issues.    ? Strong experience in Patching and Cloning Oracle Applications on different platforms  ? Involved in key roles and handled various discretionary projects, change requests and Root Cause Analysis  ? Excellent experience in cloning oracle databases for development and testing.  ? Good experience in resolving the issues related to installation, upgrades and patches.  ? Involved in capacity planning and resource planning.  ? Performed backups and tested crash recoveries using conventional hot & cold backups and RMAN, cloning databases using RMAN.  ? Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Partitioning, Data modelling, OLAP, Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures.  ? Maintaining data integrity and tune database for optimum performance and availability.  ? Proficient in analyzing and optimizing queries, performance tuning and providing reports using STATSPACK, TKPROF, and Explain Plan.  ? Strong Knowledge on replication tools like snapshot, materialized views, Streaming.  ? A Self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges.  ? Excellent communication skills, strong analytical, logical abilities in business analysis and technical documentation Work Experience Sr Oracle Database Administrator WellCare - Tampa, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on 24X7 Application/ Database On-Call support. Supporting external customers and internal customers resolve their issues.  ? Responsible for Mange various environments such as PROD/STG/QA/DEV with database size starting form 300 GB to 5 TB.  ? Worked in upgrading Oracle database from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4 and 12c. Applying PSU, bug fix patches with OPatch, OPatch auto utilities.  ? Implemented Database maintenance plans such as backup, exports, stats collection jobs during off-peak hours. Wrote several scripts to generate table space reports, archive log report, ASM disk group report for database proactive support.  ? Setup a Crontab to receive alerts related for TS issues, FRA issues, alert log monitoring, OS level space issues, locking issues, long running sql quires, Database down events.  ? Performed routine database operations like User Management, Space Management, capacity planning, ASM disk group management, Backup Administration, Export/Imports, Handling customer requests, performing peak season checks , Data guard issue , database health check by using oracheck Utility.  ? Troubleshoot database performance by using ASH/AWR/ADDM reports. Identify database problem by looking wait events, resource intensive (elapsed time, IO) queries, analyze execution plans and working with Application developers to fine tune resource intensive queries.  ? Installed, configured, managed Data Guard for production database. Hands on experience in Converting Physical database to snapshot database and deploy the new application code and make sure new code is working as expected.  ? Used real-time apply feature for physical standby to offload users to use physical standby database for reporting activity and reduced load on primary database.  ? Read and analyze switcher data on regular basis to identify CPU/IO/Memory bottlenecks, and take necessary action to operate database without any issues.  ? Installed and configured, Maintained Oracle grid Infrastructure for Multimode RAC and Standalone 12c database with ASM as storage technology.  ? Hands on experience on creating classic/Integrated golden gate process such as extract, pump and replicate. Hands on experience in Monitoring, troubleshooting golden gate issues.  ? Implemented Active/Passive replication topology for OLTP and Consolidating replication (Multiple source one target) topology for reporting database.  ? Handling planned/ unplanned database maintenance activities, working with Internal teams such as application, storage, system administration team as well as engaging vendors on troubleshot production issues.  Environment: Oracle 12c RAC, Linux -X86_64, 11g Active Data Guard, Golden Gate 12.3.X. Sr Oracle Database Administrator Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Install, configure, monitor, upgrade and maintain Oracle databases (8i,9i,10g,11g & 12c) in production and non-production environments.  ? Working Experience in oracle 12c/11g/10g Real Application Clusters (RAC) installation, configuration & monitoring on Linux  ? Effective troubleshooting of performance and tuning problems in Oracle databases  ? Experience in RAC, GI, DB upgrades, patches and data migration  ? Strong understanding of Oracle Dataguard fundamentals, good exposure in implementing and monitoring Dataguard on single standalone and RAC databases and actively involved in DR exercises.  ? Proficient in implementing Backup and Recovery strategies for Oracle databases.  ? Regular Maintenance activities like Loading, unloading of data, repairing of databases, and Purging of  ? Data, Reorganization of data, Database Refreshes via EXPDP/IMPDP, RMAN  ? Installation and monitoring oracle Enterprise manager (OEM 12C)  ? Strong understanding of Oracle database security management. Experience in implementing TDE on oracle databases  ? Working experience with PL/SQL procedures, functions and packages  ? Experienced in 10g/11g/12c New features (ASM, Data pump, AWR, ADDM, ASH and GRID Control)  ? Hands on experience in shell scripting for UNIX/ Windows environments. Oracle DBA The World Bank Group - Washington, DC January 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Responsibilities include maintaining databases, monitor daily database activity, implement customer requirements, coordination, performance tuning.  ? Silent install 11g databases and 12c databases.  ? Migrated databases to another datacenter.  ? Worked closely with Storage Admins to space build ASM database servers  ? Designed and Implemented database security using Oracle roles and privileges.  ? Maintenance of the RMAN repository database and configuration of backup policies.  ? Installed and administered RAC databases.  ? Setup monitoring using 11g grid control and12c cloud control.  ? Converted the single instance dbs to RAC clusters  ? Worked on instance and SQL tuning  ? Took part for database session information, table privileges permissions and database health check.  ? Responsible for completing Database Refresh requests on both Oracle 12cR1 and 11gR2.  ? Regularly monitoring database scheduled backup, gathering stats disk space utilization.  ? Designed and maintain Database security using Oracle Roles and privileges.  ? Monitored and troubleshoot issues for GG process lags or abended process and fixed issues.  ? Applied patch to Goldengate.  ? Written shell scripts to automate jobs and monitor database activities  ? Creating Indexes, rebuilding indexes, analyzing indexes to improve the performance of query.  ? Worked closely with Developers and offshore DBAs  ? Upgraded Databases from Oracle 10g to 11g  ? Worked on Flash Recovery Area  ? Performed DR switchover / failover practices using Data Broker.  ? Patched Oracle databases using opatch utility.  ? Generated triggers for data integrity, created views to resolve complex queries.  ? Used RMAN duplicated database to clone.  ? Used export import and Data pump to refresh schemas.  ? Identifying the poorly performing queries using Explain Plan, TKPROF, and assisting the developers in optimizing and tuning the SQL and PL/SQL code using SQL trace.  ? Worked on Materialize views  ? Provided 24/7 on-call support. Oracle DBA/IT-Analyst Ameriprise Financial - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2011 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Providing 24X7 production support (on-call rotation), problem solving and administration of Oracle 11g/10g RAC/Non-RAC.  ? Applied RDBMS patches related to security(PSU), performance and bug fixes on Test, Dev, Stage & Production instances.  ? Monitoring the operating system response in terms of CPU usage, disk space, and swap space by using various UNIX utilities like SAR, VMSTAT, IOSTAT and TOP.  ? Generated and Analyzed AWR and ADDM report for system Performa  ? Interaction with various stakeholders for timely delivery of different tasks  ? Analyzing Database objects to improve Application sql performance on the Database.  ? Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring file systems, and tablespace growth  ? The test and development databases from the source production databases on a regular basis using export/import utility and Clone using RMAN.  ? Performed production database maintenance and modifications to ensure databases are operational, as well as diagnosed and corrected any database environment problems; monitored database usage and reported on database performance and system availability.  ? Worked with developers in the development phase to diagnose database related application problems, provided development support to design, maintain schema for new application and distribution of data.  ? Generated weekly performance reports to identify and solve the problems with performance.  ? Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinated with Oracle support through Metalink to resolve them in timely manner.  ? Created new tablespaces, tables, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions etc..  ? Applied patches (DST, Patch sets and CPU patches) and worked closely with Oracle to make Application environment up to date.  ? Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  ? Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, etc.  ? Utilized OEM for performance analysis and handled in a timely basis all generated alerts.  ? Scrubbed alert log for error detection and took immediate action accordingly.  ? Migrated new releases from test to production.  ? Responsible for data integrity, user security, daily monitoring for production and non-production servers.  ? Providing Solutions to the Problem Faced by end Users or Programmers.  ? Hands-on experience on incident, request, problem/change management tools  Environments: Oracle 9i/10g/11g RAC on ASM, Linux ,AIX, UNIX, OEM, RMAN, Dataguard. Application DBA J-Soft Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2006 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Patched (c, d, g, j and u drivers) in multiple test, development and production environments containing Multiple Application tiers.  ? Maintained applications using AD utilities like Adadmin, Adpatch and Adctrl  ? Performed replication, fine tuning and backups of applications and databases  ? Cloned application & databases using adclone along with rapid cloning to single/multi nodes  ? Refreshed application & databases from production to test enviornement  ? Monitored application using OAM  ? Handled Trouble shooting and bug fixes on production environments  ? Managed application servers (WebForm, Apache, Report and discoverer server)  ? Created/Managed Standard, Internal and Concurrent Managers  ? Created/Managed front-end application users, profiles, data groups and users  ? Managed/Validated Application and Database Schemas  Core DBA  ? Database backup using RMAN Hot, Cold and Logical Backup  ? Performed and monitored database backup using RMAN.  ? Database cloning and refresh using RMAN recovery  ? Actively worked on migrating various standalone databases to RAC configuration for high availability and scalability  ? Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target databases with the Catalog.  ? Experience in database recovery (Control file, Data file, Init file)  ? Expert in using database tool like SQL * Loader, Oracle Universal Installer, Database Configuration Assistant, Import and Export  ? Creation/Maintenance of roles, groups as per user category, application use  Process, schema and log maintenance  ? Auditing in User process, Background process and statements  ? Customization/Maintenance of Init parameters as per application use/ database requirement  ? Tuning SGA parameters dynamically as per database use/temporarily during problem solving  ? Performance testing  ? Support production /development and testing databases  ? Experience in analyzing V$ views and DBA views in SYS schema  ? Database performance tuning using Statspack report, Utlbstat and Utlestat report  ? Troubleshooting the cluster databases using crsctl and srvctl utilities  ? Performing AWR and ADDM reports when required and taking necessary action for Performance betterment  ? SQL tuning using Explain plan and Tkprof utility.  ? Maintaining and monitoring logical and physical structure of database  ? Experience of monitoring Index uses, rebuilding techniques  ? Experience of monitoring data migration/defragmentation.  ? Verifying sort space usages in memory and in physical disk  ? Maintenance / Customization of tablespaces, tables, indexes and storage parameters affecting performance of database.  ? To ensure all the instances are up whenever required and verify the uptime/downtime  ? Managing Backup & Recovery methodologies  Environment: Oracle 9i/10g RAC on ASM, Linux ,AIX, UNIX, Dataguard, OEM, RMAN Oracle DBA Sixth Sense Software Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2006 to August 2006 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on maintenance and performance tuning of production database  ? Database backup using RMAN Hot, Cold and Logical Backup  ? Expert in using database tool like SQL * Loader, Oracle Universal Installer, Database Configuration Assistant, Import and Export  ? Support production /development and testing databases  ? SQL tuning using Explain plan and Tkprof utility.  ? Maintaining and monitoring logical and physical structure of database    Environment: Oracle 9i, Linux, UNIX, RMAN Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Erp, Scripting Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Linux AS4.6, 5.8/6.2, Solaris 5.8/5.10/5.11, HP Itanium 11.23, AIX 5.3/6.1  Databases: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i,10g/11g RAC, MySql  ERP: Oracle applications 11.5.10.2  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  File System: OCFS, ASM