Sr. Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) Developer Sr. Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) Developer Sr. Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) Developer Aurora, CO To obtain a database development, project management or supervisory position with a company whose focus is on advancement and personal growth. Work Experience Sr. Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) Developer Vail Resorts, Inc February 2019 to July 2019 Responsible for the design and development of an EDW for consumption by Adobe Campaign software used by the marketing department at Vail Resorts.  ? Build processes using MS SSIS and Powershell to extract the data from multiple data sources such as flat files, Curl API calls (Json response) and multiple other SQL Server database sources.  ? Created Stored Procedures as well as SSIS packages to transform the data.  ? Using SSIS I created processes to export to flat files for consumption by Adobe Campaign.  ? Created a logging process in order to track the data as it moved through the EDW.  ? Utilized ER Studio software to create database diagrams of the EDW objects and relationships for documentation. Database Administrator/Developer Community Crisis Connection April 2015 to December 2018 Responsible for the Denver metro region (1 of 4 state regions), Crisis Behavioral Health data and reporting. This included gathering data from seven regional behavioral health centers for reporting to the Office of Behavioral Health in the state of Colorado.  ? Designed and built a data warehouse for the purpose of collecting daily data from the seven partner behavioral health centers.  ? Developed and produced SSRS as well as Microsoft Excel reports to the state, the board of directors and other stakeholders.  ? Developed Microsoft Power BI dashboards for our public facing website.  ? Transitioned our data warehouse into the cloud using AWS (Amazon Web Services). I worked as the primary contact between the third-party vendor who architected the AWS platform.  ? Developed process specifications for our partners for their data submissions to the CCC data warehouse.  ? Using SSIS and Powershell I developed the data import daily processes (17 files daily from 7 partners) into the CCC data warehouse.  ? Conducted site visits with our partners for training as well as evaluation.  ? I am also a member of the Core Management Team for Community Crisis Connection. Technical Consultant Robert Half Technology October 2013 to April 2015 The main objective of this project was to assess the need for and develop reports as well as maintain the current reports and applications.  ? Developed many reports for long term use as well as ad hoc reporting using SSRS.  ? I maintained and rebuilt a system using powershell, SQL stored procedures and SSRS provide reporting and a scorecard for rating courses and instructors.  ? I also developed a process using SQL stored procedures and C# for automated book ordering for students.  Visual Analytic and SSRS Report Developer  ? My primary focus in this position is to correct bugs that have been found in existing reports as well as the T-SQL code behind them. This position has mostly dealt with stored procedures. Database Administrator (Critical Engineering Team) Charles Schwab December 2013 to January 2014 My primary responsibility was to oversee the development and deployment of SSRS reports and their related stored procedures.  ? I created a Windows Powershell script to deploy both the SSRS reports and their stored procedures in an automated fashion.  ? Other responsibilities included maintaining and developing their ETL (extract, transform, load) system including database, SSIS and C# scripting development. SSRS Implementation Specialist Black Box Logic LLC September 2013 to October 2013 I worked very closely with the IT department to get a reporting server up and going for the company.  ? I also developed templates for standard reporting as well as creating live reports that were then taken to a Trade show to be sold as a product.  ? Lastly I trained their staff in SSRS report building. Database Developer HealthGrades inc April 2010 to July 2013 As a database developer I was responsible for extracting, transforming and loading hospital and physician data into an enterprise data warehouse for website consumption.  ? This ETL process was done using T-SQL and SSIS as well as SSAS.  ? I was also responsible for operational reporting and creating dashboards using both SSRS and Tableau. Agent and Fraud Investigator Nordstrom April 2003 to January 2004 This includes making arrest for theft as well as researching fraud such as check and credit fraud as well as merchandise fraud. Project Manager Comcast December 1999 to February 2003 12/1999 - 2/2003 and 8/2007 - 1/2010  Database and Web Development  ? I work daily in a Microsoft SQL server environment designing and developing databases including stored procedures and functions.  ? I also have been working to develop a web based Technician Operational Performance Scorecard in ASP.NET using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 Professional.  ? I have also developed more than 60 reports where the output has been to a SSRS report, Excel or to the NASR-ORA website.  ? I have also used Microsoft Access to develop a database to track performance and attendance for technicians working at the National Network Operations Center.  Project Manager  ? I managed the development of the performance tracking database as it was converted to Oracle and a web based front end was designed for it.  Process Analysis  ? I performed a study of the processes used by technicians and made suggestions and changes where needed.  Supervisor  ? I was responsible for some administrative functions and training of many of the technicians at the National Network Operations Center.  Technician  ? I am familiar with DMS 100 and 5ESS switches and troubleshooting a hybrid Fiber/Coax network as well as POTS networks. Remedy AR Developer/ Administrator AutoGas Systems Inc April 1997 to August 1999 This included the development of processes as they pertain to business operations in regards to using Remedy AR.  ? I was also responsible for the development of all forms, filters, active links, menus and guides within Remedy AR.  ? Other responsibilities include the day to day administration of and problem troubleshooting of the Remedy AR system.  Trainer  ? I was responsible for the development of the training materials for all the classes that I taught.  Technician  ? I was responsible for troubleshooting and repairing proprietary hardware and software. Education High School Diploma Harlingen High School - Harlingen, TX Abilene Christian University - Abilene, TX Skills Ssrs, T-sql, Database, Database design, Oracle, ETL, AWS, Data Warehouse, Big Data Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 July 1991 to July 1995 • Office Manager   I was responsible for running and maintaining a military office environment.    • Records Keeper   I was responsible for maintaining more than 500 enlisted personnel records as well as pay records.    • Customer Service   I was the point of contact for enlisted as well as officer personnel for problem resolution for pay and records.  • Trainer   I was responsible for the training of all administrative classes. Additional Information Skills and Qualifications:  I have an excellent knowledge of Microsoft SQL database design, dimensional modeling and development including development of SSIS packages, SSRS reports and Microsoft Power BI. I also have a good knowledge of web development in ASP.net with C# and VB using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 Professional. I have more than 14 years experience writing T-SQL queries in both Microsoft and Oracle environment. I have over sixteen years experience and have tested as advanced with other Microsoft products such as Access, Excel (both using macros and VBA scripting) and Word. I also have more than six years of office materials and personnel supervision. I have had experience with the development of processes and procedures for a technical workplace environment. In addition to the above listed skills and qualifications, I have also had eight years as a trainer for both technical and administrative classes.