Administrative Assistant/Safety Coordinator - AHC Police Department/Environmental Hlth & Safety Administrative Assistant/Safety Coordinator - AHC Police Department/Environmental Hlth &amp; Safety Administrative Assistant/Safety Coordinator - AHC Police Department/Environmental Hlth & Safety - IU Health Hamilton, MT Work Experience Administrative Assistant/Safety Coordinator - AHC Police Department/Environmental Hlth & Safety IU Health - Indianapolis, IN 2015 to Present Administrative Assistant Duties  • Manage the schedule of the Executive Director the AHC Police Department & the Director of Environmental Health & Safety.  • Manage travel plans and payment for the department.  • Manage re-ordering supplies for the department.  • Coordinate high level meetings.  • Take and distribute meeting minutes for high level meetings.  • Maintains confidentiality as appropriate due to high level executive assistant.  • Exhibit sound judgment in handling unexpected and frequent interruptions that require immediate action  or attention.  Safety Coordinator Duties  • Coordinate and lead weekly safety inspections throughout clinical units.  • Ensure AHC units (3 hospitals) adhere to Joint Commission/Regulatory standards and assisted in mitigating and solving deficiencies, NFPA, EHS, OSHA, Hazardous Waste/RCRA guidelines.  • Ensure and direct AHC units to achieve success in mitigation of all deficiencies following all quality & regulatory standards.  • Creates and tracks reports and deficiencies in order to report data to monthly committees and subcommittees.  • Assisted with ILSM & PCRA creation, distribution and closeout.  • Utilize Microsoft suite to track schedules, date completed, deficiencies and current information on system  wide departments.  • Managed polices/procedures through PolicyStat, managed others in keeping all policies active.  • Appointed to and participated in incident command team for Joint Commission inspections & mock  surveys.  • Conduct root cause analysis in order to proactively identify and solve processes.    6440 Maple St, Indianapolis, IN• (317) 319-3669• april.gillespie@hotmail.com Staffing Coordinator - Staffing Office Crystal Run Healthcare - Middletown, NY 2012 to 2015 Ensures appropriate and adequate daily staffing for each Physician in order to ensure Physician  productivity and satisfaction.  • Excellent communication skills and a general understanding of the parameters of the job functions for the different levels of nursing responsibility.  • Interacts on a daily basis with nursing staff, providers and other staff members of Crystal Run Healthcare  LLP.  • Takes initiative to keep informed of new/revised Policy and Procedures, Standards of Care  and incorporates these into practice.  • Handles difficult situations and people with tact and professionalism.  • Demonstrates good judgment in escalating difficult situations and people to Management personnel.  • Responsible for tracking absences and patterns of absences, tardiness and early departures, in accordance  with company policy.  • Developed schedules and worked with staff at high levels.  • Acts as a point person for nursing leadership, communicating issues and concerns as necessary.  • Demonstrates a working knowledge of EPM.  • Responsible for traveling to satellite offices to provide staff support.  • Responsible for communicating with the Director of Nursing/Staffing Coordinator all the staffing and daily operational issues requiring nurse leadership intervention.  • Assists in the orientation of new nursing staff.  • Demonstrates flexibility in scheduling and/or traveling to meet patient and office needs.  • Aware of Joint Commission standards that all staff who have clinical contact with patients demonstrate  competence in providing care appropriate to the age of the patient population served. Clinical Database Coordinator Indiana University Health - Indianapolis, IN March 2008 to 2012 Indiana University Genetic Testing Laboratories  Administrative duties:    • Coordinate incoming sample delivery for two internal laboratories  • Ensure delivery of results to appropriate recipients which include physicians, patients, and outside laboratories  • Responsible for charts, paperwork pertaining to each test, providing billing information to business  office (including CPT-4 and ICD-9 coding), typing results, weekly minutes  • Responsible for QAQC (Quality Assurance Quality Control) data  • Triage incoming phone calls  • Monitor and maintain stock of office supplies  • Work with local police department regarding paternity testing  • Work with Careweb, Cerner, CoPath, and Microsoft Office Suite  • Managed departmental work studies    Laboratory Technician duties:    6440 Maple St, Indianapolis, IN• (317) 319-3669• april.gillespie@hotmail.com  • Meet with potential paternity clients, explain the process and procedures, collect samples and take  payment  • Pick up blood and urine samples from multiple clinics  • Label incoming blood, urine, liver, and product of conception samples  • Organize samples into batches  • Certified to send biological materials through USPS Database Administrator Indiana University Medical Group Specialty Care - Indianapolis, IN June 2004 to March 2008 Work with clinics to identify and obtain correct demographic information for patient accounts in GEHC  Centricity.  • Utilize Cerner and Careweb to verify patient data and merge patient records.  • Use a complex, multi-step process to correctly merge duplicate accounts in GEHC Centricity.  • Manage MedConnect/Careweb exceptions by finding correct demographic data, and verifying it's  accuracy in GEHC Centricity.  • Work closely with the department of Radiology to manage its exceptions.  • Utilize Microsoft Office to create worksheets to assist in both merging accounts and managing  exceptions.  • Created a database in Microsoft Access for queries and reports.  • Secretarial backup when needed (answering phones, directing calls to the appropriate person, sorting  mail).  • Utilize Microsoft Word to write a manual for merging duplicate patients. Crew Chief McDonald's - Indianapolis, IN August 2002 to February 2004 • Successfully assisted in managing a 9-person team running the store.  • Received payments and made change.  • Notified kitchen personnel of shortages and special orders.  • Successfully handled unsatisfied customers.  • Executed daily operations of cleaning and stocking the store.  • Maintained a professional yet personal relationship with regular customers. Education Spanish Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis 2003 to 2004 Ivy Tech Community College of Indianapolis 2001 to 2002 Diploma Brownsburg High School - Brownsburg, IN 1997 to 2001