Database/Human Resources Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span>/Human Resources <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database/Human Resources Administrator Brooklyn, NY Service-oriented administrative/management with 12-year background in Government, Nonprofit, and Corporate settings. Core competencies include Problem-Solving, Data-Cleanup, and Leadership/Teamwork as well as excellent communication and time management skills. Handles tasks with accuracy and efficiency. Work Experience Database/Human Resources Administrator Teachers' Retirement System of the City of New York - New York, NY January 2019 to August 2019 • Data cleanup on member's cases/Evaluate Service.  • Provide purchase plans for members after clarifying case information in the account is correct.  • Verify prior and current work history by using the Department of Education system/contacting members employer(s).  • Compile service history using days/hours worked, salary information and titles.  • Update transfer-in, transferred contributor and leave on another payroll service.  • Check equivalency service for subs, paras, adjuncts, adult Education and college fellowships.  • Review eligibility for military service, outside service and study leave and tier reinstatement. Operation Assistant Starr Companies - New York, NY August 2018 to October 2018 • Use computers for various applications, such as database management or word processing.  • Perform payroll functions, such as maintaining timekeeping information and processing and submitting payroll.  • Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  • Set up and manage paper or electronic filing systems, recording information, updating paperwork, or maintaining documents, such as attendance records, correspondence, or other material. Regional Administrator Assistant AHRC New York City - Brooklyn, NY April 2018 to August 2018 • Use computers for various applications, such as database management or word processing.  • Perform payroll functions, such as maintaining timekeeping information and processing and submitting payroll.  • Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages, or transfer calls to appropriate individuals.  • Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  • Set up and manage paper or electronic filing systems, recording information, updating paperwork, or maintaining documents, such as attendance records, correspondence, or other material.  • Complete forms in accordance with company procedures.  • Schedule and confirm appointments for clients, customers, or supervisors.  • Operate electronic mail systems and coordinate the flow of information, internally or with other organizations.  • Learn to operate new office technologies as they are developed and implemented. Project Lead The J3 Corporation - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to March 2018 • Manage project execution to ensure adherence to budget, schedule, and scope.  • Develop or update project plans for information technology projects including information such as project objectives, technologies, systems, information specifications, schedules, funding, and staffing.  • Monitor or track project milestones and deliverables.  • Hands-on training of new employees on project procedures.  • Match and assign projects to staff members and managed milestones and deadlines.  • Assign duties, responsibilities, and spans of authority to project personnel.  • Schedule and facilitate meetings related to information technology projects.  • Monitor the performance of project team members, providing and documenting performance feedback.  • Coordinate recruitment or selection of project personnel. Executive Office Administrator The J3 Corporation - Baltimore, MD June 2007 to June 2015 • Produced a wide variety of documents, presentations and spreadsheets, both internally and client-facing.  • Responsible for taking minutes during departmental meetings.  • Created, maintained and archived transcripts of meeting minutes, inter and intra office communications.  • Locate and attach appropriate files to incoming correspondence requiring replies.  • Provide additional support to the HR and Finance teams.  • Lead the coordination of events such as hosting executive summits, internal/external events hosted on site. Responsibilities will include guest list management, invitation, catering, event management, and follow up after the event  Knowledge of Programs  Microsoft Office Suite, Google Hangout, Skype, QuickBooks, Middleware, Paychex, Host Systems, Adobe PDF, Salesforce, CRM Software, IBM AS/400, IBM Content Manager, IBM Content Navigator, CityNet, CityTime, Aspen, Lotus Notes, WordPress, Monday Education Computer Science New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY June 2018 Skills SYSTEMS ANALYSIS, HUMAN RESOURCES, PROBLEM SOLVING, TIME MANAGEMENT