Senior Database Administrator/ Microsoft CRM Admin Lead Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Microsoft CRM Admin Lead Senior Database Administrator/ Microsoft CRM Admin Lead - Farm Credit Bank of Texas Austin, TX 30 years of industry experience specializing in automation of Application, Active Directory, Windows and Linux Systems, Databases, and Network Infrastructure.  ? An imaginative problem solver that promotes a fun work environment based on mutual respect.  ? Extensive experience and a very broad range of skills in both technology as well as management.  ? I pride myself in finding solutions to tough problems. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator/ Microsoft CRM Admin Lead Farm Credit Bank of Texas March 2015 to Present I converted from contract to employee in January of 2016. I did the following in addition to my tasks that I was hired to do as a contractor:  ? Performed Proof of Concept for Configuration as Code. Evaluated Salt, Puppet, Ansible, PowerShell DSC  ? Wrote SQL and PowerShell scripts to mine data from Dynamics CRM  ? Wrote PowerShell automation for the following:  ? User provisioning in Dynamics CRM (SQL Server 2014 backend)  ? CRM deployments (SQL Server 2016 backend)  ? Used PowerShell to create ServiceNow tickets for service accounts with expiring passwords  ? Provided customers with asset inventory from ServiceNow using PowerShell  ? Automated check of 9 enterprise applications (CRM, Fusion Banking, MicroStrategy, etc.) to validate new users, user modifications and user terminations. (SQL Server 2012 backend)  ? Wrote an application to grant temporary access to systems and consequently expire their access automatically (SQL Server 2012 backend)  ? Wrote an application to distribute agriculture sales from an external sales feed (SQL Server 2012 backend)  ? Performed application migrations to include  ? TFS 2013 to TFS 2014 and TFS 2013 to TFS 2017  ? SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2008 and R2 to SQL Server 2012  ? Performed application installation, configuration and administration  ? CRM 2016, CRM Version 9 (365)  ? SQL Server 2012 - 2016  ? ASG-RD (a shared centralized RDP management tool)  ? Performed code deployments for in house software products  ? Installed and administered a GIT server  ? Gave a PowerShell beginners class  ? Evangelized PowerShell throughout the DBA team, Infrastructure and Development  ? Installed, configured and maintained Dynamics CRM on 33 servers on premise Senior Database Administrator TEKsystems October 2014 to February 2015 I worked on a DBA team of 5 that was responsible for 18,000 databases on 300 instances in 5 data centers in four countries. - Managed Windows 2008 R2, and 2012 fail-over clustering    ? Balanced backup schedules for all SQL Server instances in one of 5 data centers  ? Responded to (tier 3) SQL Server, Windows and Clustering alerts  ? Automated deployment of DBA tool changes  ? Wrote TSQL and PowerShell scripts to manage databases, perform checks, perform maintenance and troubleshoot issues with client databases  ? Authored a white paper titled DBA Systems Management. Since the customer's environment consisted of several AD Domains, slow/latent networks, and PCI/PII environments, this document described how the customer could realign their "DBA Management" servers to be site specific and then roll-up metrics up to an enterprise data warehouse. This solution supported independent sites, instance and site registration, and support for SFTP package-based communication for very latent connections.  ? Routinely performed point in time restores IT, and Database Manager HotSchedules.com/Red Book Connect June 2011 to October 2014 As the HotSchedules Data Center/IT Manager I was responsible for the smooth operations of all systems in the production environment as well as all corporate IT operations as well. As the Data Center Operations Manager, I performed the following:    ? Lead a team of 3 Senior Engineers (Sr. Systems Engineer, Sr. Network Engineer and Sr. Database Administrator), 3 Database Engineers, 1 Systems Engineers (mid-level), and 1 Desktop Support Tech  ? Responsible for 1.5 million in production operations assets  ? Responsible for direction of Network, Database, Systems and Facilities operations  ? Managed root cause analysis, after action reviews (operations postmortems), change management, configuration management and incident management  ? Wrote the code promotion and database change policies and procedures for 2 products (HotSchedules, GoHire)  ? Wrote policy for ticket management and handling to support production operations As the IT manager I managed corporate IT operations of email, inter-site connectivity, corporate wide backup and recovery, and disaster recovery and performed the following: help desk, desktop support, wireless support, network support and systems support  ? Interfaced with other department managers to understand their plans and requirements  ? Interfaced with upper management for budget, head count, and strategic direction  ? Implemented new hire process and procedure  ? Implemented purchase and procurement process  ? Reorganized IT operations due to the merger with Red Book Connect  ? As Database Manager I was responsible for the integrity and performance of the production databases to include managing a ticket queue and 3 Database Engineers. Database Admin/Network Admin/Systems Admin/Exchange Admin HotSchedules December 2009 to June 2011 HotSchedules was a small company that could not afford to hire a large staff. I was originally hired as the production DBA, but quickly proved that I was far more useful in many other areas.  Database Admin/Development  ? Wrote TSQL ad-hoc queries to augment missing functionality in admin site.  ? Indexing and query performance tuning  ? Wrote SSIS packages for customer import/export  ? Wrote SSRS reports  ? Wrote TSQL Coding standards and implemented standards for 3NF adherence  Cisco Network Admin  ? Installed, configured and managed 2960/3750 Switches  ? Installed, configured and managed PIX 515  ? Replaced the aged PIX 515 with ASA 5510/5520. Upgraded ASA's from IOS 8.2 and IOS 8.3 (CLI changes between revisions)  ? Moved from a couple flat LANS to dozens of segmented and restricted VLANS  ? Implemented the VOIP Network  Wireless LAN Admin  ? Implemented and managed Dell W620 (Aruba rebranded 600) and Aruba 105 access points  ? Implemented and briefly managed Cisco 5500 wireless controller and Aironet 3700i access points  ? Implemented and managed 802.1x Authentication via Active Directory RADIUS Exchange Admin:  ? Migrated Exchange Server 2007 to Exchange 2010  ? Migrated Exchange Server 2010 to Exchange Office 365  ? Administered Exchange Office 365 and Office 365  Windows Server Admin  ? Managed Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2008R2  Linux Admin  ? Upgrade Ubuntu servers from 10.04 to 12.04  ? Managed and maintained 70+ Ubuntu servers  Virtualization Admin  ? Migration from VirtualBox to ESXi  ? Migration from Hypervisor to ESXi  ? 80+ guest VM's (70+ Ubuntu, 10+ Windows and others)  ESXi VCenter  ? P2V/V2P  ? Installed, maintained and upgrade vCenter  EqualLogic SAN Admin  ? Implemented four EQL PS6100 chassis  ? Verified peak performance using Iometer and SQL Iometer  ? Backend SQL Server  Dev Ops script development  ? PowerShell  ? bash  ? C#  ? PERL  Dell specific  ? Configured and implemented a Dell M1000e Blade Chassis with M620  ? Configured and deployed Dell Force10 S50/S55/ S60 switches  ? Configured and deployed Dell PowerEdge 720/820 as well as some legacy 1950/2950 IT Consultant Technology Pointe, Inc January 2008 to August 2009 Technology Pointe, Inc is a small IT consulting operation that specializes in small to medium business. They provide not only project support, but also day-to-day IT maintenance services with VOIP, network, server and desktop services. As the senior systems engineer I performed the following tasks:  ? Performed pre-sales systems analysis of servers, network, ISP, desktops and peripherals  ? Designed solutions based on pre-sales systems analysis  ? Built quotes and negotiated best price for equipment to support solution  ? Mentored engineers and helpdesk on SQL Server best practices and basic operations, Database fundamentals, switch fabric design, firewall best practices, Active Directory design and best practices  ? Wrote a network discovery and data collection application in C#, and .NET with a SQL Server 2008 database.  ? Wrote a tool to manage network IP for one of our customers using C#, and .NET with a SQL Server database.  ? Security assessments and recommendations for networks, servers, Active Directory, database, application development and desktops (end-to-end)  ? Software development security and database access consultation (ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript)  ? Database schema design, security and maintenance consultation  ? Network design consultation and implementation using Cisco ASAs, Cisco Catalyst switches, and Cisco Routers  ? End-to-end security consultation. From external penetration testing all the way through to database and application security.  ? Built small and medium (15 host) ESX/Virtual Center topologies  ? Purchasing hardware  ? Cluster configuration and layout  ? SAN configuration and layout  ? Template design and best practices  ? Setting up Virtual Consolidated Backup  ? Virtual switching and VLANs Production Operations Manager (and various other roles) ItzBig September 2006 to January 2008 ItzBig was a start-up which means that you "wear many hats". The hats that I wore other than my primary responsibility was SQL Server DBA, Build Master, Systems Engineer, and Systems Administrator, Development Support. In this capacity I performed the following:  ? Designed, implemented and managed 7 environments at a hosted data center (Rackspace) and 5 environments at a non-hosted data center (CoreNap).  ? Orchestrated a successful move of the previously mentioned environments from a hosted server data center to a non-hosted data center (Rackspace to CoreNap). This included:  ? Identifying server, and network equipment requirements  ? Identifying power and HVAC requirements  ? Designing a fail-over firewall solution  ? Designing redundant switching fabric  ? Setup SQL Server database mirroring  ? Redesign application, database, and web deployment scripts  ? Design and implement Microsoft Distributed File System Replication (DFSR) topology  ? Supervised installation of hardware, network and cabling.  ? Designed and implemented the Active Directory  ? Redesigned the "flat" database model to a fully relational database model  ? Designed and implemented the database interface  ? Redesigned Flash ActiveScript UI policy file handling  ? Deployed nightly changes to QA environment and weekly to Production environment  ? Deployed and managed 7 virtual servers  ? Deployed and managed 7 IIS Servers  ? Deployed and managed 6 Application Servers  ? Deployed and managed 4 stand-alone SQL Servers  ? Deployed and managed 4 Active Directory Domain Controllers in 3 sites  ? Find server application bugs and recommend repairs (C#)  ? Find client application bugs and recommend repairs (JavaScript)  ? Determine application (server side) scalability and scalability break points Sr. Systems Administrator/Sr. SQL Server DBA TEKsystems December 2005 to September 2006 As a contractor I performed the following on behalf of my clients:  ? Installed and configured VMware ESX implementation for development and testing staff  ? Managed and troubleshoot SQL Server 2000 on Microsoft Cluster Server  ? Managed and troubleshoot Microsoft Cluster Server on Windows 2003  ? Troubleshot database scalability and performance issues  ? Made recommendations and implemented solutions to improve stability of production SQL Servers.  ? Designed infrastructure and tasks for database operations for large SQL Server installations.  ? Redesigned and created new tools for database maintenance  ? Worked closely with customer's development staff to improve database change deployment.  ? Worked closely with customer's database operations staff to improve performance and availability.  ? Reviewed database security and recommended changes to improve security. Sr. Database Administrator Hire.com April 2004 to December 2005 Performed database administrative tasks, designed scalability improvements, established database security policy and troubleshot database performance issues for a large deployment of SQL Server in an ASP environment  ? Designed and implemented database authentication, authorization and auditing solutions  ? Troubleshot index, hardware and design related performance issues  ? Reorganized storage to optimize performance  ? Database design reviews for development  ? Wrote tools to manage over 200+ databases running on 8 servers  ? Wrote tools to gather and analyze performance data (from SQL Profiler and Performance Monitor)  ? Wrote tools to maintain Full-Text Catalogs.  ? Wrote tools to track test databases for development, detect if database was no longer required by checking bug status and notifying owner  ? Redesigned database security model  ? Interfaced with Microsoft to resolve bugs Microsoft SQL Server 2000 and problems with Fulltext Catalogs  ? Analyzed and evaluated Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Service Pack 4 for promotion to production databases  ? Analyzed and evaluated Microsoft SQL Server 2005  ? Installed and configured SQL Server 2000 standalone and clustered servers  ? Installed and configured Windows 2000/2003 servers for SQL Server on standalone and clustered servers.  ? Worked closely with developers to resolve issues, improve change deployment and improve performance of production databases.  ? Was first line of defense in identifying database related bugs to improve efficiency of database developers (they did not have to spend as much time troubleshooting a database related bug). SQL Server Development Consultant Hire.com September 2003 to April 2004 I planned and implemented new technologies to support trading systems and corporate infrastructure. I performed network administration duties, systems integration tasks, database design, database administration. I supervised database administrators, database projects, system integration personnel, help desk staff and network administers.  ? Established policies and procedures for promoting development database updates to the production database  ? Migrated Windows NT domain to Windows 2000 Active Directory  ? Planned, configured, and installed 6 high end SQL Server Cluster servers (2 nodes per cluster), one in an Windows NT infrastructure and the remaining 5 in Windows 2000 Infrastructure  ? Established policies and procedures for production database operations  ? Troubleshot and solved database performance issues  ? Managed/Mentored the following:  ? Local and remote installation of SQL Server  ? Local and remote installation of SQL Server and Cluster Services  ? Subordinate DBA SQL Server performance tuning  ? Good implementation practices for the production SQL Server  ? Managed Microsoft SQL Servers  ? Wrote SQL Server stored procedures, and triggers  ? Tuned SQL Server indexes and optimized table statistics  ? Troubleshot poor performing queries and remedied issue  ? Recommended performance enhancements to development staff  ? Consulted with development staff on large projects to ensure good implementation into production environment (i.e. replication between data centers, and SQL Server Cluster installation)  ? Was fundamental in separating development database operations from production database operations  ? Planned, configured and implemented a trouble ticket tracking system using existing hardware and open source software Senior Systems Engineer/Manager of Technical Operations Protrader November 2000 to February 2003 I planned and implemented new technologies to support trading systems and corporate infrastructure. I performed network administration duties, systems integration tasks, database design, database administration. I supervised database administrators, database projects, system integration personnel, help desk staff and network administrators.  ? Established policies and procedures for promoting development database updates to the production database  ? Migrated Windows NT domain to Windows 2000 Active Directory  ? Planned, configured, and installed 6 high end SQL Server Cluster servers (2 nodes per cluster), one in an Windows NT infrastructure and the remaining 5 in Windows 2000 Infrastructure  ? Established policies and procedures for production database operations  ? Troubleshot and solved database performance issues  ? Managed/Mentored the following:  ? Local and remote installation of SQL Server and Cluster Services  ? Good implementation practices for the production SQL Server  ? Managed Microsoft SQL Servers  ? Wrote SQL Server stored procedures, and triggers  ? Tuned SQL Server indexes and optimized table statistics  ? Troubleshot poor performing queries and remedied issue  ? Recommended performance enhancements to development staff  ? Consulted with development staff on large projects to ensure good implementation into production environment (i.e. replication between data centers, and SQL Server Cluster installation)  ? Was fundamental in separating development database operations from production database operations  ? Planned, configured and implemented a trouble ticket tracking system using existing hardware and open source software Sr. Systems Engineer/ Database Administrator drkoop.com July 1998 to November 2000 I was initially hired as the production database administrator. Additionally, I performed duties as the chief architect of the corporate Local Area Network and Wide Area Network. I planned, tested, and implemented new technologies for the corporate infrastructure. I eventually was promoted to Manager of IT and had 2 Systems Engineers, and 3 Help Desk Technicians as direct reports. I planned and implemented the following to support a Windows NT network.    ? Configured and managed Cisco PIX firewall  ? Designed network backup scheme  ? Configured and managed Cisco high-end and midrange switches (Cat 6009 and Cat 3500)  ? Implemented tools and scripts to automate network management  ? Supervised the following:  ? Installation of Exchange Server, IIS server, SQL Server  ? Installation of additional Windows NT domain controllers  ? Installation of remote Windows NT domain controllers  ? Implementation and testing of email virus scanning software  ? Installation of research/test lab  ? Installation of several network automation tools  ? Wrote corporate network security guide  ? Established the following policies and procedures:  ? Network access policies  ? Initial corporate network security policies  ? Policies for purchase of new equipment and software  ? Policies for promotion of development database changes to production  ? Advised database developers on how to improve performance, reliability and maintenance of all databases  ? Designed, tested, implemented, documented and administered Microsoft SQL Server running on Microsoft Cluster Servers.  ? Designed, tested, implemented, documented and administered Microsoft Exchange Server for corporate collaboration server.  ? Converted network to use a private IP address range  ? Redesigned QA network  ? Coordinated movement of 4 T1s from one ISP to another    Experience prior to July of 1998 can be provided upon request    Courses  Windows 2000 MCSA course  SQL Server 4.2 Administration, MIDAK University  Windows NT 3.51 Server and Workstation Boot Camp, US Connect (Seattle, WA)  VMware ESX 2.0 Administration course    Independent Coursework  C Programming, Software Development Center (Fort Lee, VA)  Unix Systems Administrator Course, Software Development Center (Fort Lee, VA)  PluralSight Courses:  ? Introduction to GIT  ? Windows PowerShell Desired State Configuration Fundamentals  ? Advanced Windows PowerShell Desired State Configuration  ? Salt: Getting Started  ? Puppet Fundamentals for System Administrators  ? Terraform - Getting Started  ? Windows PowerShell Best Practices and Patterns  ? Python: Getting Started  ? PowerShell Toolmaking Fundamentals Education Computer Technology/Computer Systems Technology Austin Community College 2003 to 2003 Computer Science Pima Community College - Fort Knox, KY 1992 to 1994 US Army Computer Science School - Fort Gordon, GA 1991 Skills DATABASE DESIGN (10+ years), MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (10+ years), DBA (10+ years), Networking (7 years), DATABASE (10+ years), Powershell (5 years), DevOps (1 year), Linux (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) July 2006 to Present Microsoft Certified Database Administrator July 2006 to Present