Senior Project Scheduler Senior Project Scheduler Swedesboro, NJ Work Experience Senior Project Scheduler Cire Solutions - Aberdeen, MD September 2017 to Present Develop and coordinate updates and changes to the integrated master schedule to meet all program objectives. Monitor plans and schedules, perform risk analysis, identify and resolve critical path and network logic conflicts. Sustain rigorous cost-schedule integration and validate Earned Value Management (EVM) through status reports. Employ Gantt, PERT, milestone charts, earned value management and other project management techniques to gauge progress and identify performance variances to facilitate focus and intervention on critical areas. Expertise in all facets of utilizing Microsoft Project or like scheduling tools. Conduct regular internal schedule audits to ensure compliance with requirements and policies. Lead and facilitate with the managers and subcontractors to incorporate their subcontractor's interface giver / receiver activities into the prime integrated master schedule. Experience working with and leading engineering teams in developing, updating and submitting responses to Engineering Change Proposals (ECPs). Project Controls Analyst Los Alamos National Laboratory - Los Alamos, NM June 2016 to September 2017 Utilized Primavera P6 as a Project Controls team member: Identified schedule scope; Determine schedule activities, dates, inter-discipline constraints or interfaces, and activity sequences; Established milestones; Coordinated with performing organizations and units to establish work sequenced project plan; Conform work sequence and activity duration per project's execution plan; Assisted with the training of personnel and ensuring that the project areas requiring Earned Value Management were enforced for the recertification from the Department of Energy; Assisted discipline and specialty engineers in individual work plans development and requirements knowledge; Coordinated between discipline groups to determine what information is required and how to interface schedule activities, Developed schedule updating and monitoring requirements; Provided schedule knowledge to assist discipline planning and interfacing; Performed schedule monitoring, including identifying critical activities and updating functions for specific applications, disciplines, or specialties; Prepared and developed schedule study information; Evaluated discipline or specialty specific quantities, job hours/staffing, and schedule logic; Prepared schedule, staffing, and quantity progress and performance reports. Perform project cost merges using PRISM as our current Cost Processor while currently testing EVM Cloud to replace the PRISM cost tool. Performed detailed tests and quality checks to ensure the new cost tool EVM Cloud was integrated and rolled into production flawlessly. Project Controls Analyst Amec Foster Wheeler - Philadelphia, PA May 2015 to March 2016 Utilizing Oracle Primavera P6 and InControl cost software, developed, updated, and managed construction and procurement detailed resource loaded schedules and associated baselines; reported Estimate to Complete (ETC) monthly and Comprehensive Estimate at Completion (CEAC) semi-annually; coordinated with project team to identify schedule risk and issues; track progress against baseline; reported variance; Monitored cost and commitments; created purchase orders as required; evaluated financial and contractual commitments. Project Scheduler Vibrant Fusion - Haddonfield, NJ January 2015 to March 2015 Utilized Microsoft Project software to develop and maintain multiple logically driven resource loaded schedules for Plains Midstream, Calgary, Canada oil and pipeline company; created milestones; analyzed float and critical path that ensured successful completion of milestones; created a best practices document which included an appropriate WBS and capture and sequencing critical activities. Held monthly status meetings for the monthly estimate to complete and percent complete of each task. Senior Program Planner and Risk Manager Lockheed Martin - Moorestown, NJ April 2009 to March 2014 Developed: a Request For Proposal (RFP) Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) based on customer requirements; a DCMA compliant, executable IMS upon contract award; a resource loaded IMS in preparation for an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR) that demonstrated thorough cost and schedule integration; and Program Summary Master Schedule (PSMS) and Integrated Master Plan (IMP); Conducted detailed IMS lifecycle planning and maintenance by maintaining realistic, current contract schedule baselines to include incorporation of contractual and programmatic change orders. Provided detailed IMS analysis and supporting documents which ensured quality, completeness and compliance. Utilized electronic and verbal communications for weekly and monthly business rhythms schedule status including: results of 14 Point Analysis, Tier 3, critical path analysis, schedule risk analysis (SRA), schedule variance analysis and "What if" exercises results to Program Management, customer, and senior management. Systems Engineer Sr Lockheed Martin - Valley Forge, PA July 2008 to April 2009 Provided support to the GeoScout DOORs team. Support included: Creating a DOORS Change Groups; Applying DOORS Change Proposals; Performing DOORS DB maintenance; Ensuring proper CM process for DOORS DB updates; Updating DOORS schema; Managing DOORS user group definitions; and Supporting and performing DOORS user education. Field Engineer Sr. / Site Manager Lockheed Martin - Cape Canaveral, FL March 2007 to July 2008 As Site Manager, lead a 15 person department in execution of a multi-million dollar project using a MX-20 camera to provide visual surveillance support to a military command in Afghanistan; responsible for team morale and on-site decisions. Proficient in 64k and 74k aerostats inflation, launch, and recovery during all weather conditions, trained new Persistent Threat Detection System members on 64k and 74k aerostat launch and recover procedures; and operation of: MX-20 camera, UTAMS, CLAW II, and JSWS. Database Administrator Senior Lockheed Martin - Valley Forge, PA March 2004 to March 2007 Provided administration and on-call satellite Unix Oracle 9i databases support; database monitoring; ensure security; performance tuning; create schemas and objects while maintaining referential integrity; review, edit and execute scripts written by Database Engineers. Update ClearQuest change management software. Analyze referential integrity using Oracle Designer and OEM. Generate DDL using Designer and promote to CM. Support 60+ environments in Development, Test and Production. Fully knowledgeable and interact with ODB Tools and OCM Tools. Principle Database Administrator Nanavati consulting Incorporated - Aberdeen, MD March 2003 to October 2003 Supported large, multiple Windows 2000 Server and Sun Solaris Livelink systems and Oracle databases; installed Oracle, configured development, test and production instances; upgraded Oracle databases from 8.1.7 to 9i; Planned anticipated future growth; configured Oracle Enterprise Manager performance monitor for database tuning; configured OEM events to monitor system and databases for paging during alerts; performed database recovery and backup; established RMAN online and offline backups. Senior Database Administrator Hercules Incorporated - Wilmington, DE August 1999 to March 2003 Supported large SAP systems and multiple Oracle databases; installed Oracle and configured development, test, and production instances; upgraded Oracle to 8.0.6 and 8.1.7; Designed data and indexes sizing system tablespaces; configured database security; managed schema objects; configured storage parameters, reallocated space between database objects, rebuilt indexes; and monitored and optimized database performance; set up clients through NET8; performed backups, recoveries, setups, and configured production standby database; set up OEM with configured monitoring scripts; generated daily jobs and events reports.    Honors and Awards  ? Navy Commendation Medal: provided extremely sensitive protection to the President of the United States  ? United States Marine Corps Presidential Ceremonial Honor Guard Certificate Education Master of Sciences in Information Sciences Penn State University - Malvern, PA December 2008 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Rutgers University - Camden, NJ December 1997