Sr. Data Engineer Sr. Data Engineer Sr. Principal Analyst, Database Nottingham, MD Microsoft SQL Server DBA and Developer. Experience in Production and Development environments. HiTrust / SOC 2 security, HIPAA. Have written assemblies for SQL Server. ETL experience with SSIS and .NET core.  Windows Server Administration. Building Automated install scripts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Data Engineer Trend Health Partners - Hunt Valley, MD August 2019 to Present Sr. Principal Analyst, Database Cotiviti, Inc (division acquired from: General Dynamics Information Technology) - Towson, MD September 2003 to June 2019 • Maintain servers running Microsoft SQL Server and a variety of application servers in a 24/7 production environment and development dealing with healthcare quality management (NCQA/HEDIS) and Fraud, Waste and Abuse products.  • Knowledge of HITRUST and SOC 2 compliance and controls as well as experience with HIPAA data compliance.  • Development and Server support in an Agile environment: Design, planning, code review, QA. (Certified SAFe 4 Agilist)  • Worked with Application Architects to design and plan changes to new and existing applications.  • Assisted Sales Team with application requirements and technical deep dives for prospective customers.  • Created custom applications for Customer Service and External Clients - using VB.NET (WinForm), MS SQL Stored Procedures, Functions and CLR Assemblies. This also includes ETL processes with SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Implement security strategies as directed by the Security, Senior Manager and Technical Infrastructure teams.  • Responds to user inquiries concerning systems operation and system diagnostics  • Contributes to and/or creates procedures and documentation relating to production server environment. This includes, but is not limited to disaster recovery, configuration and security procedures for new servers, remote user access, and backup strategies.  • HIPAA and FDA 21 CFR Part 11 Compliance experience  • Create and Teach internal workshops on SQL coding best practices and new features  • Wrote internal White Papers to assist the development teams with new SQL Server 2016/2017 feature implementation. Network Administrator / Systems Administrator Roland Park Country School - Baltimore, MD 1999 to 2002 • Provide technical support to employees and students regarding issues with desktop & laptop hardware as well as network connectivity.  • Provide Blackbaud SQLA database support and Administration  • Maintain network servers (Windows 2000 w/Clustering, Web Servers, & backups.)  • Assist with future plans for data infrastructure.  • Assist in planning wireless and wired/fiber network connections in conjunction with facility renovations and new facility construction.  • Work with vendors to resolve equipment issues.  • Create training materials for various systems and internal structure.  • Teach Computer Science/C++ as needed.  • Various custom programming and report generation with Visual Basic and Crystal Reports with Access or MS SQL Contract Instructor for Network Technician CCBC Campuses 1998 to 1999 Continuing Education Computer Support  • Maintained computer labs at Essex, Dundalk, Catonsville, White Marsh, Owings Mills, and Hunt Valley campuses.  • Performed CCBC system-wide Tech Support responsibilities similar to those at Essex Campus mentioned below.  • Coordinated constantly changing lab configurations for Continuing Education courses ranging from basic Windows 95 and MS Office to Windows NT Server or Linux OS, Novell, or General Motor / Toyota training.  • Responsible for maintaining network security on both NT servers and Novell 5/4.12 servers.  • Assisted with grant proposals intended to assist students with special learning needs, including vision and hearing impairments.  • Contract Instructor for Network Technician course (Novell/NT, network hardware)  • Provided consulting services to Essex Campus Nursing Lab and other training facilities with ties to Continuing Education. CCBC Campuses 1997 to 1998 Technology Support  • Provided extensive hardware support with new and legacy hardware.  • Wrote custom menu interfaces for older software packages.  • Configured and provided support for NT workstations.  • Performed NT and printer server administration functions, including configuration, troubleshooting, and repair.  • Provided network troubleshooting support for campus computing resource expansion and lab CD-ROM imaging. Assistant Instructor, Tech Support Phillips Middle School - Battleboro, NC 1995 to 1996 • Taught students and teachers basic computer care and problem solving skills.  • Assisted the Technology Resources Director in setting up a cross-platform Novell Network supporting approximately fifteen Macintosh and thirty Compaq systems.  • Conducted many workshops on basic computer maintenance and the use of Novell GroupWise and HyperStudio for Windows. MBM Corporation - Rocky Mount, NC 1994 to 1996 Purchasing Department  • Ran pricing reports from AS/400 system and System/36. Verified results with other branches and printed reports.  • Maintained history of all price changes.  • Provided item maintenance for approximately forty buyers between national accounts and standard purchasing departments, maintaining pricing confidentiality.  • Trained new buyers in use of the MBM turnkey system. Education Nash Community College - Rocky Mount, NC 1994 to 1996 High School Diploma Northern Nash Senior High - Rocky Mount, NC 1996 Skills Sql Server (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), Visual Basic .Net (8 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Agile (5 years), DBA, Ssis Certifications/Licenses MCP July 2002 Certified SAFe 4 Agilist September 2018 to September 2019 A+ Certified January 1999 to Present Assessments Email — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ol5ldrhemxp-osxm Problem Solving — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wpqyqe2az3enptej Data Analysis — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yoxrtdyqu6pcj08t Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tgl8trwpe5w3e1qz Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q-zqu7foouwcdvge Critical Thinking — Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sozyxwypxpvbg1k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.