Valet Supervisor Valet Supervisor Valet Supervisor - Park One Miami, FL I'm an experienced Lean Six Sigma Green Belt professional . I have worked for more than 10 years in the cement industry, As a Production Leader, I have driven significant results. I have completed 4 years of computer Sciences studies and 2 years in Industrial Engineering technical program. I have a passion for process improvement and desire to reach the highest level in it. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Valet Supervisor Park One April 2016 to Present Production Supervisor IFCO Systems November 2016 to December 2016 Construction Worker Facchina Group November 2014 to April 2016 Self Employee Grocery Business Owner Lord is my Shepherd - Haiti May 2012 to October 2014 Sell All type of food products. Production Leader Cement Argos /Cimenterie Nationale (Haiti) August 2001 to April 2012 • Manage all activities of the Cement production operation from Raw Materials to the delivery of cement bags.  • Participate in the Production Budget  • Applying Lean Philosophy to improve Process efficiency while Minimizing waste and delays to achieve production targets.  • Applying Six Sigma's Tools and Methodologies to ensure that quality standards are met in all stages of production plant.  • Train and Evaluate periodically production staff to ensure that Customer satisfactions are met effectively with consistency.  • Develop and implement strategies to maintain a safe work environment based on safety standards and company policies.  • Lead Daily Production Operation meetings when the Operations plant Director is absent.  • Report to: Plant Operation Manager, Plant General Manager, and Corporation. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ONA - Port au Prince, HT January 2000 to January 2001 • Manage all facets of the Oracle database system lifecycle.  • Training and evaluation periodic of staff.  • Monitoring and control of performance, capacity and space management. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering Universite Caraibe - Port au Prince, HT 1996 to 2000 Skills CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT, DETAIL ORIENTED, LEADERSHIP SKILLS, ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS, PROBLEM-SOLVING, FORKLIFT, LOADER, Customer Service, Guest Service, Valet Certifications/Licenses Green Belt Lean six Sigma Professional February 2019 to Present Apply the methodologies and tools of Lean and Six Sigma to improve processes.  Participate in a project at a high level.  •.Develop a culture of problem elimination  • Solve problems using statistical tools  • Reduce costs and sustain those savings.