QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER - Pace Analytical Services, LLC (Previously Analytical Services, Inc.) Roswell, GA Environmental Laboratory Quality Assurance Manager with a flexible, team oriented  attitude. Excellent ability to multi-task while providing analytical results to meet  deadlines. Strong technical writing skills in to meet the needs of the laboratory,  clients, and regulators. Subject Matter Expert in environmental laboratory state  regulations in GA, SC, NC, and FL and on comprehensive environmental laboratory  services throughout the United States. A decision maker with a sense of urgency,  ability to understand complex problems and find solutions and who is able to get "buy  in" from other departments through successful mediation tactics. Holds ultimate  responsibility for the integrity and quality of all data processed in the laboratory. Work Experience QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER Pace Analytical Services, LLC - Atlanta, GA November 2004 to Present Interpret and implement Federal (EPA), regional (EPA Region IV) and state environmental  laboratory regulations (all states in the Southeastern US, TX, and VA) into the laboratory quality  assurance program.  • Creation, control, approval and distribution of over 150 technical Standard Operation Procedures  (SOPs).  • Responsible for maintaining The NELAC Institution (TNI) and other State Accreditations.  • Integration of TNI and State regulations into the existing laboratory quality assurance program.  • Responsible for leading and managing all aspects of the Quality programs including training of laboratory personnel, and QA program development and management.  • Performance of periodic audits of laboratory operations and analytical reporting methods.  • Successful interfacing with external auditors for continuing laboratory certification.  • Management of Quality Assurance personnel in the implementation of the quality program. NETWORK/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR January 1996 to November 2004 • Management and upkeep of a 100+ computer Windows network.  • Oversight of the creation and management of SQL and Dbase databases required to integrate the movement of analytical samples through the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS).  • Instrumental in transition to new LIMS.  • Establish and maintain individual and group security in the server environment.  • Administrate the firewall security for the T1 Internet connection utilizing Firebox Technology, including establishing VPN connections for remote connectivity.  • Monitor and maintain 5 servers and other components of the network infrastructure.  • Program in Visual Basic to integrate Microsoft Office with Crystal Reports to process laboratory data  and generate final reports. ASSISTANT QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER January 1994 to January 1996 • Provide guidance to laboratory analysts in QA/QC procedures.  • Review laboratory techniques for analytically and legally valid methodology.  • Experienced in extraction techniques required for analysis of organic analytes. LECTURER Agnes Scott College September 1993 to December 1993 Development and teaching of laboratory courses in general chemistry and inorganic synthesis to students of all levels. POSTDOCTORAL ASSOCIATE Georgia State University, Department of Chemistry - Atlanta, GA October 1991 to October 1993 Application of NMR spectroscopy and molecular modeling to structurally characterize both deoxyoligonucleotides and ribodeoxyoligonucliotides. Other responsibilities included the Development and teaching of a graduate level course on the Theory and Application of Molecular Mechanics. Education DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY in Research Emory University - Atlanta, GA 1992 Skills Quality Assurance