SQL Server Engineer SQL Server Engineer SQL Server Engineer - Newbrook Solutions, Inc Laurel, MD Resourceful, innovative and team-oriented with extensive certified experience in database administration, design, development, and implementation. Versatile and proficient with the latest software and technologies. Results-driven leader and self-motivated professional who apply broad technical expertise to resolve complex issues associated with progressive growth/expansion in an information technology environment. Excellent interpersonal, collaboration and problem-solving skills, versatile with ability to multi-tasks high-level priorities, outperforming expectations under pressure/time constraints. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Engineer Newbrook Solutions, Inc - Columbia, MD October 2014 to Present Perform complex database administration assignments essential to the development and production of database management systems (DBMS) applications. Assignments that directly support software development and database maintenance including: database analysis, disaster recovery, security support, design, software use, performance monitoring and tuning. Review and ensure integrity via standardized support tools. Ensure that assignments are performed in accordance with database administration guidelines, standards and procedures for applications development, implementation, testing and migration. Respond to complex customer-reported system problems. I act independently to determine methods and procedures to be used on new assignments. Perform all on-call duties and system implementation and upgrades that might occur after normal business hours as required to minimize business impacts Sr. SQL Server Engineer Intellidyne, Inc - Washington, DC October 2013 to October 2014 Responsible for serving as the Senior SQL Server Database Engineer of the team that is responsible for designing new and/or upgraded solutions for the DOJ's Sql Server database technology fail-over cluster environment. As the database expert for the division I advise on feasibility and methodology of integrating IT services and other critical IT issues such as; database services and data integrity protection. Also lead the development of Division mission critical IT solutions that include the design, integration and 3rd Tier support of various hardware and software technologies in an enterprise environment over 5000 users geographically dispersed among twenty sites. As the Data Base Administrator (DBA) I'm responsible for providing technical support for the database environment including managing mission critical database applications, backup & recovery, database security, high availability, tier 3 support, troubleshooting and maintenance. SQL Server DBA DRC, Inc - Linthicum, MD October 2011 to October 2013 Responsible for all database functions associated with the implementation and maintenance of SQL Server 2008 R2 in a large SharePoint physical and virtual database environment. My duties include setting up security, back-up/restoration, logging, reporting and recovery procedures. Proactively optimize performance of databases through ongoing administration including monitoring, performance and index tuning, and updating/verifying current backup/recovery procedures. Perform daily, weekly, and monthly data maintenance tasks that assist in client support and setup configurations monitoring of scheduled jobs. Install and configure multiple instances and versions and components of SQL server, including SQL server database mirroring, reporting services, notification services, and analysis services.  Build and enforce database change management, security standards and best practices across various database environments and ensure processes are adhered to and documented.  Support production and non-production deployments/migrations of database schema changes, code deployments, and stored procedures. SQL Server Engineer/Developer SSB, Inc December 2007 to October 2011 Perform complex database administration assignments essential to the production and development of database management systems (DBMS) applications. Assignments that are in direct support of software development and database maintenance include database analysis, security support, design, software use, and performance monitoring and tuning. Review and ensure database integrity via standardized support tools. Ensure that assignments are performed in accordance with database administration guidelines, standards and procedures for applications development, implementation, testing and migration. Respond to complex customer-reported systems problems. Evaluates and recommends use of software, guidelines and procedures in a clustered SQL-Server based database environment. Documents database environment structures along with process/procedure flow within the database architecture. Provide DBMS expertise and guidance to the Junior DBA as necessary. Acts independently to determine methods and procedures to be used on new assignments and when required supervise or provide guidance to other personnel. Regularly interact with senior Military/Civilian personnel or executive management on matters concerning several functional areas, divisions, and/or customers. Perform all on-call duties and system implementations and upgrades that may occur after normal business hours and/or weekends as required to minimize business impacts. Call Screener Novell 2010 to 2010 Languages: T-SQL, VBA, VB, and HTML  Software: MS Excel 2007/2010, MS PowerPoint 2007/2010, MS Word 2007/2010, MS FrontPage, MS Publisher, MS Explorer, WordPerfect Suite, Adobe Suite, Netscape, Outlook, Support Magic, Remedy, and Citrix  Storage Systems: NAS, SAN  Call Screener: Handled incoming calls. Provided level I - III, technical support on personal support computers, servers, terminal, and laser printers. Senior SQL Server Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Crystal City, VA October 2005 to December 2007 Responsible for supporting, creating, configurations, maintenance, and implementing security policies of the DFAS SQL Servers in a fast paced, dynamic team environment; (SQL Server BizTalk/Blackberry and SharePoint SQL database administration). I architecturally designed, procured, and evaluate additional resources necessary to the system. On a daily basis, I created and maintained client and internal databases (relational and OLAP), ensuring their adequate security and performance levels, and developed related utilities and ETL processes. As a Senior Database Administrator I worked closely with network administrators, desktop support and software developers, to ensure the full integration ran smoothly while functioning to the full extent of the database environment. Additional duties I performed were: Backups, database recovery, data transfers, support of SharePoint, and maintenance upgrades as needed on the database applications and their systems. I participated in establishing and implementing appropriate disaster recovery plans and procedures for all the databases and software systems. SQL Server Administrator Digicon - Bethesda, MD April 2002 to October 2005 Provided skilled administration and operational support of multiple Windows NT servers with MS SQL databases. Supported the MS SQL 6.5 and 2000 database migration into production by executing numerous stored procedures on a biweekly basis. Administered MS SQL 6.5 and 2000 by defining new databases, ensuring system-level security, while monitoring and managing database activities, and also supported database sizing and index administration. Scheduled and performed system and database backups using numerous backup software. Wrote/edited and stored procedures on a daily basis. Installed Windows NT/2000, MS SQL, and other system software upgrades and patches. Nightly monitored progress and completion of batch jobs. Coordinated completed vendor hardware/software maintenance activities. Collected and transmitted problem logs, analyzed and corrected errors. Responded to and corrected problems on Windows NT/2000 servers and MS SQL databases on a daily basis. Application Developer/SQL Server Administrator IBM - Upper Marlboro, MD April 2001 to April 2002 Database Administrator/Software Analyst C² Multimedia Inc - Arlington, VA July 1999 to April 2001 PC Software Specialist/ Database Specialist U.S. Navy - Washington, DC September 1995 to July 1999 Education A.S in Computer Information System Mgmt Central Texas College on Bolling Air Force Base 1995 to 2000 Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba