System Analyst/Developer System Analyst/Developer DATA ANALYST | SYSTEM ANALYST | CHATBOT | AUTOMATION Myrtle Beach, SC Data Extraction, Data Transformation, Data Processing, Data Analytics,  Data Reporting, DataBase, Microsoft Power BI, SQL, Excel/Google sheets/Other formats of data, Google Sheets, Excel Dashboard, Macros or VBA to automate,  Solid knowledge in SQL Server, development and data management.  Knowledge in Reporting Services, Power BI and Dashboards for Excel.  Development in .NET / C #, Delphi and VBA.  Chatbot, Intelligent Chatbot, Social media accounts  Integration of Data From Different Heterogeneous Sources like Excel, CSV file, or any other DATABASE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Analyst/Developer Accenture - Rio de Janeiro, RJ September 2014 to 2018 ?? TIM Mobile (Clarify's Developer)  ?? Oi BPO (Analycts and Reports)  ?? BTG Pactual Private Bank (Data Analyst and Report Developer)  ?? Oi Bill (Arbor, developing in C and C++)  ?? Bradesco Losango (Bank, developing C# Mobile - Back-end)  ?? Froneri Nestlé (Developing .NET/C#)  ?? Oi BPO (Developing .NET/C#, VBA) Lead Business System Analyst State University of Rio de JAneiro (UERJ) - Rio de Janeiro May 2013 to March 2014 Allocated at CEPUERJ (Production Center of UERJ), in the area of Public Procurement, I was hired to replace a public servant who was leaving for a new sector.    During the contract, I developed a small application responsible for automating all the manual processes in the area. Frequent routines such as Import of candidates, Preparation of response cards, Preparation of official documents for competitions, digitization of response cards, import of responses, reports, classification of candidates, feedback conference and correction of evidence. These procedures were performed manually with the help of Excel and the Access tool.    Projects     - Integration with the Microfilming system   - Import and update candidate data   - Integration with Social Networks   - Automation of data export for Research (SMS and Social Networks) Database Administrator Tasken - Billing Solutions - Rio de Janeiro September 2011 to March 2013 Responsible for the administration of the databases in the company RCP Software.  Product Suite: SQL 2000/2005/2008 / 2008R2 and 2012.    - Experience in Call Center (24/7).  - Experience in Database above (10TB).  - Experience in requirements analysis.  - Experience in business analysis (HSBC, Banco do Brasil, Itau, Credicard, Ibi)  - Documentation / Training  - Requirements gathering  - Software specifications (Delphi / C #)  - Identification and problems in production (Delphi / SQL)    + Administration:    - SQL Server agent, tasks and maintenance/backup routines  - Snapshot  - Data recovery  - Data Migration (Oracle x SQL Server) | (Access x SQL Server)  - Index Fragmentation  - Authentication and authorization  - Logins, users, schemas, and roles  - Implementation and verification of policies  - Security Audit  - Recovery models and types and backup compression  - Database Restore (full, point-in-time, piecemeal) and  integrity check  - Alerts, operators, proxies, and scheduling  - A configuration of Database mail  - Shrink  - Fragmentation of the indices  - Profiler  - Monitoring I / O, CPU, and memory  - Debug and exception handling    + Development:    - Development of Procedures  - Trigger Development (AFTER triggers, INSTEAD OF triggers, DDL  triggers)  - Development of View with schema bound  - Scripts for system migration  - Error handling  - Cursors  - Dynamic SQL    + Tuning:    - Indexes  - clustered and non-clustered  - Covering indexes, filtered indexes, and composite indexes  - Indexing best practices  - Heap table  - Fill Factor, Pad_Index, Online, Sort TempDB  - Indexing foreign keys System Analyst Solutionar Informatica - Rio de Janeiro June 2011 to September 2011 Tools:    - Microsoft SQL Server 2008  - SQL Compare  - Tortoise SVN  - Tasker 5    Summary :    - Software requirements analysis for integration between CRM (RM Senior Systems).  - Conducting business analysis for the naval segment (EISA Estaleiro Ilha | Estaleiro Mauá)  - Development in TSQL (SQL Server)  - Updating and testing versions    Activities Description:     Allocated within the Shipyard Island S.A (www.eisa.com.br) had the responsibility of monitoring the use of the tool in production and absorb and solve problems, criticisms and provide solutions for users.     All actions were posted to the TimeSheet and potential issues or developments had their call to customer follow-up (SLA). New versions of the tool were generated weekly (Delphi 7) and it was tested before going to production. The test was performed within the Solve and tested again at the yard.        I followed the migration of WorkFlow to the version where the component was used (Sensha - HTML5), and during a certain period, I performed tests with the superintendence in order to homologate the same in production. Trainee RCP Software - Rio de Janeiro September 2007 to June 2011 Tools  - Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005  - Delphi 2006  - Starteam    Summary of activities:    - Helpdesk Support  - Visiting out-of-state clients  - Trainings  - Preparation of manuals  - Data migration  - CRM Implementation    Description of activities:     In September 2007 I started in CPR as a trainee (HelpDesk). My responsibility was to control the work orders and give first-level support to clients (Collection Offices).     In January of 2008 I was effective and accompanied the IT Manager in the trips to the clients, in order to learn the work of data migration and implementation of the CRM of collection.     In October 2009 he was responsible for the data migration (SQL Server) of the CRM's competitors to our CRM, in addition to providing training and monitoring the operation (Collection). I was allocated in the states of Minas Gerais (Belo Horizonte), São Paulo (Capital) and Rio Grande do Sul (Porto Alegre). In all three states it was responsible for migrating, deploying and monitoring production for a period of two months. Education Bachelor's in System Development Universidade Estácio de Sá - Rio de Janeiro, RJ 2012 to 2014 Skills SQL (10+ years), VBA (5 years), Java (Less than 1 year), .NET (2 years), Active Directory, testing, HTML, Microsoft Office Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mrebitte/ Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6g3-pt2x430imapg Email — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yupgepnc8lcnwknc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Languages:    Portuguese  English  Spanish