Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator Hingham, MA Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator BNY Mellon - Boston, MA September 2013 to March 2019 Database duties: performance tuning code, backups, restores, disaster recovery, Development of ETL(SSIS) data loads and extracts, SSIS, SSRS and developing scripts for automating tasks such as index fragmentation, log shipping and managing large data sets on multi terabyte sql servers, Installs, patching and migrating databases across servers. Running traces. Oracle support when needed for AMO's boutique's. Maintain integrity and availability of financial data across the data environment(Development,QA and Production).  Use Team Foudation Server(TFS) for code versioning  Supported Tableau end users    Design of reporting, archiving and financial application databases for Asset Management    Develop and perform backend code upgrades for various processes and applications DBA/Developer/Architect Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center - Boston, MA October 2010 to May 2013 The design and architecting of databases and processes using Business Intelligence Development Studio, various database design tools as well as provide system and application support to our end users.    Miscellaneous Projects (May 2009 - October 2010)  During this time I have worked on some short term projects as well as continued to keep current with my existing skill set and new skills alike. Some of the things I have been doing include building new databases in SQL Server 2008, performance tuning, capacity planning and developing backup and recovery strategies. I have also created and set up maintenance plans and created reporting solutions with both crystal reports and reporting services. DBA/Developer (Consultant) Granite Telecommunications - Quincy, MA October 2008 to May 2009 • Administration of development and production servers running SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 and Oracle databases, including creation of indexes, tables, stored procedures, security policies  • Performed database auditing and made recommendations on design, performance, security  And best practices.  • Administration and creation of the Provisioning Training Database backend for sales team to train new hires on real time data without affecting production data.  • DBA responsibilities also included routine maintenance such as backups and recoveries, applying patches, upgrades and performance monitoring  • Ensured SQL Server replication and mirrored databases were operating as planned  • Part of Upgrade team project migrating all data from Oracle to SQL Server 2008  • Created linked servers and queries from SQL Server to Oracle as part of the conversion process.  • Scripting of stored procedures, ad hoc queries & triggers  • Scripting of existing embedded SQL code within applications into stored procedures  • Responsible for assisting application development team to streamline and optimize queries to adhere to best practices and deliver better performance  • Contributed to the design of enterprise grade solutions  • Created SSIS packages to load weekly data and EDI files into a staging database where data was loaded into temp tables then processed by a stored procedure and loaded into  • Production.  • Worked with Data Architects to develop data models.  • Maintained SSRS report servers  • Developed reports based on well-defined requirements using complex stored procedures and packages to derive the data extracted for analysis.  • Reports included line usage, sales tracking, cost analysis and frequency analysis reports.  • Crystal Reports 11 and Microsoft Reporting Services were both utilized at the time as a conversion to one reporting system was planned in the future.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle Database Developer/DBA (Consultant) Quantifacts, Inc - Providence, RI September 2007 to May 2008 • Analysis an re-architecting of ETL process  • Administration of trust fee modeling databases for clients such as Mellon Bank, Citigroup Financial, BB&T and National Bank.  • Ensured replicated databases were updating as scheduled  • Developed and customized stored procedures for primary financial software product and client data loads.  • Developed data utilities as well as trust fee modeling, analysis, optimization, and reporting software and services for financial institutions.  • Applications looped through text and excel files, error checked and exported bad data to a log file then stored procedures loaded the accepted data into a staging table where calculations were performed and loaded into a final staging area, then checked against further constraints, then loaded into the database.  • Worked with Account Reps and clients for identification, collection, organization, storage and maintenance of all documentation for user requirements.    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005 Consultant United Natural Foods Inc - Dayville, CT February 2007 to August 2007 • SQL Server DBA East division team on integrating East, West and Central databases into one consolidated data center including capacity planning, logical and physical database design and security policies.  • Ensured that SQL code was optimized and tuned properly.  • Project Lead on Business Objects migration from v.9 to vXI on the Data warehousing team.  • Developed, designed and tested various stored procedures.  • Performance tuned stored procedures to optimize data extraction and customize parameter based crystal reports.  • Analyzed user requirements and work with corporate financial/business analysts to best achieve the desired result.  • Followed SDLC methodology and UAT procedures.  • Performed ad hoc queries on SQL Server.  • Used PCVS version control.  • Created documentation on Crystal Report, Stored Procedure narrative, Data validation and report definition document.  • Assisted Project Managers with the development, review, and revision of internal documentation as it relates to methodologies and processes    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005 Business Analyst/SQL Developer (Consultant) Mercer Human Resource Services - Norwood, MA October 2006 to February 2007 • Performance tuned SQL code to optimize data extraction.  • Analyzed user requirements and worked with internal business units to gain a thorough understanding of the methodologies, processes and procedures put in place at Mercer to satisfy requirements  • Developed, coded and tested various HR data loads, such as open enrollment healthcare elections    Environment: Oracle 9i, Sybase, Data Junction DBA /IT Specialist / Behavior Detection Instructor TSA, Dept. of Homeland Security - Boston, MA February 2002 to October 2006 • SQL Server administration, data collection, reporting (SSRS and Business Objects), database development upgrades, performance tuning, stored procedures, triggers, DTS packages, backup and recovery strategies  • Converted original behavior data tracking program from VB to web based VB.NET application.  • Reports developed were metrics to determine production levels, feasibility analysis, and threat assessment.  • Responsible for technical support to end users,  • Adapt and respond to frequent changes in the project environment, instituting process improvements and modifications when appropriate.  • Identify, document and escalate issues/problems relative to the project as they arise    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005 SQL Sever DBA/ Database Developer (Consultant) Card Payment Systems - Brockton, MA July 2001 to January 2002 • Administration of financial and sales databases  • Oversight and architected conversion from Access and legacy systems to SQL Server.  • Maintained data systems and developed disaster recovery procedures.  • Applied necessary patches and updates to SQL Server  • Created residual income reports derived from data mining.  • Created DTS packages automating stored procedures for daily jobs scheduler  • Created web based applications for the sales force using ASP.NET and VB.NET  • Created marketing, sales performance and income residual reports using Crystal Reports  • Set up IIS 5.0 server to host .NET apps  • Desktop and server support    Environment: SQL Server 2000 IT Consultant/ Database Engineer (Consultant) Gazelle Systems - Newton, MA July 2000 to June 2001 • Administration of CRM databases  • Responsible for the replication of client databases for daily data exchange and updating  • Data monitoring, replication, analysis of stored procedures and triggers.  • Logical and physical database design for SQL Server and Sybase DBMS.  • Performance tuning, back up and restoring databases.  • Assisted Data Architect with DB2 database design on the data warehouse.  • Supported internal as well as external clients with database issues.  • Data Analysis, program flow and design - SDLC.    Environment: SQL Server 7/2000 DBA/Crystal Reports Developer/Systems Specialist (Consultant) Aon Risk Services - Boston, MA September 1999 to June 2000 • Supported and maintained Oracle 7, 8 & 8i Databases, Crystal Reports Developer/Designer for the Workers' Compensation division of Aon.  • Oracle DBA, Pyramid admin.  • Created Intranet reporting application in VB for insurance claim lookup and frequency analysis reports.    Environment: Oracle IT Manager/ Database Analyst/DBA PCC Merriman - Hingham, MA August 1993 to October 1998 • System Administrator  • Supervised and mentored staff.  • Maintained and supported LAN and databases in a Windows NT environment.  • Provided support to users.  • Maintained records of all systems.  • Created and maintained Oracle 7.x, 8 and Access databases.  • Performance analysis and tuning, database design.  • Certified Internal ISO QS9000 Auditor on the Quality Assurance Team.    Environment: Oracle Education design Clark University Computer Career Institute - Braintree, MA 1999 Skills Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 7, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Microsoft business intelligence, Sql server reporting services, Tableau, Sql server integration services, Scripting, Visio, Powerdesigner, Business intelligence, Integration Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    SQL Server 6-2016, , Oracle 7-11g, Visio, SQL Server Integration services, DBArtisan,PowerDesigner, TOAD,, Business Objects, Tableau SQL Server Reporting Services, PL/SQL, Sybase, Microsoft Business Intelligence Development Studio.