Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - NYC HRA - Brooklyn Hoboken, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator NYC HRA - Brooklyn - New York, NY January 2015 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Providing 24x7 rotational on-call database supports as needed.  • Installing, Configuration, Administrating and supporting Oracle 12c, 11gR2, 10g, 9i databases.  • Configuration, administrating and maintaining single node, multi-node RAC, HA, standby databases.  • Applying PSU and upgrading, migration the RAC, Single Node databases from 10g to 11gR2 to 12c.  • Installation, Configuration, setup replication process and maintenance of Golden Gate.  • Troubleshooting and fixing Golden Gate errors.  • Configured Golden Gate to achieve unidirectional replication to migrate databases from 11g to 12c.  • Managing oracle databases in Exadata environment.  • Managing oracle databases in Exadata environment. Experience with installing & maintaining Oracle databases and Oracle EBS applications (12.2.x).  • Installing & maintaining Oracle databases and Oracle EBS applications (12.2.x).  • Supporting Oracle EBS implementation.  • Managing the database storage through ASM (Automatic Storage Management), File system.  • Managing the high availability environment databases through Data Guard for disaster recovery.  • Tuning the long running SQL queries using EXPLAIN Plan, OEM Grid Control and running SQL Tuning Advisor as necessary.  • Administrating the oracle databases and its services using 13c, 12c, 11g Oracle Enterprise Manager and Grid Control.  • Generating the database performance reports ADDM, AWR, ASH using OEM Grid Control and assisting developers to rewrite the queries to improve the performances.  • Working on moving the schema, tables using Data Pump, Import/Export utility from one database to another database.  • Working on backups and restores using RMAN utility, scheduling the jobs when required using command line.  • Working on creating the partitioned tables, indexes and table spaces for larges tables in production environment.  • Working on allocation of space, resources and memory when required.  • Working on data analysis, data management and defining the data dictionaries.  • Working on physical and logical structure of the databases.  • Working with team for database access security and maintain database integrity.  • Working on Automatic Memory Management.  • Working with SQL Transaction management process.  • Managing the oracle database through Toad, Embarcadero DB Artisan and SQL Developer.  • Working on database comparison between tables and schemas in oracle databases.  • Writing and modifying the UNIX shell scripts to manage the oracle databases and to schedule the critical jobs.  • Executing the deployments and involved in change control system.  • Coordinating data management, application and developing team to complete the tasks.  • Creating and managing the database objects, following the procedures and naming conventions.  • Working with developers, application team to diagnose and troubleshoot the database issues.  • Working on the data corruption issues.  • Making the documentation of my work for future reviews.  • Performing daily administrator tasks like table space monitoring, checking alert logs, trace files and monitoring disk usages, database backup logs, etc.,  • Interacting with other DBA staff to provide assistance in day to day tasks.  • Following the enterprise standards and management directives.  • Working on ITSM tickets and following SLA's.  • Working with OS admins, storage admins as required.  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, RAC, Golden Gate, Exadata, RMAN, UNIX, Red Hat, SuSE Linux, Windows XP, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, Shell Scripting, SQL*Developer, ASM, Data pump, DB Artisan, Data guard, OEM Database, Grid Control Sr. Database Administrator Penndot - Harrisburg, PA November 2013 to January 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in rotational 24x7 on-call production database support.  • Architecting, installation, configuration and administration of Oracle database 12c, 11gR2, and 10g.  • Installing and configuring Oracle 11gR2 grid infrastructure and oracle database software on AIX.  • Installation, configuration of Oracle OWB, Data Mart databases.  • Designing, Implementing and maintaining new oracle database as required.  • Installation, configuration and administrating the single, multi-node oracle RAC 11gR2databases.  • Applied patch set updates and upgrading, migration the RAC, Single Node databases from 10g to 11gR2.  • Maintaining the Data Guard physical standby databases and sync up the primary and standby database, and upgrading, applying patches to the standby databases.  • Installed and configure Golden Gate software in production environment.  • Setup capture, replication mechanism using Golden Gate.  • Troubleshoot Golden Gate issues related extracts, replication lag, Tran data, mapping issues etc.,  • Monitoring the database backup jobs and data guard sync between primary and standby databases.  • Upgrade and maintaining the standalone databases from oracle 10g to 11g and 11gR1 to 11gR2.  • Upgrading the oracle OEM from 11g to 12c, Installing agents on the servers.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for managing data and adding and removing disks from the disk groups.  • Maintaining multi-tier high application infrastructure including connection pools and clustering queuing.  • Managing the partitioning tables, indexes and space allocation and memory management.  • Worked with team on database analysis, design and data management.  • Creating the documentation of my work for future reviews.  • Worked on the Database backup and restore to disk and tape using RMAN utility, CommVault.  • Worked on data and file corruption issues.  • Worked on physical and logical structure of the databases.  • Performing SQL tuning using the Explain Plan, TOAD, AWR, ADDM, OEM Grid Control.  • Involved in writing the SQL and PL/SQL Scripts and RMAN automated job scripts.  • Writing and modifying UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Interacting with other DBA staff to provide assistance in day to day tasks.  • Applying the database and grid patches quarterly release by Oracle Corporation.  • Generating the database performance reports using AWR, ADDM, and ASH.  • Involved in switchover the databases between the primary and standby databases.  • Worked on the different environments like test, development, staging and production databases.  • Executing the deployments and work orders generated by the developers.  • Created and managed the database objects.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers.  • Worked on Data pump, import/export utility.  • Diagnose and troubleshooting database problems and failures.  • Worked with developers and application team for gathering information and resolving issues.  • Performing daily administrator tasks like table space monitoring, checking alert logs, trace files and monitoring disk usages, database backup logs, etc.,  • Database monitoring using Database Control, OEM Grid Control.  • Database comparison and schema comparison using TOAD, Grid Control.  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, RAC, Exadata, Golden Gate, RMAN, UNIX, Red Hat, SuSE Linux, Windows XP, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, Shell Scripting, SQL*Developer, ASM, Data pump, DataGuard, OEM Database, Grid Control Oracle DBA Excelcom - Reston, VA March 2012 to October 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database support.  • Architecting, Installation, Configuration and administration of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery.  • Involved in the Installation, configuration of Active - Active GoldenGate replication on RAC.  • Troubleshoot and fixing issues in Golden Gate.  • Designing, implementing and maintaining new databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for managing data in SAN Storage.  • Setup Active Data Guard for Database Disaster Recovery.  • Involved in Design and implementation of Logical, Physical Standby Databases.  • Upgrade, migration the oracle database from 10g to 11g.  • Worked on the different environments like test, development and production databases.  • Created and managed database objects.  • Worked on multi-tier HA application includes connection pools and clustering.  • Created and managed users, roles, privileges, schemas.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Worked on Data pump (Expdp / Impdp), Import / Export.  • Performed database backup and recovery using cold backup/ hot backup/ logical.  • Database backup and recoveries using RMAN.  • Cloned database from production to Test using RMAN  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Performed database and memory tuning using tools like AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Interacted with developers, application owners for gathering the information and resolving various issues.  • Performing database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Design and Setup backup and recovery procedures.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Analyzing, Sizing the database for future growth.  • Managing database instances for test environments to ensure strong testing environment and smooth transition to production.  • Worked with the off-shore team and testers while code deployment and application testing  • Database Monitoring using Database, Grid Control.  • Generated DML, DDL Scripts using the SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD.  • Schema, Data comparison using the TOAD.  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, Oracle 11g/10g RAC, RMAN, UNIX (AIX, Sun Solaris), RedHat, Linux, Golden Gate, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, UNIX Shell, SQL* Developer, ASM, TOAD, Data pump, Data guard, OEM (Grid Control) Sr. Oracle DBA Walgreens - Deerfield, IL January 2011 to February 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database support  • Architecting, Installation, Configurations and administration of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Databases for high availability and disaster recovery/reporting purpose.  • Installing, maintaining and troubleshooting oracle Golden Gate replication.  • Designing, Implementing and Maintaining new oracle databases.  • Data analysis and database management and worked on physical and logical structure on the databases.  • Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Created and managed users, roles, privileges, schemas.  • Handled large OLTP/DSS (Data warehouse) environments.  • Performed day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for managing data in SAN.  • Upgrade and migration from Oracle9i, 10g databases to Oracle 11g.  • Setup Active Data Guard for Disaster Recovery and reporting purpose.  • Wrote scripts for creation of users, creation and assignment of roles, analyze space requirements and maintain tablespaces and other database objects and also did the patch management for oracle upgrade.  • Wrote SQL and PL/SQL procedures, packages.  • Worked on 3 tiers HA application infrastructure includes connection pools and clustering queuing.  • Worked on Client server GUI software and different Operating systems.  • Migrated from SQL Server to Oracle.  • Worked on import/export, DataPump (expdp/impdp) and SQL* loader.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN. Installation, setup and configuration of Oracle Streams.  • Proactive database monitoring using 10g Grid Control.  • Capacity planning & Bench marking, monitoring database growth, resource usage etc.,  • Creating and rebuilding indexes and optimizing the code to improve the performance.  • Performed database backup and recovery using Cold backup, Hot backup and Logical backups.  • Design and Setup backup and recovery procedures.  • Built complex logical data models using sophisticated modeling techniques and tools like Erwin  • SQL tuning and Database tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF Reports, AWR, ADDM, Explain Plans and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Partitioning of large tables for better performance & Manageability.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripting to automate tasks and Crontab and DBMS_Scheduler for scheduling jobs  Environment: Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC, RMAN, UNIX (IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX), RedHat LINUX, Golden Gate, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, UNIX Shell, SQL* Loader, ASM, TOAD, DataPump,, Netapp, DataGuard, OEM (Grid Control) Sr. Oracle DBA Bank of America - Chicago, IL March 2010 to December 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database support  • Architecting, Installation, Configuration, Maintenance of Oracle 11g, 10g databases.  • Installed Oracle 10g RAC, Standby Databases for high availability and disaster recovery/reporting purpose.  • Review of Database logical and Physical design, implementation and maintenance.  • Worked on ASM disk groups and raw devices.  • Configuring the Physical standby database to the production database using Data Guard.  • Install, upgrade and maintain Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g databases.  • Worked on multi-tier application high availability infrastructure  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using Statspack, AWR, Explain plan, TKPROF /AWR/ADDM.  • Created triggers, packages, procedures and functions in PL/SQL.  • Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path, Creation of Materialized Views and gathering necessary statistics on objects etc.  • Implementing Database Security, Management of role-based security  • Performed backups and recoveries  • Applying Patches.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like monitoring tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN. Installation, setup and configuration of Data guard.  • Used PL/SQL, SQL Loader as part of ETL process to populate the operational data store.  • Migrated databases from Windows to Linux  • Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  Environment: Oracle 10g RAC/9i/8i, RMAN, RedHat LINUX, Sun Solaris, AIX, Golden Gate, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, SQL* Loader, Data pump, Data guard, OEM (Grid Control) Sr. Database Administrator Jeevan Softech Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to February 2010 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Support & Maintenance of Development Databases on various servers.  • Logical and Physical Data Modeling.  • Coordinate Changes to Computer databases.  • Installation, configuration and administration of oracle database.  • Capacity Planning, Storage Allocation and Space Management.  • Creating users, tables, views, roles, database links, Performing Exports/Imports.  • Planning Backup/Restore Strategy, Planning and scheduling hot/cold Backups.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures and Functions  • Analyzing, Sizing the database for future growth.  • Moving data between schemas, databases using export/import utility  • Automating the process/Scheduling Jobs using DBMS_JOB.  • Wrote scripts for monitoring the database, Configuring SQL* Net. Integrating multiple application databases with multiple corporate entities, receiving business data feeds.  • Wrote PL/SQL Stored procedures, packages & triggers to support e-commerce application.  • Supporting the Development team, supporting production Environment  Environment: Oracle 10g/9i/8i, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, RedHat Linux, Exports/Imports, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, SQL* NET Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University Skills Linux (10+ years), OEM (8 years), Oracle (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Links http://www.montage.global Additional Information • IT Professional with 9+ years of hands on experience in database architecting, administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, applying patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management, database security and auditing.  • Experience in different scenarios of OLTP as well as DSS (Data warehouse) databases.  • Good experience in Architecting, Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle12c, 11g, 10g, 9idatabases.  • Expertise in installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g RAC, Stand-alone databases.  • Hands on Experience in working on various platforms like HP-UX, IBM AIX, SUN SOLARIS, RedHat/SuSE Linux and Windows environments.  • Good Experience in Oracle Clustering Services and High Availability Features.  • Experience in configuring Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for managing oracle data.  • Experience on Oracle Golden Gate installation, setup, configuration, troubleshooting issues.  • Good Knowledge on Exadata and oracle cloud appliances.  • Good Experience in Upgrading, applying Patches to the oracle databases.  • Expertise in using SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, Flash-Back recovery, EXP/IMP, Data pump, Putty, TOAD, OEM, SQL*Plus.  • Good at Proactive Monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using AWR, ADDM, ASH and 12c, 11gOEM Grid Monitoring.  • Experience in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with Tivoli, VERITAS Net Backup and CommVault.  • Extensive performance tuning experience, expertise in SQL Tuning, Database/Instance Tuning using AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, TKProf, Stats pack, SQL Trace, Custom Scripts troubleshooting.  • Experience in Oracle Support processes for technical support requests through Metalink and other support procedures.  • Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Partitioning the tables and Indexes, Data modeling, OLAP, Logical and Physical Database Design.  • Development Experience in creating Table spaces, Schemas, Users, Roles, database objects such as tables, indexes, views, materialized views, synonyms, DB links, packages, procedures, functions, constraints, cursors, trigger using SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experience in scheduling jobs through Oracle Job Scheduler, Crontab and Scheduled Task.  • Strong ability to handle multiple projects simultaneously and ability to work independently or in a team environment.    Operating Systems: IBM AIX 7.1,6.1, 5.3, 5.2, 5.1, Red Hat Linux 7.x,6.x, 5.x, 4.x, SUSE Linux 10.x, 9.x, 8.x,HP-UX10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 10,9, 8, 2.x and Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/7  RDBMS: Oracle Exadata, Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle 10g RAC  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, UNIX Shell Scripting  Tools & Utilities: ASM, TOAD, DB artisan, SQL Plus, SQL Developer, RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, DataPump, VMware, Golden Gate 11g, 12c, Putty, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, AWR, ADDM, Grid Control  Other Tools: CommVault, VERITAS, Net Backup, Tivoli