Integration and E, Commerce developer Integration and E, Commerce developer Integration and E, Commerce developer - Pharmavite LLC Northridge, CA • 10+years of experience in all areas of building software systems  • Integrating diverse technologies to build distributed systems that provide strategic value, robust performance and stability. Balancing technological innovation with best practices. Diverse experience delivering software systems in a wide variety of business environments including shrink-wrapped software, manufacturing, E-commerce and transportation. Core strengths include: Work Experience Integration and E, Commerce developer Pharmavite LLC - Northridge, CA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for systems integration with clients, manufacturing and logistics supply chain vendors.  • Lead the execution of the technical aspects of Web Based Promotional Merchandise Programs,  • including .Net based websites, mobile promotions, related point of sale systems, and on-site stores.  • Responsible for Tier III support and maintenance of all projects/programs, including bug fixes and  • the implementation of new features. Coordinate the development of new programs and address the  • technical requirements of all fulfillment programs. Design and develop the integration of software  • applications to provide world class scalable solutions for our clients.  • Responsible for installation, implementation, testing and support of all BizTalk integrations to ERP  • (A2A) and Websites (B2C) using BizTalk Also, develop applications to support the infrastructure  • such as address validation (using ConnectShip), BulkShipping App (Using ConnectShip XML  • Processor), integration of UPS Quantum view using UPS API into Sunrise identity data warehouse.  • Developing custom applications responsible for distributing product and image information from  • ERP to enterprise customer owned websites such as Starbucks, T-Mobile using Windows forms and WCF Web Services.  • Responsible to upgrade Sunrise Identity's Dynamics NAV from version 4 to and subsequently to  • NAVR2. Implemented the majority of the company's customizations and integrated NAVR2 with  • BizTalk and with external company owned Storefront base websites. Upgraded the customs  • division of the company from NAV 4 to NAV R2. Dynamics NAV Integration Developer, Business Analyst Chewy.com - Dania, FL August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Perform business requirement analysis and design  • Perform gap analysis between standard Dynamics NAV functionality and business requirements  • Configure Dynamics NAV  • Identify and recommend product customizations, enhancements or work-arounds to meet business requirements  • Author all standard documentation as well as specifications for both functional and technical requirements  • Train users on new business processes and using Dynamics NAV 2016  • Develop data conversion and testing strategies VSS administrator Weyerhaeuser IT - Federal Way, WA March 2014 to July 2016 Federal Way, WA Mar 2014 to Jul 2016  Integration & Web Services Development & Implementation    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the full application development life cycle of an integration request, as well as for tier 3 support and maintenance of all existing A2A and B2B interfaces and technologies.  • Support implementation of software infrastructure including the Weyerhaeuser Integration Architecture (WIA), e-commerce and software engineering process. WIA is an enterprise-wide, messaging-based architecture for integrating applications and information sharing. for certifying WIA in new environments and/or new versions of operating systems. designed, developed and maintained sample code and documentation used by our customers.  • integration solutions at Weyerhaeuser BizTalk and developed pipelines, custom pipelines and orchestrations for Weyerhaeuser infrastructure and for our direct connects with external customers. Custom pipelines include encryption/decryption (using GPG), encoding/decoding (using .NET libraries), compress/uncompress (using .NET libraries). Orchestrations includes business logic and in some instances interaction with external customer web services.  • as the VSS administrator for 2 company databases and managed access and data integrity WIA Tech Support IBM - Armonk, NY May 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed implementation process to install and maintain MQSeries software at the enterprise level.  • Provided reliable troubleshooting and support of MQSeries enterprise implementation that expands over a wide range of platforms: AS400, RS6000, Windows (NT, 2K, and 2K3), HP-UX and IBM System/360.  • Install and troubleshoot adapter and external trading partner software on Weyerhaeuser systems  • Install and support and related custom applications on Weyerhaeuser's e-commerce systems.  • Provided Tier hour support Intellibee Inc - Detroit, MI June 2010 to April 2012 Adapter Developer    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop platform and software solutions using the SCDHHS Technology Product Portfolio (TTP)  • which includes:  • OpenAPI standard  • SOLID software engineering principles  • Docker container infrastructure  • Kubernetes orchestration  • Participate in the assessment of current and emerging technology with a focus on technology capabilities  • and impact.  • Ensure that component planning/activities are aligned with the integration strategy.  • Collaborate with SCDHHS agency staff and vendors on the implementation requirements solution  • integrations. Database Administrator SeneGence - Foothill Ranch, CA July 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented databases using access.  • Implement subroutines on VBA to automate the use of forms to customers  • Created custom reports and queries used on a daily basis to make purchase requisitions  • Provide support and guidance to application groups with SQL tuning, data modeling and physical database design.  • Enforce and document database policies, procedures and standards.  • Perform and fully document the results of TPC benchmark performance tests of new database versions.  • Demonstrate technical leadership and mentor junior DBAs. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO 6, BIZTALK, BIZTALK SERVER, C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, WCF, VB 6, VB 6.0, XML, WEB SERVICES, ADO, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL, R2, MQSERIES, AS400 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • C .NET, Visual studio 6.0 thru  • C++ BizTalk Server BizTalk R2,  • C# BizTalk and BizTalk  • JAVA MQSeries 5 thru 7.0  • VB 6.0, MSMQ  • Web Services SQL Server  • WCF ADO.NET  • XML JavaScript  • XSD Visual Source Safe, TFS  • LinqSql JIRA  • Mergetool MQ Rabbit  • NFC, gototags    OPERATING SKILLS:    HPUX 10.2, 11.i, 11.23 Windows NT/2K/XP, 2K3,2K8,2K12  AS400 5VR3    RESEARCH:    • Distributed Virtual Memory for Declarative Languages  • Implemented and tested a Scheme interpreter to facilitate the interaction with virtual memory  • Implemented new primitives for interpreter  • Created benchmarks, analyzed results and created graphs for further study