DBA Reporting Manager DBA Reporting Manager DBA Reporting Manager - ATW (American Trailer World) Mount Pleasant, TX Accomplished IT Professional with experience in various Microsoft technologies, primarily focusing on SQL Server database design and C# web base applications and services.    Familiar with all aspects of the SDLC, Waterfall, and Agile development lifecycles. Proven ability to build quick turn solutions, and experienced in various technical roles ranging from Database Architect/ Administrator to SQL/.NET Developer.    Experienced with T-SQL (Stored procedure/views/triggers/functions), ETL utilizing SSIS, as well as WCF(REST) and ASP(SOAP) Web Services utilizing C# .NET. Strong communicator, with excellent problem solving and performance tuning skills. Would be an asset to any team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DBA Reporting Manager ATW (American Trailer World) January 2018 to April 2019 Responsible for consolidation of various ERP systems( TakeStock, Traverse, DataPro, and Quickbooks) from the various ATW business units to provide a consolidated data warehouse for data exchange with SalesForce and enterprise wide reporting. ATW business units includes( BigTex/TexTrail, PJ Trailers, Carry-on-Trailers, and CM).  • Design and development of first company wide data warehouse to facilitate MDM and enterprise wide reporting.  • Develop custom SSIS packages to extract, transform and load data from the various ERP systems and transfer the data to an Azure based data warehouse  • Develop OLAP data cubes to facilitate reporting on accounts, purchase order, and sales data.  • Work with BI Analysts and developers to identify and build custom dataset for specialized reporting in Microsoft Power BI and Excel.  • Provide database administration and support for all business units.  • ETL development for data exchange with Blackline GL Reconciliation application  • ETL development for data exchange with McLeod Transportation management system Sr. Enterprise Architect (Marketing Technology) Buxton Company October 2014 to January 2018 Responsible for working with business stakeholders to analyze and develop an architecture framework that aligns strategy, processes, and IT assets with business goals. Work with account executives to develop custom external client CRM solutions. Integrate external CRM client data with internal business systems to provide customize target marketing solutions.    • Designed and implemented (IMS) an automated multi stage data Import, Export, and Reporting management system for Client and vendor data exchange.  • Designed and implemented an automated data cleansing workflow stored procedures using SQL  • Designed and implemented multiple OLTP and OLAP data warehouses utilizing Kimball, Inmon and Data Vault data management strategies.  • The implementation of the Data Vault data warehouse architecture provided significant improvement in overall import processing performance and data source identification, while eliminating data duplication and reducing the overall client data footprint.  • Designed and implemented multiple SOA Restful (WCF) and SOAP C#.net based data cleansing services utilizing Pitney Bowes Spectrum Global Routing and Cass data standardization services  • Designed and implemented a custom Web based Client CRM data management portal for Tuesday Morning to handle client data management and reporting.  • Designed and implanted custom Database level CLR functions and procedures that were utilized to facilitated data exchanged for NCOA services with AccuZIP SFTP base client APIs.  • Designed and implemented a custom Target Marketing application utilized Experian, Aquireweb, and BridgeCorp data variables to target specific target customer demographics.  • Develop and document step by step instruction manual for target marketing solution  • Develop and document step by step instructional manuals for IMS management system  • Develop and implemented multiple SSAS OLAP solutions for data analysis and reporting  • Prototype Salesforce data integration and exchange GM GM Financial January 2014 to October 2014 Responsible for designing and documenting logical and physical enterprise databases. Also responsible for publication and availability of enterprise meta-data pertaining to the data warehouse.  • Communicate and/or interview users to plan, develop, improve and maintain moderately complex components of the logical/physical corporate model.  • Maintain and administer the corporate meta-data repository.  • Maintain and adhere to enterprise modeling standards.  • Develop and document data migration mappings and transformations for data warehouse loading.  • Work closely with users to understand and help develop functional specifications.  • Develop and present training materials as needed to clarify model meaning and usage. Data Architect IntegrITalent July 2013 to January 2014 Acquisitions Database design and implementation  Combination of database and SSIS infrastructure for consolidating, importing and reporting of acquired companies into the consolidated CED infrastructure.  • The system takes multiple inputs of acquired company's data, provides reporting exports into excel format for use in calculating company inventory net worth.  • Performs lookup matching against central CED data repository for inventory identification.  • Provide multiple reports on inventory sales and purchase history.  • Provide final export into central CED repository    Ongoing Data Architect for new SRP product for converting legacy CED system into .Net web application.  • Identify and resolve database bottleneck  • Design of database objects to support SRP functionality  • Refactor legacy reports for access online.  • Normalization of existing SRP database objects  • Design of new Databases to support SRP scalability  • Develop and implement service broker features to support data consolidation Lead Architect RMGConnect/JWT Inc March 2009 to July 2013 Responsible for SDLC design and implementation of database and SOA based solutions for ETL data processing.  • Work with business and data analysts to design and develop SSIS packages for data import processes  • Design and develop SQL Server functions and stored procedure to archive/cleanse data to ensure compliance with DOD data retention policies.  • Design and develop SQL Server CLR procedures and functions to perform a variety of non-native SQL Functions ranging from FTP upload and download processing to integration of SOA services.  • Design and develop C#.NET based Web services and proxies for multi-tier architecture for online data entry and data validation applications.  • Design, develop and implemented comprehensive Import, data cleansing, standardization and exporting workflow application to handle front to back processing of company purchased and reporting data. This multi-tier web application, web services, and database procedures package was designed to build, manage and report on data as it follows the import/export and consumerization processing life cycle. Database Architect Virtuoso, LTD (Travel) July 2007 to December 2008 Responsible for SDLC design and implementation of the database architecture behind the new Composer Product.  • Work with C#.NET developers and business analysts to develop the conceptual and logical database design for the new Composer product.  • Design and implement physical database design for new Composer Product. This includes table, views, triggers, and stored procedures, using t-SQL and ansi-SQL database programming.  • Documentation of system overall design, including data flow planning, and security.  • Configure merge replication scenario for support of permission based secure databases.  • Provide identification of correction of database performance bottlenecks  • Develop and manage SSIS based ETL packages for distributing booking and itinerary information from secure data sources to SSAS source data marts.  • Develop and manage SSIS based ETL packages for migrating data from legacy databases to new consolidated system, utilizing VB.NET and ASP.NET script tasks for complex transformations.  • Develop and manage SSRS projects for financial and informational reporting, along with accompanying stored procedures.  • Prototype consolidated SSAS based data warehouse for consolidated system wide reporting system  • Provide mentorship and support for database engineers as required.  • Deploy managed SQL code and packages to development, test, Beta and Production servers.  • Work with QA group to create and validate test cases.  • Utilized Erwin data modeler and SSMS internal diagram tool for database design. Sr. Database Administrator MedAssets September 2005 to July 2007 Responsible for production operations support, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks.  • Work with developer to optimize ASP based SQL queries and port to SQL Server based stored procedures.  • Review database architecture and make recommendations on performance and storage improvements.  • Review SAN architecture and make recommendations to improve I/O performance.  • Design database structures based on business design requirement documents.  • Writing stored procedures/views/triggers for application/web functionality.  • Worked as Data Architect through SDLC to designed the first scalable normalized database architecture to support the new CarePricer professional product.  • Made recommendations on a more scalable SAN solution implementation, to improve database performance.  • Work with C# and VB.NET developers and business analysts to develop the conceptual and logical database design for Carepricer product.  • Develop and implement physical database design for Carepricer product.  • Develop t-sql and ansi-sql stored procedures, views and triggers as necessary to support application dataflow and business requirements.  • Introduced multiple datafiles and filegroups to improve database i/o performance.  • Introduced personally developed VB.NET applications for meta-data management, capacity planning and performance monitoring. Also utilized to push schema and database object changes to development, beta and production environments.  • Designed core data synchronization components for transmitting estimates from across combined billing facilities, utilizing VB.NET and ASP.NET.  • Utilized SSMS internal database diagram tools for data modeling Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science/Business Texas A & M University (Commerce) 1986 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: AT3 Additional Information Technical Skills:  SQL Server v4.2 - 2014/16, T-SQL, DTS, SSIS, SSAS, OLTP, OLAP, SSRS, Data Warehousing, Replication, Cluster Services Active/Active and Active/Passive, Windows Server v3.5-2016, C#, VB.NET, Visual Studio, SaaS, SOAP and WCF Web Services, Data Modeling, SAN Storage arrays, Erwin 8.2-9.5 Agile/Scrum, Oracle 11g/12c, DB2 on AS400