Senior Principal Database Administrator Senior Principal <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Principle Data Architect Douglassville, PA I'm a seasoned, well rounded SQL Server database professional with more than 20 years of experience in the following areas: data modeling, database administration, T-sql development, disaster recovery, high availability, performance tuning, and security.  I also offer an excellent set of soft skills, including management, written and verbal communication. I excel in working with clients/users to identify problems and architect solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Principal Database Administrator UGI Utilities Inc. - Reading, PA June 2018 to Present *Managed and built multiple high availability environments using Windows Clustering service and SQL Server High Availability groups.  *Constructed and maintained a cloud base SQL Server environment using SQL Server Azure.  *Prepared documentation detailing performance metrics, server build, database encryption, and performance monitoring standards and procedures.  *Created session collection process to help monitor database server activity to assist in trouble shooting. Process was used to identify I/O contention issues when experiencing database backup failures.  *Automated the monitoring of backups and performance monitoring through the development of Powershell scripts.  *Lead the development of multiple SSIS packages for transferring data from SAP, SQL Server, Oracle platforms,   *Completed the ITIL Foundations course and certification. Principal Data Architect Savana - Malvern, PA November 2012 to February 2018 Accomplishments  • Designed and built two data centers complete with high availability solutions, SQL Server clustering and replication.  • Wrote and enforced company database security policy.  • Worked with software architects to architect the company's next generation data model.  Responsibilities  • Worked with agile software development teams to produce patches and upgrades.  * Query and index tuning  • Performance Monitoring  • Supported high availability solutions including clustering, replication, mirroring, log shipping, and high availability groups.  • Backup and Restore  • Deployed service packs and cumulative updates on a regular schedule Database Administrator Homenet Automotive - West Chester, PA June 2012 to October 2012 Accomplishments  • Developed SQL scripts for application to perform desktop ETL for developers performing troubleshooting and testing.  • Improved overall indexing strategy by identifying and eliminating unused and duplicate indexes.  Responsibilities  • Completed query performance tuning on a four tera-byte SQL Server 2008 database using query execution plans and SQL Server DMVs.  • Identified server I/O bottlenecks by writing scripts using DBCC commands and DMVs. Database Developer Philadelphia Insurance - Philadelphia, PA December 2010 to October 2012 Accomplishments  • Developed SSIS packages and related XSLT, stored procedures, and functions to perform the ETL of over 125,000 Collector Vehicle policies from an in house database platform to a third party SQL Server database application.  • Developed ETL scripts for the Price Monitor System application.  Responsibilities  • Developed ad hoc SQL queries upon request.  • Using SQL Profiler, performed application troubleshooting and developed data fix scripts to resolve application issues. Database Administrator Siemens HealthCare - Malvern, PA September 2010 to December 2010 Responsibilities  • Created migration scripts for moving databases, indexes, and logins from Microsoft SQL Server 2000 to Microsoft SQL Server 2008. Office of Evaluation Department of Housing and Urban Development - Washington, DC January 2010 to April 2010 Database Architect  Accomplishments:  • Worked with a team of economists to automate a risk-ranking model developed to score eligible properties in the HUD portfolio. The implementation used a data warehouse hosted on a SQL Server 2000 server and T-SQL scripts to create a data set of eligible properties based on a series of business rules regarding annual financial data. The data set of properties was then merged with rental market data and each property was then scored to help identify at risk properties Database Administrator SEI Corporation - Oaks, PA 2008 to 2010 Accomplishments:  • Analyzed and optimized the T-SQL queries for an application release and reduced the query execution time from 96 hours to 30 seconds.  • Reduced client's storage requirements and improved query performance by identifying an issue with unused data pages in extents using DBCC ExentInfo and then writing a maintenance T-SQL script using sp_excutesql to correct the issue and remove the unused data pages.  • Developed an SSIS solution to perform the daily transfer of database backups from a production server to facilitate a reporting environment. Once delivered the SSIS package would then restore the backups and reconfigure all security principals for the database.  Responsibilities:  • Performed routine database administration functions including monitoring database activity with Idera Diagnostics manager and SQL Admin Toolset, execute backups and restores with LiteSpeed, and monitoring disk space with GFI Network Server Monitor.  • Built and maintained active/active and active/passive Windows 2003/2000 clusters hosting Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and 2000.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008/2005 Reporting servers and developed reports. SQL Server Architect/DBA TNS Media Intelligence - West Chester, PA 2007 to 2008 Accomplishments:  • Designed and scripted ETL processes for the migration and transformation of data between SQL Server and ASE databases.  • Designed and implemented SQL Server replication solutions.  • Installed and configured Sybase Rep Agent and Rep Server 15.0 to provide heterogeneous replication between Sybase and SQL Server 2005.    Responsibilities:  • Perform database administration duties for SQL Server 2005/2000 and Sybase RDBMS's including creating maintenance plans, SQL Agent jobs, and performance tuning. Database Developer Wyvern Software - West Chester, PA 2007 to 2008 Accomplishments:  • Developed multiple table functions to provide client with an object they could query from and pass parameters to.  • Architected and implemented the development of an SSIS solution which facilitates the following:  ? Transfer of data from a SQL Server 2005 data to XML files and delivers the XML files to an FTP site.  ? Transfer XML files from an FTP site to the local server, load the files in a SQL Server database, and process the data using stored procedures.  • Successfully designed and developed multiple reports using Crystal Reports Developer XI. Data for the reports were hosted on a MySQL database. The reports called stored procedures developed in MySQL. SQL Server Architect/Developer Visalign - King of Prussia, PA 2006 to 2007 Accomplishments:  • Successfully delivered nearly 50 SQL Server reports to two different clients. Reports featured the use of parameters, sub reports, matrixes, tables and numerous other tools.  • Successfully completed the data migration of a client's legacy system to SQL Server 2005 using SSIS.  Responsibilities:  • Developed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services.  • Configured SQL Server jobs to perform nightly maintenance of tables.  • Completed performance tuning of queries and reports by creating clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Configured and maintained merge replication for use by client software.  • Developed stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers, and cursors. Database Consultant Thomas & Herbert Consulting, LLC - Philadelphia, PA 2004 to 2006 Accomplishments:  • Developed an automated monthly reporting system using Access 2003 dynasets, macros, IIF and SWITCH statements. The program reduced the report processing time from three days to one hour.  Responsibilities:  • Provided database consulting services to assist the Defense Supply Center of Philadelphia's General & Industrial Directorate's four supply chains: Land, Maritime, Aviation, and C&E in the development of market baskets. Services included administering a SQL Server 2000 RDBMS and multiple Microsoft 2003 Access databases, performed data cleansing processes for the purpose of migrating data from flat files, Excel, and Access databases to SQL Server 2000 using DTS, and writing ad hoc queries up request from the client.  • Supported the U.S. Dept. of Housing & Urban Development's Office of Evaluation and HOPE VI personnel by providing database-consulting services for their SQL Server 7 databases. Developed ad hoc queries upon request from the client. Systems Analyst Tek Systems 2004 to 2005 Director of Information Technology Valley Forge Christian College 2000 to 2003 Systems Administrator Strategic Edge Technologies - Washington, DC 2000 to 2000 Information Services Consultant Sykes Enterprises - Norfolk, VA 1999 to 2000 Unix and Windows Systems Administrator CS&T - Newport News, VA 1998 to 1999 Helpdesk Support Engineer Newport News Shipbuilding - Newport News, VA 1996 to 1998 Windows NT 4 Helpdesk PC Technician Technology Service Solutions - Norfolk, VA 1995 to 1996 Printer Technician IBM - Norfolk, VA 1993 to 1995 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Excelsior College Skills MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), DATABASES (3 years), MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (2 years) Additional Information Technical Summary  Vendors and Platforms  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 through 2016; Microsoft Access, MySQL, and Sybase.    Operating Systems: NT4 through Server 2015; Exchange Server, IIS, Terminal Server, and SMS.  Unix: Red Hat, Ubuntu, HP-UX, and Solaris.