Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant - Wells Fargo Los Angeles, CA • Result oriented professional with around 12+ years of Industry experience in Oracle and related technologies.  • Worked on Pricing & Quoting in R12.  • Suite including Oracle Order Management, Oracle iPayment, Purchasing, Oracle Inventory Management, AR, AP - R12, 11i, 11.0.3.  • Conversant with Order to Cash, iPayment ,Procure to Pay Flow and designed several business process maps for clients  • Experience in creating Functional specifications and reviewing technical design documentation and unit testing in applications using Testing tools, Oracle Forms/Reports6i, Discoverer,PL/SQL queries, Concurrent programs, conversions, interfaces concerning RICE components.  • Experience in Configuring 10g/11gR2 Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC), Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Data guard.  • Installed Oracle GoldenGate and configured heterogeneous replication.  • Experience with very large scale database environments and mission critical OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Experienced in Installation, Patching, Cloning, and Upgrade of Oracle Databases.  • Experienced in Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery options, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Provided 24x7 production support  • Experience in working with Grid Control and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Performed Strategic Planning, Logical and Physical Data Modeling & Application Tuning.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, packages, performance Tuning ,UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic.  • Experience in maintaining Oracle Data Guard & Standby Database and providing critical solution with strategic disaster recovery plans with different recovery procedures and methods.  • Experience in Migrating Data using Oracle Data Integrator.  • Experience in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Expertise Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid Control, TOAD, RMAN.  • Cloned Database from Production to Test and Development.  • Experience in migration of oracle databases and installing patches.  • Exporting and Importing of dumps using expdp and impdp.  • Experience on handling VERY LARGE DATABASES (VLDB).  • Experience in Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, AWR report, 12c OEM Grid Monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using sqltrace utilities.  • Experience in SQL Server databases (2000, 2005, 2008, 2012), SSIS and SSRS  • Reviewed functional requirements related to Oracle payroll, HRMS,  • Oracle payroll consultant for a two phase Oracle 11i HRMS/Payroll implementation  • Knowledge of Oracle HRMS and detailed functionality  • Oracle HRMS/Payroll Release 10.7 to 11i upgrade  • Involved in understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases - including requirement gathering, functional design, technical design (MD070), unit-test plans (TE020), and execution and application maintenance..  • Proficient in estimating efforts in design, development, unit testing.  • Have covered all testing phases such as, Unit testing, Regression testing, Integration testing.  • Conducted UAT sessions and managed UAT Checklist  • Worked on test planning, test cases designing and execution.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Working Knowledge of Programming Language like Java, J2EE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Consultant Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Successfully implemented 11g R2 RAC on 4 nodes for high availability.  • Involved in Knowledge Transfer of Golden Gate Product and Installed Golden Gate(10.4/11.1)  • Hands on experience in troubleshooting RAC databases.  • Installation and creation of 10g and 11g databases for Testing, Development and Production.  • Successfully implemented oracle 11g grid control.  • Installed and applied patches for oracle 11g and 10g databases for supporting applications.  • Up-gradation and Migration of Database from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 and applying patches whenever required.  • Applying upgrade patches, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases.  • Configured Automatic storage management (ASM) with EMC storage for managing data in SAN.  • Involved in 24x7 supports for production databases with on-call pager.  • Involved in EDW Support for OLTP and OLAP Data ware house Applications.  • Installation of database software and with analyzing, designing, and implementing databases.  • Used Oracle Real Application Testing for performing tests in QA environment.  • Creating and Managing Table spaces with different block-sizes to prevent row chaining.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, SQL profiling and TKPROF, STATSPACK.  • Continuous Performance monitoring and tuning of the databases and application using OEM Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack.  • Data Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using RMAN Duplicate Database.  • Extensively used PL/SQL for designing packages, stored procedures, functions and database triggers.  • Involved in applications administration including 11g Database/Applications cloning, tuning, patching and monitoring concurrent manager processing etc.  • Experienced in handling database issues using OEM as well as command prompt.  • Worked with T-SQL statements like DELETE and UPDATE statements and also like BULK insert of data into the datable.  • Other activities like applying RDBMS patches, security patches, sox reporting proactive monitoring of databases and applications.  • Experience in DB capacity planning ,data normalization and rationalization  • Loads databases, reorganizes as necessary, and assists in monitoring database performance  • Developing and Implementing Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan using Datagaurd.  • I along with team implemented physical standy database using Datagaurd.  • Load balancing, Databases/Schema/Table Re-Organization for faster performance using export/import & Move procedures  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using staspack, AWR, ADDM & ASH.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Performance tuning of Oracle Database Objects by fixing row chaining.  • Taking periodic Backup of the Database and the software using RMAN and VERITAS Netbackup.  • Written shell scripts for digitization the process. Scheduling jobs through Oracle Job Scheduler.  • Maintaining security of databases and users.  • Reading Alert Log and User trace Files and Diagnosing the Problem.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Client software and Tools.  • Created scripts to query performance views in an effort to reduce parse times and tune memory structures such as the database buffer cache, shared pool, library cache and PGA for a shared server configuration•  • Written Shell scripting which monitors the server's performance and logs output on periodic basis to database.  • Supported Production issues relating our data warehouse databases.  • Worked along with the teams supporting various applications relating to data warehouse.  • Written SQL scripts to monitor table space and extent growth.  • Performance tuning which includes creating indexes, analyze, explain plan, optimizer hints  • Space Management which includes table space creation, adding new data files.  • Experienced with monitoring the database security issues and resolving them on timely basis.    Environment:  Oracle Applications R12.0.3. (Order to Cash) Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Reports 6i, Conversion, Interfaces, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER Sr. Oracle Consultant Comcast - McLean, VA June 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the Process flows for the Order to Cash , AP, AR, GL  • Implemented Oracle Financials 11i iPayment, Accounts Payable  • Exports and imports from one Oracle database to another (proprietary binary format)  • Set up Drop ship Functionality to enable the OM team to ship the goods directly to Customers from Supplier warehouse.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining documentation like RD020, BR-100, TE040 test scripts and results  • Conduct oracle training for the business users  • Reviewed functional requirements related to Oracle payroll, HRMS,  • Oracle payroll consultant for a two phase Oracle 11i HRMS/Payroll implementation  • Provided extensive user support during CRP,UAT and Post Production phases  • Requirement gathering from business users.  • Worked on Pricing and Quoting in Oracle R12.  • Preparing Technical design documents.  • Taking part in business reviews for Functional / Technical design documents.  • Responsibility for quality and on time delivery from offshore.  • Providing data profiling details to customer's IT team.  • Responsible for doing POC for new functionality and providing feedback to business users.  • Providing estimates to customer / IT leads.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Imports/exports all schema object types  • Imports/exports entire database, entire schema, multiple schemas, multiple table spaces, or multiple tables.  • Introduced new templates for Release Planning, RCA, Test cases, Defect reporting, Managed Test status report  • Conducted UAT sessions, managed UAT checklist and UAT status reports.  • Test planning, designing and execution ,bug reporting and verification    Environment:  Oracle Applications R12.0.3. (Order to Cash) Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Reports 6i, Conversion, Interfaces, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER Oracle DBA Cognos - Chantilly, VA April 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Provided Oracle database administration support in OLTP and DSS corporate environment.  • Managed Data warehouse(Cognos) Databases DSS  • Built Development, UAT, QA, Performance and Production environment to support People soft application.  • Implemented Golden Gates replication between RAC and non RAC database environments.  • Successfully configured and installed Oracle Golden Gate for replication.  • Maintained the Heart beat tables to check the lag between the sites.  • Installed Oracle Golden Gates as an enhancement for the Client's DW method and monitored issues using Grid Control.  • Worked with application team to help resolving the conflict and trouble shouting the replication issues.  • Involved in Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g &11gRAC using Cluster ware and ASM.  • Experience in cloning RAC databases using RMAN tool.  • Experienced in Design, implementation and generation of documentation on Oracle 10g &11g Data Guard on physical standby databases in high availability mode.  • Writing and modifying UNIX shell scripts, Perl scripts to manage Oracle environments and for Backend Oracle Processes.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Implemented backup strategies using hot/cold, exp/imp used on the business req.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN and performed Table space point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN.  • Installed Oracle 10g Enterprise Manager (Grid Control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on test databases.  • Assisted DBAs' team to help migrate databases from Oracle 9i Release 2 to Oracle 10g Release 2.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with SAN Storage for managing data in EMC Symmetrix.  • Work with team members to provide 7x24 production support  • Utilize a working knowledge of Oracle database and consuming third-party applications to troubleshoot technical issues, i.e. error messages, software bugs, availability, etc.  • Worked very closely with developer for performance and tuning for database  • Worked with ADDM, AWR and SQL tuning advisor to tune any long running queries and overall database sessions.  • Performed cold backups  • Respond to trouble tickets and customer requests.  • Monitor and troubleshoot database backups, disk space, and server availability.  • Setup, configuration and management of Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Implemented and monitored user access and security.  • Conducted and managed full and incremental database backups via RMAN.  • Documented database and related server equipment & procedures.  • Configured and updated user security in accordance with agency policy.  • Troubleshot errors related to availability of data to system users, space, database software, or data access.    Environment:  Oracle Applications R12.0.3. (Order to Cash) Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Reports 6i, Conversion, Interfaces, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER Sr Database Administrator AT&T Services - Dallas, TX February 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Performed CloningUpgraded Database from10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0. and from 11.2.0. to 11.2.0.3  • Performed Migration of databases from Unix version to Linux two Node RAC and performed data transition using Golden Gate version 11.2.0.7  • Production support Maintenance activities, written shell scripts for Monitoring production activities.  • Perform general technical troubleshooting and working with Functional teams for possible solutions for various issues.  • Concurrent manager administration and Oracle Apps sysadmin functions.  • Performed Backup and Recovery using RMAN and written shell scripts for scheduled online backups.  • Troubleshooting RMAN backup and recovery related issues.  • Worked with Oracle Corporation to resolve applications/ database issues by opening TAR/SR  • Supporting Oracle Databases 9i/10g/11g also RAC on Linux  • Experience in troubleshooting some Oracle EBS hosted databases on R12 and 11.5.10.2  • Performed Cloning, export/import and Patching.  • Designing the logical and physical database structure.  • Designing the security and database access strategies.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and monitoring scheduled Backups  • Performing backups and recoveries using RMAN conventional hot backups.  • Establish and Document Backup and Recovery strategies and procedures after evaluating various options including RMAN.  • Expertise in installing, designing and testing using the Golden Gate in RAC for the high accessibility of data-Integration and data replication in the oracle 11g environment.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Tuning heavy data loads. Monitoring and Performance tuning.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance  • Monitoring Database for fragmentation and correcting them.  • Performed and Monitored Database using tools TOAD and OEM 10g.    Environment:  Oracle Server 10g/11g, SQL, PL/SQL, Linux Itanium, Solaris 10, Shell scripting, TOAD, OEM 10g, Oracle EBS, Golden-Gate, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER. Oracle Database Administrator Capital One - Richmond, VA December 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  Performed configuration, Installations of ORACLE 11gR2 RAC databases Including Grid Infrastructure.  Configured application backups / RMAN, worked on Data pump, ASM and RMAN.    • Configuration, Installation and maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 RAC databases including Grid Infrastructure.  • Performed upgrades from Oracle 10g to 11g and applied patches.  • Involved in setting up of data guard for 2-node standby.  • Worked on this project as Oracle Core DBA. Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold).  • Worked on Features: Data Pump, ASM and RMAN. Data Base Recovery (complete & Incomplete).  • Proficient in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g, 11g RAC.  • Experience in SQL Server and MYSQL databases.  • Experience in Supporting Teradata for data ware Houses and analytical applications.  • Involved & performed Production Change Requests for PROD major DB changes. New DB creation, Existing DB deletion, various DB Housekeeping activities. Implemented 10g RAC on a test basis.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Involved in the matters of performance issues and auditing the required down time.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Experience in Planning Database, Sizing table space, Create database, scripts, Monitor databases, Interact with developers, Oracle Install, Upgrade, 24x7 production supports.  • Skilled with AWR, ADDM, SAR to check health of database & hardware.  • Adding the required User Logins, Groups and Users, Granting and Revoking Permission to/from the users. Co-coordinating with on-site counterpart as well as Clients and understanding requirements.  • Installation of Oracle database 10g software with RAC using Oracle Clusterware. Oracle Data Guard setup done for RAC. Installation of Oracle 10g management agent and grid control.  • Experience in Performance and Tuning databases using various techniques. Collected performance statistics memory usage, data storage.  • Generating Statspack reports and AWR and ADDM reports for Database for Application tuning and also database Partitioning.  • Extensively used PL/SQL for designing packages, stored procedures, functions and database triggers.  • Knowledge on Oracle Golden Gate.  • Created Cluster database, Cloning of Cluster database on Linux, start and stop Cluster database services.  • Designed and developed Database structures ( Database triggers, Procedures, Functions to implement business Rules). Loaded data into Database using external tables.  • Expert in Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM, Import-Export, RMAN.  • Exposure to AS400 IBM Server.    Environment:  Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle Applications 11i (11.5.10), iProcurement, Purchasing, Procure 2 Pay, Inventory, Payables, Oracle Workflow, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, Reports 6i, SQL*Plus, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER. Oracle Apps 11i iProcurement / Functional Consultant Belkin International Inc - Irvine, CA October 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:    • Gathering the requirements from Business owners, Users group.  • Presenting to the users how the system would work according to the requirements.  • Presentation on how a blanket works and explained the advantages of a blanket.  • Creation of the structure of the item category.  • Worked on Order to Cash (O2C) life cycle and supported Pricing & Quoting Order Management, Inventory, Shipping Execution and PO modules.  • Oracle Order Management, Oracle Receivables, Oracle iPayment, iProcurement.  • Involved in Implementation of Procure to Pay (P2P) cycle which includes Items and Categories, Requisitions/Quotations, Purchase Orders, Receiving, Inventory, and processing Invoices.  • Assigning of all the categories to a category set in order to make them available in Purchasing.  • Creation of Realms and assigning those realms to different users, i-proc responsibility depending upon the business requirements.  • Worked on Bulk loader extractor in order to load catalogs into i-procurement.  • Worked on Punch outs (from which the users will be redirected to the supplier website and can add the items from supplier inventory to i-procurement shopping cart).  • Creation of Blankets and extraction of blanket data, categories into i-procurement.  • Personalized iProcurement web pages according to the business requirements.  • Defining the Approval groups, jobs and assigning the approval groups to jobs and assigning those jobs to employees (Employee Supervisor hierarchy) depending upon the business requirements.  • Creation of Vendor master.  • Creation of Approved Supplier List linkages in order to auto creates the requisitions into blanket releases without manual intervention.  • Customized the Requisition Approval Workflow in order to send some notifications to the users based on some specific business requirements.  • Worked on Order to Cash Cycle, starting from enter order stage to move order stage followed by the ship confirm and updating the GL.  • Developed Custom program to convert Suppliers and Supplier Sites in AP Module.  • Developed Custom program to convert Invoices in AP Module.  • Developed Custom program to convert Purchase Order in PO Module.  • Creation of training documents to the users on how to use the system.  • Presentation of the training documents to the users.  • Ran several CRP s.    Environment:  Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle Applications 11i (11.5.10), iProcurement, Purchasing, Procure 2 Pay, Inventory, Payables, Oracle Workflow, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, Reports 6i, SQL*Plus, MYSQL,Windows XP, Oracle 9i/ 10g, RAC, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, DBCA, Data Guard, Putty, TOAD 8.1, UNIX, Linux 4.0,SQL DEVELOPER Education Bachelor's Bachelor's