Customer Care Specialist Customer Care Specialist Madison, OH Experienced Customer Service Specialist passionate about providing an outstanding customer experience while supporting departmental and company goals. Successful in managing many tasks concurrently in fast paced environments. Proven track record of coordinating multiple resources to provide customers with optimal solutions in a timely manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Care Specialist Progressive - Mayfield Village, OH June 2016 to Present Business Insurance - Customer Care Specialist  Support customers and internal agents accurately and efficiently in a high volume call center. Respond to customer inquiries regarding coverage, rates, billing issues and provide general policy reviews on single or multiple lines of business. Process cancellations, renewals, reinstatements and endorsements on Progressive systems and respective carrier systems. Communicate carrier underwriting requests to customers, obtain the required information and convey it back to carriers. Support department processors by handling incoming email and voice mail in between service calls.    Commercial Auto - Customer Care Associate  Assist customers and agents with questions about policies, billing and insurance and execute the required transactions to meet their needs. Trained in For-Hire Livery and associated filings. Account Representative United Midwest Savings Bank, First Mutual Financial - Mayfield Village, OH May 2015 to May 2016 Work with delinquent accounts to ensure timely repayment of loans. Requires initiating daily calls and correspondence to contact customers and diagnose/document the reason for delinquency, then remove obstacles to collecting payments. Responsible for taking and handling inbound calls. Direct Care Staff Phoenix Residential - Madison, OH May 2014 to May 2015 Assist MR/DD individuals in becoming self-sufficient in a residential setting. Daily responsibilities include: helping individuals achieve and exceed their personal goals; provide structure and emotional support; facilitate resolution of behavioral issues; assist individuals with personal hygiene; manage and dispense medication; complete detailed, accurate documentation as assigned. Maintain a clean and safe environment for residents and staff. Deli Associate Walmart - Eastlake, OH August 2013 to May 2014 Assist customers with product selection of cold and hot deli foods, assure product quality and environment sanitation in compliance with federal government standards, identify product out dates and replenish inventory daily and assist in training co-workers in new products and processes as needed. Occasional use of pallet jack. Database Administrator Crescent Metal Products - Mentor, OH October 2006 to December 2012 Managed technical projects and implemented new tools, processes and functionality in data warehouses, ERP and CRM databases and numerous other stand-alone databases for entire organization, concentrating in the area of order fulfillment. Included upgrades, security set up, maintaining data integrity, schema changes, view customizations and data imports and exports. Eliminated need for maintenance contract with software provider for ERP system by performing all required services saving the company over $50,000 annually. Supported all departments by maintaining databases, designing reports and being a technical reference. Progress database language, Microsoft SQL, Access, Excel. Programmer Analyst Meaden & Moore, M&M Business Solutions - Cleveland, OH January 2005 to October 2006 Performed database analysis and programming to export data from existing ERP systems, massage and import it into new ERP systems enabling system conversions without loss of operating information during migration. Programmed, tested and implemented modifications and new custom functionality in clients' existing ERP systems and provided training as necessary. Progress database language, Microsoft SQL, Excel. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Science Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH June 1988 High school or equivalent in College Prep Madison High School - Madison, OH June 1983 Skills Customer Care, Customer Service, Call Center, Customer Support, CSR