Contracts Administrator (Aircraft Interiors) Contracts <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Aircraft Interiors) Contracts Administrator (Aircraft Interiors) - EZAir Interiors US Experienced Professional Engineer with a demonstrated history of work in the Aerospace industry, Data migration & Automotive, seeking a position where to provide solutions and controls with the acquired skills along more than 22 years  of experience. Work Experience Contracts Administrator (Aircraft Interiors) EZAir Interiors January 2015 to Present -Quotations for different products: OEM, Re-configuration, New products.  -Establish pricelists for LRU's  -Configuration management  -Responsible for monitoring all contractual milestones/deadlines  -Ensure all payment obligations of the Aircraft sales contracts up to final payment at time of aircraft delivery  -Support the Business Units (Sales proposals and Negotiation teams)  -Ensure current and accurate contractual information and data processing.  -Coordination and follow up with customer and/or supplier agreements.  -Analysis and disposition for customer discrepancies QMS (Commercial cost) Database Engineer Labinal Safran Group 1998 to Present since 1998, performing several positions, supporting engineering, materials and finance areas for the sister facilities located in Mexico, USA, France & Morocco.    Job History:  -PDM Key User: Supporting Manufacturing operations through specific engineering areas related to new software.  -POC: Point of contact between France and North America as part of New System Deployment Team.  - Database Engineer: For Airbus France (Data product transition and manufacturing support).  - Database Engineer: For Airbus Germany (Data product transition and manufacturing support).  -QA Engineer: Responsible of quality controls for customers such as: F16(Lockheed Martin) & Bombardier.    Yazaki Group - Buenaventura Auto partes (Automotive). Support Engineer Bell Helicopter Mexico May 2009 to December 2014 May 2009 to Dec 2014    Initiated activities in order to deploy new manufacturing operations from Canada at Mexico location, performing several  roles.    Job History:  -Key User: Project BSM (Business Systems Modernization) CAMS-SAP, DVR's  Coordination between Canada, US and Mexico, leading groups of 25-30 engineers along stages of deployment.  -Support Engineer: Electrical provisions in Cabin,  -Manufacturing Engineer: Product transfer coordination (electrical and structural)  -Production Supervisor. Lead activities related to product manufacture.  -Support Engineer: Training and deployment for new area (electrical wire harness). ERP System & Data analyst Key user Safran Group - Labinal, INC January 2007 to April 2009 2 Years in Oklahoma, USA Plant.  -ERP system support for the entire sister facilities located at North America.  -Product transfer and/or new IT deployments.  -Constant training at Toulouse, France  -Part of the coordination team of IT development and deployment, between USA-Mexico-France-Morocco. Safran Group March 1998 to December 2006 QA Supervisor January 1996 to March 1998 -Define, control and continuously improve QMS content.  -Identify, define & harmonize Quality Assurance best practices  -Provide QA technical support to QA community and to the other individuals.  -Work with multifunctional teams  -Plan, prepare and execute audit as per calendar  -Analyze and issue audit results  -Perform follow-up on corrective actions. Education BS Certificate of Systems Engineering in Systems Engineering Universidad Autónoma de Chihuahua - Chihuahua, MX December 1995