Contractor Contractor Contractor - The Hartford Insurance Group Bloomfield, CT Work Experience Contractor The Hartford Insurance Group - Hartford, CT January 2019 to Present Developed Extracts to provide data to external company.  ? Created SSIS application to automate database procedures. Senior Data Extraction Analyst Connecticut Children's Medical Center - Rocky Hill, CT March 2017 to Present Developed data extracts for analytics applications including Provider Charges, Visits, and RVUs  ? Developed extracts for use in Finance Budgeting system Senior Systems Analyst St Francis Hospital - Hartford, CT April 2015 to March 2017 Developed custom reports for Hospital use as well as for feeds to outside entities including the State of Connecticut  ? Modified Epic reports to support Hospital and Medical Office Practices. Database Administrator St Mary's Hospital - Waterbury, CT 2007 to April 2015 Designed and developed a Daily Dashboard report that is used by management throughout the hospital.  ? Merged data from the Radiology system with insurance and diagnostic data from the hospital system into a format that can be imported into the billing system using Java, Linux, MS Sql, MySQL.  ? Developed a report for Anesthesiologists to bring together case information.  ? Developed many OR reports including a Block Utilization report.  ? Set up automatic email alerts notifying managers of high census conditions.  ? Worked with a vendor to set up an automated appointment reminder system.  ? Set up emergency department highlights in the HBI system.  ? Participated in the migration from Trend star to Horizon Performance Analyzer software, which also includes setting up HBI Highlights. Software Engineer General DataComm Incorporated - Naugatuck, CT 1988 to 2004 Installed and maintained third party and freeware applications on a Unix workstation network.  ? Set up and maintained Revision Management software and configured CVS repositories; Assisted engineers and build managers.  ? Provided programming support to engineering groups including debugging build scripts, Make/Imake files.  ? Wrote and modified programs to support CAD/Manufacturing integration system.  ? Assisted in restorals and reconfigurations of Oracle 10/11i Financials databases.  ? Maintained/modified Unix startup scripts/cron jobs and NIS/NFS system; supported Unix Mail server.  ? Integrated two email systems by writing a Perl program that queried one system's LDAP interface for names and addresses. This data was used to create the aliases file for the Sendmail server.  ? Identified and resolved system performance problems, including issues with the network, memory, and system.  ? Set up Apache web servers on intranet. Developed an Order Status Lookup system for customers using Perl CGI scripts. Education BS in Math/Computer Science University of Hartford September 1987 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql