Lead Oracle Applications Database Administrator Lead Oracle Applications <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Oracle Applications Database Administrator - HRMS and Financial Oracle E-Business Powell, OH Lead Oracle Database Administrator with extensive experience in installation, administration, maintenance and performance tuning of Oracle databases on LINUX, UNIX and Windows platforms. Experience in database design, technical software product support and programming, systems analysis and systems design. Results oriented individual with strong problem solving skills that strives for the highest quality of work while still meeting tight deadlines Also, responsible for managing and planning work for other DBA team members. Work Experience Lead Oracle Applications Database Administrator HRMS and Financial Oracle E-Business 2005 to Present Responsible for administration, maintenance and performance tuning  of our production and test HRMS and Financial Oracle E-Business  Suite applications and databases.  • Lead database administrator responsible for implementing our first  production two node LINUX Oracle RAC 12c database  configured to use a two node LINUX Oracle RAC 12c dataguard  environment consisting of two physical standby databases.  • Installed WebLogic server and created a domain for the Markview  Application to be used in our ebs R12.2 ERP application.  • Responsible for administration, maintenance and performance tuning  of our production and test Corporate Systems databases.  • Responsible for database design and architecture of new Corporate  Systems applications using Oracle databases. I help develop our  database design strategies and the database standards..  • Responsible for researching, testing, evaluating and recommending  the use of new Oracle features for all of our Corporate Systems and Warehouse management database applications.  • Responsible for managing and planning work for DBA team members  as well two DBA contractors and serve as a subject matter expert for the DBA's and providing status report updates to management teams.  • Lead performance tuning database administrator providing database  and application performance tuning recommendations. Extensive use of Enterprise Manager, ADDM and AWR reports to help diagnose  performance problems.  • Lead database administrator participating in a proof-of-concept of the Oracle Database Appliance (ODA) to determine and recommend the  use of engineered systems for new Oracle database applications we  deploy.  • Created physical standby databases on a remote DR database server  located in the Czech Republic for our U.S. production Financial  databases located in Westerville, OH. Due to high network latency  times between the primary and standby sites, I had to take advantage of some advance features in Data Guard such as parallel remote  archiving to reduce the amount of time to transfer archive redo logs.  • Wrote RMAN backup scripts to create physical standby databases  from a RMAN disk backup of the primary databases using the RMAN duplicate command. Senior Oracle Applications Database Administrator McGRAW-HILL EDUCATION - Columbus, OH 2000 to 2005 • Responsible for administration, maintenance and performance tuning and capacity planning of the Oracle databases for the Oracle Applications 11i ERP suite.  • Lead application/systems DBA of the APS Oracle Application that  encompasses both ASCP and ODP using Express Server.  • Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) system administrator responsible  for all maintenance and scheduling of events and jobs to pro-actively  monitor the Oracle databases and generate appropriate alerts if problems or potential problems are detected. This minimize unplanned downtime of the production systems and provided the highest possible availability of these systems.  • Wrote automated procedures utilizing UNIX shell scripting and PL/SQL.  • Responsible for making database backups, database cloning and performance tuning of the applications and databases as well as provide end user support.  • Involved in Disaster Recovery planning and implementation using Oracle Dataguard and RMAN. Senior Oracle Database Administrator METATEC CORPORATION - Dublin, OH 1998 to 2000 • Responsible for administration, maintenance and performance tuning of both Oracle and SQL/SERVER databases. Six production and eight test/development Oracle databases on five HP9000 UNIX servers.  • Implemented PeopleSoft Financials/Manufacturing modules, tuned SQL in the application as well as tuned the Oracle database for optimal performance.  • Wrote several automated UNIX shell scripts for monitoring database  activity and growth in order to help identify potential problems and eliminate them more quickly.  • Completely automated the nightly backup procedures utilizing UNIX shell scripting and PL/SQL. Managed three SQL/SERVER databases used by the Information Technology department for tracking help desk calls. Supervisor of Windows NT Level II/III Support STERLING COMMERCE - Dublin, OH 1997 to 1998 • Responsible for the day to day management of the Level II/III support department. Primary support functions are to troubleshoot customers Windows NT environments as well as SQL Server/Oracle configurations in resolving issues with our software.  • Acting DBA in charge of routine maintenance of the SQL/SERVER and Oracle databases.  • Made recommendations to our customer base for implementing a database backup strategy that would fit their business needs. Senior Software Support Specialist 1993 to 1997 • Responsible for providing technical support in assisting the UNIX EDI customer base.  • Lead customer support representative for our UNIX product and assisted in the development of UNIX shell scripts. Systems engineer 1989 to 1994 Experience including: analysis, design and software development of on-line, batch and real time applications. Systems Analyst BURGESS & NIPLE, LIMITED - Columbus, OH 1989 to 1993 • Responsible for designing and implementing new software systems. Helped define procedures to be used for software development.  • Lead system analyst in the analysis and design of the new job tracking system used internally within the company for tracking job progress for our clients.    COMPUTER TASK GROUP, Columbus Ohio Education B.A. in Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 1980 to 1984 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 8, ORACLE DISCOVERER, PL/I, DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba