Analyst Analyst Evans, GA • Hold Top Secret/SCI clearance since January 1988  • Knowledge of Various Information Technology Operating System - UNIX, Windows 07/98/00/NT/XP/8/10 and Linux.  • Daily Usage of Agency Tools/Databases -UTT, SOMETHING CLEVER, CLASSIFIED TRACKING SYSTEMS, CEDILLIA DORTHY , DEVNAV, PULSE, , SPRINGCLOUD, MARINA, XKEYSCORE, GIS, VISIO and NETVIZ  • Daily Usage of External Tools - NSLOOKUP, WHOIS, and TRACE ROUTE.  • Programming Experience PERL, PYTHON, and SQL  • Database usage ACCESS, SYBASE, INGRES, MYSQL and ORACLE.  • Business software usage of MS Word, Excel, Publisher, and Power Point. Work Experience Analyst Federal Service at NSA June 2016 to Present Have work varies jobs in software development, network administration, configuration management, forensic analysis, digital network analysis and systems development.    June 2016 - Present DIGITAL NETWORK INTELLIGENCE  Monitors, characterizes connectivity, analyzes and reported network structures and configurations on unclassified networks. Also provided forensic information of unclassified networks. Computer Scientist Present DATABASE DEVELOPER October 2015 to June 2016 Collaborated with the Director of Cybersecurity Operations (DCO) labeling database requirements for data integrity and data flow. Provided analytical prospective to management about procedures being used for labeling data for insertion into the proper Cloud storage area. CONFIGURATION /BUSSINESS MANAGER REDTEAM September 2011 to October 2015 Configuration Manager for the network defense team. Collaborated, managed, and improved the processes for ensuring the delivery of network testing tools. The tools were reviewed, transferred, documented, and delivered customers. It took vigorous management skills that led his branch to successful in testing networks vulnerabilities.  Business Manager provided support to organization for bridging the gap between technical and NSA business personnel. Managed acquiring software, hardware, requirements, delivery logistics, NSA resources, and NSA business procedures. Also acquired over $100,000 dollars of Organization's excess usable equipment for the REDTEAM. Saved the organization an additional $100,000 through budget management. REPORTER, DIGITAL NETWORK INTELLIGENCE ANALYST and FORENSIC ANALYST July 2008 to September 2011 Provided forensic analysis of computer information. This information was reported on and shared.    Discovered a U.S adversary and wrote technical reports about the adversary on the Internet.    As a Signals Developer ensured that new technologies information were identified and understood.    Provided support for classified network for countering adversaries on the unclassified Internet. Also produced a time-sensitive reports. NETWORK and TRENDS ANALYST July 2007 to July 2008 Preformed research and development of trends-related software products. Spent a significant amount of time purchasing, installing, and computing problems for organization. Demonstrated ability to find and partner with in-house computer support and other service organizations. Successfully obtained and processed the appropriate approval paperwork for hardware and software solutions. Also installed over nine software products with four hardware solutions.    Leading expert on the corporate visualization tool for giving data statics and trending. Lead the effort to acquire, install, and test this essential tool that was used to display trends-related information. Worked diligently with contractors and to kept organization at the forefront of new releases. Coordinated technical discussions, exchanges, and training sessions. Also enabled office to be a priority customer using the corporate visualization tool.    Provided forensic analysis of computers and digital traffic support using classified tools. Provide analysis techniques that would indicate trends about data provided by customer. Develop a Perl script that parsed information so that it would be stored in an Oracle WEBLOGIC database; Excel spreadsheet, and classified Government database. Resulted in graphical display of trends that the customer data provided. DIGITAL NETWORK INTELLIGENCE ANALYST April 2002 to July 2007 Created a syllabus with training procedures and resources available at NSA for junior Intelligence Analyst (IA). It was used as a guide for analysis within the entire organization.    Designed, researched, managed and coordinated a network that would access multiple networks and protect against potential dangerous attachments. It was presented and approved by a Technical Director. Researched and managed custom workstations for Analysts that improved the accessing and executing of analytical tools on a Virtual Windows and Linux platform.    Developed a database that tracked requests for information (RFI) application. It allows the users to assign, modify, add, prioritize and delete RFIs.    Identified; acquired; tested; oversaw installation; supported, and trained users in the latest Digital Network Intelligence Analyst tools for organization. DATABASE AND WEB DEVELOPER June 2000 to April 2002 Web Oversight Committee Chairman developed Web Policy document to implement uniform style across the site's web pages, organized and appointed committee members and created a security policy to allow external sites to access applications. Taught a HTML course for individuals who wanted to learn how to create web pages.    Implemented software fixes and procedures to improve the ability two different database applications. DATABASE TEAM LEAD Contractors and Government January 2000 to June 2000 Provided guidance to Contractors and Government employees to implement requirements needed for an intrusion detection system. Developed a testing lab to simulate intrusion detection system. Identified the necessary hardware and software to the laboratory. Also worked with management to obtain resources for purchasing lab equipment.    Partnered with internal organization regarding the search techniques and requirements. Suggest several data mining techniques computer systems for storing intrusion information in a database. QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER AND SOFTWARE TESTER January 1998 to May 2000 Provided updates, testing, and software recommendations to management to improve military field encryption devices and encryption software. The information provided was instrumental in improving and testing multi-million dollars encryption equipment.    Project manager for the quality assurance and development of software of an encryption systems for the U.S. Government. Recommended software improvement of the encryption software that saved about 500,000.00 a year. Also identified a process for improving the quality assurance and development implementation procedures for software development. The entire organization followed my procedures to improve their software. My method resulted in other organizations Program Managers using improving software evaluations. SOFTWARE AND DATABASE DEVELOPER June 1995 to September 1997 Database Lead and Developer for all of Ingres Databases development and life cycle support within my organization. Supported the creating and modifying of accounts, software fixes, installation, and database backups. Also provided feedback to Management for purchasing and requiring new applications from contractors.    Provided life cycle support for classified applications. Discovered and fixed an error in a scripting application process. This problem had existed for several months until I fixed it within a few days.    Provided technical support for a helpdesk tracking application tool called Remedy. The application managed help tickets that were submitted by Organizations. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR AND DATABASE DEVELOPER May 1994 to June 1995 Developed a Human Resource Personnel (HR) database application that kept information about several organizational branches personnel. Taught personnel HR Administrator how to use the database and created a user manual. Also created visual graphical network designs for System Administrators for to have organization's networks approved by management.    Provided System Administration support for branch network such as upgrades, installations, user accounts, and e-mail accounts for the Solaris and Windows Operating Systems. Also provided support for NEXT Workstations accounts that were connect other government agency DATABASE and SOFTWARE DEVELOPER January 1990 to April 1994 Developed a tape tracking database for a customers to store, edit, insert, modify and delete tape status information. The tapes were distributed to internal and external locations throughout the NSA and the world. Also created the users interface and a back-end database for managing the tape tracking database information. Software Developer January 1990 to January 1990 College work-study student at Norfolk State University 1984 to December 1989 I oversaw the computer lab located in Technology Building. I supervised about 25-35 college work-study students in the computer labs. Helping them with learning the new computer systems. I started in summer of 1984 as a freshman in college learning the new VAX/VMS 785 operating system and hardware. Became expert in understanding the new hardware and software. Worked there between co-op jobs at NSA until I graduated. December at Norfolk State University August 1989 to August 1989 CO-OP STUDENT with NSA May 1989 to August 1989 Developed a database application using a lookup table and data correction table. December at Norfolk State University May 1988 to May 1989 CO-OP STUDENT with NSA January 1988 to May 1988 Developed output reports from various subsystems for absentee (batch) processing. Also wrote a design description of the output reports.    Developed an inflection and deflection program that took the base form of foreign language verbs and added ending. This was done in ADA programming language and it generated about 10,000 lines of code. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Norfolk State; NSU - Augusta, GA August 2019 to Present Naval Post Graduate School 2012 BS in Computer Science Norfolk State University 1989 Skills Analytics, Collaboration, Quality Assurance,, Cyber