I/T Specialist Database Systems I/T Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> Systems IT Specialist Database Systems Shelton, CT Work Experience I/T Specialist Database Systems IBM - Southbury, CT 2006 to March 2015 Senior I/T Specialist IBM 2010 to 2010 System Administration: Team Lead provisioning 72 Linux target machines.  • DBA Storage: Volume Strategy, clustering and data replication.    Oracle Applications  System Integration Oracle Database Subject Matter Expert IBM 2008 to 2010 Tuning: Oracle database configuration resulting in sub-storage optimization, superior version control measures on numerous UNIX platforms. Consistent Strategy, design and implementation of database re-engineering solutions. Documented exceeding availability, performance and cost reduction goals by demonstrating predictive performance metrics.  Implementation: Creation of all target database requirements for development, testing, and production environment promotion.  Project: Liaison between IT and Business for all DBA support setting up communication protocol and performance agreements (SLAs).  Support  Key Account Administration Oracle Database Administrator Advanced IBM 2006 to 2008 features  Replication: Meet project deadline resolving DW bottleneck using inexpensive Oracle Data Capture mitigation to exceed customer expectations.  Disaster Recovery: Called upon to help facilitate 5 successful database recoveries. Frequent participation in disaster recovery exercises and resolution of top performance issues on multiple key accounts.    EXPERIENCE. • Tuning of SQL statements and normalization of database objects. UNIX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Fort James Corporation March 1995 to May 1998 Worked as a Group leader on project designs and implementation using HP UNIX and SUN Solaris  serves.  • Conversion of data from AS400 legacy system to Oracle Enterprise Edition 8.1.5.  • Troubleshoot Oracle applications and provide support to application users.  • Responsible for all types of upgrades and patches for Oracle.  • Assisted in installation and administration of Oracle.  • System Material Expert for Oracle Enterprise Manager Application role in Senior Database  Administrator position).  • Responsible for troubleshooting Oracle applications and provide support to application users. UNIX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Fort James Corporation February 1993 to March 1995 Support of custom applications using PL/SQL Built and maintained custom Oracle programs.  • Developed conversion programs to convert legacy IMS programs to Oracle.  • Designed and developed relational databases for senior management staff consisting of modules, which manage information about inventory, tracking of long and short term production schedules, and manufacturing data.  • Business contact for vendors and in-house staff (delivering business requirements).  • Designed and developed different Oracle reports for application users  • Performed TCL Scripting. Education Electrical Technology Farmingdale State University - Farmingdale, NY 1980 Electrical Technology Farmingdale Community College