Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/Dev Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Dev Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/Dev ? Twenty (26) plus years of IT experience in executing major projects and providing production support across multiple hardware and software platforms.  ? Fifteen (15) plus years of Oracle7.x, 8.x/ 8i/ 9i/10g/11g/12c DBA experience.  ? Two Plus years of experience on Exadata.  ? Three Plus Years of experience in 12C OEM.  ? 12C Database Upgrade experience from oracle 10G.  ? Good Experience in High Availability - RAC (Real Applications Cluster) environment.  ? Good Experience in Disaster Recovery - Data Guard and RMAN.  ? Good knowledge in relational and NoSQL databases like MySQL, MariaDB, Postgres, SQLServer, Oracle, DynamoDB, MongoDB.  ? Possess good knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI's of Linux.  ? Two Plus Years of experience with the SQL Server DBA and PeopleSoft DBA.  ? Ten plus years of experience with the C, SQL, PL/SQL, Pro*C and UNIX shell scripting.  ? Five Years of Team Leadership and Project Management experience  ? Strong in advanced features like Partitioning, Replication, Standby databases (Data Guard).  ? Excellent oral & written Communication skills, Technical & Analytical skills. Efficient Team leading and Project management skills, systems analysis & design skills.  ? Offshore model Experience, SCRUM/Agile methodologies.  ? Strong database analysis, logical and physical database design and data modeling experience using  Various CASE tools.  ? PeopleSoft DBA experience including installation, Patches, Cloning and maintenance of the PeopleSoft Financials and HRMS modules.  ? Expert level skills in ORACLE ENTERPRISE MANAGER(OEM), DBArtisan, Toad, ORACLE SERVER 11g/10g/9i/ 8i/ 8.x/ 7.x, and Developer 2000/ 9i tool set.  ? Installing, Configuring, monitoring and maintaining Oracle Software 11g,10g/9i/8i/8.x/7.x including cluster ware on Sun Solaris 2.6/ 8.0/9.0 , HP-UX 10.2/11/11i, AIX 4.2 and Windows NT/2000 Platform.  ? Extensive expose with very large database (VLDB).  ? Extensive experience in the Database Administration activities such as:  ? Installations and patches of RAC and Oracle Stand alone servers  ? Database Creation, configuration, maintaining, monitoring and developing  ? Database Migration / Upgradation from 8i to 9i, 10g and 11g  ? Database Security Administration  ? Database Performance Tuning / Application Tuning / SQL Tuning  ? Database Space management  ? Database Physical/ Logical Design and development with help of ER-WIN  ? Database Backup and Recovery - RMAN and SVRMGR  ? Developing/Writing a PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions, Triggers and Pro*C Programs  ? Configuring SQL*NET, Oracle Names Server.  ? Configuring and maintaining Multi-threaded Server  ? Database Object Administration - Create, Alter, Drop, Grant Privileges, Block Management, Space Management  ? Writing a Shell script for the Automate Online backup for Unix Platform  ? Expert level skills in using third party tools to admin database like - TOAD, SQL Navigator, Quest Central Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/Dev Informa (Penton Media) June 2015 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for architecting, designing, implementing and supporting of cloud based infrastructure and its solutions.  • Proficient in AWS services like RDS, VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, AutoScalingGroups (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Cloud Watch.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Written Templates for AWS infrastructure as a code using Terraform to build staging and production environments.  • 24x7 production systems Database support  • Implemented RMAN backups (FULL and INCREMENTAL).  • Worked on AWS, MYSQL, PostGress and MongoDB.  • Upgraded 10.2.0.4 databases to Oracle 12C.  • Database restored and recovered numerous times in both Production and Test Systems.  • Troubleshooting, backup and recovery, proactive database and system maintenance, proactive monitoring, security, research and development, all levels of performance tuning, architecture and design, mentoring, and support  • 24x7 production systems Database support  • Analyzing AWR, ADDM and ASH reports for optimal performance.  • Used SQLT tool for performance Issues.  • Monitor Objects growth and provide DB capacity planning for application expansions.  • Designed and implemented daily database monitoring check list for all the databases.  • Troubleshoot and fixed the site wise major performance problem.  • Administration, scheduling jobs, monitoring, restores and backups in SQL Server Databases.    Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, EBS, RDS, Route53, ELB, Cloud Watch, AWS Auto Scaling, GIT, SQL, JIRA, AWS CLI, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting, Jenkins, Terraform. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Toshiba (Landis+Gyr/Cellnet/CennetHunt) August 2007 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded 10.2.0.4 databases to Oracle 12C.  • Completed moving single instance databases to EXADATA machine.  • Installed several 12c,11g/10g RAC clusters and Databases on Sun Solaris, Linux platform with ASM storage for our production systems.  • Installed OEM grid control and OEM 12C solution to monitor all the Production Databases.  • Database restored and recovered numerous times in both Production and Test Systems.  • Troubleshooting, backup and recovery, proactive database and system maintenance, proactive monitoring, security, research and development, all levels of performance tuning, architecture and design, mentoring, and support  • 24x7 production systems Database support  • Implemented RMAN backups (FULL and INCREMENTAL).  • Analyzing AWR, ADDM and ASH reports for optimal performance.  • Used SQLT tool for performance Issues.  • Monitor Objects growth and provide DB capacity planning for application expansions.  • Designed and implemented daily database monitoring check list for all the databases.  • Troubleshoot and fixed the site wise major performance problem.  • Implementation of Oracle Data guard (Physical Stand by) data base.  • Management of schemas, objects & partitioning the tables including IOT tables & indexes.  • Administration, scheduling jobs, monitoring, restores and backups in SQL Server Databases. Lead a group Westar Energy, Topeka February 2007 to August 2007 of 10 data analysts and database administrators in support of Market Grid applications.  • Performed forecasting for each employee for approved work on an ongoing basis.  • There were over 70 databases in this account.  • The databases were on the following platforms. UNIX Oracle 8 and 9, SQL Server, UDB and Mainframe DB2. Sprint-Nextel Corp, Overland Park December 1995 to February 2007 Involved in the Analysis, Design, Develop, Test and implement phases of several On-line, Billing, Data warehouse and Reporting applications such as TVRS (Toll Free Billing Report System), CDR Cycles (Prepaid Billing System), Instant Activation (IA), Kmart Billing, Non-Subscriber Billing for YOU product, Kroger Billing, Pin generation, Aging Reports System, C2R Connect to Resource, and Purchase Refresh Projects at Sprint Corp.    Responsibilities:  • Install, configure, and upgrade software: server, tools, and applications from Oracle7.x/8.x/8i/9i/10g.  • Supporting 24x7 production systems  • Logical and physical database design for various new development releases and implementation of new customers.  • Performed Archiving of old data from the production databases.  • Developed several modules using Unix Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Pro*C and C.  • Designed, studied and Implemented DR solutions (Data Guard).  • Implemented SQL-BackTrack and RMAN backups.  • Supported developers in tuning SQL's and application for optimal performance.  • Analyzing STATSPACK reports on daily basis for optimal performance.  • Monitor Objects growth and provide DB capacity planning for application expansions.  • Designed and implemented daily database monitoring check list for all the databases.  • Implemented Oracle Names server to maintain developer's local databases.  • Developed (automated) a UNIX shell scripts to refresh the Demo database.  • Troubleshoot and fixed the site wise major performance problem.  • Implementation of Standby Database.  • Designed and implemented the snapshot replication setup for reporting purposes.  • Monitor, tune, size, backup, recover, analyze, defrag, and migrate the database objects.  • Design and implement DB security, user management.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL: scripts, triggers, procedures, and packages to automate the projects.  • Used high availability features like partitions, standby database, RMAN.  • Coordinate with offshore development team and provide them advance problem analysis and suggestions.  • Design and implement backup methods and disaster recovery strategies.  • Migrate DB between software versions, platforms and DB products.  • Prepare and load the client data into Oracle database using SQL*LOADER.  • Interacted with Oracle support in regards to opening new TAR's (Technical Assistance Request) and solving the existing TAR's.  • Gained offshore model experience.  • Managed 4 production databases and more than 20 Development, systest, UAT, Acceptance and Demo databases.    Environment: Oracle 7.x/8.x/8i/9i/10g, PVCS, UNIX, C. C++, Pro*C, Developer 2000, PeopleSoft    DB Concepts, Inc., MA, USA  Lead a team of consultants and clients during design develop and test of a loading interfaces between MAXIMO's Oracle database - JDE (AS/400) at Excel Corporation in Wichita, KS. Major responsibilities of the team included business requirements gathering from users, technical architectural design and system administration, database design, Developing database triggers and database administration, customizing the package to suit business and end user needs, user training, and upgrade to a new version of the package. And Installed and maintained Version Controlled Software (PVCS). The Total duration of the project was 9 months. The peak team size included 5 consultants. The tools and software used included Unix, Windows NT, Oracle 7.x, PL/SQL, OEM, MAXIMO etc.    Involved in scoping, design and development phases of a Smart Time Interfaces project for ASA International Inc, MA. Major responsibilities of the team included requirements analysis, system design, logical and physical data modeling, database design and administration, Installed Oracle 7.x on Sun Solaris. The peak team size included 3 consultants and 2 clients. The tools and software used included Unix, Windows NT, Oracle 7.x, PL/SQL, Designer 2000, SQL*loader, Unix shell scripts etc.    Software Services International, Delhi, India  Lead the team in the design and construction efforts of Scheduling V System for Cycare Health Care Services Inc. MI. This system is sub system of Health care Management system. The aim of the project is to provide support to the operators in scheduling resources like Doctors, Operation theaters, Rooms, Laboratories etc. This system was developed in OLTP(Online Transaction Processing) environment with client/server architecture. Major responsibilities of the team included requirements gathering, system design, construction and implementation of the System. Managed part of 20member team during the development, Test and implementation phases. The tools and software used included Unix, Oracle 7.x, PL/SQL, SQL* loader, XVT++, Unix shell scripts and, Tuxedo etc. As per the Client requirements these programs developed in Oracle and then migrated to Informix and Supra Sincom also.  Involved in Analysis, Design and Test of Order Entry System for Cycare Health Care Services Inc. MI. The aim of this system is to facilitate treatment of a patient by easy diagnostic and treatment patient orders. This system was developed in OLTP environment with client/server architecture. Major Responsibilities are requirement Analysis, Design, and Development of a System. Wrote numerous Procedures, Triggers for maintaining Integrity using PL/SQL. Designed and Created DATABASE consists of 43 tables. Developed 72 transactions using SQL* Plus, Pro*C with ATMI (TUXEDO). Created Front-end Screens for this System using XVT++. As per the Client requirements these programs developed in Oracle and then migrated to Informix and Supra Sincom also.    Involved in Analysis, Design and Test of Logistic Support Analysis Reports system is to analyze the behavior and requirements of the products prior to provisioning. The analysis is based on important factors like - Operation and Maintenance requirement, Reliability, Availability, Task Inventory etc. Major Responsibilities are Analysis, Design, and Development of a System. Developed Procedures, Triggers for maintaining Integrity using PL/SQL. Designed and Created DATABASE consists of 93 tables. Developed 38 Reports for this system using SQL* Report writer and Pro*C. Education Master's Degree in Business Administration in Business Administration University of Louisville April 1993 Bachelor's Degree in Eng Computer Science & Eng. University of Madras April 1991 Skills Database, Informix, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Linux, Rs 6000, Solaris, Sun, Unix, C++, Case tools, Developer 2000, Front-end, Erp, Designer 2000, Erwin, Peoplesoft Additional Information Technical Skills:    Hardware Platforms: HP-9000, IBM RS 6000, SUN SOLARIS  Operating systems: UNIX, Linux, DOS and Windows NT/2000.  Languages: C, C++, Pro*C, SQL and PL/SQL.  Database: ORACLE 6/7.x/8.0.5/8i/9i/10g/11g,12C  SYBASE v4.2, SUPRA and Informix.  RDS Instances  ERP: PeopleSoft 8.0.  Front-end Tools: Developer 2000 (FORMS 4.5/6i, REPORTS 2.5/6i)  CASE Tools: Designer 2000 and ERWIN/ERX 3.5/4.x.