Office, Event & Technology Manager Office, Event &amp; Technology Manager NON-PROFIT OFFICE MANAGER | PROGRAM DIRECTOR| STAFF LIAISON & EVENT MANAGER Houston, TX Results-driven and detail-oriented individual leveraging 15+ years’ experience in non-profit office management and digital strategy, seeking career growth in non-profit and/or public service. Highly qualified in leading and facilitating business and organizational partnerships for a wide range of organizations. Specialize in training development, event management, and project planning, with proven track record for developing and implementing optimal communication practices and relationship management. Proven skillets for leading cross-functional teams capable of developing a budget and forecasting for revenue profitability. Demonstrates consistent focus on producing practical solutions for advanced project inquiries. Employs strategic and collaborative workforce optimization, program development and team mobilization with excellent interpersonal communications and organizational skills, instrumental in streamlining processes and implementing innovative solutions. Bilingual: Spanish/English. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office, Event & Technology Manager US RICE PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION - Katy, TX November 2009 to Present Board and Committee Staff Liaison: Work directly with President of Texas Rice Council, Chairman of the USRPA Board, USRPA President & CEO, and COO to develop and achieve organization goals. Serve as staff liaison during board meetings, ensuring that all board members, including chairman and secretary/treasurer have all materials necessary for conducting an efficient meeting. Also responsible for taking, transcribing and drafting meeting minutes.  Office Management & Administration: Maintain a productive office environment, including contracting with outside vendors to maintain office equipment and services, order office supplies, work with accounting to review A/P and A/R, research and prepare findings to make decisions based on cost-benefit analysis with CEO. Serve as point of contact for members, affiliated industry and general public. Produce and update policy and procedures manuals, record minutes and maintain databases and office documentation. Perform other duties and responsibilities as requested by the Board of Directors, Officers and CEO.  Marketing & Technology: With limited guidance from leadership, create marketing strategies and produce organization's communication and marketing materials for both domestic and international events and designated campaigns. Create logos, social media ads, brochures, sponsor and attendee packets and brochures. Design programs and event signage including booth materials and promotional giveaways. Update and create content for organization's websites and social media accounts, both in English and Spanish. Create presentations and present to groups of varying sizes from a small board (4-10 members) to a group of 100+ at a trade show.    Event Management: Create registration database using online platform. Review hotel specs and work with directors to secure and contract event space. Budget and procure services from vendors and hotel event staff including food & beverage, entertainment, audio visual services and more. Secure sponsorship for events by maintaining contacts with industry leaders. Manage itineraries, reservations and travel including assisting with Visas and passports. Serve as on-site staff support for both domestic and international events.  • Generated revenue of $350,000+ by initiating procedures and policies for online registration and payments, successfully bringing an annual, previously outsourced convention, completely in-house. INDEPENDENT CONSULTING & FREELANCE SERVICES October 2007 to November 2009 Provided professional services for past employers and industry contacts including database management, data analysis, report writing, proofreading, and editing of professional education manuals, web design and -maintenance, and PC troubleshooting Senior Department Coordinator and Database Development Administrator NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS - Chicago, IL May 2006 to October 2007 • Served as liaison between ITS Programmers and Commercial Division Directors  • Led development and integration of new membership database  • Slashed standard monthly reporting process time by over 90%  • Worked with Division Directors and Administrative Staff to develop and create an Access DB for developing three-year division budget Coordinator for Membership Department and Database Development / Administrative, Special Projects THE AMERICAN ORTHOPAEDIC ASSOCIATION - Rosemont, IL September 2000 to May 2006 Rosemont, IL September 2000 - May 2006  Coordinator for Membership Department and Database Development / Administrative, Special Projects  • Staff Liaison for Membership Committee  • Managed all aspects of membership, database management, customer service, and office policies and procedures  • Worked directly with Executive Directors and provided administrative assistance to department directors  • Created new procedures and cut lockbox processing time by over 50%  • Reduced outsourced IT database support by over 40 hours in one year  • Boosted members' participation in online membership processes by over 30%  • Provided support to Academic and Leadership Development Committees Education Bachelor of Science in Technical Management DeVry University - Houston, TX May 2009 Associates in Arts in Business Administration Harper College - Palatine, IL May 2006 Skills Trade Show