A NYC leader A NYC leader A NYC leader - Century 21 Department Store Teaneck, NJ Assertive IT professional with over 20 years of broad-based management in system design and development, implementation and support. Adept at strategic use of technology to improve delivery times and service levels while reducing costs. Demonstrated success in strategic planning, building high-performance teams, project management, best practices and continuous improvement. Work Experience A NYC leader Century 21 Department Store May 2013 to Present in Retail Fashion industry.  Lead Data management    • Designed, implemented replications to facilitate Oracle, SQL data for data warehouse IBM Netezza/Stripper (PureData) for business reporting.  • Implemented SQL server failover cluster for High Availability solution and also introduced Always On Availability Groups for a reporting server.  • Redefined, implemented and supporting Informatica for legacy ERP systems data and integrated to Netezza (PureData).  • Identified data sources in Oracle & over 300 SQL Server databases for data management and supporting with the team.  • Participate in Mi9 Retail implementation, POS, CRM, Loyalty, ECom, Coupon management projects etc.  • Lead Database projects and provide solutions and assistance to business e.g Kronos, Mi9 Retail, Cloud computing etc. Senior Data consultant Optimum IT Solutions Inc May 2011 to May 2013 • Design, develop and implement disaster recovery strategies for data management  • Assisted business full lifecycle of the data and their RPO and RTOs.  • Oversee and develop strategy for ETL processes, including architectural decisions, data modeling, data presentation Manager Data Management Eisai Pharmaceutical Inc - Woodcliff Lake, NJ December 2002 to April 2011 Manage and lead data and DBAs in day-to-day activities for more than 160 Oracle and 400 SQL Server 24 x 7 databases, which includes validated (FDA: Part 11 CFR) and non-validated systems.  • Led outsource project and managed off shore data sources with clear task communications.  • Worked closely with business and product teams to understand current and future data needs.  • Implemented database automation tool (BMC BladeLogic) for database provisioning, upgrades and patching.  • Lead numerous Oracle and SQL database projects like, PeopleSoft, SAP, Gov.Pricing, Siebel, ArisG etc  • Designed, tested and Implemented high availability data availability solutions such as Data Guard with Oracle, SAP ECC 5.0(ERP Central Component) and SRM 5.0 (Supplier Relationship Management) systems.  • Developed, implemented and maintained database standards, database administration policies, procedures.  • Designed and implemented RPOs & RTOs for business-critical applications.  • Designed a high level structural "End-To-End" diagram to define data move implementation for any application.  • Assisted business in developing and implementation of over 120 drug distribution processes.  • Coordinated and implemented change control process for applications and databases changes.  • Assisted business continuation projects and led databases accessibility for business applications.  • Designed, developed and implemented Contract and Transaction Compliance Management Solutions Systems.  • Developed a plan to improve processes, consolidate/upgrade servers and established consistent hardware/software standards to eliminate unstable, highly mixed RDBMS environments in virtual environments.  • Maintained data integrity users' profiles, resources and password security, configured users that include privileges and roles and identity attributes.  • Lead data consolidated project using multiple technics such as multi-threaded listeners and save CPU licenses.  • Participated in creating and implementing company-wide security policies, and procedures for IT department. Data Administrator Prudential Financials - New York, NY May 2001 to December 2002 NYC May 2001 to Dec 2002  A money management company for institutional and private clients.  Data Administrator    • Participated in proactive issue identification and resolution maintaining Oracle and SQL databases.  • Participated in design and implementation of replication among corporate locations by using SharePlex.  • Participate in migration from data from Oracle 7.3/Mainframe to Oracle 8i, 9i with HP-UX 11. Internet Marketing Data Technology Consultant Wheelhouse Corporation - New York, NY June 2000 to April 2001 • CRM Strategy Project Manager for JP Morgan Chase - Led a Client Knowledge Engine development project and delivered a CRM strategy and roadmap, involving design, develop and implementation of MicroStrategy.  • CRM Strategy Analyst for Textron Financials - Lead a project to design, develop and implement a floor plan. Analyzed marketing data warehouse, business workflows, and designed ROI for new marketing strategies.  • Participated in many integration and implementations of various CRM applications. Data Admin Metiom Inc - New York, NY February 1998 to May 2000 • Facilitated over 600 sales force to access data. (SQL & ORACLE) via web by leading RSA VPN and implemented ACE server for synchronization.  • Participated in migration codes for E-commerce application from SQL database to Oracle.  • Led an E-Procurement implementation project for in-house and managed B2B procurement. Acecom Inc - East Rutherford, NJ December 1996 to January 1998 Participated in ACCPAC suite implementation. Database Administrator / Network Administrator Optima Systems Inc December 1994 to December 1996 • Assisted business development team to design and develop data architecture of SMART-CAR software.  • Performed of technical support and training for in house and on-site clients. Education Master of Science New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY 1994 Skills Database administration, Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Data mining, Etl, Informatica, Sap, Cognos, Ms project, Microstrategy, Tableau, Sox, Mcse, Visio, Rman, Erwin, Data replication Additional Information AREAS OF STRENGTH    System, Infrastructure Design Project Management Strategic Planning  RDBMS Administration and management Compliance (FDA 21 CRF part II, SOX, HIPPA) Communications Skills  Best practices implementation Change Management Contract Negotiation  Workflow optimization Process Improvement Data Mining  AREAS OF EXPERTISE  Databases/Appliance Operating Systems  Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i, SQL Svr 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016 PureData (Netezza) || Unix (Sun, AIX, HP), Linux, Microsoft Windows    Software Tools & Languages  SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, RMAN, SQL Srv High Availability cluster Always-On Availability, Toad, MicroStrategy, SAN Architecture, Crystal Rpts, BI Tools i.e. Cognos Rpts, Tableau. ETL Tools i.e. SSIS, BR*Tools, Erwin, Visio, MS Project etc.    Certifications and Trainings  Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) • Microsoft Certified System Engineer (MCSE) • IBM Pure Data (Stripper/Netezza) • IBM InfoSphere (Data Replication) • Informatica (Data Replication) • SAP Web AS (SAPTEC) & SAP Database Administration Training • MicroStrategy Training • Technical Project Management Training • Various computerized validation system trainings, including SOP and SWP related to Pharmaceutical industry.