Senior Oracle Consulting Partner Senior Oracle Consulting Partner Senior Oracle Consulting Partner - First Tech Systems Consulting LLC Newport, MN • Over 30+ years of extensive design, implementation, administration and optimization of Oracle Applications and Oracle Databases with full project documentation.  • Extensive skills and experience of Oracle Data Guard, RMAN, RAC, ASM (9i, 10g, 11g & 12c).  • Expert in Planning and scheduling and managing Backups and Recovery procedures using RMAN, Hot Backups Cold Backups, TSM hot backups with LUN volume splits and Logical Backups using both Control file and Recovery Catalog, and Oracle Data Guard.  • Successfully upgraded multiple Oracle databases between versions 4.7, 5.1, 6.0.36 7.x 8.x, 9i to 10g, 10g to 11g and completed upgrades between Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Worked in 24/7 mission critical Global database environment supporting of all database environments including the production database services to ensure the highest standards of availability, resilience, integrity, security and performance  • Successfully implemented, upgraded, configured and supported Oracle Data Guard 10g & 11g on multiple Multi-National/International sites (Over 125 mission-critical databases).  • Performed Bi-Annual Disaster Recovery (DR) Testing in Oracle Data Guard 10g & 11g Physical Standby Databases.  • Performed multiple Oracle databases cross-platforms upgrades and migrations  (5.1.x/6.0.36/7.x/8.x/9i/10g/11g and 12C migration) These database migrations have been ported between SPARC SunOS/ Solaris 9/10, IBM AIX,HP-UX , Windows Server 2000/2003/2008 and multiple different versions of Linux platforms  • Supported many different clients of First Tech Systems consulting LLC and other companies. Some of which included Minnesota Mining , Cargill, Texas Eastern, and MasterCard International all of which have a global presence in the business market.  • Over 15+ years of experience with performance analysis and tuning (using tkprof, AWR and ADDM), database partitioning and reorganization, patching and upgrading.  • Implemented and configured repository of Oracle E-Business Suite 11i (11.5.x) for client of Eagle Creek Software.  • Proficient in Oracle Applications adpatch, adctrl, adadmin, adutilities, patch analysis, patching time reduction, patch troubleshooting, performance issues with patch installs etc  • Over 28+ years of experience implementing and supporting Oracle Databases on Ultrix, DG UX, NCR UNIX, SCO Xenix, RedHat Linux, SUSE Linux, IBM AIX, Solaris & HP-UX.  • Developed and maintained highly optimized Oracle PL/SQL procedures, queries, jobs and functions for many client's systems using tools such as Toad for Oracle, SQL Developer etc.  • Proficient in writing SQL, PL/SQL stored procedures, packages, triggers and other objects.  • Performed data extraction, transforming and loading (ETL) using SQL*Loader, PL/SQL and other tools.  • Possess strong IT Project management and teamwork skills and experience in central/reserve banking, Medical companies and IT services environments.  • Extensive experience in data modelling for Enterprise data warehouses and internally developed applications.  • Proficient in Siebel application set of modules for planning, management, installation and configuration.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, written and oral communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Consulting Partner First Tech Systems Consulting LLC - Alpharetta, GA September 2014 to Present Role: Senior Oracle Database Consultant/Linux Administrator.  Environment:  Oracle Database 11.2.0.4 with 26TB of Raid 10 disk on Red Hat Linux, Windows 7 desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad DBA for Oracle, Microsoft Office 365  Responsibilities:  • Production MDI application support of Query users in business units.  • SQL performance Tune Production MDI application problematic SQL statements to meet business unit SLA execution time agreements.  • Write and publish full scale SDLC development standards for Production MDI Oracle application database.  • Supported all Oracle non-production and Oracle production databases and database applications in a 24*7 environment  • Responded to database related issue and problems quickly and provided documented both short and long term resolutions  • Provided technical analysis and resolution of problems and incident reporting  • Assisted in the establishment of procedures and processes for backup and recovery, database maintenance, patch management, applications support and job scheduling.  • Acted as a Oracle Data Center Migration database project leader for critical, time driven, visible project  • Understood corporate goals and how Oracle DBA responsibilities support corporate goals.  • Applied patch to Oracle databases 11g.    Client: Associated Bank HQ - Green Bay, WI  Role: Senior Oracle Database Consultant/ Administrator.  Environment:  • Oracle Database 11.2.0.4 with 32TB of SSD disk, Windows 2003/2008, Red Hat Linux, Windows Xp desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad Xpert for Oracle, Microsoft Office  Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and patch Oracle 12c on Red Hat Linux VM Server.  • Provide full support for on-shore and off-shore development teams.  • Update and Manage Oracle 12c Grid on windows server.  • Data Warehouse Support of Query users in business units.  • SQL performance Tune Data Warehouse problem SQL statements to meet business unit SLA execution time agreements.  • Write and publish full scale SDLC development standards for Data Warehouse code release process.  • Design a repeatable process auto deployment of SQL development code to all development, test and production database schemas.  • Build, Test and execute the Data Warehouse project to migrate Data Warehouse from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.04 on all Data Warehouse environments.  • Supported all non-production and production databases and database applications in a 24*7 environment  • Responded to database related issue and problems quickly and provided documented both short and long term resolutions  • Provided technical analysis and resolution of problems and incident reporting  • Assisted in the establishment of procedures and processes for backup and recovery, database maintenance, patch management, applications support and job scheduling.  • Provided technical guidance for integration, testing, design, development, planning of new major, large scale, production systems/databases  • Acted as a data warehouse database project leader for critical, time driven, visible projects  • Integrated/collaborated with application development and support teams on various IT projects • Understood corporate goals and how Oracle DBA responsibilities support corporate goals.  • Applied patches to Oracle databases 11g & 12c.  • Performed upgrades of Oracle databases 10g, to 11g. Senior Oracle/SQL server Database Administrator/Master Consultant Client Eagle Creek Software Services June 2010 to August 2014 Ansys  Role: Senior Oracle Database Consultant/ Administrator.  Environment: Oracle Database 11.2.0.3 with 2TB disk, Windows 2003, Windows 2008, Red Hat Linux, Windows  XP desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad Xpert for Oracle, Microsoft Office Siebel  • Install, build, configure and patch Oracle 11.2.0.3 on internal Red Hat Linux VM Server. • Install and verify client database schema into Siebel upgrade environments • Provide full support for on-shore and off-shore development teams.  • SQL performance Tune Siebel upgrade database to meet client SLA execution time agreements.  • Build, test and execute the Siebel application migration to migrate Siebel application to next release of software.  • Support upgrade project databases and Siebel applications in a 24*7 environment  Responded to database related issue and problems quickly and provided documented both short and long term resolutions  • Provided technical analysis and resolution of problems and incident reporting  • Established procedures and processes for backup and recovery, database maintenance, patch management, applications support and job scheduling.  • Provided technical guidance for integration, testing, design, development, planning of new major, large scale, production systems/databases  • Acted as a project leader for critical, time driven, visible projects  • Integrated/collaborated with Siebel application development and Siebel support teams on various client projects  • Applied patches to Oracle databases 11g.  • Performed schema upgrades of Siebel Oracle databases 10g, to 11g.  • Performed daily database administration activities ranging from simple to complex;    Client: Halton Region - Toronto, Canada  Role: Senior Database Consultant/ Administrator.  Environment: SQL Server 2008 Database with 4TB disk, Windows 2003,Windows 2008,Red Hat Linux, Windows  XP desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad SQL Server, Microsoft Office Siebel • Audit and document client environment to research performance issues.  • Provide Siebel and Microsoft best practices recommendations for performance improvements for Siebel application environments  • Install, build, configure and patch SQL server 2008 on all internal windows 2008 servers.  • Install and verify client database schema into Siebel database upgrade environments  • SQL performance Tune Siebel upgrade database to meet client SLA execution time agreements.  • Support upgrade project databases and Siebel applications in a 24*7 environment  • Responded to database related issue and problems quickly and provided documented both short and long term resolutions  • Provided technical analysis and resolution of problems and incident reporting  • Established procedures and processes for backup and recovery, database maintenance, patch management, applications support and job scheduling.  • Provided technical guidance for integration, testing, design, development, planning of new major, large scale, production systems/databases  • Acted as a project leader for critical, time driven, visible projects  • Integrated/collaborated with Siebel application development and Siebel support teams on various client projects  • Performed daily database administration activities ranging from simple to complex Senior Oracle Database Administration/Consulting ING Direct Bank - YOH LLC (3+Months) First Tech System Consulting LLC January 1994 to June 2010 This assignment's role was defined as a Senior Oracle DBA to work on Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g databases, and some new Oracle 11g Database Administration special projects initiated by remedy ticket assignments. The services provided were working on Advanced Security Auditing/Data Masking of all enterprise databases and Oracle RMAN backup management and backup validation. The Oracle databases for this assignment were versions 8.x to versions  10.2.x on Windows 2003/2008 and Red-Hat Linux and AIX operating systems    GenMab - RHT (2+Months)  This positions responsibilities were providing services as a Senior Oracle DBA with Oracle 9i and 10g Database Administration and oracle project assignments. Additionally, I created, scheduled and managed the Oracle RMAN backups. The assigned Oracle database versions were 9i and 10g, 10g Grid Control and Oracle 10g RAC database and tools. The assignment was cut short due to Genmab corporate direction changes of shutting down the facility in Brooklyn Park, Mn. I was asked to be part of the shutdown team of the IT department by documenting and archiving all the Oracle RAC databases and Oracle Standalone databases and related applications to secure encrypted windows servers to meet FDA archiving requirements.    Cargill - TEKsystems (6+Months)  Hired on a contract basis to provide standard Oracle DBA services with Oracle 9i and 10g Global Database  Administration, and Oracle RMAN support. I was responsible as part of a DBA team to support the Oracle 10g Grid  Control, Oracle 10g RAC databases and incident management (ViaTil/Remedy) application. A typical day was that 85% of the workload was to provide operational support for Oracle and SQL server databases according to the Cargill Global Database Technical Services SLA commitments.    This included but is not limited to the following, Incident, request, and change management, Database installation and administration, perform backup/recovery procedures, Implement database patches, Administer and implement procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the Cargill database environment, Write, review, and use team documentation to maintain a standard environment. In addition to that I was involved in the proactive management of subscribed client databases. The activities are focused on protecting business data, ensuring application availability, and maximizing application performance. General Database Administration, Data refreshes, Database creations, Oracle Installations, User account management, Performance Issues, Database upgrades    3M - TEKsystems (9+ Months)  This was contract assignment working on Oracle database global support projects for internal 3M business units. The daily project work included Rman/Netbackup restoring/recovering database copies from HOT/COLD backups to other server environments and/or creating Oracle database exports in Oracle version 7.x.x to 10.x..x. Some other tasks included researching and resolving Oracle TARs on metal ink and Global Database Service requests/ Remedy Help desk tasks. The daily activities also included supporting SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005, Sybase and Oracle 3M custom applications database configurations with SQL code changes and Oracle Grid monitoring. The Oracle database environment included Oracle 10g RAC database configurations. This client was 20% Windows NT based servers and 70% Linux Redhat UNIX servers and 10% HP UNIX Servers. The database environment had over 3000 SQL Server databases and 350 Oracle databases and 4 mission critical Oracle 10G RAC clusters.    UNISYS - Elite Technical Services (6+ Months)  This assignment was working in Oracle database support outsourcing center doing projects for external and internal Unisys customers. The project work included upgrading internal databases from Oracle version 8.1.7 to Oracle version 10.2 Oracle. Daily routine included restoring/recovering database copies from HOT/COLD backups and Oracle database exports in Oracle version 7.x to 10.x. Other tasks included researching and resolving Oracle TARs on metalink and supporting people soft and oracle applications databases. This client was mostly Windows NT based servers and Sun UNIX servers.    Mn Health Match - SSI North America client (6 Months)  This project included accounting module application design, physical database design and application database modelling. The application modelling was at a physical database model level using the 10g Oracle designer (9.0.4) and Oracle RDBMS 9 and 10g. Table data changes on an on-going basis. Responsible for managing eight development and quality assurance databases for the project. The hardware platform for this project is a Sun fire V880 servers and V440 servers. The Sun systems were attached to a SAN disk storage array on Raid 5 and Raid 1.    Sigma Aldrich client (24 months)  This was an Oracle data warehousing project in St Louis, using Case Designer 2000 for data model generation and DDL generation. The Oracle database was version 8.0.5 RDMS on a RS6000 SP2. The data warehouse extracted data from SAP application and provided enterprise level sales reporting on products sold by various categories. Cognos data warehouse tools were used to generate reporting cubes.    Texaco Western Region Headquarters client (6 months)  This project was a client server environment. The daily duties that were covered in this position were the UNIX  System(s) administration and Oracle 7.0 and 7.1 database administration of the four Data General Systems in a Raid 1/0 and 5 disk environment. This contract included tasks in the areas of systems tuning, systems bench marking, multi-platform system support of client/server applications running on NTAS 3.1 and NT 3.5 Servers and Windows for Workgroups 3.11a    Hughes Space and Communications client (6 months)  Provided support on client systems as an. UNIX systems Administration on 2 enterprise NCR 4400 UNIX systems in high availability network failover configuration. Additionally, supported the Oracle Inventory Application database and schedule of Jobs.    Mission Energy Contract (6 months)  Implementation of new SCO UNIX Systems with a set of Oracle inventory, purchasing and facilities management applications at Operations Office outside Taft California.    Transfiguration Catholic Church (6 years on volunteer support basis)  Infrastructure design, implementation and support of Novell and Windows NT based network. Installed all software and workstation hardware. In some cases, built client workstations from motherboard on up. These workstations were used in the parish offices for church programs. Senior Database Consultant/ Administrator Scc Upgrade Project 2005 to 2008 Databases with 4TB disk, Windows 2000/2003,Windows 2008, Windows XP desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad for SQL Server, Microsoft Office Siebel CRM application  • Audit and document client environment and look for performance issues relating to configuration.  • Provide Siebel and Microsoft best practices recommendations for performance improvements for Siebel application environments  • Install, build, configure and patch SQL server 2008 on all internal VMware windows 2008 servers for project on a required basis.  • Install and verify client database schemas in Siebel database upgrade environments  • Support Scc upgrade project databases and Siebel applications in a 24*7 environment  • Responded to database related issue and problems quickly and provided documented both short and long term resolutions  • Provided technical analysis and resolution of problems and incident reporting  • Established database procedures and processes for backup and recovery, database maintenance, patch management, applications support and job scheduling.  • Provided technical guidance for integration, testing, design, development, planning of new major, large scale, production systems/databases  • Acted as a project leader for critical, time driven, visible projects or project issues  • Integrated/collaborated with Siebel application development and Siebel support teams on various client projects  • Performed daily database administration activities ranging from simple to complex;    Client: ADP payroll  Role: Senior Oracle Architect/ Administrator.  Environment: Oracle Databases with 4TB disk, Oracle RAC Cluster 11.2.04 with 3 nodes, Windows  2000/2003,Windows 2008, Windows XP desktop, Microsoft Office, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft Office Siebel CRM application, Siebel UCM Application.  • Designed/Implemented/Supported entire New Siebel Oracle RAC and Non-RAC Environments for ADP from development to production in Oracle 11.2.0.3 with SUSE 10 Operating system.  • Provide on-call SIEBEL CRM 8.1/UCM 8.1 and Oracle RAC Database support for all the Non-production and development databases and application software..  • Installation and Configuration of Siebel UCM and Siebel 8.1 Enterprise's for Non-Production Environments.  • Siebel UCM custom code management and deployment and configuration for all Non-Production Environments.  • Installation Configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11g on SUSE 10 and SUSE 11 Linux.  • Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold).  • Installation of Oracle databases of standalone configuration and 11.2.0.3 RAC configuration using Oracle ACFS file system and Oracle ASM.  • Constantly monitoring the performance of the databases and viewing alert log files &trace files.  • Proficient in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects.  • Proficient with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disks of 11g RAC.  • Applied patches (Patch sets and CPU patches) and worked closely with Oracle to make Siebel UCM Application and Oracle Database environments up to date.  • Writing PL/SQL code, triggers, procedures, and functions.  • Creating and Managing Table Spaces, Tables, Views, Indexes, and Partitions  • Database monitoring and maintenance activities which include checking alert logs, space management, undo management, gathering database statistics, database locking issues, scheduling of jobs, creation of users, schemas, table spaces and other database objects.  • Importing/Exporting of dumps using impdp/expdp utilities.  • Installation and Configuration and Upgrades to Siebel 8.1 on Windows 2003.  • ETL - Loading of EIM Tables in Siebel 8.1  • Patching Siebel 8.1. on Windows and Linux  • Oracle Golden gate 11.x support  • Oracle Transparent gateway implementation and support.  Provide Informatica implementation and support    Client: Motorola  Role: Senior Oracle Administrator.  Environment: Windows, Toad, Apache Tomcat, Microsoft Visio, Windows Server 2003, SQL Developer, Oracle  SQL Developer, Solaris, ErWin, Oracle 10.2.0.4, Siebel, MS Project 2003/2007, Shell Script, SQL, SQL, Windows  7, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Cygwin, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, Putty, Siebel, SQL Plus, Toad, Virtual PC, TCP/IP, UDP, Microsoft Project, Windows Server 2000, Windows Server 2008, Win SCP, DNS, DHCP  • Provided Siebel database production support of high availability solution running on Oracle10.2.0.4 database using Oracle Real Application 3 node Clusters (RAC), Oracle GRID and RMAN.  • Provided physical and logical database support in a remote hosted customer environment; performing daily database administration activities ranging from simple to complex;  • Created and maintained UNIX Shell Scripts for database proactive monitoring  • Installed, deployed and maintained High Availability and Mission Critical RAC Databases with sizes of over 2 TB  • Recommend appropriate technologies, enhancements upgrade and modifications to systems and procedures to improve the services provided by the Information Technology department  • Provided backup and recovery of databases in multiple methodologies (TSM, SQL Backtrack) requiring a deep understanding of RMAN, including backup, recovery, incremental and cumulative backups, various recovery scenarios, and archive management.  • Performed Oracle Database layout design, Installation, creation and configuration, allocation and maintenance of schemas, tablespaces, data files, redo log files, mirroring of redo log files and control files across multiple disks and multiple instance maintenance.  • Performed day-to-day Maintenance and post installation troubleshooting for Database and Applications. Administration and troubleshooting of Production, Test, Development, Training and QA instances running in 10g on Solaris, Linux and Windows.  • Performed Performance tuning & Monitoring of the Oracle Siebel Application, Oracle Database and Unix kernel parameters, Database Space Management, Pinning of Objects, Perfstat, Analyzing Schema, SQL statement tuning, table partitioning, distributing the tables and reducing the processing time.  • Extensively written Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions for Siebel interfaces between external applications.    Client: Eagle Creek - MRP  Role: Senior SQL Server Administrator/Consultant.  Environment: Windows, Microsoft Visio, Windows Server 2003, Windows server 2008, Siebel CRM application, MS Project, T-SQL, Windows 7, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Cygwin, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, Putty, Siebel, SQL Plus, Virtual PC, DNS, DHCP  • Provided management, platform migration process to migrate from outdated server hardware and old Sql Server software to latest upgraded hardware and new SQL Server 2008 database release  • Provided Siebel database development, test and production on-going post migration support of Sql Server with Siebel application running in a call center.  • Provided physical and logical database support in a remote hosted International customer environment; performing standard daily database administration activities ranging from simple to complex;  * SQL Server Replication support.  * Deadlock query resolution support.  * Performance tuning of application/user SQL and database tuning.  * SSIS support.  * Report Server support  Created and maintained Windows batch Scripts for database proactive monitoring  • Recommend appropriate technologies, enhancements upgrades and modifications to systems and procedures to improve the services provided by the Database services and Technology department  • Performed Sql Server Database layout design, Installation, creation and configuration, allocation and maintenance of schemas, object permissions, tablespaces, data files, temp files, log files, hardware Raid mirroring across multiple disks and multiple instance maintenance.  • Extensively written Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions for Siebel interfaces between external applications.    Client: Independent Health  Role: DB2 Database Administrator on AIX  Environment: Windows 7 , Siebel, AIX Shell Script, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Cygwin, Microsoft  Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, Putty, Siebel, Toad, Virtual PC, TCP/IP, UDP, Microsoft Project, Windows Server 2000, Windows Server 2008, Win SCP, DNS, DHCP  • Install, migrate, and configure Siebel CRM application database schema and related objects on DB2 on AIX UNIX system.  • Migrated old release of Siebel CRM application objects to new AIX database server platform.  • Provided recommendations of appropriate technologies, enhancements upgrades and modifications to systems and procedures to improve the services provided by the Database services and Technology department.  • Installed and upgraded and supported Avaya Call center softphone software.  • Provided Siebel Application and DB2 full standard support.    Client: Eaton Corporation - Bloomington ,MN  Role: Senior Oracle Database Administrator/ Siebel CRM application Installer/Configurator.  Environment: Windows 7 , Siebel CRM , Linux Shell Scripts, Windows XP, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Cygwin, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, Putty, Siebel Tools, Toad for Oracle, Virtual PC, TCP/IP, UDP, Microsoft Project, Win SCP, DNS, DHCP  • Installed and configured Siebel CRM application database schema and related objects on Oracle 10.2.0.4 on Red Hat Linux system for development, test and production environments.  • Designed Oracle Tablespace file and schema layouts for optimal performance.  • Installed and upgraded old release of Siebel CRM application Oracle database objects and data to new Linux Oracle database server platform.  • Provided full Oracle database and Siebel end to end patch support for all non-production and production environments.  • Provided recommendations of appropriate technologies, enhancements upgrades and modifications to systems and procedures to improve the services provided by the Siebel services and Technology Teams.  • Provided Siebel Application and DB2 full standard support. Oracle Project Team Manager Braun Technology Group June 2001 to June 2003 Worked on multiple Oracle data warehousing projects in Denver and St. Louis. These projects used Oracle 8.0.5 on Sun UNIX systems, HP/UX systems and RS6000 SP2 systems. Supported the Internal Sun UNIX servers and data warehouse projects for the local St Louis office as well. Application Consultant First Star Bank/US Bank Corporation December 1997 to June 2001 3/Oracle Data Warehouse Project Lead  Project lead/manager on internal Oracle 8.1.7.3 2.5 TB data warehouse. Designed and coded data warehouse database monthly design changes and Oracle database administration tasks.  Project planned, tested, and migrated oracle database and schemas/software of enterprise data warehouse from St Louis to Milwaukee. Senior Oracle Database Director/Manager MasterCard International June 1995 to October 1997 Worked on a 1.8 terabyte of data per application processor on the Oracle Data Warehouse project. This VLDB was housed on a NCR 3600 system that had 4 application processors. Each of the application processors has at least 16 Pentium 90 HZ at that time. The Oracle software was version 7.2.3. This Oracle database was loading and managing all MasterCard credit card data for a 13-month time frame. Each daily load of data was inserted into a set of month by month tables with views defined over the top of the monthly tables. This VLDB was a decision support/ad hoc query Data Warehouse and data marts allowed customers/ members to define where people spend most of their credit card dollars. My role in this project was to help set up/slice the raid storage subsystems, define the database structures, define the database loading process and manage the Oracle database backup project team. This project was on an extremely tight timetable and all members of the project team made a grand effort in completing the project on the schedule that was outlined.    This project won MasterCard's Presidents Circle Award for Excellence. Senior Database Architect/UNIX and DEC Systems Administrator Xerox Computer Services March 1993 to April 1994 • I held primary management responsibility for the corporate Oracle databases for the Xerox Computer Services division. Additionally, provided the technical Oracle advisory development direction for the 21 modules of integrated Manufacturing, Inventory, Distribution and Financial applications.  • Managed the Oracle database administrative team, an intermixed DEC VAX cluster platform, an RS6000/570 development platform, Oracle and Pro-IV software release processes on various UNIX and VMS platforms. This environment utilized 6.034, 7.0.13 to 7.0.15 and beta 7.1 versions of the Oracle database engine as well as many of the database tools. Senior Oracle Database Administrator UNCO Data Systems April 1991 to March 1993 The duties covered many different areas of data processing. Some of the duties were to manage the corporate Oracle databases for the corporation and to manage all the customer databases in the field. These Oracle databases were running accounts payable, inventory and accounts receivable systems. These applications were created with the Oracle SQL development set and oracle forms set of tools. Oracle Database Systems Consultant CSC Partners Corporation June 1990 to April 1991 In this position, gained exposure to new relational technologies and covered many areas of Oracle application and system development, application and systems tuning, application and systems bench marking, and multi-platform system support and application system management on multiple hardware platforms. The duties of this Oracle systems consulting position included the development of marketing interfaces to national account medical databases from external corporations and the development of one of Medtronic's national accounts marketing sales reporting systems written in Oracle SQL Report writer. Open platform Systems Manager/Oracle Database Administrator Keith Steven Research Corporation February 1987 to June 1990 This position covered many different areas of multi-platform system management, application consulting and application development. Part of a team that supported, coded and implemented in customer sites a suite of Oracle-based applications called MCSII. These applications consisted of more than 280  SQL*forms screens and more than 200 Oracle database SQL objects. Implemented these applications in 23 of the 27 customer client sites for the company. These installations of the suite of applications were installed on many different hardware platforms and operating systems. The MCSII' system was an integrated suite of applications that consisted of a purchase order management system, an inventory management system and a facility management system. These systems required a fully functional knowledge of all Oracle version 5.1 and version 6.0 development tools on a multi-platform basis.  • Gained a complete functional understanding of Oracle's application foundation set of tools and Oracle's integrated suite of applications while at this company. In many cases, before an installation, was responsible to port, to build and to test the application for a particular hardware environment.    Education Lakewood Community College  Associates: Computer Science  Saint Thomas Military Academy    Diploma: Computer Science Education High school or equivalent Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE MODELING, DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER