Upscale Security Officer Upscale Security Officer Upscale Security Officer - G4S Secure Solutions USA Fort Worth, TX Seeking a work environment where hard work and professionalism are recognized and appreciated. Work Experience Upscale Security Officer G4S Secure Solutions USA July 2018 to Present • Performs security patrols of designated areas on foot or in vehicle  • Watches for irregular or unusual conditions that may create security concerns or safety hazards.  • Sounds alarms or calls police or fire department in case of fire or presence of unauthorized persons.  • Warn violators of rule infractions, such as loitering, smoking or carrying forbidden articles.  • Permits authorized persons to enter property and monitors entrances and exits through C-Cure and Biostar  • Observes departing personnel to protect against theft of company property and ensures that authorized removal of property is conducted within appropriate client requirements.  • Investigates and prepares reports on accidents, incidents, and suspicious activities. Maintains written logs as required by the post.  • Provides assistance to customers, employees and visitors in a courteous and professional manner.  • Making sure there are no access violations  • Maintain proper housekeeping.  • Maintain Good Documentation Practice Fulfillment Associate AMAZON Fulfilment Center / Flex - Coppell, TX November 2017 to Present • Inventory Control and Quality Assurance (ICQA)  • Participate in Stand-On.  • Count items in a Bin (Pods) and make sure it's the right item in the right bin and the quantity  • Standard practice of quality and safety always.  • Pending research on items to ensure right quality for customer satisfaction Replenishment Associate Kohls Distribution Center - DeSoto, TX October 2017 to December 2017 • Complete tasks in a timely manner  • Observe safety and follow company safety procedures.  • Maintain proper timing (clock-in clock-out).  • Receive goods in boxes and replenish from one aisle to another Burnett Specialist Staffing Alcon - Houston, TX July 2017 to September 2017 Assembler  ? Inspect Drain bags  ? Build and assemble materials for production  ? Make sure Machines are running smoothly and alert maintenance if issues are suspected  ? Follow procedures properly for effectiveness  ? Follow and maintain safety procedures.  ? Maintain Good Documentation Practice. Office Assistant StarLife Therapy Services - Houston, TX May 2017 to September 2017 • Answer the phone and respond to messages  • Communicate with Agencies and Field workers (Therapists) and respond to their concerns as much as possible.  • Receive referrals faxed or mailed from Agencies and process them accordingly.  • Receive feedback from Field workers and organized the paperwork accordingly.  • Track and follow up on pending issues with Field workers and Agencies.  • Billing and Invoicing in a timely manner.  • Check emails, fax and mails and respond accordingly in a timely manner.  • Organize and keep all files and folders orderly.  • Maintain Good Documentation Practice  • Keep workspace clean, tidy and spacious.  • Keep record and reminders for office supplies. Security Database Administrator Interkel Nigeria Limited - Lagos, NG August 2010 to August 2015 • Organised a database for Security Guards payments using MS. Excel  • Maintained records on all Security Guards on site across States where projects are located  • Identification of Customers' (Huawei and Airtel) needs and maintaining Huawei policy  • Consultation with vendors to discuss new upgrades and Site activations  • Maintaining company's business policies  • Tracking equipment sent to sites and ensuring it's delivered to various sites  • Tracking and assigning New sites to supervisors for proper management and security.  • Communicate incident reports from guards to Chief Security Officer and management.  • Maintain Good Documentation Practice (GDP)  • Payroll and Database management for Security Guards Manning Telecommunications sites.  • Tracking diesel losses and replacement plans for recovering the losses  • Monitoring of DG components (Batteries, AVR) against theft.  • Escalation of procedures to deal with potential problem amongst staff and management Secretary Xavier Oil and Gas Services Limited - Lagos, NG September 2007 to June 2010 • Receive and sends company emails (Letter of Intents, MOU)to Banks and customers  • Assist Human Resources to manage staff welfare and Accountant in organizing payroll  • Organise documents and arrange in an orderly manner.  • Maintain Good Documentation Practice (GDP)  • Documentation of quantity products delivered to the customers Education B.Sc. (Hons) in Public Administration Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State February 2009