SHAREPOINT ADMINISTRATOR SHAREPOINT <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> Support Center Technician Carthage, NC Seeking to join a progressive team where I can contribute with my diverse hardware, software and networking skills including: Microsoft SQL Server, SharePoint Server, data management, report creation, presentation and delivery. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SHAREPOINT ADMINISTRATOR SALIENT FEDERAL CRGT - 5th MARINE EXPEDITIONARY BRIGADE - Bahrain March 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities  Supported the Marine Corps Forces Central Command in the middle east by providing SharePoint Server administration, support and development services at their forward deployed positions in Bahrain and at the Eager Lion multinational military exercise in Jordan. Managed SharePoint sites and portals to ensure high availability and security of SharePoint hosted assets. Database Administrator/SharePoint Administrator MEDICAL RECOVERY SYSTEMS INC - Cincinnati, OH July 2008 to October 2013 Transitioned internal reporting to customer facing web-based reporting system. Managed Microsoft SQL and SharePoint server environments. Maintained client data transfers and processing. Performed troubleshooting of hardware, software and client data issues. Monitored network security. Accomplishments: Reduced data process outages and downtime by more than 30% in the first year. Developed detailed call agent, patient, client event history reports based on legacy system of record log events. Utilized best practices and controls to improve data quality and reduce reporting downtime and maintenance. Systems Analyst POMEROY IT SOLUTIONS INC - Hebron, KY April 2007 to June 2008 Coordinated consultants in recovering reporting operations after key employee departure forced a complete shut down of operational and customer reporting from internal key transaction systems. Consolidated data sources, established data warehouse, and simplified processes to reduce reporting complexity. Initiated project to align the training and certification efforts with OEM Partner Management to maximize financial rewards from OEM programs. Installation Technician DOLBEY & COMPANY - Cincinnati, OH August 2003 to September 2005 Installed, and supported Dolbey's Fusion dictation, transcription and integrated speech recognition products in medical centers across the United States. Dolbey Fusion is built on MS/Word and MS/SQL. My responsibility as project leader was to integrate the system to the customer's networks and ADT systems to insure a reliable, HIPAA compliant system. Analyst, Consultant, Network/ Database Administrator VOLD SOLUTIONS INC - Cincinnati, OH March 1998 to June 2003 Systems design, integration and support of engineering data acquisition and sound analysis system in networked environments. Accomplishments: Integrated the multiple test sites into a central SQL Server database so GM personnel could perform remote reporting and analysis of pass-by data from anywhere within the national GM company network. Analyst, Consultant AMERICAN COMPUTER SOLUTIONS - Mason, OH June 1997 to March 1998 Member of team that managed call center operations at Makino during their transition from a Novell network system to a Microsoft NT network system. Accomplishments: Saw project through a 300% spike in call activity during the transition. Analyst - Management Systems PROCTER & GAMBLE - Cincinnati, OH March 1996 to May 1997 Comptrollers Division  Coupon Accounting and Budgeting System applications support. Developed Agency Evaluation Charting System by converting a complex Excel application into a relational database. Accomplishments: Led team to identify and correct 7 million dollar coupon liability appropriation error. Cut the processing time for agency charting by more than two weeks. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance/Information Systems University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 1996 Skills Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) - Microsoft Certified Database Administrator (MCDBA) - Microsoft Certified Application Developer (MCAD) - Secret Security Clearance SF312 - CompTIA Security+ - Six Sigma (Green Belt) Additional Information Summary of Skills    * Extensive experience in the IT industry handling various duties including analysis, development, integration, project management, network engineering, database administration, technical training and support.  * Strong interpersonal verbal and written communications skills. Able to proficiently communicate with various individuals including senior management, technical staff, third party vendors, and non-technical users.