IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Test Equipment Distributors Sterling Heights, MI Work Experience IT Manager Test Equipment Distributors - Troy, MI 2017 to Present • Oversaw the day-to-day information technology (IT) operations help desk, performing system enhancements and maintenance to ensure a fully-functional network.  • Systematically performed troubleshooting protocol, identifying server-related problems and data connectivity issues across a wide area.  ? Maintained an active directory of user accounts, security groups, and a distribution list.  ? Ensured effective protective and preventative measures were in place, including enterprise virus, spyware, and firewall solutions.  • Managed IT functions throughout the organization on a national scale, including VPN tunnels and support functions for internet, phone assistance, and annual budgetary analysis.  ? Devised new methods to decrease expenditure and still facilitate system upgrades.  ? Created annual departmental financial outlines for the upgrade of legacy technology, the implementation of projects, and staff device replacements.  • Leveraged a cross-functional partnership with an IT consulting firm, successfully implementing a Sophos firewall and wireless network across multiple officers; upheld budgetary and time constraints to facilitate project completion. LAN/WAN Network Administrator West Michigan Community Mental Health Systems 2013 to 2016 • Resolved server-related and data connectivity issues across a massive area network containing user accounts, security groups, and distribution lists.  ? Automated software installs and updates while also maintaining network uptime.  ? Laid foundation for a more modern implemented dialing system.  • Acted as a key proponent of change in the implementation of a voice-over IP system update, transitioning from an outdated PBX phone system and leading the groundwork for voice traffic within each business location.  ? Built V-LANS and networks for voice traffic so that calls could then be routed over the internet instead of requiring telephone lines.  ? Contributed to a substantial savings by decreasing long-distance calling costs.  • Utilized Watch Guard System Manager, restricting print traffic to designated printers so that West Michigan tele-psychiatrists could print remotely from home offices.  ? Configured inbound and outbound, implementing a 1:1 network address translation to effectively map internal server IP addresses to external ISP ones.  • Supervised server consolidation which included Dell VRTX deployment in combination with VMware, stimulating savings on hardware replacements.  ? Championed the move to virtualization, instituting disaster recovery at a secondary location that provided potential of minimal downtime.  ? Decisively oversaw VM instances, nightly backups and disk space allocations on SAN.  • Mediated BYOD connectivity with the use of a Cisco Wireless appliance, ensuring that connectivity met defined and acceptable standard ranges. Network Engineer West Michigan Community Mental Health Systems - Ludington, MI 2000 to 2016 Application Specialist | Database Administrator I West Michigan Community Mental Health Systems 2000 to 2013 • Routinely performed maintenance of user and group permissions to create a customer-ready network security system, the creation of new users and email accounts, and to manage daily backups of highly-sensitive critical organization data.  • Acted as the systems subject matter expert (SME), assisting in all software application or help desk operational needs. Education Bachelor of Science in (BS), Business Administration Central Michigan University Skills Active Directory, Exchange, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Vendor Management, Customer Service, IT Management, Itil, VoIP, Excel, Cisco, Disaster Recovery, SQL Additional Information Areas of Expertise    ? System Administration  ? Cost Saving Initiatives  ? Project Requirements  ? Project Management (PM)  ? Infrastructure Enhancements  ? Data Migration  ? Data & Voice Traffic  ? LAN/WAN Networks  ? VPN Tunnels    Select Accomplishments  • Directed and facilitated the transition from a legacy firewall system to a newer and more streamlined version, securing vendor support for the $22K project.  ? Identified project specifications, identifying the best partnership and acting as project manager (PM) to ensure that engineering teams worked within established parameters.  • Migrated data and voice traffic for a previous service provider to a new carrier, implementing timely updates and changes to the corporate office phone system and firewall.  ? Minimized system downtime during the migration, directly resulting in budgetary savings over the length of the new carrier contract.  • Facilitated constant operation of networks without interruption, managing two branch officers for VPN tunnels and performing multiple Watch Guard firebox migrations in conjunction with system upgrades and restoration.    Technical Skills  Sophos XG Firewall & Sophos Aps  Symantec Backup Exec 11d & 12 for Windows Servers  Cisco Wireless LAN Controller 5500  Cisco 1140 Access Points  Microsoft Exchange Server  Veeam Backup & Replication 8.0  VMware 5.5  Watch Guard Firebox Appliances  Microsoft SQL Server