GIS Database Administrator GIS <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 23 years GIS/IT experience. Recently relocated to Seattle. Seeking employment in the greater Seattle area. Seattle, WA I have worked in Information Technology for 23 years. My area of expertise is Geographic Information Systems (GIS), primarily using ESRI products and methods. For the past 19 years, I have served in a senior role as GIS Manager or System/ Database Administrator. At various times I have supervised GIS and IT staff, served in senior role within a GIS division, or operated as a one-man GIS shop. I have often been required to perform information technology support outside the scope of GIS, including server deployment and administration, database administration and reporting, and network hardware installation and support. As such, I have significant experience in these areas. My broad experience in these areas has allowed me to develop strong problem-solving skills and the ability to adapt quickly to better support agency or business goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience GIS Database Administrator Berkeley County (SC) Government - Moncks Corner, SC August 2018 to May 2019 • Apache/ArcGIS Server Web Server Administration  • SQL Server Database & Server Administration  • Manage Database & Flat File Backups  • Manage Nightly Update Processes (Python Scripts and Windows Tasks Manager)  • Enterprise Geodatabase Administration  • Manage & Deploy ArcGIS Server Map Services  • Develop New & Update Existing Web Mapping Applications (HTML5/JavaScript/Web AppBuilder)  • Manage Configuration & Deployment of New Hardware  • Create Python Scripts to Automate Tasks  • Manage ArcGIS Online Organization & Content  • Manage GIS Department Web Content  • Manage External Data Requests  • Support GIS Consortium Members  • Advise & Support County-wide Initiatives Involving to GIS  • Assist with GIS Department Management GIS Manager SCDHEC - OCRM - Charleston, SC July 2004 to August 2018 • Enterprise Geodatabase Administration  • Daily/Weekly Permitting Data Update  • Development of New Data Sets  • Annual Acquisition of Supporting GIS Data from Various External Agencies  • ArcGIS Desktop Support  • Develop of ArcGIS Server Map Services  • Develop of GIS Web Applications (HTML & JavaScript)  • ArcGIS Online & Collector App Support  • Project Management  • Spatial & Statistical Analysis  • Environmental Analysis  • Emergency Response Support  • Pictometry Administration  • SharePoint Development & Administration  • IT-Related Purchasing and Budgeting  • ArcGIS Server Administration (Standalone - ArcGIS Server Standard, ArcSDE, SQL Server 2008, IIS)  • ActiveDirectory Administration  • File Server Administration and Backup  • Workstation Deployment and Support  • Permitting Database Query & Statistical Analysis (Oracle)  • Create Web & Presentation Graphics (Paint Shop Pro)  • Document Management System Support (EMC Application Xtender)  • Supervise OCRM IT & GIS Staff Unix Administrator City of Charleston SC - Charleston, SC 2002 to 2004 • Managed all Unix servers (HP-UX) supporting Oracle Database System, Police Department Records  • Management System, & Police Dispatch Operations  • Managed All Unix and Windows Server Backups  • Assisted with Administration of Windows Servers  • Developed and Maintained Active Server Page (.asp) Websites for Various Departments  • Assisted with Desktop Support & Network Troubleshooting GIS Manager City of Charleston SC - Charleston, SC 2000 to 2002 • Supervised GIS Staff  • Coordinated All GIS Support Projects  • Migrated GIS Environment from Unix-based Arc/Info 7.x Deployment to Windows-based ArcGIS Desktop  Deployment  • Implemented the Use of ArcSDE/SQL Server for GIS Data Storage  • Implemented the Use of ArcIMS for Internal Data Viewing GIS Specialist Eagan, McCallister Associates - Hanahan, SC 1998 to 2000 • Performed Data Analysis and Application/Tool Development in Support of Federal Contracts with Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command (SPAWAR). Applications were developed using Visual Basic 6 and ESRI  • MapObjects, and custom ArcView - Avenue scripting.  • Maintained and Enhanced NAVFAC - Charleston Internal Forestry Management System  • Assisted in the Development of GIS-based Environment and Facilities Management System for Ingleside Naval Station GIS Project Manager/Technician University of Georgia - Athens, GA 1996 to 1998 • Data & Cartographic Editing in Support of University Contract with the GA DOT to Develop County Road Maps  • Managed Project & Performed Digitization of Forestry Roads in support of University Contract with the GA Forestry Commission  • Managed Overall Project and Performed Analysis in Support of University Contract with State Farm Insurance of GA to Analyze Drive Times & Service Areas for Rural Fire Response Education Bachelors of Geography in Geography University of South Carolina 1995 Skills GIS Management (10+ years), GIS & Non-GIS System Administration (10+ years), Database (SQL Server) and Geodatabase Administration (10+ years), GIS and Non-GIS Analysis & Statistics (10+ years), GIS Web Application Development (ESRI API for JavaScript, JavaScript, HTML, Dojo, Jquery, Bootstrap) (6 years), GIS Python Scripting (4 years), Project Management (10+ years), ArcGIS Online, Web AppBuilder, Collector App (5 years), GIS-Based Environmental Analysis (10+ years) Awards DHEC Directors Award 2017 ESRI Special Achievement in GIS 2015 DHEC Monthly Award for Excellence 2008-06 Publications Beachfront Jurisdiction https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/shoreline/ Web application to provide information to the public regarding the State's beachfront jurisdiction. Searchable by address and parcel. Data and reports available for viewing and download. During the public notice period for the new lines, the application also provided direct access the permitting system "Public Comment" interface. Searches and map clicks determined the relevant beach area and routed the user to the appropriate public notice interface. After public notice ended, this functionality was removed. Beach Erosion Monitoring https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/bermexplorer/ Web application to provide the public information on OCRM beach erosion monitoring. Erosion data is collected annually along transects associated with survey monuments (3k points per monument). The application allows the user to quickly plot the elevation and bathymetry data to generate an elevation profile. Monitoring data is downloadable. Beach Renourishment https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/renourishment/ Web application to provide to the public information on past beach renourishment projects, including cost, sand volume, spatial extent, etc. It is updated as renourishment projects are completed. Beach Access and Water Quality https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/beachaccess/ Web application to allow the public to quickly locate public beach access locations based on proximity and amenities. The application also reports real-time data and status for water quality monitoring stations along the beachfront. Coastal Hazard Vulnerability Assessment https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/hva/ Web application to present the results of the OCRM Hazard Vulnerability Assessment, which involved the examination of shoreline change, storm surge, flooding, and social vulnerability data. Hurricane Matthew Map Tour https://gis.dhec.sc.gov/matthew_photos/ Immediately following Hurricane Matthew, DHEC participated in a beachfront damage assessment flight to triage beachfront impacts and focus response activities. Certain photos from the flight were selected and used to develop a map tour to provide the public a glimpse into the impacts along the beachfront. Coastal Zone Boundary Analysis http://www.scdhec.gov/HomeAndEnvironment/Docs/DHEC_CZBoundary_Study.pdf The S.C. General Assembly instructed to DHEC to examine the current Coastal Zone boundary. The boundary was established during the adoption of the Coastal Management Program in accordance with federal and state guidelines.    The S.C. boundary was established in a geo-political manner - by county boundary. The study was requested to determine if there was a better way to establish the boundary based on environmental factors rather than political boundaries. The study required intensive GIS-based examination of coastal environmental variables such as estuarine habitat (saltwater and salt marsh), tidal influence, flooding, sea level rise, endangered species and species habitats, water quality, cultural resources, protections and designations, and watersheds. Not all components were used in the final analysis, but all were examined to determine the methodology to be used to conduct the study. Marsh Island Study https://scelp.org/posts/view/138 Marsh islands are small upland hummocks within salt marsh areas that typically cannot be accessed without bridge or boat. Regulations written in the early 1990s governed access to these islands. In 2005, the S.C. Supreme Court deemed regulations regarding access to marsh islands too vague. DHEC convened an advisory committee to study the issue and formulate recommendations for new regulation. In support of the advisory committee, intense examination of the over 3,500 marsh islands analyzing and classifying them by size and distance from upland using various parameters and thresholds was conducted. In the end, results from the analysis were used by the committee to recommend guidelines for a new regulation. Berkeley/Dorchester County Boundary Change - New Zoning https://gis.berkeleycountysc.gov/maps/new_zoning/ The position of the Berkeley/Dorchester county boundary was corrected in 2018. As a result, a large portion of what had been Dorchester County became part of Berkeley County. As such, new zoning designations for the newly acquired parcels had to be adopted. This web application was designed to inform new Berkeley County citizens of their new property zoning, and provide details about those designations.