Legal Assistant Legal Assistant Professional legal assistant with over 25 years’ experience in law office. Oklahoma City, OK Client focused - Computer/ Database Savvy - Outstanding communication and interpersonal skills - Knowledge of office management responsibilities, systems and procedures - Excellent multi-tasker Work Experience Legal Assistant RYAN BISHER RYAN & SIMONS - Oklahoma City, OK 2016 to Present Case Manager for Workers' Compensation department. Receive incoming calls from clients, adjusters and defense attorneys regarding medical treatment, TTD checks, settlement, status, etc. and carry out the work needed, input notes into Trial Works case management system, review discovery and respond, review file and medical records to determine next step in case. Delegate work for fillings, order medical records and letters, meet with clients, docket actions that need to be taken and handle any action that needs to be done after pre-hearing conference. Legal Assistant MATTINGLY & ROSELIUS - Oklahoma City, OK 2015 to 2016 Worked on class action cases, provided administrative support to three attorneys, handled communication with clients, experts, attorneys and judges. Filed legal documents in federal court (ECF) and prepared correspondence, conducted research for class actions, monitored deadlines and juggled calendars. Administrator PRAXIS DEVELOPMENT - Oklahoma City, OK 2013 to 2015 • Performed basic bookkeeping using Excel, entered rent amounts and utilities on spreadsheets for accounting purposes, post and deposited all checks remotely, calculate and entered oil and gas amounts. Performed general office duties such as sending out letters to tenants, ordering supplies, open, sort, and distributed mail, make travel arrangements, helped answer telephones and took care of all office machine maintenance including entering postage on postage machine, back-up computers each week and helped with IT work.  • Handled the daily responsibilities of the Orthodox Christian Prison Ministry ("OCPM"), including organizing groups of volunteers from outside of Oklahoma, opened and read letters from prisoners and organized letters for the volunteers to send out and requested materials. Proofread, edit and organized weekly and bi-monthly letters and envelopes to go out to over 1,000 prisoners across the country. Maintained prisoner database. Legal Assistant - Temp/Contract HARTZOG CONGER - Oklahoma City, OK 2010 to 2013 • Prepared and processed correspondence and legal documents, such as complaints, summons, subpoenas, motions, briefs and organizing exhibits. Filed pleadings with court clerk and federal court (ECF). Coordinated with vendors and process servers. Obtained client information and completed various forms.  • Received and placed telephone calls, scheduled and made appointments and travel arrangements, prepared and distributed invoices to bill clients or pay account expenses, docket court dates and deadlines, maintained documents in paper and electronic format, maintained client information and opened and organize files. Benefits Administrator/IT Specialist CROWE & DUNLEVY - Oklahoma City, OK 2005 to 2010 • Administered, directed, and reviewed employee benefit programs, including health, dental, disability, life, flexible spending plan, 401(k) and pension plan, working with insurance brokers and plan carriers. Mediate between providers and employees by assisting in handling employees' benefits-related questions and issues. Completed, verified, and processed forms and documentation for administration of FMLA, COBRA, insurance claims, rollovers, distributions, loans, hardships, workers' compensation and QDRO's.  • Plan and conducted new employee orientations to explain all benefits. Processed paperwork for new employees and entered employee information into HRIS database. Prepared and distributed written and verbal information to inform employees of changes, training, and wellness news. Conducted training for employees on carriers' websites and in benefits selection on HRIS database. Ran statistical reports concerning hires, terms, and benefit plans. Computed deductions and enter data for payroll.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved hardware, software, or other network and system problems to provide technical assistance to employees, also took calls on help desk from employee on formatting pleadings and database questions. Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software. Provided support for voice mail system and telecom system. Maintained records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken. Litigation Database Support EDWARDS, PROPESTER & CHRISTENSEN - Oklahoma City, OK 2004 to 2005 Worked directly with attorneys in determining and understanding needs and case requirements. Maintained Summation databases, including administration, load file management and document loading. Created coding specifications and coordinated discovery document services with vendors. Litigation Management Woska & Hasbrook/LITIGATION CONSORTIUM - Oklahoma City, OK 2002 to 2003 Responsible for managing the overall litigation support function. Work directly with attorneys and paralegals in determining and understanding needs and case requirements, recommending strategy and implementing technology solutions for document management and trial presentation. Administered and maintained databases. Created coding specifications and coordinated discovery document services with vendors. Prepared and conducted trial presentations using Trial Director. Handled maintenance of computer network, equipment and software. Legal Assistant RIGGS, ABNEY, NEAL, TURPEN, ORBISON & LEWIS - Oklahoma City, OK 1995 to 2002 Prepared legal correspondence and documents, including briefs, appeals, summonses, subpoenas, complaints, motions, and organize exhibits. Met with clients to discuss details of case and to collect information. Worked directly with Tenth Circuit Court on administration of death penalty appeal cases. Communicated with clients on death row and family members. Summarized depositions and trail transcripts. Docketed court dates and deadlines and scheduled and make appointments. Education High school or equivalent Skills Filing, Billing, Outlook, Microsoft Outlook, Receptionist, Typing, Outlook, Billing, Scheduling, Lexis Certifications/Licenses Accounting Lite May 2007 to Present Francis Tuttle in OKC Microsoft Excel 2002 to 2002 Francis Tuttle, OKC Additional Information Training and Skills:  Excel; Power Point: Microsoft Word; Microsoft Outlook; WordPerfect; Case Map/Time Map; Trial Director; Time Matters; ADP/HRB & Payroll; Ceridian/HR & Payroll; TrialWorks; Association of Legal Administrators, 2008-2010; Chair of Education 2009-2010; SHRM, 2008-2010