Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Database Developer San Francisco, CA Highly dependable Software Developer and Database Administrator successful at troubleshooting and debugging.  Supportive and enthusiastic team player dedicated to streamlining processes and efficiently resolving project issues.  Expert in PL/SQL, SQL, and good knowledge of data networks  communications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer Corte de Cuentas de la República de El Salvador - San Salvador September 2014 to June 2019 • Identified issues within databases, performed troubleshooting and implemented effective solutions.  • Evaluated, designed, implemented and modified databases and database applications.  • Created and implemented database designs and data models.  • Tested programs and databases to identify issues and make necessary modifications.  • Created scripts and processes for data integration and maintenance.  • Developed database packages, procedures and functions.  • Administered, supported and monitored databases by proactively resolving database issues and maintaining servers. Head of IT department Corte de Cuentas de El Salvador - San Salvador January 2014 to August 2014 • Managed team of 21 of professionals.  • Spearheaded Data Network renewal project, resulting in a 50% increase in productivity.  • Strengthened company's business by leading implementation of New Web Oriented Systems. System Manager Tribunal Supremo Electoral - San Salvador January 2006 to January 2014 • Directed software programming and development of documentation.  • Monitored team progress and enforced deadlines.  • Updated and managed 10 project databases. System Analyst Tribunal Supremo Electoral - Salvador, SK January 2003 to January 2006 San Salvador, San Salvador  Drove continual improvement to system architecture by refactoring old legacy code.  Collaborated with engineering team members to define and develop new software.  Developed desktop applications using Oracle Form Suite 6i, 9i and 10g  Developed desktop applications using Visual Basic 2010  Developed mobile applications for Windows Mobile 6.0. Oracle database administrator running Grupo Datum - Salvador, SK January 2001 to August 2002 on various operating systems and as Oracle Database expert,  providing technical support for the organization clients. Education Business Consulting Universidad de El Salvador - San Salvador August 2006 to December 2008 Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Dr. José Matias Delgado - San Salvador July 1995 to January 2003 Skills DBA (5 years), Oracle Database (10+ years), PL SQL (10+ years), Oracle Apex (4 years), Oracle ADF (2 years), SQL (10+ years), MySQL (3 years) Additional Information • PL/SQL   • SQL expert  • Analytical Database servers  • Team player  • Self-starter  • Excellent problem solving skills  • Customer-oriented