Account & HR Admin Account &amp; HR Admin Admin Executive US Work Experience Account & HR Admin PJC Builders Pte Ltd - Singapore April 2019 to Present Duties and Responsibilities:?     .Handle company bank account     .Documents financial transactions by entering account information     .Maintaining current HR files and databases     .Updating and maintaining employee benefits, employment status, and similar records     .Handle scheduling of employees and related personnel issues. Admin Executive 1st Capital Pte Ltd February 2016 to April 2019 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Check Docs in oder / signatory  . Have excellent knowledge to handle complaint and enquiry.  . Handle company bank account  . Documents financial transactions by entering account information  . Maintaining computer system by updating and entering data  . Maintaining current HR files and databases  . Updating and maintaining employee benefits, employment status, and similar records  . Handle scheduling of employees and related personnel issues.  . Performing file audits to ensure that all required employee documentation is collected and maintained Database Administrator Eone Debt Recovery March 2014 to January 2016 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Encode Customer Data  . Bank Repayment follow up  . Control Office Expenses  . Check Docs in order/signatory Sales Coordinator VII Marketing Sdn Bhd January 2013 to January 2014 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Skilled in areas of inventory control, sales analysis, cashier management and staff supervision. Interact directly with customer to provide assistance and resolve problems  . Handle scheduling of employees and related personnel issues Architecture Coordinator Visa Engineering Pte Ltd December 2010 to December 2012 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Provide assistance to Project Manager during the construction process to ensure work is complete on time.  . Preparation of work schedule.  . Checking and reviewing subcontractor's job to ensure work is done in accordance to drawings and specifications.  . Resolve technical issues on site to ensure a smooth work flow.  . Preparation or reports and progress information Assistant Manager Hikosen Cara (Sabah) October 2006 to October 2009 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Experience as an assistant manager in an international franchise retail store  . Skilled in areas of inventory control, sales analysis, cashier management and staff supervision.  . Handle scheduling of employees and related personnel issues.  . Handle all aspects of bookkeeping and payroll; performed daily bank runs. Sales Coordinator Color Play Enterprise Pte Ltd December 2005 to September 2006 Duties and Responsibilities:  . Have excellent product knowledge and enjoy providing great customer service and after sales follow up.  . Prepare monthly sales report for senior management.  . Supervise product inventory; verify quantity of stock received.  . Perform monthly stock take. Education Diploma in Business Administration PSB Academy October 2019 St Ursula's Convent School 2005 Certificate Primary School Certificate Guilford Training Centre Pte Ltd Skills SALES (4 years), AUTOCAD (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), OF SALES (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Computer Knowledge  . Microsoft office ( Basic )  . Point of Sales (POS) Systems (Basic)  . Autocad (basic)