Box Office Manager Box Office Manager Ticket Operations & CRM Manager Chula Vista, CA Work Experience Box Office Manager SDCCU Stadium - San Diego, CA June 2019 to July 2019 • Proficient in Ticketmaster Classic (Host)  including creating ticket pricing and management of all aspects relating to enabling an event for sale through various channels  • Worked closely with Ticketmaster in ensuring that the box office equipment/reporting is operating efficiently  • Hired ticket sales staff and scheduled the box office for game day.  • Printed and organized will call tickets for fans, media, players and players families.  • Provided detailed sales and financial reports and prepared cash banks and daily accurate inventory of all tickets distributed  • Worked closely with event promoters and provided daily reports.  After the event, reconciled event and provided event audits. Ticket Operations & CRM Manager San Diego Fleet - San Diego, CA November 2018 to April 2019 Proficient in Ticketmaster Archtics Ticketing including event creation, manifest building, pricing and management of all aspects relating to enabling an event for sale through various channels  ? Worked closely with Ticketmaster in ensuring that the box office equipment/reporting is operating efficiently  ? Hired ticketing and Guest Services staff and managed the box office and Guest Services office on game days.  Assisted with reconciliation of game day receipts, cash management and credit card transactions.  ? Provided detailed sales and financial reports and prepared cash banks and daily accurate inventory of all tickets  distributed  ? Utilized Salesforce/Kore CRM and customer database to provide reporting and analysis to recommend best  sales and marketing practices CRM Manager/Guest Services Manager Louisville City FC - Louisville, KY October 2017 to August 2018 Work directly with the Director of Ticket Sales and created custom reports for data analytics to determine best  methods and pricing models.  ? Worked closely with SeatGeek in the implementation of SRO ticketing/CRM software. Maintained ongoing  relationship with SeatGeek and requested numerous software updates for our efficiency while at the same time  assisting SeatGeek in improving their ticketing/CRM system.  ? Created and executed numerous email marketing campaigns utilizing MailChimp. Gathered data from executed  campaigns for management and analyzed to help our email and ad campaigns  ? Oversaw the organization's database and created new methods of data capture to help increase our marketing  outreach.  ? Box office management on game days which included ticket sales as well as opening and closing box office  ? Oversaw the Guest Services department and assisted in several touch programs to aid in customer retention CRM/ Database Manager San Diego Chargers/Los Angeles Chargers - San Diego, CA June 2015 to May 2017 CRM/ Database Administrator San Diego Chargers/Los Angeles Chargers - San Diego, CA June 2012 to June 2015 Implement MS Dynamics 365 CRM within the Chargers organization and responsible for training staff and developing means for the organization to utilize the software to increase sales and help retain Season Ticket  Members  ? Develop CRM training program to train new staff and keep existing staff current with software updates  ? Mentor, advise and coach staff in both personal and professional development  ? Work closely with Management in creating dashboards or queries as needed  ? Maintain an ongoing relationship with Stone Timber River to communicate team needs to ensure that our CRM  software is current Guest Services Representative San Diego Chargers/Los Angeles Chargers - San Diego, CA March 2002 to June 2012 Oversaw Guest Services general email account ensuring a prompt response  ? Provided customer phone support in maintaining Season Ticket accounts.  ? Utilized Adobe Photoshop on numerous projects used in email blasts and website publications.  ? Worked directly with our Director of Ticket Operations to maintain our database  ? Received and resolved issues and complaints from Season Ticket Members and customers Ticket Seller San Diego Padres - San Diego, CA February 2001 to June 2004 Courteously greeted customers and efficiently processed transactions within a busy, fast-paced environment.  Assisted Spanish-speaking customers.  ? Collected payments and made sure the drawer balanced at the end of each day Ticket Seller San Diego Chargers/Los Angeles Chargers - San Diego, CA June 2001 to March 2002 Sales Representative Ticketmaster - San Diego, CA July 1999 to February 2001 Courteously greeted customers on the phone and efficiently processed transactions within a busy, fast-paced  environment. Assisted Spanish-speaking customers. Education High school or equivalent Additional Information KEY QUALIFICATIONS    ? Over 18 years Ticket Office experience ? Experienced in MS Office, dashboard creation  including Ticket Operations, CRM and Guest and creating custom advanced reports via Excel  Services management & Excel PivotTables  ? Ability to pull financial reports and analyze data ? Ability to work with a diverse workforce within  to determine relevant marketing strategies a fast-paced environment  ? Excellent organizational skills in lead importing, ? Skilled IT resource for additional ticket office  distribution, database cleansing, etc. support  ? Box Office Management including the hiring and ? Fluent in English & Spanish  training of box office staff    TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Microsoft Dynamics 365 ? Spinzo  ? Salesforce with Kore Integration ? Microsoft Mail Merge  ? Ticketmaster Archtics Ticketing Software ? MailChimp  ? Ticketmaster Host/TMwin ? Formstack  ? Ticketmaster Account Manager ? Adobe Photoshop  ? TM1 ? ISS 24/7 Venue/Event Management  ? SeatGeek SRO ? Typing skills (60+ wpm)  ? Microsoft Office