RE Database Administrator, Philanthropy Dept RE <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Philanthropy Dept RE Database Administrator, Philanthropy Dept - HopeHealth Sandwich, MA Motivated professional with effective interpersonal skills, proven administrative, finance and accounting skills within a  wide range of industries. Extensive knowledge Blackbaud's Raiser's Edge and support modules, as well as Excel. Effective  spoken and written communication skills. Understands processes. Able to set and accomplish goals and work as a member  of a team. Demonstrates a high level of integrity, confidentiality, and fairness. Work Experience RE Database Administrator, Philanthropy Dept HopeHealth - Sandwich, MA August 2015 to Present • Practiced Raiser's Edge data hygiene in accordance with best practices and procedures.  • Data entry of entire fundraising program of between $2M - $3M annually, including gifts such as: Capital, memorial, Grateful Family, event related, direct mail and bequest/planned gifts.  • Processed and acknowledged an average of 8,000 gifts annually  • Processed and reported on-line giving through Raiser's Edge On-Line Express and event module, Luminate.  • Assisted with segmentation of donor lists for six direct mail appeals annually.  • Reconciled weekly Raiser's Edge online donations with Blackbaud Merchant Services reports and produced  donation month end reports for reconciliation with the Finance Department.  • Utilized NetSmart database to access deceased patient notificant information for "in lieu of" donations.  • Produced monthly Power of Your Care reports, customized event reports and other reporting, as requested.  • Assisted with registration and check out at four yearly fundraising events.  • Oversaw and coordinated scheduling of Volunteer acknowledgement letter reviews. RE Database Administrator, Development Dept Cape Abilities - Hyannis, MA May 2011 to August 2015 • Tracked all invoices/expenses for both fundraising and marketing efforts.  • In collaboration with Director, participated in the production and submission of the annual department budget.  • Data entry of event, direct mail and bequest donations and produced gift acknowledgement letters.  • Processed and reported on-line giving through Raiser's Edge modules NetSolutions and event module, Sphere.  • Produced routine and customized reports in support of fundraising and marketing efforts.  • Reconciled weekly Raiser's Edge online donations with Blackbaud Merchant Services reports and produced  donation month end reports for reconciliation with the Finance Department.  • Reviewed obituaries for "in lieu of" requests; generated and mailed notificant letters and updated corresponding  donor records.  • Processed and reported on-line giving through Raiser's Edge modules, Net Community and Sphere.  • Assisted with registration and check-out at two fundraising events. Cost Administrator, Otis ANGB Environmental Remediation Project Environmental Chemical Corporation May 2004 to January 2009 • Prepared monthly cumulative variance budget report (CBVR) and progress updates for several projects.  • Maintained vendor files and reconciled expenses with Finance Department.  • Recorded project costs and payroll in proprietary cost tracking database.  • Reviewed subcontractor monthly invoices and compiled Contractor monthly project cost invoice for submission  to the Client for reimbursal.  • Interfaced with field personnel and resolve travel expense, payroll and living expense issues, issued field personnel  expense checks. Change Order Administrator MWRA - Boston, MA June 1996 to June 2003 • Prepared draft and final change orders for project work changes.  • Drafted and finalized change order staff summaries for Department and Board of Directors approval.  • Evaluated contractor proposals per contract specifications by ensuring correct indirect, labor and equipment rates  and fees applied.  • Communicated with field engineers for technical assistance with change order documents.  • Coordinated with Procurement Department on finalizing and approving change order documents. Project Administrator ICF Kaiser Engineers - Boston, MA June 1988 to June 2003 • Assisted in the relocation of Project personnel and fit out of new location from Arlington St. to Schraffts Ctr.  • Reviewed subcontractor and Construction Manager monthly project cost invoice for submission to the Client for reimbursal per contract specifications by ensuring correct indirect, labor and equipment rates and fees applied.  • Entered bi-monthly Construction Manager's Project payroll.  • Reconciliated Project costs with home office Finance Department.  • Performed general administrative duties and assisted project managers in monthly status report preparation. Education Bachelor of Arts University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA