Database Programmer <span class="hl">Database</span> Programmer Database Programmer - Cornerstone Building Brands Columbus, OH Motivated IT professional with a passion for continuous learning and improvement. Nearly 10 years of IT experience in areas such as Database and SQL Server Administration, BI and ETL Development, Report Development, Systems Administration, Networking, and Software and Hardware IT Support. Strong background in problem solving and process improvements with a talent for finding innovative solutions for complex problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Programmer Cornerstone Building Brands 2016 to Present Senior database programmer and acting team lead. Design, build and maintain data warehouse environments, including raw and staged data to Kimball star models.    Design and maintain ETL replication processes from ERP, Finance, HR, and other business applications to the data warehouse. Build and maintain Analysis Services multidimensional cubes, including MDX calculations for measures, KPIs, and date functions.    Configure and maintain Azure tabular analysis models. Other duties include report development and maintenance of SSRS environment, administration and maintenance of all BI SQL Servers, ad-hoc querying and BA support, support end users with report and data related needs. Gaming System Administrator Scioto Downs Racino 2014 to 2016 Maintain 30+ servers related to the Video Lottery Terminal (VLT) gaming system, player reward systems, and tax/SARS systems. Administer users, troubleshoot front and back-end systems, and perform system maintenance. Lead administrator for multi-site universal customer rewards system and their databases.    Maintain, Update, and create ETL via SSIS from gaming system data and rewards system data to data warehouse databases. Create and update SSRS reports and ad-hoc queries for department business owners.    Facilitate IT audits for in scope gaming system applications for SOX, MICS, and Ohio Lottery compliance.    Maintain isolated test lab of VLT games and player reward software for testing new applications, dlls, and procedures. IT Specialist Scioto Downs Racino 2013 to 2014 Help desk support for all in house teams from the back office to the gaming floor. Network infrastructure maintenance and port provisioning, workstation troubleshooting, configuring and deploying POS systems, cable management and running, and whole casino audio system as well as racetrack audio system configuration and maintenance. Network Hardware Technician Horizon Datacom 2012 to 2013 Test inbound pre-owned networking equipment for port functionality, clear configurations, adjust memory, note conditions and check into inventory. Provide In house IT support and customer support, as well as pre-sales technical support for the sales team. Network Technology Sales Horizon Datacom 2008 to 2012 Develop HTLM webpages for e-Sales including eBay, Amazon, and on prem hosted web site. Work with international sales, follow up on leads, and work with regular customers. Handle returns and upkeep on product listings and pricing. Education Bachelor of Science in business Franklin University Present Associate of Applied Science in CS / CSCC Franklin University May 2017 Skills Programming (5 years), ETL (5 years), Data Warehousing (5 years), Business Intelligence (4 years), Database Administration (5 years), SSIS (5 years), SSRS (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/corbylane