Oracle Database Administrator at Quanta Services Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> at Quanta Services Oracle Database Administrator at Quanta Services - Genuent Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator at Quanta Services Genuent - Houston, TX July 2018 to Present * Support over forty 2-node RAC Dataguard databases on eighth rack Exadata with total size of 67TB from Oracle Cloud Control 12c/13c.  * Main focal dba of data warehousing databases that support multiple applications: JD Edwards, Hyperion, Boomi, EcoSys, Talend, and Vertex.  * Tasked with researching and testing Oracle Advanced Compression and Hybrid Columnar Compression (HCC).  * Perform daily DBA tasks, including but not limited to verify daily backups and resolve backup related issues  * Verify health check by reviewing database alert log errors, and space usage.  * Resolve blocking, deadlocking, log shipping, connectivity or security issues.  * Monitor database health and performance using Enterprise Manager (12c and 13c) or queries and provide recommendations based on monitoring results.  * Keep up with tickets assigned and provide updates frequently.  * Identify and tune poorly performing reports and queries in an efficient and timely manner using Enterprise Manager. Oracle Database Administrator at New Avon IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX December 2016 to July 2018 * Member of the Oracle DBA migration team of Oracle and Greenplum databases from client's data center to IBM's data center in Poughkeepsie, New York.  * Supported migration of 144 Oracle databases in size from 30GB to 1.2TB.  * Implemented backup solutions of all databases in new data center.  * Provide steady state support after migration.  * Installed Oracle client on 93 application Windows servers and configured them with network connections. Oracle Database Administrator at Vanity Fair IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX July 2016 to April 2018 * Logical DBA support of 190 databases worldwide for any tickets open for logical requests and performance/tuning of long-running queries and database slowness. Databases range in size from 72GB to 2.1TB.  * Responsible for refreshing and cloning of databases per customer requirements using RMAN, Data Pump, and hot backup scripts.  * Tuned SAP databases where reports ran 17% faster.  * On-call 24x7 DBA support. Oracle Database Administrator IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX April 2009 to November 2016 * Administered and provided production DBA support to 3 databases for software ClickCommerce to maximize USCG aircraft availability while reducing inventory management costs of consumable and repairable service parts and depot Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul labor (MRO) costs.  * Contributed to the overall IBM Project Team being awarded a grade "A" on its Project Management Report for 7 straight years.  * Was a key member of the United States Coast Guard, Aviation Logistics Center, Demand Forecasting Tool (USCG ALC DFT) support team and Production Support DBA.  * Performed weekly refresh from PROD to DEV using data pump.  * Upgraded databases from 10.2.0.2 to 10.2.0.4 and then later to 11.2.0.4.  * Applied CPU, PSU patches and regular bug patches with Opatch utility as per the business requirement. Oracle Database Administrator at Hertz IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX December 2013 to December 2015 * Administered 16 databases totaling 1.8TB for Oracle E-Business Suite Application 11i, R12 (AP, PO, AR, OM & GL) and Oracle Business Intelligence.  * Upgraded 4 Oracle BI databases totaling 760GB from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.4.  * Tuned long running Oracle BI queries, reducing data load runtime from 156 minutes to 52 minutes.  * Tuned GL statement reports to reduce execution time from 2.5 minutes to 48 seconds.  * Provided 24x7 Production database & application mission critical environments.  * Applied patches to update and implement security fixes to Oracle E-Business Suite.  * Processed database change requests from the application developers as when required. Oracle Database Administrator IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX August 2011 to June 2013 * Spent 30hrs straight one weekend to reorganize and partitioned a production non- partitioned table with over 300 millions rows using Oracle DBMS_REDEFINITION. After reorganize, reports with performance issues ran in 45 minutes or less instead of 3 hours.  * Upgraded Data Warehouse application databases from 10i to 11g, totaling 5TB.  * Configured and implemented Data Guard on Data Warehouse application databases.  * Provided 24x7 production DBA support to Data Warehouse databases.  * Streamlined refresh processes of HR databases from 8 to 4.5 hours. Oracle Database Administrator IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX October 2008 to August 2011 * Member of Oracle DBA 24x7 team that supported almost 400 servers and 700 databases.  * Configured and Implemented Data Guard on pharmacy prescriptions databases. The application for these databases is the most important and profitable for WellPoint.  * Performed weekly refresh ~300GB database from PROD to DEV and QA for claims application. Oracle Database Administrator at ACI Worldwide IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX October 2008 to October 2008 Migrated 73 databases total 900GB from United Kingdom to IBM datacenter in Boulder, CO. Oracle Database Administrator at Minute Maid IBM Global Business Services - Houston, TX March 2001 to May 2008 * Supported 28 databases for Oracle E-Business Suite Application, ranging in size from 30GB to 800GB.  * Met weekly with user groups to address and resolve performance related.  * Performed yearly DR exercise at off-site facility. Oracle Database Administrator at Eckerd IBM Global Business Services - Clearwater, FL November 1999 to March 2001 Responsible for administration of several Oracle databases including Oracle Financial and PeopleSoft HR.    Oct 19998 - Nov 1999 Oracle Database Administrator  Rexall Sundown, Boca Raton, FL  * Provided support for several Oracle Financial databases, including Oracle backups and restores of the Production database to Test/UAT/Dev environments and performed all Oracle Financial DBA related tasks in regards to the installation/upgrade /project migrations.    Apr 19995 - Oct 1998 Data Specialist  Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting), St. Petersburg, FL  * Performed code migrations throughout projects and go-live implementations. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL 1995 Skills ORACLE, SQL, RMAN, AIX, LINUX, SUN, UX, HP-UX, RDBMS, OEM, LOADER, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, Oracle Dba, DBA, ETL Additional Information Technical Skills  RDBMS: Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i  Operating Systems: Linux, AIX, SUN, HP-UX, Microsoft Windows  Tools & Utilities: OEM, Tkprof, Statspack, AWR, ADDM, TOAD, RMAN, Export/Import, DataPump, SQL Loader, Automatic SQL Tuning, ASH, SQL Advisor, Putty, Data Guard