Count Room Attendant Count Room Attendant Mail Order Clerk Lanexa, VA Work Experience Count Room Attendant Colonial Downs - New Kent, VA April 2019 to Present Responsible for the daily counting of all money deposited into the cash boxes in the Historic Horse Racing (HHR) Machines at both the New Kent and Richmond locations for Rosie’s Gaming. Also responsible for the changing of the Ticket Redemption Units (TRU) at both locations. Coordinates with the Security Department to ensure a seamless process for both HHR and TRU drops, well as vendors to ensure the same for the daily money count.  Mail Order Clerk Smithfield Specialty Foods Group - Toano, VA November 2018 to December 2018 *Provides call center customer service and support for catalog orders  at Smithfield Foods and The Peanut Shop of Williamsburg for the 2018  holiday season.    *Solves complex customer issues and complaints resulting from shipping, product, and order errors. Head Cashier Barnes & Noble Booksellers - Williamsburg, VA October 2015 to February 2018 *Responsible for the day to day operations of the cashwrap area by preparing daily deposits, customer service and support, as well as  merchandising product.    *Administered training for all newly hired employees for customer  service, receiving, and cashiering.    * Provided backup and coverage for the receiving department when needed Receiving Clerk Barnes & Noble Bookstore - Lynnwood, WA June 2012 to August 2015 *Responsible for the daily receiving and staging of new shipments, as well as the product placement of all incoming inventory.    *Prepared returns for shipment back to vendors.    *Organized and maintained the receiving and back stock department.    *Provided customer service and cashwrap support whenever needed. Trained database administrator US Navy December 2001 to May 2012 Aviation Maintenance Administration, December 2001 - May 2012    *Responsible for maintaining aircraft logbooks, technical publications,  and scheduling maintenance and inspections. Prepared  correspondence and performance evaluations.    *Trained database administrator for both Legacy and Optimized Naval  Aviation Command Management Information Systems.    *Mastered the establishment of technical publications libraries for both aircraft and aircraft support systems, as well as Maintenance  Administration processes and procedures. Trained over 40 employees  in the use and procedures of both paper and electronic publications; as well as 10 employees in Maintenance Administration procedures.    *As a senior enlisted female at VAQ-141 and in the Air Department of the USS Ronald Reagan, was responsible for the well-being of all junior  female issues, both personal and professional. This included, but was  not limited to, various command and personal issues, and career  counseling.    *Leading Petty Officer for NAS Whidbey Island base administration.  Oversaw the preparation, routing, and processing of correspondence  for over 50 tenant commands, 17 squadrons, Search and Rescue, and Commander of NAS Whidbey Island.    *In charge of training programs at 6 different commands, including  Weapons, Air, and Aircraft Intermediate Maintenance Departments.    *4 years as Sexual Assault Victims Advocate. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Deferred California Southern University - Irvine, CA August 2017 Diploma New Kent High School June 1999 Skills EXCELLENT WRITTEN AND VERBAL COMMUNICATION SKILLS (10+ years), MS Office (10+ years), Written And Verbal (10+ years), Mail Clerk (Less than 1 year), Data Entry (10+ years), Shipping Receiving (4 years), Sorting (4 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6 Additional Information Professional Skills  MS Office •••••  Written And Verbal Communication •••••