Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Northrop Grumman Corporation Honolulu, HI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Northrop Grumman Corporation - Chamblee, GA September 2015 to Present • Database administration at Internal Revenue Service data center for Microsoft SQL server databases. Provided the technical support to SQL Server databases for multiple user groups at IRS Data Center.  • Successfully accomplished the design and implementation for Contact Recording System at IRS Data Center by SQL Server Cluster Service on Windows Server 2012R2. Provided onsite technical support and training on Windows Server Cluster and SQL Server Cluster Service on SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2012.  • Performed the ETL package design for BI project by Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Users data report design by using Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). ETL data processing from multiple data resources, including Oracle, Informix, Access, Excel file and flat file.  • Implementation of virtual servers environment by VMware. Installation of VMware vSphere ESXi 5.5 and vCenter server. Storage and network configuration for VMware virtual servers. Monitor server activities and data storage usage. Maintenance of VMware database.  • Database objects design and coding, including SQL procedures, functions, and triggers. Performed database troubleshooting, repairing, database activity monitor and performance tuning. Database Administrator CGI Federal November 2011 to August 2015 • Successfully accomplished the tasks for support AWRDS system (Army War Reserve Deployment System) on US Army NIPR network. Setup data storage, database access credentials, and network directories on Sybase database server.  • Configuration of Sybase database to support AWRDS application running on Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2003R2, as well as the application settings on Windows 7, Windows Vista, and Windows XP client computers. Sybase SQL Anywhere installation and upgrade. Database administration and routine maintenance. Database performance tuning.  • Worked as onsite technical leader on supporting production systems, resolving database and Windows system technical issues. Provided the guidance and instructions to local and remote site team members during system implementation and upgrade. Installation and configuration of Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2003R2. Create application server, add Windows components and features, and setup NTFS system disk. Configuration of system storage by Windows iSCSI utility.  • Provided SQL Server technical trainings to junior level database administrators, including RDBMS normalization, SQL query design, database partitioning and file structure, daily tasks and troubleshooting. Performed SQL Server 2008R2 database maintenance, database performance tuning, and SQL database objects design. Migration of SQL Server 2008R2 databases between the different networks. Database Administrator / System Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Baghdad, IQ May 2010 to November 2011 • Implementation of SharePoint Server Farm for front-end servers, index servers, SQL Server 2008 database cluster servers. Implementation of network subnet, configuration of CISCO Catalyst switches, routers. Configuration of SAN data storage for RAID 50 and RAID 10. Equal Logic SAN storage PS5000 and PS6000 firmware update. Windows Server 2008 configuration on Dell PowerEdge 1950 and PowerEdge R610 Servers.  • Responsible for the design of star schema dimensions and fact tables on SQL Server 2008 for Business Intelligence project. Implementation and performance tuning for OLAP (Microsoft Analysis Services) cubes for different divisions. MDX queries design for data analysis and end users' data access.  • Migration of OLAP cubes from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008. Migration of SQL server system databases and ETL packages from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008. ETL design on SQL 2008 Integration Services (SSIS). OLAP cube design on SQL 2008 Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Responsible for database objects design for BI project, including tables, views, procedures, functions, table partitions, indexes and triggers. Database performance tuning and troubleshoot system event errors from SharePoint server farm. Business Intelligence Lead Developer / Senior Data Warehouse DBA Camber Corporation - Honolulu, HI June 2008 to May 2010 • Successfully accomplished the design of data warehouse for BI project on Defense Safety Enterprise System (DSES). OLAP cube design, dimension table, fact table and bridge table design by using Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). Full life cycle data warehouse project design, business rules, user interface design, back end architecture.  • Provided as technical lead on design and implementation of OLAP cubes for Defense Safety Enterprise System on mishaps data analysis for US Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps by using Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Aggregation and partition design on OLAP cubes. Business Intelligence solution design for Defense Safety Oversight Council (DSOC). Migration data warehouse database from Oracle database and SAS database to SQL server for Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC).  • Successfully accomplished the task of the application convert from SAS to SQL database. ETL tool design for data warehouse process, including load staging data, populate star schema database. Design data load flow for Microsoft Access database, XML data, SAS database data, Excel and plain text data files. SAS procedures and functions coding.  • Data warehouse maintenance and performance tuning, bottleneck troubleshooting, optimize user queries for data search and retrieve. Migration of database from legacy database (Informix, SAS, Teradata, and Oracle) to SQL Server.  • Data warehouse ETL tool design and implementation by SQL Server 2005 Integration Services (SSIS). OLAP cube design and implementation by Analysis Services (SSAS). Troubleshooting data warehouse performance bottlenecks on relation databases and OLAP cube databases.  • Design partition function and partition scheme for large fact tables. Analysis Services performance tuning by cache warming. MDX queries design and performance tuning. Databases index design and tuning on data warehouse databases. Defects fix for dimensions and measure groups on Analysis Services cubes. Excel VBA programming and Pivot table design. Education Master of Science Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA