Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Arlington, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Analyst Programmer British Telecommunications Public Limited Company - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Designed and Developed Data Marts, ETL workflows and enhancements in PL/SQL, Oracle Warehouse Builder and Linux shell scripts.  ? Developed and maintained scripts in Shell for acquiring and processing data feed into database.  ? Designed the model and developed code for configuring a Virtual private database for retail order and asset data.  ? Designed, Developed and maintained reports in OBIEE and Oracle Apex.  ? Technical requirements elicitation from Architecture teams.  ? Creating and Maintaining High-level and Low-level design documents.  ? Performed Unit testing, Data quality testing.  ? Bug Fixes, SQL Performance tuning.  ? Dev support during release.    Accomplishments  Replaced a key resource in the team. Handled two unassigned projects simultaneously.    Skills Used  Data Modelling, ETL Development, Data Mart Design Database Administrator Monsanto - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities  ? Database Administration, 24*7 on-call support: DBMS server monitoring, health checks, troubleshooting issues, Resource Management, Auditing, Access management, Security management and Performance tuning.  ? Supported all Major unplanned and planned Outages, Incidents and Change requests for the Database.  ? Oracle Apex administration - managing servers, users and workspaces.  ? Autosys administration – Creating, managing and troubleshooting all business critical batch jobs in production environment.  ? Creating, scheduling and troubleshooting of ETL jobs, Database script batch jobs using DBMS Job, Shell scripting, Autosys and Cron.   ? Converted several manual tasks of Data Quality Management and Auditing into automated jobs using Autosys, PL/SQL and Oracle Apex.  ? Worked with Oracle DBA tools: Oracle OEM, RMAN, EXPDP, IMPDP, and Data Guard.  ? Automated manual tasks in Database Cloning/Refresh and developed PL/SQL code to replace them.  ? Developed a tool for Automated Database account maintenance across all environments using Oracle Apex and PL/SQL, saved 40 person-days of work.  ? Completely eliminated manual tasks and automated the process of Database account password changes scheduled maintenance activity through PL/SQL.  ? Goldengate support: Supporting all Business critical replication workflows.    Accomplishments  “On The Spot” Award in Monsanto for Best performance in team – July 2013.    Skills Used  DBA, ETL DevOps, PL/SQL and shell script development Education Master's in Computer Science University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2015 to 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science B.V.B. College Of Engineering and Technology - Hubli, Karnataka 2006 to 2011 Skills PL/SQL (4 years), Oracle SQL (4 years), C (4 years), C++ (4 years), Java (3 years), Informatica (4 years), MySQL (4 years), Linux (4 years), Shell scripting (4 years), Python (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bhushanyavagal https://github.com/bhushanyavagal