Business Intelligence Developer Business Intelligence Developer New Carrollton, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Intelligence Developer Lowes Company Inc. - Upper Marlboro, MD January 2018 to Present 1. Develop SQL databases and BI solutions using T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS   and query performance tunings.    2· Develop and deploy SSIS packages to extract, transform and load   data from various sources into databases.    3· Create and manage database objects such as stored procedures,   functions, cursors, views, triggers and schemas.    4·  Develop and deploy reports using SQL Server Reporting Services   (SSRS).    5·  Perform data mapping (source-to-target mapping) and create data   dictionary.     6.  Identify and troubleshoot database issues.    7. Implement event handlers and error handling in SSIS packages. ETL Developer Associate Lowes Company Inc. - Upper Marlboro, MD June 2017 to Present 1 ·   Created and deployed ETL processes (SSIS packages) for data   loads from multiple source systems.    2. Developed and deployed SSRS reports (tabular and matrix).    3 ·  Expertise in T-SQL writing stored procedures, triggers and functions.    4 ·  Created and managed SQL Server Agent jobs.    5 ·  Performed backup and restoration of databases as needed.    6 . Developed technical and best practices documentation. Department Manager Lowe’s Companies, Inc. - New Carrollton, MD May 2006 to June 2017 1·   Managed three different departments (tools/hardware, outside garden,   inside lawn/garden/seasonal) during this period.    2·   Supervised staff ranging from 5 to 12 employees depending on   department and season.    3·   Trained new hires on job duties to be performed and how to satisfy   customers.    4·   Changed seasonal inventory and department product placement   based on company-wide plans.    5·   Maintained proper inventory by comparing product on hand to   customer’s needs and seasonal demands.    6·   Ensured price consistencies between company recommended and   actual tagged merchandise.    7·   Assisted customers with purchases by advising and recommending   better quality products, how to use and operate products and special   ordering if not available in store.    8·   Answered customer questions on product usage and problems   encountered during their shopping experience.    9·   Worked with a very diverse and multicultural customer base and   assisting with their needs.    10.  Consistently awarded bonuses for exceeding revenue and sales   goals. Customer Service Representative Lowe’s Companies, Inc. - New Carrollton, MD August 2004 to June 2006 1·   Specialized in paint department, but assisted throughout store if   needed.  2·   Specially trained and operated store machinery     3·   Special ordered products for customers when not available in store.    4. Provided stellar customer support to a diverse customer population. Database Administrator University of Ghana - Accra, Ghana October 2001 to October 2002 1·   Created databases, tables, indexes, constraints, views, stored   procedures, and triggers.     2·   Designed and developed SSIS packages to import and export data   from MS Excel, SQL Server and flat files.    3·   Monitored the daily backup process and general performance of SQL.    4·   Performed installations, configurations, and upgrades such as service   packs.    5·   Reviewed and facilitated processing and response for all Change   Requests (CR) including technical, cost and schedule. Education None in International Farm Fellows Program University of Florida - Gainesville, FL December 2002 to June 2004 Bachelor's in Agricultural Economics University of Ghana September 1997 to May 2001 Skills BI (2 years), SSRS (2 years), Ssis (2 years), Business Intelligence (2 years), Excel (5 years), Word (10+ years), ETL (3 years), Data Warehouse (2 years), Microsoft Visual Studio (2 years), Scheduling (2 years), Stored Procedure (2 years), Tableau (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) June 2019 to Present 1. MCSA: SQL 2016 Database Development - Certified 2019   2. Exam 761 - Querying Data With Transact-SQL  3. Exam 762 - Developing SQL Databases Assessments Data Analysis — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bxwvtq3kgjcnqyjl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.