Accounting Specialist II Accounting Specialist II Accounting Specialist II - Entia, LLC Sanford, FL Reliable, solutions-oriented professional with a Bachelor's Degree and tireless commitment to delivering top-quality results and supporting company objectives. Adept in administering accounting and contract-related functions in compliance with organizational policies and procedures. Exhibit superior interpersonal skills while forming relationships with clients, vendors and staff. Work Experience Accounting Specialist II Entia, LLC 2014 to Present * Oversee accounting functions and banking transactions for the business as well as numerous subsidiary companies.  * Handle accounts receivable and accounts payable activities.  * Address and resolve billing, invoicing, and payment-related issues.  * Reconcile bank statements and credit card transactions.  * Audit expenses and support month-end closing processes. Budget Analyst / Office Administrator 2013 to 2014 * Headed daily office operations while acting as a primary liaison for subcontractors and the corporate office.  * Researched, tracked, and resolved invoicing issues with customers and subcontractors.  * Executed tasks involving cost analysis, fiscal allocation, purchase orders, and budget preparation.  * Implemented new procedures to improve operational workflow efficiencies. Office Manager Definitive Design Solutions 2011 to 2013 Supported the start-up of a new business while overseeing functions associated with A/R, A/P, bookkeeping, records/file management, and regulatory compliance. Property Database Specialist Orlando Health, Inc 2003 to 2011 * Held accountability for the management of commercial real estate contracts.  * Reviewed and interpreted contract agreements as well as terms and conditions.  * Verified contractual compliance with legal and federal requirements.  * Prepared legal documents for execution and monitored progress from inception to close.  * Created and maintained a database of building specifications.  * Oversaw initiatives for budget creation, monthly reporting, payments, and account reconciliations.  * Assisted with campus development projects; conducted space analysis to identify inefficiencies and made recommendations for improvement. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration University of South Florida Certificate in Paralegal Studies Boston University