Contractor Contractor Olathe, KS Analytical professional with strong background in financial analysis, mortgage lending & project management.    CORE QUALIFICATION  • Ability to see the big picture to manage projects effectively from inception to finalization  • Excellent conflict resolution skills with ability to hear the problem and offer viable solutions for a win-win situation  • Strong communication, analytical & data organization / interpretation skills  • Proficient at data accumulation, monitoring & creating financial reports identifying trends for recommends to management  • Mature with strong business ethics displaying discretion and confidentiality    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS Work Experience Contractor RTI INC September 2013 to August 2019 PROPIETOR  09/2013-08/2019  • Contracted and installed ceramic tile into new and existing residences. Worked closely with the homeowners to determine the style and design of the project and insured that the homeowner was satisfied with the results. Installations included entry ways, bathrooms, kitchens, finished basements, fireplaces, etc. Demo and removal of material in existing residences as needed. Tools used included a wet-saw and general tile installation standards such as mortar trawls, cordless drill, etc.    • SPRINT - PROJECT COORDINATOR I - (Contracted though JMA, Inc.)    08/2013-10/2013    • During the Decommissioning stage of all of the iDEN sites obtained from the Sprint-Nextel merger, I was responsible for contacting the utility companies to ensure that power was safely disconnected and final billing was received on all remaining cell sites. Once the final payment was generated. It was my responsibility to follow up and sign off as completed. (Short Term Contract)    • GOODMAN NETWORKS - PROJECT COORDINATOR I - (Contracted through Experis US, Inc.) INSURANCE SPECIALIST KEYBANK February 2017 to January 2018 Managed personal residential portfolio of approximately 6,000 to 8,000 loans and insured that each Residential Mortgage was insurance per required loan guidelines and premium payment was received via contact with insurance companies, agents and homeowners. Requested payments on renewals, resolved cancellation issues and claims issues. In addition, developed Excel program that identified duplicate renewal payments to streamline process for entire division. Primary tools used: McCracken/Strategy, RECWeb and Microsoft Excel 2010. Database Administrator for Siterra Program Decommissioned iDen Sprint Nextel Cell Towers September 2012 to March 2013 Managed the operational aspects of on-going projects and served as liaison between project managers planning, design, implementation and optimization and contractors designated to complete assignments.  • Developed process to ensure electrical power to the site was safely disconnected & removed by the utility co. prior to start of deconstruction.  • Served as Database Administrator for Siterra Program. Liaison for all clients with security access to database as well as exported data from Siterra daily to create Manager Reports to monitor progress, forecast revenue, time lapse deficits, etc. using V-LOOKUPS, H-LOOKUPS & IF-LOOKUPS.    • SPRINT / ERICSSON - CONTRACTS ADMINISTRATOR Contracts Administrator and Team Lead Landlord Solutions Hotline January 2005 to February 2012 Provided extensive investigation for Lease Contract obligations. Trained all new employees and contractors as they were added to team and provided daily on-going support. Instrumental in setting up ACH process to wire monthly and annual Lease payments to landlords which reduced the volume of monthly check disbursements by 62%. Worked one on one with landlords to resolve all issues and provide insight to terms of their contracts either by phone or through correspondence. Escalated all financial defaults SNDA's and non-compliance issues. Partnered with the Sprint Legal department for resolution.    • SPRINT - BUDGET ANALYST I key point of contact and analyst LTD National Logistics team April 1999 to November 2001 for over five hundred employees. Budget vs. Actual results were within 1% within this time period.  • Served as key point of contact and analyst for all Sprint LTD Logistics budget issues related to billing and accounts receivable systems.  • Performed research and investigation to correct and determine root cause of any reported billing issues.  • Maintained Access Database designed specifically for Sprint Logistics Division to monitor and create annual budget.    • SPRINT - BENEFITS ANALYTIC COORDINATOR Decommissioned iDen Sprint Nextel Cell Towers February 1998 to April 1999 Worked closely with outside investment managers hired by Sprint to manage the 401k and Pension fund(s) with combined assets of over seven billion dollars to monitor their projected and actual earnings.  • Prepared and submitted the annual budget for our internal Sprint team consisting of eight employees using PeopleSoft software.  • Analyzed all RFP's for prospective new managers and estimated cost of projected quarterly and annual return on investments.  • Prepared and submitted quarterly and annual report to the Sprint Board of Trustee's showing Pension and 401k management results. Education BACHELOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION BAKER UNIVERSITY 2001 ASSOCIATES OF GENERAL STUDIES in GENERAL STUDIES KANSAS CITY KANSAS COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Kansas City, KS 1993 Skills Excel, Microsoft excel, Excel 2010, Microsoft excel 2010, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Mortgage, Mortgage lending, Financial analyst, Lending, Life insurance, Financial analysis, Quantitative, Quantitative analysis, Customer service, Data analysis, Team lead, Peoplesoft Additional Information Experienced in the Following areas: Consumer & Mortgage Lending, Insurance Specialist, Licensed Kansas Life Insurance Agent, Microsoft Excel Certification, Ten plus years Customer Service Call Center operations, Five plus years of Financial Analysis    Financial Analyst  Advanced knowledge of quantitative analysis using Microsoft Excel 2010, PeopleSoft, Strategy, Siterra, Harbor Flex & PACS.    Project Management /Team Lead  Excellent analytical, organizational & project management skills  Independently manage multiple tasks & projects with ability to prioritize tasks in a methodical manner for successful deadline completion    • PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  Proficient In: Microsoft Office Excel 2010 and 2013, Word, PowerPoint and Outlook.  PeopleSoft, Strategy, RECWeb & PACS.  Consumer & Mortgage Lending.  Financial & Data Analysis.    • Currently pursing Microsoft Excel Advanced Certification through Kansas Works.  • Kansas Life Insurance Certificate and License August 2019    • References available upon request