Senior Director, Data Services Senior Director, Data Services Senior Director, Data Services - VERITY, A HEALTHSTREAM COMPANY Thornton, CO Work Experience Senior Director, Data Services VERITY, A HEALTHSTREAM COMPANY September 2016 to Present Directing and aligning the Verity Data Services Teams in Chicago, Louisville and San Diego, and the Verity Database  Administration team. Responsible for teams that migrate customers from various data sources or competitor  platforms to the HealthStream suite of applications. Architect and develop tools and process improvements to streamline data migrations into our applications. Provide team leadership, project oversight, scheduling and interact with clients to refine requirements, set project goals, milestones, and deliverables. Senior Director, Technical Operations, Information Security Officer REED GROUP, LTD February 2013 to September 2016 Reporting directly to the CEO, led a team of managers and directors in implementing a technology roadmap spanning  all of Reed Group's corporate and product infrastructure and software. Responsible for delivering outcomes that  provide business value to both internal and external customers. Created a Batch Operations Team to work closely  with customers to design and implement automated solutions to improve B2B interactions, reducing error rates and improving overall satisfaction. Implemented a global change control board that reduced production incidents by  more than 25%, freeing resources to focus on technological improvements, customer implementations, and, ultimately, driving down cost as a percentage of revenue. Created and managed an $8M technology budget.  As the Information Security Officer, responsible for articulating the information security strategy that reflects overall  business objectives and support the development, enforcement, and maintenance of security, compliance and privacy programs for Reed Group. Manage application vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, Intrusion  Detection/Intrusion Prevention systems as well as security audits. Lead risk and security activities for the company, including security architecture, operations, monitoring, incident response, and awareness training, including social  engineering awareness. Participate in all sales efforts through new client security questionnaires, sales meetings and client vendor management compliance. REED GROUP, LTD July 2007 to September 2016 Director, Technical Operations REED GROUP, LTD April 2009 to February 2013 Led a team of 20 technical resources spanning Database Administration, Software Configuration Management, and Release Engineers. Designed, planned and implemented four highly-available, redundant, multi-pathed production  environments in two different physical locations for Reed Group's SaaS offering. Developed and implemented  Business Continuity Plan and Disaster Recovery plan. Database Administration Manager / Database Administrator REED GROUP, LTD July 2007 to April 2009 Maintained and administered 35 MS SQL Server 2005 servers supporting both back office operations and Reed  Group's SaaS application. Provided 24/7 monitoring of 4 production SQL clusters. Implemented a strict security  policy, disaster recovery model, and created and executed a plan to move the company's online application to an external co-location-managed facility. Created and maintained stored procedures, triggers, and jobs to enhance  performance and prevent data corruption. Worked closely with product development team to improve production  database design and performance of production database operations. Database Administrator / Systems Administrator ACXIOM INSIGHT March 2003 to July 2007 Administered 20 MS SQL Server 2005 servers supporting both back office operations and e-commerce applications for Acxiom's Risk Mitigation line of business. Installed and maintained high-availability SQL clusters to provide  continuous up-time for the company's 24/7 online applications. Created and enforced strict security policy, ran  backups and tested disaster recovery from tape plans, and monitored all aspects of server health. Performed  upgrades from MS SQL 2000 to MS SQL Server 2005 in order to utilize the latest software improvements, such as partitioned tables in multi-billion row databases. Created and maintained stored procedures, triggers, and jobs to  enhance performance and prevent data corruption. Utilized SQL Profiler to monitor and improve query performance in production. Provided ongoing training to Junior DBA's. Education Post-Graduate Certificate in Applied Information Technology in Applied Information Technology INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE Bachelor of Arts in Social Science COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY Skills DB2, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G Additional Information Proven history of designing and implementing technology solutions that grow locally housed software applications  to enterprise-scale, hosted private cloud solutions utilizing the latest technologies. Very strong database skills on  multiple platforms coupled with operating systems administration and networking experience. Consistent record of  building enterprise-class security models for all aspects of public-facing applications. Passion for building capable,  cohesive technical teams with a strong customer focus. Excellent communication skills that bridge the gap between  technical and non-technical audiences.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Software: ETL tools, SSIS, DTS, SSRS, IIS, MS Office, Exchange, Norton, McAfee, TrendMicro, SQL  Profiler, VB, Java, .NET    Operating Systems: Windows NT/9x/2000/XP/7, Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012 some Cisco and Unix    Hardware: Dell suite of servers both rack and floor, HP suite of servers, iSCSI Storage,  print/scan/fax machines. EMC Clarion SAN (AX150, CX4-120, CX300, CX700), EMC  VNX-2. IBM Blade Server/BladeCenter. Load Balancing: A10 Networks, F5 BIG-IP.  Firewalls: Juniper SSG-550. Cisco Catalyst Switch 4948. IDS/IDP, DLP Systems    Protocols: TCP/IP, FTP, FTPS, SFTP, HTTP, HTTPS, AS2, SMTP, TLS, Zix    Databases: SQL Server 6.5/7.0/2000/2005/2008/2012/2014, Oracle 10g, MySQL, Access, DB2