Senior Land Representative Senior Land Representative Senior Land Representative - TRC Solutions Lancaster, PA Eleven years of experience in the Gas Pipeline Right-Of-Way industry as a  Document/Permit/ Database Specialist. Create legal documents and landowner packets consisting of Right-Of-Way Agreement and Exhibit, Chain of Title, Limited Title Certificate, W9 and any other required forms/documents. Acquire state and local highway occupancy and driveway permits as well as railroad right-of-entry permits in a timely manner. Proficient in multiple  database formats including Internet, Microsoft SQL Server, Access and Excel. Provide Field Title Agents, ROW Supervisor and Project Manager with pertinent information on an as needed basis. Work Experience Senior Land Representative TRC Solutions - Canonsburg, PA September 2018 to Present Quickly acquired 208 Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Highway Occupancy Permits within a four month time period. Documents/Permit/ Database Specialist The NLS Group - Middletown, PA April 2013 to September 2018 Daily activities included creating landowner packets consisting of landowner legal Right-Of-Way acquisition documents for signature, processed finalized landowner packets as well as reviewed & approved survey plats for accuracy for natural gas transmission pipeline system as well as numerous Department of Transportation Pick-up & Relay projects, valve site & compressor station upgrades. Quickly acquired state and local highway occupancy and driveway permits by developing good relationships with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Districts as well as local Township municipalities. Acquired railroad Right-of-Entry permits to perform necessary work on existing properties. Audited existing database, network and paper files on a monthly basis for accuracy. Inputted and managed project/landowner information into various online and hard file databases. Provided project/landowner information to Field and Title Agents, ROW Supervisor and Project Manager on an as needed basis. Performed deed and easement due diligence research to verify land ownership and pipeline accuracy.  Electronically created landowner property layout using meets & bounds coordinates on deed. Answered project landowner toll-free “hotline” phone and provided call information to appropriate individual.  Document/ Database Specialist Percheron, LLC - Saint Clairsville, OH January 2010 to April 2013 Daily activities included creating landowner packets consisting of landowner legal Right-Of-Way acquisition documents for signature, processed finalized landowner packets as well as reviewed & approved survey plats for accuracy for natural gas transmission pipeline system. Audited existing database, network and paper files on a monthly basis for accuracy. Inputted and managed project/landowner information into various online and hard file databases. Provided project/landowner information to Field and Title Agents, ROW Supervisor and Project Manager on an as needed basis. Performed deed and easement due diligence research to verify land ownership and pipeline accuracy. Documents/ Database Specialist Doyle Land Services - Monroe, LA September 2009 to January 2010 Daily activities included creating landowner packets consisting of landowner legal Right-Of-Way acquisition documents for signature, processed finalized landowner packets as well as reviewed & approved survey plats for accuracy for natural gas transmission pipeline system. Audited existing database, network and paper files on a monthly basis for accuracy. Inputted and managed project/landowner information into various online and hard file databases. Provided project/landowner information to Field and Title Agents, ROW Supervisor and Project Manager on an as needed basis. Performed deed and easement due diligence research to verify land ownership and pipeline accuracy. Supervisor and Project Manager Energy Management and Services Company December 2008 to September 2009 Daily activities included creating landowner packets consisting of landowner legal Right-Of-Way  acquisition documents for signature, processed finalized landowner packets as well as reviewed  & approved survey plats for accuracy for natural gas transmission pipeline system as well as numerous Department of Transportation Pick-up & Relay projects, valve site & compressor  station upgrades. Quickly acquired state and local highway occupancy and driveway permits by developing good relationships with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Districts as well as local Township municipalities. Acquired railroad Right-of-Entry permits to perform necessary  work on existing properties. Audited existing database, network and paper files on a monthly  basis for accuracy. Inputted and managed project/landowner information into various online and hard file databases. Provided project/landowner information to Field and Title Agents, ROW  Supervisor and Project Manager on an as needed basis. Performed deed and easement due  diligence research to verify land ownership and pipeline accuracy. Electronically created  landowner property layout using meets & bounds coordinates on deed. Answered project  landowner toll-free "hotline" phone and provided call information to appropriate individual.  Director of Information Technology: Director of Information Technology Warfel Construction Company August 2006 to September 2007 Managed specification, implementation, operation, and support of internal computer systems  used at Warfel Construction Company. Installed, maintained, and supported internal systems, which included the company network, servers, workstations, phones, and peripheral devices.  Maintained the security of those systems which included monitoring of security advisories and  logs, upgraded software, and applied security patches. Introduced and maintained Microsoft  Sharepoint as Warfel's intranet website. Reported all issues related to IT development to management and supervisors. Coordinated, implemented and maintained wireless internet  service at all viable construction jobsites. Network Administrator YTI Career Institute July 2005 to July 2006 Managed servers/network daily, manage Citrix Metaframe 4 server farm, respond to users’ technical requests and needs, install software and perform system updates as needed, perform grandfather, father, son backups and restorations, create/disable accounts using Microsoft Active Directory and Script Logic 6.  Network Administrator Mathematical Association of America May 2003 to July 2005 Managed servers/network daily, manage Citrix Metaframe 4 server farm, respond to users’ technical requests and needs, install software and perform system updates as needed, perform grandfather, father, son backups and restorations, create/disable accounts using Microsoft Active Directory. Substitute Teacher Montgomery County Public Schools November 2002 to May 2003 Led the education of Kindergarten through Eighth grade students by following prearranged plans in various academic classes throughout Montgomery County, MD. Network Administrator Presidential Bank April 2000 to April 2002 Managed servers/network daily, manage Citrix Metaframe 4 server farm, respond to users’ technical requests and needs, install software and perform system updates as needed, perform grandfather, father, son backups and restorations, create/disable accounts using Microsoft Active Directory and Script Logic 6.  Network Administrator Sterling Software June 1994 to April 2000 Managed servers/network daily, manage Citrix Metaframe 4 server farm, respond to users'  technical requests and needs, install software and perform system updates as needed, perform  grandfather, father, son backups and restorations, create/disable accounts using Microsoft Active  Directory. Education Certificate of Completion in Commercial Art Art Institute of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA December 1986 Bachelor of Science in Communications Millersville University of Pennsylvania - Millersville, PA December 1985