Independent Contractor Independent Contractor Independent Contractor Flagstaff, AZ To obtain a position where my interpersonal, organizational and technical skills can  be used to provide value while delivering business solutions. Work Experience Independent Contractor Ecolocker, LLC - Phoenix, AZ August 2018 to December 2018 • Data entry for the Lodestar Foundation, a philanthropic grant-making organization based out of Phoenix, Arizona. Volunteer Database Administrator Arcadia Neighborhood Learning Center - Phoenix, AZ August 2009 to May 2012 • Managed Access 2000 database for Exploration Friday, a quarterly event where community volunteers led diverse classes of varying topics for all K-8 students. Desktop Support/ Database Administrator, Evergreen DevCo Computer Directions, Inc - Phoenix, AZ August 2007 to June 2008 • Provided administration and support for all technology-related functions  • Developed, implemented, and managed database applications  • Provided on-site pc/network support and troubleshooting, including pc hardware and software installations, network outages, and printer management.  • Administered network and distributed computing applications, including domain administration and Exchange Server administration. Networking Consultant Ciber, Inc - Phoenix, AZ August 2002 to November 2003 Network Engineer, American Express - Web Complex  • Provided dedicated technical guidance and network support for web-related projects.  • Responsibilities included validating and scripting project data flows and implementing the respective access-list rules to permit required traffic;troubleshooting connectivity and performance problems; and providing post-production support.  Network Documentation Manager - American Express  • Implemented and managed global network documentation repository for engineers to update network diagrams for their respective region. Senior Network Consultant Calence, Inc - Tempe, AZ June 2000 to June 2002 Network Engineer, City of Chandler, Arizona  • Assisted in the plan, design, coordination and implementation of the Network Infrastructure Upgrade project. Responsibilities included information gathering; the configuration, testing and implementation of Cisco network devices; thorough documentation; operational support assistance to the Information Technology NOS and Helpdesk teams; and providing on-site training.    Strategic Quality Planning (SQP) Engineer, American Express  • Provided dedicated technical guidance and network support for over 50 web-related projects. Responsibilities included participation in Joint Architecture Designs (JAD); validating and scripting project data flows and implementing the respective access-list rules to permit required traffic; troubleshooting connectivity and performance problems; and providing post-production support.    Assistant Infrastructure Engineer, American Express  • Assisted in design, implementation and support of network infrastructure engineering projects and processes, such as 6500 Catalyst switch deployment, implementing CiscoWorks 2000, deploying the Content Service Switch, and re-designing and documenting the Mail Services infrastructure. Desktop Support/ Database Administrator, Evergreen DevCo Computer Directions, Inc - Phoenix, AZ June 1999 to May 2000 • Provided administration and support for all technology-related functions  • Developed, implemented, and managed database applications  • Provided on-site pc/network support and troubleshooting, including pc hardware and software installations, network outages, and printer management.'  • Administered network and distributed computing applications, including domain administration and Exchange Server administration. Instructional Assistant Northern Arizona University, College of Business - Flagstaff, AZ September 1997 to May 1999 • Provided assistance to students in using the Microsoft Office suite of applications and Visual Basic Education BSBA in Computer Information Systems Northern Arizona University May 1999 Skills Database administration, Database, Access 97, Cisco, Networking, Switching, Ios, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows Additional Information COMPETENCIES Current Certifications:  Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT)    Operating Systems and Productivity Tools:  Microsoft Windows, Apple IOS, Cisco IOS, Microsoft Office Suite, G Suite    Networking Technologies: Routing and Switching    Database Administration: Access 97 & 2000