Director of Product Management, New Product Development Director of Product Management, New Product Development Director of Product Management, New Product Development - Elsevier New York, NY 11+ years of experience in digital product lifecycle management including product ideation, project management, business analysis, and data management. Demonstrated ability to lead product innovation and development initiatives in e-commerce, digital publishing/media, digital advertising, ERP transformation, CRM, business intelligence and technical infrastructure using agile and waterfall methodologies. Work Experience Director of Product Management, New Product Development Elsevier - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Product Owner for a chemical industry first, information and analytics platform with a 10-year revenue projection of ~$100mm. This platform is uniquely positioned to mitigate risk of product development by improving the confidence and accessibility of evaluating chemicals across the different phases of product maturity (R&D, development & scale up, production & support).  ? Define and execute on the new product development stage gate process through research, ideation, elaboration and execution phases  ? Own the product backlog for Elsevier Reference Solutions  ? Recruit and manage industry subject matter experts for assistance with product design and strategy  ? Create processes and procedures to ensure the voice of the customer, Elsevier business goals and industry trends are included in the product management processes.  ? Develop strategic plans & opportunities for new product development for targeted industry verticals including chemical, oil & gas industries  ? Perform product demonstrations for potential customers, stakeholders and Executive leadership  ? Champion data-driven product management by writing and managing user stories and sprint plans for product releases, reviewing test plans with QA and tracking product launch metrics and KPIs for alpha/beta release plans  ? Originate customer relationships and lead a customer advisory group for industry specific product development  ? Conduct customer focused research activities through outreach programs, industry events & conferences and informal networking  ? Analyze 3rd party software components & partnerships as required for product architecture and align with other internal product management, operations, content innovation and technology teams to develop a unified solution for the industry.  ? Develop GTM and sales enablement plans working closely with Elsevier Marketing, pricing and sales teams  ? Manage creation and planning of training for successful commercial product launch and revenue growth  ? Engage with internal professional services teams for customer internal data architecture and integration plans definition Director of Product, Global Analytics PR Newswire - New York, NY April 2015 to August 2016 Product owner for the customer-facing ROI reporting platform that supports all wire distribution products globally. ($450+ revenue)  ? Partnered with stakeholders to define and align on strategic objectives  ? Responsible for the product roadmap and investment optimization aligned to technology and business priorities  ? Managed 3rd party vendor relationships  ? Responsible for the leadership of cross functional programs and project teams  ? Partnered with technology leadership across the enterprise to support and drive the delivery of programs and projects  ? Responsible for curating product backlog  ? Drove product development within an agile environment  ? Established and drove product development life cycle process  ? Oversaw organizational data governance  ? Cultivated an environment of continuous improvement through mentoring, feedback, and metrics Director of Product Management CPX Interactive - New York, NY April 2014 to April 2015 Product owner for the bRealtime division (Real-time ad bidding client-facing service, $100M+ revenue), Cross Channel Direct Response (Digital campaign management service), and client-facing and enterprise reporting.  ? Responsible for the product roadmap, created business cases, and managed 3rd party vendor relationships  ? Managed 3 resources: quality assurance engineer, publisher operations manager, and data analyst  ? Oversaw Quality Assurance and work with QA analysts on defining test plans (i.e. regression testing, cross-browser testing)  ? Collaborated with business and technical stakeholders on feasibility and clarification of requirements, user acceptance, and training for product development release cycles  • Led workshops with external and internal stakeholders to elicit and document functional and nonfunctional requirements  • Responsible for prioritizing and defining the product backlog (i.e. epics, use cases) for ongoing sprints  ? Participated in weekly sprint planning and daily stand ups for ongoing product development  • Led negotiations between the Business and Technology on change and defect management  • Established the product development lifecycle framework and mentored product managers Sr. E-Commerce Project Manager AMPLIFI COMMERCE - New York, NY June 2013 to February 2014 Project lead for e-commerce initiative ($650K) for Yankee Candle. Managed implementation team of 8 in addition to the offshore team  ? Yankee Candle Website Redesign & Oracle ATG/Endeca Re-platform Project  • Collaborated with the client to manage the process of eliciting, designing, and documenting the business requirements, website and technical design  • Facilitated discussions with the client's partners about software evaluation, system integration, and support.  • Collaborated with client-side and internal implementation teams regularly on project planning/monitoring, budget, status, and scope changes  ? Eddie Bauer Oracle ATG/Endeca Re-platform Project  • Assisted with running the daily scrum stand-ups with the onshore/offshore teams  • Assisted with defect metrics analysis and reporting  • Collaborated with the client on Go-live deployment planning Data Integration Manager CHRISTIE'S - New York, NY July 2012 to June 2013 Oversee data governance and data management related efforts. In matrixed environment, dotted line responsibility for implementation teams ranging from 5 to 15 team members comprised of a lead and individual contributors.  ? Business Transformation Program:  • Liaise between business and technology management teams to address opportunities to improve enterprise data quality.  • Collaborated with business users, IT business analysts, enterprise architects, solution architects, and technical resources to manage requirements iteratively.  • Led the planning and development of data integration projects for core system upgrades including: client relationship, human resource, and financial information management.  ? CMS Report Migration Project: Led effort to migrate reporting capabilities from a legacy system to Answers, online business intelligence tool.  ? James Online Project: Led the roll out of an online collaboration tool that art specialists use to discover and discuss opportunities amongst the team. Responsible for ongoing deployment of new product releases.  ? Christie's Mobile & iPad Rollout Project: Deployed iPad mobile capabilities to the client strategy team globally. Deployed new app that allows customers to bid from their mobile devices. MCGRAW-HILL FINANCIAL - New York, NY January 2002 to July 2012 Sr. IT Project Manager MCGRAW-HILL FINANCIAL 2010 to 2012 Global project leader with responsibility for integrating business process changes with underlying IT changes. Led global teams of up to 20 across NA, Europe and Asia. Selected to participate in a leadership, rotational program which provided extensive training in Lean Six Sigma and DMAIC methodologies, facilitation and leadership skills which were applied to black-belt projects valued at $250K+.  ? Platts.com Redesign Project: Led website redesign and launch achieving goal of transforming the business's brand. Provided detailed use-case based and 'Call Action Response' (CAR) website functional requirements which consisted of multiple components (i.e. registration, search, ecommerce)  ? Platts.com Search Enhancements Project: Dramatically improved usability, recall and precision of the search component on Platt's website by 50% of its original capacity. Assessed existing search capabilities, implemented enhancements and industry best practices, defined new search functionalities, defined taxonomy and metadata, modified workflows, and improved system architecture.  ? Liquefied Natural Gas Microsite Project: Launched an innovative web-based product, leveraging Google Maps to track port/shipping information of liquefied natural gas. Provided detailed use-case based functional requirements.  ? Bentek Energy Acquisition Project: led team to integrate this acquisition; 100 employees; 70 products worth $5M revenue. Global efforts spanned sales, marketing, product development, customer service, HR & Legal requiring business process changes across all functional groups, each of which had underlying IT infrastructure/system changes.  ? Technology Operational Efficiency Project: Sponsored by the CIO, led team to achieve a 15% reduction in IT spend for operational support representing $2.1M in savings addressing key factors impacting hardware & resource costs.  • Developed cost model and dashboards to provide transparency into spending and alignment which for monthly review by the IT executive team.  • Improvements included: virtualizing servers, upgrading unsupported high-risk servers, developing governance plan for time tracking, accountability, process improvements, data requirements and monitoring guidelines.  ? Customer Attrition Project: Led team projected to achieve 5% decrease in customer attrition worth $1.5M revenue.  • Validated the customer attrition rate and adjusted it from 23% to 15% due to sales channel management reorg.  • Developed the attrition rate calculation methodology that is incorporated throughout global sale.  • Recommendations included: improving sales nurturing activities, up-sell and cross-sell activities, loyalty programs, and sales activity logging methodologies (i.e. reason code standards).  ? Customer Data Quality Project: Led team to achieve 40% increase in qualified leads representing $2M in revenue.  • Developed a lead data governance plan, streamlined collection processes, improved the lead data quality in completeness from 20% to 80%, accuracy from 30% to 60%, and duplicates from 30% to 15%.  • Identified process improvements in Sales Order Entry with a projected cost savings benefit of $2M+.  • Appointed by Sr. Leadership Team to VIBE committee in 2010 (Valuable Ideas for Business Excellence) to evaluate product and process proposals across the global organization. IT Business Analyst MCGRAW-HILL FINANCIAL 2007 to 2010 Led tech projects impacting multiple global business functions in new product development, system enhancements, maintenance and software evaluations. Applications included customer facing, web-based, real-time editorial, product delivery, lead and web content management systems. Managed cross-functional teams of 5+ partnering with the business to manage requirements throughout project SDLC.  ? Editorial Group Online News Aggregation Project: Increased editor ability to react to breaking news by adapting technology to push real-time news to desktops, expanding coverage with access to 1000 global news sources.  • Evaluated news lead aggregator solutions, developed a software evaluation scorecard, defined system functional requirements, and implemented the new technology solution.  • Market-On-Close Instant Messenger Project: Provided an instant messenger replacement proposal to be used by energy traders, analysts, risk managers and Platts editors to communicate real-time energy trades globally.  ? Managed energy trading workflow and regulatory requirements, assessed risks (i.e. outages) and provided recommendations to streamline the Market-On-Close workflow and mitigate risks  ? Lyris Sunset Project: Mitigated risk by replacing a legacy email lead management system.  • Performed current state analysis involved in system migration to the Eloqua. Senior Database Administrator MCGRAW-HILL FINANCIAL 2002 to 2006 Managed Oracle and SQL Server database environments supporting customer facing and internal apps. (www.businessweek.com, www.aviationweek.com.com, content management (Marklogix) , CRM (Siebel), Oracle Financials, e-commerce. Supported 50,000+ users  ? Managed logical and physical database design, data integrity, maintenance, data migrations, troubleshooting, performance tuning and backup and recovery.  ? Worked with Price Waterhouse Coopers regarding a company-wide effort to develop and adapt information security guidelines and procedures based on industry best practices. Database Administrator DOUBLECLICK INC - New York, NY January 2000 to November 2002 Managed customer facing Oracle database environments including development and QA database environments for core business applications (DART, Ad Manager). Supported 1000+ users and reporting needs of 15+ clients.  • Led data synchronization across platforms, troubleshooted database servers, backup & recovery, performance tuning, logical & physical design. Developed online advertising reports for clients using advanced SQL. Education Master of Science in Management and Systems New York University - New York, NY 2010 Leadership Certificate Mercer College 2009 Business Analysis Certified Mercer College 2008 Learning Tree 2002 Bachelor of Science in Psychology Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA 1993 Polytechnic University Skills Product Management, Business Analysis, Product Development, Agile