Lead DBA Lead DBA Lead DBA Glendale, AZ • Deployed various database upgrades, improvements and migrations up to 10TB.  • Coached and led a few teams of DBAs, overseeing all Oracle databases and SQL Server databases, addressing technical issues, and streamlining performance.  • Gained customer confidence by improving uptime, reliability and security of database by doing in-place upgrades and migration of databases to faster hardware with upgraded OS.  • Improved applications performance with database, tuned JVM servers and found .NET issues and tuned SQL and PL/SQL..  • Enhanced application and database security using Adv Security and making many changes to pass Defense Dept. audits. Work Experience Lead DBA REDFLEX - Glendale, AZ April 2014 to July 2019 As the Lead DBA, supported production, dev and qa for Oracle and SQL developers. Oversaw critical applications database changes while monitoring database operations and resolving applications locking and performance problems. Facilitate database design, programming, troubleshooting, and management of problems concerning IT and production applications. Managed Oracle licensing and periodic security audits coupled with adding space to ASM volumes and managing backups and recoveries. Install and deploy 12 and 13c OEM to monitor and manage certain events as well as add Database Vault and Firewall to various environments. Utilize flashback query, flashback database and RMAN to restore data. Assure data integrity maintenance using constraints; maintain SQL server databases and SSRS reporting. Oversaw all code reviews and deployments utilizing DevOps principals and Agile.  • Led the migration of databases to the cloud targeting AWS and Oracle Cloud. Spearheaded the development, maintenance, and upgrading of Linux RAC database for preproduction environments.  • Deployed OEM, tkprof, SQL profiles, SQL baselines, SQL-t and ADDM to improve performance of RAC databases. Headed installation, patching, and upgrades on all enterprise database systems.  • Ensured compliance with performance standards and delivered recommendations on design and infrastructure. Directed Soc 2 audits for users, improving roles and security on all databases.  • Managed all aspects of Oracle, MySQL, Postgres, SQL Servers.  • Automated database refreshes for testing in dev and QA for Oracle and SQL Servers. Senior DBA CREXENDO - Tempe, AZ April 2013 to April 2014 Coordinated DBA tasks and project management. Deployed and managed non-RAC and RAC/ASM databases. Supported developers and production deployments.  • Introduced RMAN clone databases and tuned sql with sql-t and utilization of OEM 12c.  • Created Linux RAC database for reporting to offload production OLTP databases. Lead/Senior DBA TRIWEST HEALTHCARE ALLIANCE - Phoenix, AZ February 2008 to March 2013 Coordinated DBA tasks on 50 Oracle databases. Enhanced various aspects including uptime, performance, notification of issues, security, and space savings. Created SQL/shell scripts that backup to OEM monitor the database for space, uptime, sessions types, connectivity, clone scripts, and stats. Upgraded to 11gR2 on 45 databases as well as mentored other DBAs to improve systems. Acquired terabytes of space by using different backup strategy and archiving data. Assisted development groups and was primary DBA on the two most beneficial OLTP applications to the company. Coordinated with People Soft and on Cognos ETL loaded data warehouses.  • Oversaw the installation, upgrading and setup for notification 11G grid for centralized OEM monitoring of all databases. Led successful defense department security audits.  • Set DBA goals, reviewed new feature costs, tracked licenses, documented procedures to help other DBAs on a sharepoint system ensuring seamless operations.  • Planned, tested, and documented many upgrades, security patch installs, RMAN recoveries, defrags, index rebuilds, and table shrinks etc.  • Created standards documents for auditing and consistency in databases. Led monitoring and improvement of application server performance. Senior Database Administrator EBOCOM 2005 to 2008 Aztech (2004 to 2005), and IBM, Honeywell, & American Express (2005 to 2008) Oracle Senior DBA and Technical Lead AVNET ISD 1998 to 2001 Oracle DBA and Web Developer Motorola 1996 to 1998 Database Development Motorola 1994 to 1996 Education MBA UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX Bachelors of Electronic Engineering and Technology in Technical Trainings & Professional Development DEVRY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Skills Data modeling, Database, Database design, Sql server, Sql server 2005 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/greg-thompson-0796973