CEO & Founder CEO &amp; Founder CEO & Founder - BAY AREA CODERS Tiburon, CA Technology Director demonstrating visionary leadership and expertise in all facets of the design, development, and delivery of high-performance, innovative technology solutions. Skilled in building and directing productive teams and aligning efforts with business goals; proven history of promoting continuous improvement and propelling organizations to the next level through technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CEO & Founder BAY AREA CODERS - San Francisco, CA 2016 to Present San Francisco, CA 2016 - Present  Innovation hub of talented and solution-oriented techies who believe in collaboration, creative solutions, and building amazing  experiences; experts at mobile development, web development, and cloud computing.  CEO & Founder  Built and launched innovative technology firm focused on recruiting the best developers from Eastern Europe to deliver  cutting edge solutions in web/mobile development and cloud computing for companies such as the Chive and Iterable.  - Position company as a trusted partner to major U.S. tech companies; took vision from concept to reality, applying  expertise in strategic planning, diversified team building, IT infrastructure/operations.  - Hold front-line ownership of operations, sales pipeline, marketing, client relationships, online presence, and human resources. Oversee a team of 10 contracted engineers. IT Director Mechanics' Institute - San Francisco, CA 2015 to 2019 Promoted to executive team charged with managing all technology assets, ensuring the Institution's position as a leading cultural hub in the Bay Area. Oversight for risk assessment, IT projects, vendors, system implementation, audits, and fiscal/legal compliance.  - Provided direction and vision for 5-year strategic plan; collaborated with Board of Directors, internal committees  and stakeholders, and management teams in the adoption of ITIL service principles. Prepared financial budgets and presented proposals for capital projects.  - Centralized network facility, automated systems and processes, developed disaster recovery and privacy  compliance plans, and built network architecture to eliminate single point of failure, including Dell Host Servers, ESXE hosts in cluster with redundant power supplies, fans, HBA's and Ethernet connectivity, redundant switches,  data sets, Firewall with failover setup, and Vembu VM backups.  - Modernized IT infrastructure to monetize, attract membership, and new market opportunities. Researched, and procured technologies for competitive advantage and oversaw complex fiber optic rewire of 62,000 sq. ft. facility.  - Significantly reduced expenses by re-evaluating contract partners and negotiating fees, including 5-year contract  with ILS vendor; reallocated savings to network revamping.  - Enhanced state-of-the art facility by creating the Institution's first smart classroom for members and public to attend meetings, seminars, or classes.  - Improved brand visibility by implementing several systems, including public computer reservations management, Wi-Fi authentication, print release system, website, phone system upgrade, and e-commerce operations.  - Overhauled social media profile and presence; managed AV staff for Facebook/YouTube Live, podcasts, and web  archiving of organizational events.  - Integral in growing technical team from 2 to 5 and establishing department as a strategic support and service  partner to the organization; standardized training protocols.  - Piloted internship program, partnering with 2 universities while supervising Web Master, IT Assistants, and interns. IT Manager Mechanics' Institute - San Francisco, CA 2008 to 2015 Highly visible leadership role managing a wide range of IT operations, including technical support teams, purchasing, and vendor contracts for Library, Chess, Events, and Membership. Determined and adapted business requirements to IT solutions  that supported modernization needs across the organization.  - Devised and established IT operational policies, systems, and infrastructure; served as the primary point of contact for all technology functions, including negotiating software licensing.  - Identified needs for upgrades and configuration of new systems; wrote and procured federal grant to upgrade  internet services to fiber optics. Network Administrator Mechanics' Institute - San Francisco, CA 2006 to 2008 Supported technical operations as sole Network Administrator. Designed and set up network and IT infrastructure, Windows  2000 Server, Novell Server, MPE and UNIX accounts, security and Firewall policies. IT Consultant / Manager OPTIMAL ASSET LLC - Novato, CA 2002 to 2005 Delivered IT services, strategy, analytics, and organizational consulting, serving as a subject matter expert in integrating IT with business. Demonstrated experience in managing and promoting enterprise-wide initiatives and advancing IT operations  which resulted in increased revenue and improved efficiency.  - Drove innovative IT strategy execution; advised stakeholders on long-term viable goals, including client and vendor  relationships, staff recruitment/training, business setup/continuity, and networks/servers.  - Developed strategic procedures and plans to ensure IT and operational improvements, including  navigating comprehensive IT set ups, sourcing Internet provider, selecting equipment, configuring servers, user  access, security, firewalls, and anti-virus protection.  - Created and managed disaster recovery solution and employee management database. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science COLLEGE OF MARIN - Kentfield, CA Skills Change management, Disaster recovery, It infrastructure, Mapping, Data management, Security, Systems integration, Budgets, Strategic planning, Team building, Integration Additional Information Core Competencies  Visionary & Innovative IT Leadership / Strategic Planning & Execution / IT Infrastructure / Automation Improvements  Global Team Building & Development / Decision-Making / Collaboration / Change Management / Budgets  Project Mapping & Management / Data Security Compliance / Data Management / Systems Integration / Disaster Recovery