Evangelist Evangelist Evangelist - Preacher Huntsville, AL Work Experience Evangelist Preacher March 2009 to Present LIVING FOR LIFE Ministry  • Share the Gospel of Jesus to all, souls saved, relationships mended and hope restored. Planted and established a new church. Launched a weekly radio bible teaching/preaching broadcast. Teach Bible to 4th/5th graders at Boys/Girls Club. Instruct and motivate business owners and professionals via Bible. Sr. Computer Scientist SAIC - Marshall Space Flight Center - Redstone Arsenal, AL September 2008 to March 2009 Responsible for the development, maintenance, access and optimization of Infrastructure Applications Engineering Systems; Marshall Asset Management System (MAMS), Management Information Warehouse (MIW), Marshall Employee Data Information Service (MEDIS), Computing and Communications Asset Information Management System (CCAIMS) and other similar processes configured as ASP.NET (Web) and FoxPro6 applications which utilize Oracle 9i and 10i databases. Model204 Consultant RK Management ( PEPSICO - Pepsi - Chicago, IL February 2007 to June 2008 Perform code modification to legacy (Order Management) M204 system. Create new M204 test  environments in support of 1 billion dollar transition project (One UP) from M204 to SAP. Unit tested new  SAP (One UP) modules for performance and accuracy by parallel comparison of the legacy M204 system.  Manage data integrity of Model204 files via reorganization, resize, reallocation, backup and recovery.  Monitor and maintain nightly, weekly and monthly execution of scheduled data migration batch jobs. Web Application/ Database Developer Teledyne Brown Engineering - Huntsville, AL October 2002 to January 2006 • Design and create web sites in support of the Mid-Course Ground Base Missile Defense(GMD) program  • Develop and alter web-based multi-user applications utilizing ColdFusion, HTML, JavaScript, PL/SQL,  SQL, CSS, forms, tables, frames and graphics all within an Oracle 8i database environment.  • Perform unit testing and debugging on new and existing code modules affecting different WBS areas. Oracle Web Developer/ Database Administrator Teledyne Brown Engineering - Huntsville, AL October 2000 to October 2002 Create, test and deploy Oracle 6i web-enabled Form modules in support of (NASA) International Space  Station (ISS) Payload Data Library (PDL).  • Write SQL scripts/triggers to create, insert and alter Oracle 8i database tables using SQL*Plus.  • Devise PL/SQL database level triggers and procedures to validate PDL data integrity before committed.  • Perform database internal/external security procedures and set up user account roles and privileges. Principle System Analyst Teledyne Brown Engineering - Huntsville, AL February 2000 to October 2000 Conduct and assist in unit test, debug and evaluation of application modules and components written in C,  OpenVector, a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system.  • Utilized SQL scripts to access, extract, populate and update Oracle 8 database tables on VAX/VMS platform. ROSCOE 2000 to 2000 and early warnings  (Model204). System Programmer V Defense Information Systems Agency - Redstone Arsenal, AL July 1998 to November 1999 • Direct and manage daily, 7day/24hr online execution of multi-user DBMS regions: (6) Model204,  (3) System 2000 within AMDAHL 5890/600e OS/390 environment via monitor, assessment, install  new/add on vendor products, upgrade to current software release for Y2K compliance, apply zaps, fixes, and early warnings for performance enhancement resulting in optimal DBMS efficiency. Senior Model204 Programmer Harris Methodist Health Services - Arlington, TX June 1997 to July 1998 • Analyzed and implemented security mechanism using Model 204 User Language code to restrict access of Senior Health Care Plan data.  • Developed batch204 reports, new Application Subsystem (APSY) online menu, screens, altered application processing flow which improved the rate of resolving insurance claims and simplify user navigation in accessing Harris Health Plan's Claims, Provider, Recoups/Refunds and Billings areas. Computer Specialist (LOGSA), Redstone Arsenal - Huntsville, AL May 1995 to April 1997 Analyzed and directed the technical operations in the successful transition of the Total Asset Visibility  (TAV) system from Letterkenney Army Depot (PA) to Redstone Arsenal Huntsville, AL.  • Perform redesign of Model204 APSY Logistic Intelligence File(LIF) application which allows real-time  query through cross-reference selections providing summation and detail output reports in troop support. System Programmer/ Administrator Defense Megacenter Huntsville (DMC-H), Redstone Arsenal - Huntsville, AL October 1992 to April 1995 • Install, merge, configure and maintain the day-to-day execution of 15 multi-user DBMS operating regions:  (10) Model204, (3) System 2000 and (2) ROSCOE within IBM 370/145 MVS/XA environment.  • Perform tasks to upgrade to new software release level in conjunction to periodic maintenance to ensure Computer Programmer Analyst Information Management Division MICOM, Redstone Arsenal - Huntsville, AL August 1989 to October 1992 • Design and implement online Model204 tracking system to verify the quality and test first articles/materials submitted by Contractors.  • Assist in team development of COBOL, CCSS bridging programs to track, identify and deploy U.S. weapon  systems, tactical missiles and munitions in support of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm.  • Perform file manager duties in archiving, backup, security and physical design of logistical data. Computer Programmer Information Management Division AMCCOM, Rock Island Arsenal - Rock Island, IL June 1987 to August 1989 • Analyze and design COBOL-CICS/VS programs to access and update the CAWCF Customer Order DBMS.  • Automate payroll pay period calculation process which bridges to the Standard Operations Maintenance  Army Research and Development System (SOMARDS). Education BS in Computer Science Stillman College - Tuscaloosa, AL 1987 Additional Information • Bachelors Degree in Computer Science with 20 years of experience as an Information Systems professional.  • 17 years working for Department of Defense as a GS civilian employee or Contractor (combined).  • 4 years working for Commercial Businesses.    • Proficient with several computer languages Model204(M204), ORACLE, System 2000, COBOL, CICS/VS, CDMR, DMR, S2K PLEX, FORTRAN, PASCAL, ASSEMBLER, ADA, BASIC, C  • Experience in Oracle 8i, 9i database internals; create tables, constraints, schema, views, sequences, roles, synonyms and grants. Experience creating web-based Oracle 9i Forms, Oracle Form Builder 6.0, reports, store procedures, packages, functions, database triggers, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Developer 2000.  • Familiar with several other computer languages: COLDFUSION 5.1/MX, JavaScript, HTML, UNIX shell scripts. Support software: VSAM, JCL, TSO/ISPF, ROSCOE, TOAD, PVCS, SourceSafe, OMEGAMON DB, MS Access, Word, Excel and PowerPoint.  • Experienced in the following operating systems: Mainframe ZOS, OS 390, MVS/XA. Mid-Tier UNIX 6.1, Windows NT 4.0, VAX/VMS 7.1, Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  • Demonstrated ability to successfully Lead (team, design, transition and technical support), Train (peers, customers and junior developers), Acquire requirements, Design (environments, databases and applications to customer specifications), Manage and Implemented multiple projects under tight time and budget constraints.