Test Engineer Test Engineer Test Engineer - TAD PGS Inc Heath, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Test Engineer TAD PGS Inc - Heath, OH December 2017 to Present • Develop test plans for aircraft and weapon systems.    • Work as an embedded engineer with Boeing on preventive maintenance studies for weapon systems.    • Develop custom interface test adaptors for various test applications.    • Write reports to detail results and findings of test and studies.    • Write functional instruction for technicians to preform technical process. Owner Operator ADA Systems - Heath, OH 2004 to 2017 Established a commercial electronics repair company specializing in industrial control  systems.    • Troubleshoot various electronic systems and sub-assemblies. Conduct system test in- tegration of multiple systems to accomplish repair, calibration and modification of various  programable control systems.    • Managed a team of commercial technicians and installers to ensure team goals were  met. Equipment Specialist Newark Air Force Base - CAL, MET, AF 2003 to 2004 GS-1670-11    • Prepared contract documents to facilitate the purchase of precision electronic standards  for the measurement labs. Acquired permission from equipment companies for the Air  Force to electronically duplicate equipment operation and repair manuals. Engineer Material and Practices Lab Boeing Guidance Repair Center - Heath, OH 2000 to 2002 Administrated Electrostatic Discharge Control program at Boeing Guidance Repair Cen- ter based on Air Force technical order standards. Purchased devices and materials to  comply with standards.    • Authored specialty manuals, functional instructions and desk instructions for the ESD  program.    • Performed postmortem analysis on components from various weapon systems. Wrote  and entered reports and other data into Lotus Notes collaborations.    • Designed, fabricated, built and analyzed test systems, materials, components, software  and methodologies. Coordinated test requirements, determined test methods and capa- bilities. Conducted system test preparations by guiding system integration, fabrication,  modification, setup, checkout and teardown. Collaborated with fellow engineers to detect  trends, associations, and determine cause and affect relationships resulting in compo- nent failures.    • Designed and fabricated custom test equipment and systems. Performed test article  configuration control. Conducted complex tests, analyzed data and documented results.  Participated in test readiness reviews. Identified and resolved test anomalies to meet the requirements of Air Force and Boeing Systems.    • Repaired various laboratory equipment used in the Boeing Engineering Lab using fault  isolation and preventive maintenance. Modified and retrofitted systems to update with modern computers to improve performance. Coordinated test laboratory activities, main-  tenance and repairs. Assisted government agencies and safety and hazardous materials  teams in the event of emergencies. Coached and trained other lab personnel. Work un- der minimal direction.    • Troubleshot and resolved complex laboratory and test-related problems.    • Supported testing of guidance, navigation and control air vehicle equipment to resolve  laboratory and test-related problems. Database Administrator Boeing Guidance Repair Center - Heath, OH 1996 to 2002 • Maintained database of configuration and repair data of multiple systems.    • Processed field failure data.    • Plotted, analyzed, and converted Boeing aircraft repair data to transmit to Air Force.    • Managed CPI Team (Continuous Product Improvement). Tracked error rates and created  PowerPoint presentation with graphed metrics. to present to the Boeing Guidance Re- pair Center Director and his management team.    • Authored specialty manuals, functional instructions for the REMIS program. Education Advanced Cruise Missile School - Newark, OH Skills EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, MAC (10+ years), MAC OS, Project Management