Sr. DBA/BI Architect/Data Warehouse Architect Sr. DBA/BI Architect/Data Warehouse Architect Sr. DBA/BI Architect/Data Warehouse Architect - Loyalty Lane, Inc Atlanta, GA Work Experience Sr. DBA/BI Architect/Data Warehouse Architect Loyalty Lane, Inc - Atlanta, GA November 2016 to Present • Data Modeling: Create relational database for retail raw data. Physical design with primary key and foreign key. Design DataWarehouse with Fact tables and Dimensional tables.  • BI Architect: Design application interface to meet business requirement, and build co-related query to reflect the action between the application and human being.  • ETL Process: Build ETL included TSQL, PLSQL, and SSIS package to transfer large size of data from MySQL, Excel , and CSV file to MS SQL, with Slowly Change function.  • DataWarehouse: Design star schema for cubes. Create cube with SSAS.  • Data Analysis: Design high level SSRS report by CTE and MDX. Create Excel Pivot table by pulling data from cube with Power BI, Pivot Query.  • Administration: Database backup and restore, SQL server agent and jobs execution plan. Database security control. System performance with index, partition and environment clean. Set up Cloud environment with Window Azure. Running the special query against Hadoop. Sr. SQL DBA/Developer Avery Partner Inc - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to October 2016 • Data Modeling: Collected data from different sources. Reorganized and consolidated data in a cloud environment with Azure.  • Administration: backup and restore. Cleaning up transaction log, removing duplicate and checking accuracy on data.  • Data Report: Complicated scripts with CTE, Stored Procedure and functions. Big data running performance. Database Administrator Lockheed Martin Corporation - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to March 2015 • Data Replication: Setup data publisher and subscriber to disturber data between environments.  • Administration: Database application maintaining; data import and deleting.  • Dashboard and Report: CTE for complicated data join and Hierarchical relation to dig in. Database Administrator The Goal, Inc - Radford, VA February 2013 to February 2014 • Administration: Transparent Data Encryption (TDE). Back up and restore encrypted data files to different SQL Servers. Troubleshooting database issues and clean database to optimize database performance for large size of database.  • Support: Suggest the technical teams to use right tools to find the SAN related database issue.  Provide professional option to configure SQL Server failover cluster environment and installation with SQL 2008 R2 and SQL 2012. Senior SQL DBA Research Analysis and Maintenance, Inc - Fort Leavenworth, KS October 2012 to December 2012 • Administration: Tuning SQL server hardware resources and programming coding. Optimal database and application performance with MS SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Support: Troubleshooting database issues for large application. Apply complicated business rules  by serial stored procedures and functions. Database Engineer ( Database Manager on project) BAE Systems - Fort Leavenworth, KS October 2011 to September 2012 • Architecture: Design entire decision support system with Microsoft technology. Setting and apply technique standard on each develop ing phase. Provide project doable presentation.  • Modeling: Data architecture for Cloud Database. Logical and physical modeling on data which can be process by SSAS.  • Database Development: TSQL, ETL process (SSIS), SSRS. Full-text search with index. Data analysis with cube, matrix as a BI role.  • Programming: Full-text search with index service. Setting developing and programming environment to generate system metadata. Build document searching application by Microsoft Reporting Services.  • Server Administration: Perform job function for Data Center Administration; Maintain Cluster environment; Server tune up to enhance system performance with MS SQL Server 2008 R2. Senior SQL DBA/Architect/BI SWBC - San Antonio, TX July 2011 to October 2011 • Data Modeling: Datawarehouse architecture with star schema for building cube, matrix.  • Systems Design: SQL server architecture with SAN and RAID 5 for stage, product, develop and testing environments.  • Production DBA: Database security, data performance, data replication with MS SQL Server 2008 R2. Perform database disaster recovery by back up and restore. Senior SQL DBA Humana Military - Louisville, KY February 2011 to June 2011 • Data Mining: DB2, Oracle, and SQL server environments. ETL process with SSIS, Informatics.  • Migration: Convert DTS packages to SSIS packages with MS SQL Server 2000 and 2008 R2.  • Development: Design new SSIS packages to implement the business solutions.  • Normalization: Complicated query for mainframe database clean.  • Consulting: Technique opinion on SQL server installation, administration, and standards on database developments. Database Engineer/BI Developer Thermopylae Sciences and Technology - Arlington, VA October 2009 to December 2010 • Database Model: Participation in designing related database architecture. Dataflow diagram and data query with Oracle.  • Reporting: PLSQL. RDL, XML for complicated finance report design. Setting security environment for report server.  • Data Analyze: Finding the best solution to present and analysis the finance information and business mode to clients.  • Ad Hoc Report: Build ad hoc report models. Training user for build report.  • Documentation: Writing business document for project implementation. SQL DBA/BI Developer Apex Systems - Sierra Vista, AZ April 2009 to October 2009 • ETL process: Create and modify SSIS packages to convert and transfer data from outside of MS SQL server 2008 R2 with Cursor and configuration file.  • Data modeling: Dataflow diagram for data logical modeling. Snowflake schema  • Replication: Data copy distributed by transaction log from developing environment to testing environment. Perform database disaster recovery by back up and restore.  • Reporting: Stored Procedures. TSQL. RDL, XML for customizes report design.  • Data Analyze: Create cubes and dimensions with SSAS. SQL DBA/Developer Tech Strategy - Washington, DC July 2008 to March 2009 • Reporting: Stored Procedures. TSQL. RDL, XML for customizes report design. Administration for MS Reporting Services. Enhance existing reports. SSAS.  • Database: SQL 2005/2008. SSIS. Design query to apply complicated business rule and data calculation by stored procedure. Temp Table. Data Warehouse. Data converting and clean up.  • Analyze: Finance data analysis to meet business management's requirements on report's design. SQL DBA/Data Warehouse Programmer Avery Partners - Atlanta, GA February 2008 to July 2008 • Reporting: Online report with TSQL, Stored Procedures, MS Reporting Service (SSRS)  • Database: Data transmission by SSIS. Data Market. Data analyze with cube (SSAS).  • Achievement: Provide consolation to management on solution, software, and equipment. ASP.NET Developer/DBA Lincoln, NE May 2007 to December 2007 • Program:.NET Framework3.0, CSS. UI design with Multi. Column lay out. User Controls and N'sides control. Data linking with X path in XML Web Service. Ajax, Silverlight.  • Platform: Visual Studio 2005, Source Safe, XML Web Service and SQL/DB2 environment.  • Database: DB2, SQL 2005. SSIS, TSQL, database maintenance for software design purpose. SQL DBA/Data Warehouse Developer METASYS - Atlanta, GA May 2006 to April 2007 BI  • ETL Process: Data transmission between DB2 and SQL servers by DTS, SSIS.  • Data Warehouse: Design OLAP to apply business rule and data calculation.  • Database: Database improvement with index turning, denormalization. Database performances by NT monitor, SQL profiler. Temp Table.  • Analyze: Finance data analysis with (SSAS), Cognos.  • Upgrading: Data server's upgrading from SQL 2000 to SQL 2005. Data applications merge.  • Achievement: Successful to build the critical component for a 1 million project which was tried by other groups. Education MCDBA WIA program of Georgia State - Atlanta, GA 2004 to 2005 Information Systems Kennesaw State University - Atlanta, GA 1999 to 2000 Computer Sciences City University of New York - New York, NY 1988 to 1993 BA in Law Jiangxi University - Nanchang, CN 1983 to 1987 Skills SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (9 years), ETL (4 years), DATA WAREHOUSE (3 years), SSRS (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    • SQL Server • PLSQL • Stored Procedures  • Dada Modeling • Data Warehouse • ETL  • SSAS • SSIS • Replication  • TSQL • SSRS • .Net 3.0  • Metadata • Data Mart • TDE  • Normalization • Data Performance • Cube  • Oracle • Full-text search • OLAP  • Failover Cluster • MDX • ADO    OTHER SKILLS    • Effective written and oral communication skills. (English and Chinese).  • Team player with good inter-personal skills. ? Fast learner