Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Cambridge Technologies • Having 4 yrs Experience on Oracle Database Administration.  • Hands on experience on monitoring Databases.  • Good experience in Space management, User management.  • Having expert knowledge in Configuring and maintaining RMAN.  • Committed team player with excellent customer orientation.  • Installation, upgradation, configuration of Oracle cluster, grid, database  • Experienced in applying patches including Patchsets and CPU/PSU, One-Off patches on Standalone, RAC and Standby Databases using Universal Installer and OPatch Utility  • Experienced in Migrating databases from file systems to ASM  • Creation of ASM Disk & Diskgroups and Maintaining Oracle ASM instance  • Experienced in configuring Disaster Recovery Site for single instance and RAC databases  • Monitoring concurrent requests, setting up trace and troubleshooting.  • Creating users and assigning privileges.  • Implementation of logical backup, hot backup and RMAN backup policies.  • Good knowledge on Data Guard, RAC  • Proficient in Database Administration activities such as Patches, Cloning, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning and documentation  • Experience with RMAN, Export, Data pump, Import.  • Maintaining Archive logs and their spaces for routine administration alert and trace monitoring.  • Committed team player with excellent customer orientation.  • Outstanding logical & problem resolving skills.  • Proficient in UNIX/Linux Operating systems.  • Quick adaptability to new technologies & Zeal to improve technical skills.  • Provided 24X7 on call support. Work Experience Database Administrator Cambridge Technologies - New York, NY November 2011 to Present Duration: Nov, 2011 - Till now  Environment: Linux, HP-UNIX, Oracle 9i/10g/11g    Description:  Cambridge Technology Enterprises (CTE) is a global business and technology services company. Recognized as a thought leader and innovator of enterprise transformation and modernization services, provide clients with a compelling competitive advantage.    Responsibilities:  • Supporting Production, Development and RAC databases in 24x7 Environments.  • Applying CPU/PSU patches and Upgrading Patches.  • Refresh of development/test/QA databases from production backup.  • Rebuilding standby database using production backup and making sure DR and PROD are in sync after change.  • Periodically monitoring Problem management queue and working on problem tickets or sharing across team members.  • Monitoring and managing ASM Disk & Diskgroups, Oracle ASM instance  • Configuring TAF policy, relocating services, creating services, managing services on RAC Databases.  • Proactively Monitoring alerts, assigning to right queues, Resolving in time based on SLA.  • Responding quickly to severity/priority issues and pages/bridge calls and providing timely resolution on bridge calls without impacting SLA of problem ticket.  • Monitoring Tivoli Backups and alerts.  • Reorganization Indexes and tablespaces.  • Inspecting the File System usage including archive FS.  • Tuning by Statspack collecting various Snapshots statistics and differentiating.  • Monitoring Alert log files to know types of bottlenecks recorded during the day if any, and rising to counter them.  • Cloning and managing Duplicate/Standby on databases using Rman.  • Will Maintain 100% Change management complete successful.  • Recovering the databases using RMAN.  • Creating Performance Reports using AWR and ADDM.  • Tuning SQLs using Explain Plan and TKProf, AMM.  • Data Refresh using Advance 10g/11g Datapump with greater Performance.    Project #1 Junior DBA Ness Technologies August 2010 to November 2011 Environment: Linux, Oracle 10g/11g    Description:  Ness Technologies is a global provider of IT services and solutions with expertise in software engineering, system integration, application development, consulting and more.    Responsibilities:  • Installing, Configuring, Managing Databases in 10g and 11g Databases.  • Applying CPU Patches with Opatch tool every Quarter supported by Oracle.  • Upgrading Patches from 10.2.0.1.0 to 10.2.0.3.0. 11.2.0.4.0  • Managing User Control, Roles and limiting resources by Profiles.  • Crontab scripts scheduled for Rman backup, Analyzing Tables and validating.  • Manage and maintain various databases and monitor database performance.  • Inspecting the File System usage including archive/backup FS.  • Reorganization Indexes and tablespaces.  • Tuning by Statspack collecting various Snapshots statistics and differentiating.  • Monitoring Alert log files to know types of bottlenecks recorded during the day if any, and rising to counter them.  • Refreshing the database using export backups from prod database to Dev /Test Databases to fix module issues. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNTU Additional Information Technical Skill:    Database: Oracle 9i/10g/11g Database Administration, RAC  Operating System: Windows 2008, Unix/Linux, AIX, Solaris  Programming Language:: SQL, C++.    Project #2  Organization: Cambridge Technologies  Client: Colonial insurance, Bank of New York, Summit Energy, Sprint  Role: Database Administrator  Duration: Nov, 2011 - Till now  Environment: Linux, HP-UNIX, Oracle 9i/10g/11g    Description:  Cambridge Technology Enterprises (CTE) is a global business and technology services company. Recognized as a thought leader and innovator of enterprise transformation and modernization services, provide clients with a compelling competitive advantage.    Responsibilities:    • Supporting Production, Development and RAC databases in 24x7 Environments.  • Applying CPU/PSU patches and Upgrading Patches.  • Refresh of development/test/QA databases from production backup.  • Rebuilding standby database using production backup and making sure DR and PROD are in sync after change.  • Periodically monitoring Problem management queue and working on problem tickets or sharing across team members.  • Monitoring and managing ASM Disk & Diskgroups, Oracle ASM instance  • Configuring TAF policy, relocating services, creating services, managing services on RAC Databases.  • Proactively Monitoring alerts, assigning to right queues, Resolving in time based on SLA.  • Responding quickly to severity/priority issues and pages/bridge calls and providing timely resolution on bridge calls without impacting SLA of problem ticket.  • Monitoring Tivoli Backups and alerts.  • Reorganization Indexes and tablespaces.  • Inspecting the File System usage including archive FS.  • Tuning by Statspack collecting various Snapshots statistics and differentiating.  • Monitoring Alert log files to know types of bottlenecks recorded during the day if any, and rising to counter them.  • Cloning and managing Duplicate/Standby on databases using Rman.  • Will Maintain 100% Change management complete successful.  • Recovering the databases using RMAN.  • Creating Performance Reports using AWR and ADDM.  • Tuning SQLs using Explain Plan and TKProf, AMM.  • Data Refresh using Advance 10g/11g Datapump with greater Performance.    Project #1  Organization: Ness Technologies  Client: Menzis, Societe Generale, Softek, Visa, Brocade, Pearson  Role: Junior DBA  Duration: Aug. 2010 to Nov. 2011  Environment: Linux, Oracle 10g/11g    Description:    Ness Technologies is a global provider of IT services and solutions with expertise in software engineering, system integration, application development, consulting and more.    Responsibilities:  • Installing, Configuring, Managing Databases in 10g and 11g Databases.  • Applying CPU Patches with Opatch tool every Quarter supported by Oracle.  • Upgrading Patches from 10.2.0.1.0 to 10.2.0.3.0. 11.2.0.4.0  • Managing User Control, Roles and limiting resources by Profiles.  • Crontab scripts scheduled for Rman backup, Analyzing Tables and validating.  • Manage and maintain various databases and monitor database performance.  • Inspecting the File System usage including archive/backup FS.  • Reorganization Indexes and tablespaces.  • Tuning by Statspack collecting various Snapshots statistics and differentiating.  • Monitoring Alert log files to know types of bottlenecks recorded during the day if any, and rising to counter them.  • Refreshing the database using export backups from prod database to Dev /Test Databases to fix module issues.