Sr. IT Manager, Enterprise Release Management Organization Sr. IT Manager, Enterprise Release Management Organization Sr. IT Manager, Enterprise Release Management Organization - Cisco Systems • People Leadership is my core strength. I have over 10 years of experience in building and growing global teams and I catalyze the success for my team members by leveraging both their strengths as well as their weaknesses.  • I have a deep understanding of end-to-end IT operations management principles and specialize in exercising continuous improvement methodologies in my management.  • I am adept at identifying Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and driving system-wide improvements that deliver results.  • I possess a track record of driving transformative strategies at a global level within a rapidly growing and fast-paced operating environment. My strong influencing skills have enabled me to initiate and drive successful improvement initiatives within my organization as well as across the broader enterprise. Work Experience Sr. IT Manager, Enterprise Release Management Organization Cisco Systems 2011 to Present • Manage P&L of over 50 MM Q/Q and global organization comprising of both Business and IT Operations.  • Leverage data to measure results, manage performance, identify opportunities, and influence the team and senior leadership.  • Run a Program Management Office (PMO) to plan work with different Agile trains and scrum teams to provide constant flow of release scope.  • Handle high impacting client escalations with Senior Staff and mitigate any challenges with stakeholders and customers.  • Develop insights and recommendations on key strategic questions, including the growth strategy and execution plan; backed with data and strategic analysis.  • Develop projection models, headcount forecasts and budgets to set business and organization targets. Monitor forecasts vs. actual to identify and address opportunities to collaborate cross-functionally to achieve goals.  • Recruit high performers, retain and motivate existing staff, and improve overall productivity of the organization.  • Drive operational alignment across different IT teams and key stakeholders, including other product groups, sales, client support, finance, marketing, and internal recruiting.  • Handle high impact programs across Cisco such as - Replacing legacy billing platforms with IBM Concur, legacy procurement systems with Ariba procurement.  • Handle Continuous Integration /Continuous Delivery platform tool automations. Prescribe and lead container bases deployment strategy. Lead teams through cloud migrations from Oracle to Mongo and Cassandra. Lead, Data Implementation and ERP Cisco Systems 2004 to 2011 • Lead a 10MM Q/Q Implementation Department with senior technical DBA's, PMs and Analysts.  • Delivered Uptime SLA of 99.9% across all my services.  • Delivered on multiple service cost optimization opportunities through a great deal of tough market transitions, all while maintaining high performing and agile global team  • Migrated a number of key Cisco platforms to cloud, delivering elasticity and higher ROI.  • Leveraged ITIL and other industry best practices to improve QoS (Quality of Service).  • Delivered productivity gains of 3x across a 5-year trend, by practicing "Metrics Driven Operations" Operations Lead General Electric Power Systems 2000 to 2002 • Team Lead with Infra Hosting and Systems Engineering Team in GE  • Reported to Senior Manager and managed a budget of over 250 Mil Y/Y  • Hired a Global Team of DBA, System Admins, Network Admins to manage a new Global Data Center  • Hired Project Managers and lead them through the 2-year program on building a new state-of-art data center for GEPS  • Trained and practiced Six-Sigma and evangelized the use of Six-Sigma policies for productivity improvement in IT Database Administrator DHL Airways Inc 1996 to 2000 • Production DBA for major systems in DHL  • Participated in global projects and trained in project and program management Education PMP and Management Domains in Electronics and Telecom Engineer Bombay University 1994 Skills Program management, Budget, Architecture, Team building, Deployment, Scrum Master, Waterfall, Salesforce, Linux