Sr. Manager, Head of User Experience - Americas Sr. Manager, Head of User Experience - Americas Sr. Manager, Head of User Experience - Americas - Elektrobit Automotive, Inc Bothell, WA My objective is to obtain a position which will allow me to advance my career and creates a challenge for me.  I have a passion for working with my team members and striving to motivate and focus them while providing a work environment conducive to the successful completion of their work. I am a believer in the Agile methodology because I've seen and made it work but apply it in a no-nonsense, pragmatic manner that makes sense for the team and work environment instead of attempting to shoe-horn it where it doesn't align well. I'm am a firm believer and growing my team members technically and personally. I lead by example, remain as transparent with my team and stakeholders as possible and protect my team whenever necessary. Work Experience Sr. Manager, Head of User Experience - Americas Elektrobit Automotive, Inc September 2015 to Present • Responsible for managing a team of 39 software engineers, test engineers and project managers  • Responsible for the growth, development and career paths of internal engineering team members  • Responsible for managing relationships with recruiting partners and interviewing and hiring new team members to complement existing team  • Responsible for managing within the context of a global organization with company headquarters in Germany and offices around the world while maintaining a local focus  • Reported directly to a Corporate Vice President and US Country Manager  • Conceived and implemented a program to grow the skills within the engineering team to make the Bothell site more agile, versatile and adaptive  • Corrected hiring practices and merit reviews/promotions to treat all team members equally, regardless of any factor outside of performance  • Worked closely with Human Resources to handle situations regarding team member performance  • Able to elevate performance of several marginal team members through growth, development and the building of confidence and trust  • Always pushed an open-door policy with my team members and members of other teams thus giving each team member a "voice" and an "ear" when needed Manager, Software Engineering and Business Intelligence Coinstar/Outerwall, Inc June 2013 to September 2015 • Began managing the coin kiosk development team and became responsible for the software running on 20,000+ kiosks in the field    • Kiosk development management involves working with business to define release content, sizing that content, finalizing release content, development and quality assurance within an Agile development cycle, coordinating QA sign-off and planning and executing deployment of feature content to the kiosks in the field    • In the process of re-architecting the coin kiosk software in a piece-by-piece methodology while maintaining a quarterly release cycle    • In June, 2013, I assumed the position of Software Development Manager for Business Intelligence    • Inherited 250+ customer/user requests, including ETL, reporting and cube requests for multiple lines of business and supporting multiple systems    • Instituted Agile methodologies within the Business Intelligence team for the first time with impressive results, making a team of 3 developers more productive than some teams with 10+ members each sprint    • Within 6 months of assuming the management role, the team's customer/user request backlog dropped to 28 outstanding requests while continuing to take on more work in a steady intake stream    • The Business Intelligence team is now able to be proactive and highly agile in its dealings with its customer/user community    • Handle quarterly reviews, promotions when appropriate and bonus payouts    • Highly capable of focusing and motivating a team, even under bad circumstances, in order to achieve goals    • I am the 24/7 on-call point for my team. I then coordinate any necessary efforts from my team with those of other teams troubleshooting an issue    • Opened team's work backlog prioritization to the customer/user community to better reflect their needs for work scheduling, development and deployment    • Scheduled regular meetings with individuals/teams representing each area of our customer/user community in order to gain a deeper understanding of their needs, wants and goals so that I can better direct the Business Intelligence team to more appropriately meet their needs moving forward    • Implementing innovative dashboard tool, which allows Business Intelligence developers to be more focused and discreet in our work while providing the most flexibility to our users to support their work functions, for the Executive Committee and a number of operations teams    • Meet regularly with directors, vice presidents, presidents and C-level executives to help meet their needs and gauge the level of satisfaction they and their respective teams have with the Business Intelligence team Senior Database Developer/Team and Project Lead Coinstar/Outerwall, Inc May 2010 to June 2013 • Brought SQL Server Integration Services and ETL methodologies into SEG    • Brought SQL Server Reporting Services into SEG for reporting work    • Integral team member on CIMS, Rock, Picard, and ODS/DW projects    • Brought operational and historical reporting methodologies into SEG    • Work closely with production database administration team and have a good relationship with the entire team    • Led data warehousing team in TDC-Coin to implement Coin LOB data warehouse/operational data store including staffing, planning, and guidance with minimal oversight    • Led a team in TDC-Coin to deliver a pickup balancing tool to insulate downstream systems from issues arising from unbalanced pickups,    • Led a team in TDC-Coin to provide coin-specific data to the corporate MDM solution which was delivered on time per the request from the downstream corporate consumers    • Continually took on more responsibilities as a team lead, SCRUM master, system and solution architect, and technical product owner    • Successfully dealt with strong, dynamic personalities on a daily basis    • Although not a manager, as a team lead, I successfully dealt with personnel issues involving Human Resources Senior Database Developer/Data Integration/Migration Specialist Sage IT Services - Seattle, WA February 2009 to May 2010 • Data integration specialist. The project consisted of migrating data in multiple, heterogeneous, multi-lingual (English, French, Spanish, German and Japanese) source data systems from an extremely large, acquired competitor into an existing production data system.  • Along with another in-house migration employee, was responsible for full integration of all customer, activity, resource, subscription and financial data. Five resources were originally allocated for the project however only two resources were needed to get everything completed ahead of schedule without disruption of migrated customers' online experience.  • SQL Server T-SQL development included advanced queries, schema design, views, table partitioning, stored procedures and user-defined functions.  • Oracle scripting, stored procedures and packages for business-requested data analysis.  • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) was used to load and transform data from SQL Server and Oracle source data systems into a very large, existing production SQL Server installation.  • Beyond source data system hooks, the developed system is completely reusable for future data migrations. This was a key requirement at project inception due to the company's significant historical growth through acquisition. Senior Database Analyst/Developer/Consultant/Data Integration CTG - Anchorage, AK June 2007 to January 2009 • SQL Server T-SQL development included schema design, views, table partitioning, stored procedures and stored functions.  • SQL Server Integration Services development to facilitate ETL loading processes for raw CDR data and downstream data flows.  • SQL Server Reporting Services development to present the loaded, mediated CDR data to internal consumers.  • Supported operations staff at the largest telecommunications company in Alaska.  • Data transformations were used to load call data records (CDRs) from multiple wired and wireless telecommunications switches in multiple formats and convert them into a common record format for downstream processing. Database Lead/Senior Software Designer/Data Integration Orca Wave, LLC - Kirkland, WA December 2004 to June 2007 • Production, development, staging, and testing environment database administration  • Responsible for generating ETL loading schemes to load call data record (CDR) feeds from a number of different phone switches in various formats including flat text files, XML, and RADIUS  • Responsible for 24/7 production support on all platforms in a multi-terabyte database environment  • Responsible for gathering requirements, designing systems, generating design documentation, creating development schedules, developing systems, testing systems, and deploying those systems into each successive environment  • Responsible for database administration in development, test, stage, and production environments  • Responsible for database schema design, table partitioning, partitioned views, stored procedure and stored function development  • Responsible for on-site training for new customers  • Responsible for design, development and maintenance of primary international mediation system  • Responsible for managing, designing, and developing a domestic mediation and rating system to compliment primary international mediation and rating system  • Extensive use of SQL Server Data Transformation Services (DTS) and SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to enhance and extend company software offerings  • Use of SQL Server 2005 Enterprise advanced features to enhance and optimize company software offerings Sr. Database Developer Who's Calling - Kirkland, WA March 2004 to November 2004 Database Administration / Development / Design / Modeling  • Responsible for tier design efforts for projects. This included developing database design, API definition in relation to all other tiers on the projects, and full documentation of processes within the project prior to any code being written. This documentation would either be handed off to another database developer or I would be responsible for implementing the design myself.  • Responsible for database administration tasks of SQL Server 2000 in the development and quality control environments on Windows 2000 servers.  • Responsible for handling day-to-day production issues. Many times, this required quick thinking and work in order to keep our production system running smoothly.  • Responsible for tuning our database in order to improve performance and efficiency within the system. I was able to identify several areas where data was no longer used. We were able to remove that data using a nightly scheduled job saving 4 GB in our production database and allowed the indexes to be defragmented in one step. Also, additional indexing was needed to accommodate several unrepresented access methods to our data. I was also responsible for identifying, designing, and implementing schema changes in order to improve performance and maintainability of our system. Database Developer/ Administrator/Analyst/Data Integration Benefit Planners - Boerne, TX December 2002 to February 2004 • Responsible for day-to-day operations of Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle 9i, and Sybase production, test and development database servers.  • Responsible for architectural planning and implementations and ColdFusion, XML/XSLT, and EDI/ETL development.  • Lead technical contact on development and outsourcing projects with external vendors.  • Provided ad hoc reports to Chief Operating Officer (COO) and Director of Call Center Communications.  • Created ETL workflows to load and extract data used to interface with our customers, internal consumers and external vendors.  • Provided T-SQL development in support of production websites used by customers.  • Provided T-SQL development in support of internal intranet/portals. Sr. Systems Architect ServerLogic Corporation - Bellevue, WA October 1999 to December 2002 • Systems Analysis  • Database and Web Development  • Web Development  • Project Management  • Database design, development and implementation of schema, stored procedures, functions and triggers for Internet-based systems using Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase and Oracle with PL/SQL, Transact SQL, ColdFusion.  • Data import, export and conversion between various database servers and types.  • Design, development and implementation of schema changes applied as patches. Two projects required significant travel.  • Management of a project to deliver a web-enabled application using ColdFusion and Sybase for AT&T Wireless Services. The team consisted of 2 other in-house employees and a contractor employed by AT&T Wireless Services.  • Co-managed a project to bring a web-enabled timesheet system online. Team members consisted of 4 in-house employees including myself.  • Managed a project from inception through analysis, design, development and testing. Implementation is on hold due to all team members being on client sites.  • Performed database design and development for a web-enabled project to facilitate content management work flows. This software was designed using ColdFusion 5.0 with my database work consisting of Oracle 8i and 8.x, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, and Sybase 12. The database work involved schema design and development, stored procedures, functions, packages, and triggers. This software is currently being released as a product offering. Sr. Software Engineer Vogo Networks, LLC - Bellevue, WA August 1999 to October 1999 • Systems Analysis  • Database Development  • Database design, development and implementation of schema, stored procedures, functions and triggers for Internet-based telephony system using Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase and Oracle with PL/SQL and Transact SQL.  • Data import and conversion between various database servers and types. Design, development and implementation of schema changes applied as patches.  • Tasked with selecting a new database platform to accommodate the future growth and needs of the company.  • Designed and developed a data pump application to handle the transfer of data from one database server or type to another. Sr. Software Engineer ORCA Technologies, Inc - Bothell, WA April 1998 to July 1999 • Systems Analysis  • Software / Database Development  • Front-end and database development for pen-based point-of-care devices. Database design and development using SQLAnywhere and Microsoft SQL Server. Data import and conversion for quarterly and annual medication database updates. RAS dialup communications using Windows API calls from within PowerBuilder for data transfer to and from point-of-care devices to our server application. Complete PowerBuilder interface implementing First DataBank/MediSpan MedFile COM Objects to provide interaction screening for medication, allergy and medical condition profiles. ORCA Technologies is currently the only company with a live implementation of the First DataBank/Medispan COM Objects using PowerBuilder. Some of ORCA Technologies PowerBuilder source code has been used by First DataBank/Medispan in manuals and to train and guide further efforts in this area. Sr. Software Engineer ServerLogic Corporation - Bellevue, WA July 1997 to April 1998 • Systems Analysis  • Software / Database Development  • Consulting  • Complete front-end and database design of in-house process tracking system for Year 2000 conversion group. Began work in PowerBuilder 6.0. Provided extremely complex data window/ database-only reports for client with no scripting permitted from any calling windows. These reports were designed using data window and Oracle 7.3 functionality. Sr. Software Engineer McHale-USConnect - Solon, OH July 1996 to July 1997 • Systems Analysis  • Software / Database Development  • Consulting  • Modification of an existing utility work tracking and scheduling system using Object Oriented Design and Development methodologies within Windows 95. The application was designed and written using PowerBuilder 4.0 and the PowerFrame class libraries. I was placed solely in charge of converting the entire application to PowerBuilder 5.0.02. The conversion process was then thoroughly documented for conversions of future updates from the original author. The application included more than 250 windows and more than 75 non-visual user objects which contained all business rules to facilitate database independence. The application used Oracle 7.1 through 7.3 as the database. All design and modifications were completed according to previously defined specifications analyzed by internal staff. Sr. Software Engineer MCS, Inc - Hudson, OH February 1994 to July 1996 • Systems Analysis  • Software / Database Development  • Novell Netware Network Administration  • Consulting  • Team Leader  • Analyzed, designed, developed, tested, trained and implemented a completely new Windows 3.x/95 GUI front end application for an existing database structure for a major order entry/financials/manufacturing system which was originally a text based, UNIX application. Using PowerBuilder 3.0 - 4.0.04 and Sybase 4.92 and Systems 10 and 11 and Object Oriented Design techniques, the application was developed using a custom framework of which I completed a majority of the design and development. I was team leader for the manufacturing development team which included 5 team members other than me. Some of my team members were from the client and others from my employer which was consulting on the project. My responsibilities included analysis, design, development, testing, training and implementation of the manufacturing portions of the application. I was also placed in charge of implementing a radio frequency interface for the Sybase database and barcode printing and reading. Software Engineer Business Systems Consultants - Solon, OH August 1992 to February 1994 • Systems Analysis  • Software / Database Development  • Consulting  • Complete application analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and training of a Windows 3.x order entry/manufacturing system for a printing company using C/C++ and Microsoft SQL Server and Object Oriented Design techniques. I was the only team member and was therefore solely responsible for its completion. The application contained barcode reading and manifest scale interfaces for shipping purposes. The project involved high levels of client management and user interaction. I also created custom modules for a financials/manufacturing system name Platinum which is Btrieve-based using Microsoft Basic Professional 7.1. Software Engineer CPAid, Inc - Kent, OH April 1990 to August 1992 • Software / Database Development  • Utilities Development  • Research and Development  • Electronic Tax Filing  • Design and development of application modules according to specifications from internal staff using Btrieve and Microsoft Basic Professional 7.1 in a text-based, DOS environment. I designed and developed a complete Btrieve interface for Microsoft Basic Professional 7.1 which used the same interface as a previous database interface avoiding the changing of any application code for its usage. I was also placed in charge of designing and developing a Btrieve file and data recovery system which shipped with our core electronic tax filing software. Education Vocational in Computer Programming NRI McGraw-Hill - Washington, DC June 1990 to March 1992 Nearly completed in Chemistry University of Akron - Akron, OH August 1983 to June 1987 Skills Interbase, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Sybase, Etl, Microsoft sql server integration services, Sql server integration services, Analysis services, C#, C++, Pascal, Php, Powerbuilder, Xml, Xslt, Software Development, NET Additional Information Skills    ASP, C, C++, C#, ColdFusion, Interbase/Firebird, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services, Microsoft SQL Reporting Services, Microsoft SQL Analysis Services, MySQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Pascal, PHP, PostgreSQL, PowerBuilder, Project Management, SQLAnywhere, Sybase, XML, XSLT, ETL