Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Database Developer - Innova Systems International Virginia Beach, VA Seasoned and skilled data management professional, with broad experience in every aspect of Database development and administration. Progressively responsible experience managing technical professionals to achieve superior results. Organized and driven to provide customer satisfaction on complex projects. Work Experience Database Developer Innova Systems International August 2018 to Present Working on technical aspects of the Navy Readiness Reporting Enterprise Business Intelligence (NRRE-BI) program solution architecture and development management. The NRRE-BI is the enterprise wide authoritative data warehouse and Business Analytics component of the Navy Readiness Reporting Enterprise portfolio of programs used to consolidate information from across numerous programs within and in support of U.S. Navy's readiness domain. NRRE-BI currently provides mission essential information, analysis, and reports to personnel across the Navy's commands and is a critical reporter to the Chief of Naval Operations and U.S. Congress.    Current responsibilities include: Coding to requirements specified contract deliverable documentation. Develop code for core architectures and more complex modules. Develop and maintains the business intelligence framework and more complex multi-dimensional data marts. Supply build images and deployment instructions to System Engineers. Conducts research and development (R&D) and proofs of concept (POC) while planning the revolving two-year future roadmap for NRRE-BI's technical path and presents ways ahead. Supporting SQL upgrade to 2016 with emphasis on SQL Polybase accessing parquet files on Hadoop. Supporting cloud migration using Spark to move files from Windows to Hadoop. SharePoint DBA Vista Technical Services, LLC November 2015 to August 2018 US Army TRADOC, ARCIC - this is the second year of support in maintaining and providing additional enhancements to application integration and information architecture in an environment based on Microsoft SharePoint. Responsible for the data architecture, integration services, and database administration support for the Portal team. Daily duties include review and remediation of all nightly load processes. Also responsible for SQL Server health and disaster recovery P&P. Architected solution for TRADOC Staff Directory that was being managed by spreadsheet using SQL Server tables and SharePoint External List BCS Services. Completed data modeling and ETL processes for Interactive Capabilities Repository. The solution provides ARCIC the ability to request funding for contracts to support mission objectives. Managed SQL Server upgrade from 2008r2 to 2012. Architected and deployed solution to support tracking mandatory and group specific training, Senior Business Intelligence Specialist MicroLink, LLC November 2010 to October 2015 FDA - SharePoint Implementation - this implementation supports information sharing within the FDA. Primary responsibilities include supporting business intelligence implementations within Project Server PWA supporting configuration of Analysis Services cube and OOB Excel reporting. Additionally, supporting SQL Server Reporting Services, Secure Store Services and Business Connectivity Services and database design for external lists within SharePoint. Developed SharePoint External Content Types using Oracle source to support NCTR. Developed dashboard reports to support PMO from Project Server 2010 reporting database and PWA lists. Completed logical and physical database design to support an automated system configuration request application.  ADS - Data Mining Initiative - this company is a supplier of tactical and operational equipment for DOD. The company's current reporting process was not scaling with growth. They required a platform to support ad-hoc reporting and analytics with fast response times. Responsible for data architecture, integration services, and database administration.  Ronna Sustainment - Phase I - this is a global enterprise web site residing within Harmonieweb. Ronna membership consists of over 13 different organizations supporting operations in Afghanistan. Ronna enables these organizations to reduce their unclassified information gaps. Responsible for Fast Search for SharePoint installation and customization including setting up managed properties, search scopes, search centers and custom coding for facets in the refinement panel.  US Army TRADOC, ARCIC - Phase III - this is the third year of continuing development on the Campaign Plan, the first year on Synchronization Matrix and additional enhancements to application integration and information architecture. Responsible for the data architecture, integration services, and database administration support for the Portal team. Additionally, managing the reporting infrastructure through SharePoint web parts and preparing for SharePoint 2010 upgrade to allow for Reporting Services integration. System Architect Principal II AMERIGROUP Corporation July 2008 to November 2010 • Implemented new Operational Data Warehouse using both bulk loading processes and replication to support near-time data currency adhering to Amerigroup established P&Ps for Release Management.  * Attend weekly meetings with Data Architects to discuss design considerations for ODW and additional stacks to support Enterprise reporting needs.  * Assisted in writing POC design document for a requested NCC dashboard and reporting application.  * End to end developer for MSAS cubes for Authorizations and Enrollment. Created dimensional model, ETL process using SSIS for data load and Analysis Services cube. Created slowly-changing dimensions and dimensions that required using a ragged hierarchy.  * Held design meetings for various projects as technical lead.  * Held design review meetings with senior management to allow for overall project evaluation.  * Provided time and task management for consultants for various projects. AMERIGROUP Corporation July 2000 to November 2010 Director AMERIGROUP Corporation April 2007 to July 2008 * Managed daily tasking and project work for 6 staff members.  * Attended new market/expansion meetings and provided input for project planning and department impact. Worked with PM team to ensure that team deliverables where met.  * Met with senior management to discuss quarterly budget allocations. Assisted in decision making regarding hardware/software requirements for the quarter.  * Worked with existing vendors on annual software renewal contracts. Worked with senior management and legal on new agreements for software and maintenance with vendors.  * Worked with consulting companies on bringing in contracted workers. Created SOW, negotiated hourly rates, and worked with legal on any issues relating to contract language. Team Lead AMERIGROUP Corporation March 2006 to April 2007 * Managed daily tasking and project work for 6 staff members. 4 DBAs and 2 Principles. Daily task management includes administration of both production and development servers, bug fixes for daily and weekly data extracts, security, and assistance needed by developers. Project work included providing management and resource assistance to a new reporting database to support Medical Management and an executive level Dashboard. Additionally, managed extracts to support new market testing.  * Provide support to senior management with staffing. Assisted with interim evaluations for all staff and 90 day evaluations for new hires. Created a 90 day action plan for underperforming staff that included a weekly one on one meeting to evaluate improvement.  * Met with senior management to discuss quarterly budget allocations. Assisted in decision making regarding hardware/software requirements for the quarter. Arranged for vendor demo for purposed software purchase and feedback to senior management on the viability of that purchase.  * Worked with senior staff to insure support for KM servers. Communicated with Infrastructure Services to manage server maintenance, hardware issues, and space issues and productionalization of new servers.  * Worked with senior staff to support Facets 4.31 upgrade. Worked to insure that KM process timelines and dependencies were understood by project team. Senior Database Administrator AMERIGROUP Corporation July 2000 to March 2006 * Member of the architecture team that designed and implemented the company's Integration Repository database and all ETL processes using Informatica that move data into the system. The database serves as an integration point for member, claim and authorization data originating in disparate homogeneous and heterogeneous systems. Data from multiple claims systems is converted and merged into the Integration Repository.  * Designed and implemented Change Data Capture process. Utilizing a combination of database triggers and key tables to store record modifications, this process logs all changes on the source that are required on the integration side. Wrote merging routines to read key tables, retrieve latest changes and apply them to the Integration Repository. Designed and implemented an archiving plan that allows for the retrieval of past transactions.  * Took lead role in the implementation and administration of MS Reporting Services. Build custom administration tools to monitor report's statuses and provide notifications. Mentored junior DBA staff on best practices MS Reporting Services and Informatica.  * Provide daily assistance to development staff with query optimization and data analysis.  * Co-author of the company database design and naming standards.  * Instrumental in the architecture and implementation of transactional-based legacy to RDBMS based operational data store. This near-realtime interface included the application of many data-cleansing and business rules as it parsed the encoded data.  * Designed and implemented various data marts as required by functional areas. They included data marts to support daily inpatient census reporting, daily call center statistical reporting, and daily behavioral health reporting.  * Designed and implemented a data archiving solution, synchronizing data and transactions between the transactional-based legacy system, the operational data store, and the data warehouse.  * Designed, implemented and maintained the import from the operational data stored to a 300 GB warehouse; this weekly process included a great deal of data cleansing. This warehouse was the central store used by virtually all custom applications, reports, and data analysis.  * Assisted developers with syntax, debugging and optimization of SQL code.  * As part of the IT Quality Assurance process, responsible for SQL code review and migration to production servers as well as any data modification outside of the applications. Programmer Abacus April 2000 to July 2000 * Created custom scripts for call center operators.  * Created custom financial reports.  * Debugged and enhanced Crystal Report used for call time reporting.  * Created and monitored SQL Server jobs.  * Promoted SQL code to production. Programmer Trader Publishing February 2000 to April 2000 * Coded programming bug fixes and enhancements.  * Unit tested all changes.  * Maintained documentation for all coding changes. Programmer Harris Publishing September 1999 to January 2000 * Created custom scripts for call center operators.  * Debugged and enhanced Crystal Report used for call time reporting. Skills Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2008, Microsoft sql server 2008 r2, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2008 r2, Sql, Analysis services, C#, Microsoft project, T-sql, R2, Scala