Database Administrator II <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Database Administrator II - Department of Public Safety - Motor Carrier Bureau Houston, TX I am a Programmer/Analyst with over 12 years of experience in software development. I have  substantial software experience with C#(.Net), Microsoft Visual Foxpro, Cobol, Clarion, C and Visual  Basic. My recent experience is with Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 used in a .net  environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator II Department of Public Safety - Motor Carrier Bureau - Austin, TX 2011 to Present Primary Duties included preparing various queries/reports and validating data acquisition. Database Designer/Programer PfmLand LLC - Bellaire, TX 2008 to 2010 Developed a web application for supporting the Chain Of Title used in procuring new leases. The work  was done using C# and SQL 2008. The database design in addition to creating many relational tables  and views, included the creation of several Stored Procedures, Functions and in a related project, the use of Triggers. Consultant Quality Technical Software Systems - Pearland, TX 2006 to 2007 • Consulting  ? Quality Technical services built a website allowing the Employees of a small company to enroll in their health benefits, allowing them to select from several combinations of options. I Created the database using a template some else had created (In foxpro), and designed most of the website using Visual Studio 2005 and C# web pages. This sight also required registration, and a Login screen. Selections could be changed until the enrollment period ended, then the logins were all disabled.  ? Quality Technical also designed a website allowing people to search for Nannies. This time the website was mostly designed by another developer, I created the database essentially from the website, and then bound the controls to the database. The website had a registration and login page, although a login was not required to see the site, to actually contact any one it would. General Programmer Communicate Technological Services - Houston, TX 2003 to 2005 Duties included conversion from a Visual basic based Customer database, to Visual Foxpro.  • General Network and Database Administration.  ? Designing numerous SQL Queries, and reports, this included Active directory.  • And various other operations. (Backups, Uploads, Downloads, Nightly processes) Point of Sale Programmer / Support Supervisor Weiner's Stores - Houston, TX 1991 to 2001 Coded and/or upgraded Micro-focus Cobol applications on "back-office" computers in a POS environment. These applications included Shipping/Receiving, Payroll, Cash-  reporting, Inventory Control, and price-change implementation.  ? Updated MRX Basic applications on Weiner's NCR Register networks. Each of these  networks consisted of two servers, one active and one serving as backup. Should the active server fail the other server would take over automatically.  ? Implemented software changes remotely using the MLINK communications software  package under UNIX. This included zipping up the software and any required batch files, into an upgrade file, which was then copied to an upgrade directory on UNIX. A UNIX  shell script was then started to transmit the upgrade file to all targeted sites. consultant during the development of a school bus routing Quality Technical Software Services - Pearland, TX 1990 to 1990 maintenance/cost tracking database application written in Foxpro. Cobol Programmer McGinnes / Royce Manufacturing - Pearland, TX June 1987 to August 1987 Programmed and created a sales history database for a large steel fabrication facility.  This data had been stored on index cards. After writing the application, I entered all the data. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Sam Houston State University - Houston, TX 1986 to 1989 Computer science Trinity Valley Community College - Palestine, TX 1985 to 1986 Skills Microsoft SQL (10+ years), C# .Net (9 years), IBM DB2 (4 years), ORACLE (1 year), Cobol (9 years), Clarion (3 years), Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA, SQL, .NET, Microsoft SQL Server