Medical Practice Representative Medical Practice Representative Medical Practice Representative - Sinai Hospital Baltimore, MD Over 20 years of experience in the areas of program management and administrative support. Through commitment to excellence and a passion for helping my customer, I add value to any organization through strong verbal and written communication skills; providing advice and technical guidance concerning administrative policies, budget management, data implementation and training & development; focusing on strategic planning and alignment with organizational vision; being an agent of positive change among my colleagues while supporting my leadership. Career supported by a Bachelor Degree in Computer Information Systems. Work Experience Medical Practice Representative Sinai Hospital April 2016 to Present As the Medical Practice Representative for the newly established Out-Patient Pulmonary Clinic, I collaborated with senior management to develop and implement a workflow process for the out-patient clinic. Based on my assessment and analysis of various departments within Sinai Hospital, I strategically used the data to construct a standardize check-in/checkout methodology for the dual location of the pulmonary clinic.    This position requires that I facilitate the full scope of all administrative functions of the fast-pace pulmonary office by managing, monitoring and administering conflict resolution for three physicians' patient schedules; generating monthly patient attendance and scheduling reports; manage the physicians' database for outpatient encounters and surgical procedures.    As part of ongoing continuous improvement for budget management, I make budget recommendations, create status reports for the Director of Pulmonary and provide an internal review of all expenditures to ensure efficient spending and cost savings within the administrative budget.    One of my primary responsibilities is Patient Satisfaction. As the liaison between management, patients, physicians, pharmaceutical reps and internal employees, I use clear, concise and professional language to convey sensitive and confidential information. Using superior listening and verbal skills, I am responsible for communicating with culturally diverse groups to facilitate resolution of patient concerns in a timely and courteous manner.    In addition, I analyze and interpret medical information obtained from Internal and external medical facilities to determine accurate categorization of data for further evaluation by the healthcare provider. This data includes patients' diagnostic results, consultation notes and clinical documents used to assess proper diagnosis by the physicians. Coordinator University of Maryland - School of Medicine January 2013 to September 2015 As the Coordinator for The Center for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, I served as the central point of contact for all administrative, operations and logistical planning for all development events and programs. I was responsible for the evaluation (quantitative and qualitative) of all aspects of the center's administrative functions, and development which includes research, event planning/execution, marketing/communications and developing training program materials.    In addition, this position required that I research and analyze best practices in academic philanthropic operations, as well as best practices in administrative procedures. I supported the Associate Dean of the Stem Cell Center by planning local fundraising events, retreats and symposiums by targeting organizations interested in stem cell advancement. The planning and execution of these events included all facets of project management which involved budgeting, developing a timeline, collaborating with internal and external stakeholders, guest speakers, venue, catering and on sight event staff using superior communication skills.    I analyzed and measured the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of grant and research operations as well as best practices in administrative procedures. I supported the Associate Dean and Program Director by analyzing the department and center's goals and objectives, developed proficient strategies, and plans for improving administrative management.    Researched programs/projects and grants, then provide summarization of the results and presented recommendations in the form of internal process improvement, or changes to specific organizational goals and strategic plans.    Create training materials such as; presentations, flyers, and/or posters that are based on studies, event/functions to ensure both internal and external constituents were involved.    Through our donor and Alumni survey, I evaluated quality, effectiveness and engagement of our events and activities to identify areas of improvement. Through analysis of the survey responses, I recommended modifications to existing programs to increase our donor contributions. Once the recommendations were approved, I was responsible for implementing the changes and monitoring the results. Office Manager & Executive Assistant Kernan Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation Hospital May 2004 to June 2011 As the Office Manager & Executive Assistant, I provided executive level support to the President/CEO by managing daily activities in a fast-paced executive office. I served as the Liaison for the Executive Management Team while interacting with officials, staff of all levels and the public arena by providing information on institutional policies, procedures, and special issues. I was responsible managing all administrative and operational aspects in the executive office to ensure organizational goals were obtained.    I managed the executive office administrative staff by prioritizing and delegating assignments based on employee's strengths and competencies; provided input on performance, work quality, and establish guidelines and procedures to maximize productivity and ensure smooth and efficient operations. Enforced deadlines by assessing and monitor progress and track work flow using Microsoft Office; Organized and coordinated training seminars that address staff needs and identify relevant external and internal training opportunities.    Additionally, I coordinated the daily functionality of the office through budget management of all administrative expenditures; implementing policies and procedures that increased operational efficiency; maintained strict confidentiality with sensitive information, financial documents, records and personnel matters.    Also prepared relevant documentation and assembled collateral material to be reviewed and presented by the CEO; composed and executed presentations for executive level briefings and the monthly board meetings. Managed the CEO's calendar and handled all domestic and international travel arrangements.    Lastly, I managed the Patient Safety Hotline by tracking complaints and incidents; forwarding the problem to the corrective manager/department; following up on resolution and maintaining a tracking database. Patient Satisfaction Scores increased by 15% during my supervision. Database Coordinator Sierra Military Health Services July 2003 to February 2004 As the Database Coordinator I served as the organization subject matter expert to provide input on needed requirements for the development of the database used to track, manage and organize sensitive data. In this position, I was responsible for researching, analyzing, extracting and archiving, data for development of reports and subject-matter files.    Consolidated and analyzed statistical data and trends related to system utilization to ensure data definitions met the needs of the management team. I performed qualitative and quantitative analysis of information for senior management using industry specific software.    CORE COMPENTENCIES:  Customer Communications  • Extensive verbal and written communications with executives, stakeholders and patients focusing on problem solving, program implementation and policies/procedures.  • Interact with patients and their families to provide information and/or reply to inquiries regarding patients medical care issues or concerns.  • Professionally communicate with diverse groups focusing on the core principles of: Respect & Dignity, Information Sharing, Participation and Collaboration.    Project Management  • Ensure deadlines are met, continually assess and monitor progress  • Develops spreadsheet to track and reconcile department and event operating budget  • Manage, monitor and authorize the payment of invoices.  • Resolves discrepancies with vendors or service providers  • Utilize project management principles to present, create and execute creative concepts  • Create training materials such as; presentations, flyers, and/or posters that are based on studies, event/functions to ensure both internal and external constituents are involved.    Research, Data Management and Analysis  • Serve as the organization subject matter expert to provide input on needed requirements for the development of the database used to track, manage and organize sensitive data.  • Adept at researching, analyzing, extracting and archiving, data for development of reports and subject-matter files.  • Consolidate and analyze statistical data and trends related to system utilization to ensure data definitions meet the needs of the management team.  • Qualitative and quantitative analysis of information for senior management using industry specific software. Executive Assistant Constellation Power Source, Inc June 2002 to March 2003 Manager /Owner Taste of the Tropics, Inc December 1998 to September 2002 Legal Office Administrator Zurich Insurance Company December 1994 to July 1998 Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Information Systems Towson University - Towson, MD May 2002 Skills Communications, Microsoft Excel, Marketing, retail sales, Quickbooks, Photoshop, Prior Authorization, Medicaid Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nhis7bmq6b5-cfj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Notary Public - 1995 to Present