Freelance Writer Freelance Writer Writer, Programmer Henderson, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Writer Streamline Media - Las Vegas, NV November 2018 to Present Research and write articles for various online sites related to the gambling industry. In addition to rewriting a number of static how-to articles, I have produced between 6,000 and 8,000 words per week on subjects ranging from online sign-up bonuses to overviews of cigar bars in Vegas, as well as a weekly digest of gambling-related news. For an up-to-date list of some of my bylined articles, visit https://www.gamblingsites.com/blog/ Database Administrator/Web Programmer True Interactive Yellow Page Directories., Inc - Henderson, NV 1996 to Present Responsible for all aspects of operations and management of database management company, including development of data products for customer use, negotiations with vendors, establishing and implementing company policies. Designed, developed and implemented several successful niche directories providing consumer information on the medical, legal, and gaming industries. Sales Manager Anchor Publications - Irvine, CA 1995 to 1996 Managed advertising sales team in the successful marketing of niche directory advertising throughout southern California. Significantly improved sales in all territories. Developed customer tracking database, as well as the company's first successful direct-mail effort. marketing videos, and documentaries Orange County Newschannel - Santa Ana, CA 1994 to 1995 Santa Ana, California  Scripted and produced commercials and long-form videos for a wide range of businesses. Additional responsibilities included narration and editing of commercials, marketing videos, and documentaries. Technical Writer Irvine, CA 1987 to 1994 Wrote wide range of resumes and CVs for clients of Power Resumes and The Elliott Group. Developed and edited newsletter for optometric association; ghost-wrote popular "how-to" book now in its fifth printing; authored novel published by St. Martin's Press; scripted and produced numerous commercials and corporate informational videos; edited and authored numerous grade-school level student workbooks. Computer Center Manager Radio Shack 1983 to 1986 Orange County, California  Hired as sales associate in Brea Computer Center, promoted quickly to El Toro Computer Center Manager; hired, trained and managed computer sales team. Responsible for all aspects of daily operations, including deposits, inventory management, sales, personnel evaluations, and training. Writer H.L. Peace Publications - Mandeville, LA 1981 to 1982 Researched and wrote technical articles for company's two industrial trade publications, Fish Boat and Work Boat. Attended and reported on industry  conferences throughout the US and Central America. Editor St. Tammy News-Banner - Mandeville, LA 1979 to 1981 Originally hired as general reporter, quickly assumed position of editor for this twice-weekly newspaper. Responsible for writing news and sports articles against tight deadlines; additionally, all assignments included photography and darkroom work. Education Comparative Literature California State University Associate's in English and Journalism Saddleback Community College Skills MS-SQL (10+ years), MS Access (10+ years), MS Excel (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), Visual Basic (10+ years), Microsoft Office, Microsoft Excel, SEO Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: STG2 October 1973 to January 1979 Maintain and operate AN/SQS-35 Variable Depth Sonar system. Troubleshoot repairs to component level. Operate the AN/SQQ-32 sonar system.