IT Manager IT Manager BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ANALYST Venetia, PA • Excellent with multiple project organization, tracking and management.  SUMMARY • Proficient in the use of Microsoft Office software products including Access,  Powerpoint, Sharepoint, Groove, Word, Excel, Project, Visio, and Outlook.  • Expert in the areas of data management, design and analysis through the use of  software tools such as Microsoft SQL Server 2012, 2008, 2005, SQL Server  Reporting Services including Report Builder 3.0, and SQL Server Integration  Services, Microsoft Access, and Crystal Reports XI.  • Served in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard from 1996-2003.  • Managed an Information Technology staff of five in the provision of PC support,  business intelligence and reporting, and various information technology product  upgrades and implementations.  • Managed a staff of 10 in the provision of drug and alcohol rehabilitation services  for chemically addicted pregnant women and their children in a homeless shelter  environment.  • Proficient in the implementation and design of the Qlikview reporting application.    PROFESSIONAL MANAGER, APPLICATION SUPPORT AND REPORTING 08/2012-Present Work Experience IT Manager Red Valve Company - Pittsburgh, PA October 2016 to Present Senior Manager Application Support and Reporting Nuverra Environmental Solutions - Bridgeville, PA August 2012 to September 2016 BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ANALYST Dynavox Systems, LLC - Pittsburgh, PA July 2009 to August 2012 Collaborated with end users to identify needs and opportunities for improved  data management and delivery and streamlined business processes.  • Proficient in SQL Server 2005 and 2008 including the use of SQL Server Reporting  Services (SSRS), Report Builder 3.0, and SQL Server Integration Services.  • Collaborated with Dynavox Device Sales Team and Mayer-Johnson web  development team in the development and implementation of a customized order  management system.  • Completed the process mapping and functional requirements specifications as well as the design of the database architecture and graphical user interface  associated with the software development project  • Designed a series of SQL Server Integration Services Packages that were able to successfully load all related sales data from Microsoft Great Plains and  CareVoyant Infosys to the newly developed system.  • Worked closely with medical device sales management and software sales and marketing departments in the design and implementation of SSRS reporting  relative to commission payment, sales forecasting, territory and regional sales  history, catalog mailing, and financial reporting. APPLICATIONS MANAGER University of Pittsburgh Medical Center - Pittsburgh, PA November 2006 to July 2009 • Planned, controlled and managed all aspects of system implementation and maintenance, including releases, patches, and fixes and interacted with vendors when problems arose during the course of implementation and/or support.  • Managed a team of five information technology specialists in the provision of personal computer support, application support (PsychConsult Provider, Ceridian,  Ceridian Self-Service, OnBase, Microsoft Sharepoint, and SQL Server 2000), and development (PowerBuilder, Crystal Reports, Crystal Reports Server, Adobe  Captivate, Live Cycle, Adobe Presenter, Adobe Connect and Web Design).  • Managed the Information Technology team in the provision of 24X7 application and network support with the expectation of less than a two hour response time.  • Assisted with the selection and implementation of a Scanning Software Suite.  • Assisted with the selection and implementation of the Payroll System.  • Responsible for the recruitment, selection, training, performance monitoring and evaluation, and maintenance of staff and interns.    (2 of 3) INTERNAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUDITOR University of Pittsburgh Medical Center - Pittsburgh, PA January 2005 to November 2006 Documented a variety of IT related internal business sub processes and software  applications with regard to the Sarbanes Oxley Compliance Initiative.  • Performed information technology and financial audits and consulting engagements in compliance with department policies & procedures and the Institute of Internal  Auditors' standards.  • Designed and implemented a process using SQL Server 2000 that integrated  data from 22 sources that was used in an Exclusion and Sanctioned Audit.  • Provided IT support to Internal Audit department in the form of Data Analysis  (utilizing SQL Server 2000 and Audit Control Language), report writing and troubleshooting. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR University of Pittsburgh Medical Center - Pittsburgh, PA November 2003 to January 2005 • Assisted in the determination of the cause of database problems, arrived at solutions and implemented appropriate actions to correct identified problems.  • Installed SQL Server 7.0 and 2000 (both new installation and upgrades in single  server and clustered environments), utility software, and program temporary  fixes in a manner that caused the least amount of major disruption to the production environment.  • Ensured performance considerations were designed into system configurations and maintained a formal methodology for reporting performance.  • Participated in a 24X7 on-call rotation with the expectation of problem resolution in less than two hours. Education Master of Science in Electronic Business THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY - Pittsburgh, PA August 2004 to May 2006 DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY August 1998 to May 2002 Bachelor of Science in Administration of Justice Coro Center for Civic Leadership's Information Technology