Product Owner Product Owner Product Owner - Element Fleet Ellicott City, MD Product Manager/Owner with over 20 years IT experience and 8 years in product development, conception, planning and execution. Experience in capturing and managing business, functional and cross-functional requirements. Excellent communication and coordination skills with customers, business and IT teams. Successfully delivered products and projects from conception through UAT and Go-live. Expertise in digital and mobile marketing. Experienced in project budgeting and financial analysis. Ability to simplify complex information to make it understandable for all and to interrogate and challenge inconsistencies in findings. Experience with Agile and Scrum. Extensive experience using Salesforce and Jira. Experience of technology Product Management in a B2B or B2B-2C environment. Work Experience Product Owner Element Fleet - Sparks, MD February 2019 to Present Salesforce Service cloud, External website, mobile app    Element fleet is North America's largest trucking fleet management company serving some of the biggest retailers, logistics, pharmaceutical companies in US, Canada & Mexico    • Supported the ideation and creation of new products to enhance the existing Salesforce Service cloud  and client facing website, mobile apps.  • Developed and maintained a clear vision for the product including technology, revenue generation and internal strategic perspectives.  • Created and managed product road maps in order to expand usage of the product from internal users to external Element clients & customers.  • During product build, conducted project management activities including engaging with external vendors, internal stake holders, IT teams, tracking project timelines and project progress using Agile methodology.  • Achievements: Understood business requirements to ideate on a new external client facing website with enhanced tools to allow Element clients, users to directly interact with internal departments to manage workflow Product Manager & Founder MyCustomCoupon Mobile App February 2014 to February 2019 As Product Manager, I spearheaded ideation, requirements gathering, prototype evaluation and testing, product development and delivery, launch and marketing of the app  • Product Management Framework: Developed and implemented all phases on Product Management from Finding a market problem, creating a solution and successfully taking it to market.  • Strategy: Taking the product idea from concept to execution. Created a product roadmap. Incorporated agile practice for testing and learning as part of the strategy, in order to develop a minimum viable product (MVP).  • Market Research: I interviewed and engaged with 100's of merchants and consumers to understand business models to elicit feature and prioritization requests. Conducted focus groups to optimize experience and functionality. Used feedback from the field to refine product requirements.  • Design: Created wireframes, designed UI and captured detailed product and functional requirements for MVP and MLP phases.  • Project Management: Managed product development and delivery with CA based vendor team. Used JIRA and Confluence for collaboration and centralized communication. Collaborated with multiple development teams to coordinate efforts. Created all documents for the app including user stories, testing related documentation, product description, legal agreements. Successfully removed or negotiated around hurdles blocking the path.  • Quality Assurance: Verified and validated product features and requirements to ensure that they met acceptance criteria. Incorporated continuous product testing.  • Marketing: Was actively involved with all aspects of marketing of the app including Public Relations efforts, designing printed marketing materials, presenting the app at various local tech and community events. Launched innovative features, provide value in the app to gain customer loyalty. Comfortably presented to senior management at large customer companies to gain app acceptance.  • Digital Marketing: Created social media posts and campaigns on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, developed email campaigns on MailChimp. Used Google Analytics, Facebook & Twitter Analytics to assess customer interaction with the app, effectiveness of marketing efforts.  • Customer Interaction: Worked directly with the area sales head of largest chain restaurants like Carrabba's, Outback Steakhouse, On the border, pizza chains, automotive dealership chains like Apple Ford, Koons Mercedes and others. I gathered their marketing requirements and understood their pain points and was able to convert these into functional app features. I validated the requirements with them and developed an app that is valuable to them.  • Achievements: Scaled the app to grow from Howard County to Towson and Baltimore. App now has over 2500 users and over 400 local business using it. The app received critical acclaim in local press. Product Manager FTI Consulting - Annapolis, MD November 2010 to February 2016 RingTail e-discovery software    FTI is a large publicly traded company where I was the product manager managing features within the RingTail application    • I was part of a team that upgraded the RingTail application from Intranet to cloud. Defined and developed company wide Product Management framework for product lifecycle  • Worked directly with executives of some the largest law firms from US and Europe to understand their needs, and gather requirements. Helped translate these requirements into Epics and User Stories with acceptance criteria. Defined product features, releases and developed high-level Acceptance Criteria with the rest of the project team following an Agile approach.  • Co-ordinated with scrum team to prioritize the Features into development.  • Continuously interacted with the Product Owner to groom the Epic and Feature backlog and to stay focused on the gathered requirements.  • Worked on large multiple product sets co ordinating with team of software developers, project managers, UX designers, QA testers, sales agents to deliver features as requested by customers Database Administrator - Lead SQL DBA CareFusion - San Diego, CA February 2009 to October 2010 Was the Lead Operations DBA for the SQL Server corporate environment at Cardinal health (A fortune 100 company) and their spin off CareFusion. My role included management of SQL DBA team for operations, production support, and data center management and migration, Database consolidation and upgrade, database availability and SLA performance. Also included DBA resource management with onsite offshore mix and resource allocation for on call support and project participation.    Previous experience as a software engineer & database administrator Skills Product management, Jira, Share point, Optimization, Requirements gathering, Documentation, Microsoft office Additional Information Skills:  • Requirements gathering, analysis and documentation  • Agile/SCRUM and Waterfall  • Process definition, engineering and optimization  • Product Management Framework    • Project management  • JIRA, Salesforce, Share point  • Microsoft Office suite  • Google Analytics