Database/Web Portal Administrative Assistant <span class="hl">Database</span>/Web Portal Administrative Assistant Spring Arbor, MI Efficient and results-driven business professional seeking to secure a position that would utilize my extensive computer skills and years of administrative experience while offering an opportunity for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database/Web Portal Administrative Assistant JFP Benefit Management - Jackson, MI February 2017 to Present • Designed and maintain company website including: programming in HTML5, CSS, PERL/CGI and MySQL database.  • Imported, Verified and Validated EDI claims into company database on daily basis.  • Provide specific reporting to Management and Claims department on daily basis.  • Create Daily and Weekly reports for clients to verify activity on their specific web portal.  • Responsible for verifying and entering provider information into the database.  • Design User forms in Access and Excel utilizing VBScript or VBA to increase productivity.  • Experience utilizing raw data (ASCII, Text) to produce specific reports for upper management.  • Responsible for the set-up and design of new Medi portal for clients and employees to view EOB's online.  • Help sales staff with various Power point presentations and brochures.  • Provide customer service for clients needing assistance with various web portals. Office Manager Summit Chiropractic Clinic - Jackson, MI 1994 to 2017 • Designed and maintain clinic website including: programming in HTML, CSS, PERL/CGI, PHP and MySQL database.  • Designed and maintain a variety of databases and desktop programs resulting in enhanced staff productivity.  • Create all advertising and marketing material utilized by the clinic.  • Responsible for all operations including: payroll, overseeing office staff, accounts payable, and the tracking and ordering of office supplies.  • Direct monthly meetings, compose correspondence, and generate monthly and yearly reports.  • Enter patient information and visits into the computer system and file necessary patient documents.  • Handled cash and credit card transactions and perform daily deposits and reconciliations.  • Provide exceptional customer service by greeting patients, answering phones, and scheduling appointments. Systems Administrator S.P. Services Inc - Sylvan Lake, MI 1992 to 1994 • Maintained in-house Novell Network utilized by the sales department.  • Provided trouble shooting on all software problems and technical issues.  • Maintained security systems and performed daily back-up for company.  • Trained employees on various software programs and assigned appropriate security levels.  • Analyzed and maintained databases for outside sales reporting and forecasting.  • Generated weekly and monthly reports with graphs for upper management.  3502 Audrey Street ? Spring Arbor, MI 49283 ? Phone: (517)962-4798 ? Email: ybarra01@baker.edu Inventory Control Specialist H.L. Blachford, Inc - Troy, MI 1987 to 1992 Inventory Control  • Trained personnel at sister plants on how to utilize new computer systems.  • Ordered inventory supplies needed for production of sound barrier flooring utilized by the big three auto makers.  • Forecasted consumptions based upon daily production counts and product Bill of Materials.  • Performed and organized monthly and yearly inventory counts which involved overseeing 20-30 employees.  • Reported to upper management on production and physical inventory counts on a monthly basis. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Baker College - Flint, MI 2012 Skills CGI (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), PERL (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Excel, Data Entry, Executive Administrative, Administrative Support, Administrative Assistant, Payroll, Outlook Additional Information Skills  • Expertise in a variety of software programs: MS Office 2000/2003/2007/2010 - Word, Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Publisher, Outlook and Visio.  • Programming ability in C++, JAVA, iSeries AS/400, Visual Basic.Net, MySQL and PL/SQL utilizing various IDE's including Visual Studio and NetBeans.  • Scripting ability with VBScript, Perl, and VBA  • Web design and programming skills with HTML, CSS, DHTML, CGI/PERL, ASP.net, and PHP.  • Designed and maintained various web sites with back-end administrative capabilities.  • Graphics experience utilizing Jasc Paint Shop Pro, Corel Paint Shop and Adobe Photoshop.  • Ability to multi-task within a stressful environment.  • Proven ability to interact professionally, efficiently and pleasantly with a variety of customers.  • Capacity to learn and apply new skills and information quickly and accurately.