Office Assistant Office Assistant Business Systems Analyst Adrian, MI • Superior verbal and written communication skills.  • Recognized for ability to build and cultivate relationships with key personnel.  • Accomplished trainer and mentor with skills to motivate individual and team performance.  • Leader in technology management and training with first-hand knowledge of adult learning styles. Work Experience Office Assistant Lenawee Intermediate School District - Adr October 2018 to Present Assist Supervisor/Counselor with the day to day operations of the school. Work with students, parents and children to ensure a healthy learning environment. Handle all incoming and outgoing mail, supplies, office management. Utilize the Student Information Systems for input of student data. Process purchase requisitions and purchase orders through the Financial Information Systems. Business Systems Analyst GLEANER LIFE INSURANCE - Adrian, MI 2015 to June 2017 Managed software introduction of The Workfront, project management system. Provided system updates and training as needed. Provided milestone updates for management and reporting to the board. Attend offsite conferences and trainings.    OnBase by Hyland - Administrator  Assisted in the conversion to new OnBase 17 from OnBase 12; Assisted with set up ODBC and full software installs, assist in QC of data pre-and post conversion phases. Blackbaud Database Administrator ADRIAN COLLEGE - Adrian, MI 2011 to 2015 Provide database support to Students, Faculty, Staff, Alumni, Donors and Trustees. Support Blackbaud, and Blackboard applications (student management, financial management and human resource management). Provide financial and statistical data reporting for state and national organizations including but not limited to: ACUIM, Great Colleges Survey, ECSI, IPEDS, National Student Clearinghouse, NCAA, Peterson's, Perkins, US News and World Reports, STARS reporting. Manage software implementation projects, work flows and student work studies. Internet Banking Coordinator UNITED BANK & TRUST - Tecumseh, MI 2006 to 2011 Manage, support and train all call center employees, provide mentoring, training, review and support of future goals. Provide financial and statistical data reporting to Risk Management and IT Director Project lead in converting, documenting and training all employees at 17 locations, documented all phases of system prior and after conversion. Created and tested queries for testing, QC and production server installs. Help Desk Support/Internet Banking Support 2006 to 2008 Provide training, documentation and support for all internal coworkers with regards to pc workstations, phones, Microsoft Office product support, and project management.    Technical Skills  AS/400, Active Calendar, Active Directory, BlackBaud, BlackBoard, CIMS, Citrix, Microsoft Office, (Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Word), Exchange, Google Docs, iPads, Phones, LinkedIn, OnBase by Hyland, The Raisers Edge, Salesforce, Vector, Workfront Project Management System. Office 365, Windows 10    Volunteer Opportunities  Communities in Schools - Pen Pal Program Tecumseh Schools  Gleaner Fundraising Committee  Homeless Education - The Lenawee Foundation- Pajama Rama - The Centre  Temporary Homeless Shelter - Bohn Pool  Sand Creek Schools - ABA Teaching Children to Save  Supermarket Sweet - Supports Local Food Pantry  United Way - Rake -N- Run  United Way - Community Action Day    United Bank & Trust  Information Technology Committee  Client Services Committee  Management/Leadership Training and Certifications  United Cares and Bee-Well Committees  Dave Ramsey's Financial Training Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Technology Cleary University - Ann Arbor, MI June 2018 Master in Education University of Phoenix - Ann Arbor, MI Skills Microsoft Office, testing, MS Office, Business Intelligence, Excel, Powerpoint