Director of Software Engineering Director of Software Engineering Director of Software Engineering - Transtar Industries Twinsburg, OH SQL Server professional with a unique combination of Architecture, Business Intelligence, Development and Administration  skills seeking an industry-disruptive company to match his personality.  Career highlights include leading a team of DBAs for a highly-successful global SaaS startup that later became Verizon  Connect. Work Experience Director of Software Engineering Transtar Industries - Walton Hills, OH 2018 to Present • Led a lean agile team of API and Web developers.  • Upgraded production SQL Server to the 2017 edition, running on a SAN-less failover cluster.  • Utilized Distributed Availability Groups to move databases to another Data Center with little to no downtime.  • Implemented new SQL Server licensing model to best utilize Active-Passive clusters.  • Modeled data and created stored procedures for a brand new point-of-sale platform.  • Implemented token-based security and password validation using hash keys generated via SHA2 512 bit algorithm.  • Imported legacy software users along with their hashed security settings for seamless platform migration.  • Leveraged hierarchy types to embed taxonomy of products and their fitment into searchable binary values.  • Schema-separated different functional entities, for both ease of access and security.  • Rolled-out Full Text Search feature, facilitating lightning-quick free text catalog searching.  • Put in place IBM AS400 ERP ETL integration routines, eliminating the need for 3rd party software and licensing. Lead SQL Server Database Administrator Fleetmatics - a Verizon Company - Solon, OH 2013 to 2018 • Database Administration of a 24/7 SaaS environment, directly impacting customers across the globe.  • Responsible for 150 servers, running in active-active/passive failover clustering, totaling 2.5 trillion records and 750TB of data, spread across groups of sharded database collections.  • Participated in the rollout of AWS EC2 DR Project, leveraging S3 bucket for sync-up with production environment.  • Created custom Database monitoring solution using BI architecture and Data Warehouse principles.  • Implemented DBA Dashboard Reporting Suite to ensure healthy operation of the entire database estate.  • Added custom alerting, extracting and analyzing server logs for vitals, as well as any agent failures and long execs.  • Offloaded routine DBA maintenance tasks, such as backups, index rebuilds and statistics maintenance to the DBA central  repository environment.  • Designed blocking monitoring and automatic conflict resolution to significantly improve DB uptime.  • Solved complex deadlocking issue in a highly-transactional system that was only present under high load.  • Identified runaway transaction scenario as a cause of erratic application outages.  • Performed data recovery tasks to mitigate data corruption situation triggered by a hardware failure.  • Analyzed database log files to perform forensics of unexpected data modifications.  • Created automatic sliding partition window maintenance script, featuring back-off and retry logic.  • Implemented archiving architecture by the use of a completely dynamic ETL scripting, which would otherwise necessitate  hundreds of SSIS packages to be deployed and maintained.  • Significantly reduced CPU and I/O load via performance tuning of highest resource-consuming objects.  • Worked with the Continuous Integration team to streamline deployments of new releases, utilizing Red Gate SQL  Compare and SVN/GIT source control.  • Audited security settings and deployed proper role-based access layers.  • Utilized Availability Groups, log-shipping and replication as supplemental forms of High Availability.  • Reviewed server specifications and made recommendations for overall infrastructure architecture.  • Leveraged Jira to do Sprint planning within Scrum framework to comply with agile methodology. SQL Server Database Administrator/ Analyst Amresco, Inc - Solon, OH 2012 to 2013 • Setup 2-node Windows Server 2008R2 Production Failover Cluster in VMWare farm.  • Designed and implemented Active/Passive SQL 2012 High-Availability environment.  • Deployed multiple SSRS instances in a stand-alone VM, providing cost-effective HA alternative to NLB and Scale-Out  deployment.  • Restored 2005 Enterprise SSRS database into 2012 Standard SSRS and manually corrected keys in order to remove  original server from Scale-Out deployment.  • Recommended database migration path to effectively leverage SQL Server 2012 licensing model, significantly cutting  future licensing costs.  • Consolidated databases from legacy non-HA environment into the Production Cluster, increasing uptime, improving  performance and simplifying maintenance while retaining proper security settings.  • Setup all of SQL services to run under their own Active Directory accounts for maximum security granularity and audit.  • Enabled Kerberos Authentication between SQL Servers to retain original user's identity through multi-server hop  scenarios.  • Joined SQL Server instances as linked servers, unifying SQL infrastructure and extending application capabilities.  • Automated DBA tasks, leveraging a single DBA instance in charge of SQL Server and Database inventory, collecting  performance data, sending alert notifications, taking backups and file recycling; all completely resilient to failovers or interruptions.  • Engineered HA network-share backup system, limiting each SQL Instance access to its own location, yet being able to dynamically manage file retention from the master DBA instance.  • Created backup retention process utilizing temporary recycle location as well as complete backup chain preservation, taking into account base backups, differentials and complete log sequence. SQL Server Database Administrator Dental One Partners - Independence, OH 2010 to 2012 Administration of over 500 production databases residing in a high-availability Failover Cluster environment running  Windows Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2008R2 Enterprise.  • Consolidated legacy SQL Servers into Enterprise shared environment.  • Installed and migrated MSRS 2005/IIS7.0 and SSRS2008R2 on a new reporting server.  • Used Dynamic Management views to log and analyze SQL Server performance using dedicated DBA SQL Server  instance.  • Migrated logins between servers, retaining same SID and hashed password to preserve user mappings and allow path- through authentication between linked servers.  • Created auto-scripting of user permissions to restore production databases in development and re-assign permissions  existing only in dev. Used same script when migrating databases between instances having different user SIDs.  • Configured, presented and purchased new hardware to support expanding business needs.  • Created SSRS reports for BI team when migrating Business Objects reporting to SSRS.  • Built and supported SSIS packages used for ETL as well as asynchronous process execution.  • Exported, imported and archived data using native BCP, predecessor to SSIS.  • Installed and maintained HiT Software DBMoto DB2 to SQL Server replication service.  • Added active alerting for replication going offline, long or multiple stored procedure executions and failover events.  • Worked closely with datacenter vendor analyzing SAN Tier 1 and Tier 2 performance to identify improvement areas.  • Expanded SQL Cluster utilization and improved cost effectiveness by implementing a Direct-Attached-Storage solution.  • Created SQL Server I/O log report of all server instances and databases to closely monitor SAN throughput and identify  potential bottlenecks.  • Created SSAS cube and Hierarchy for Great Plains data warehouse and its ETL process. System Architect National City Bank - Highland Hills, OH 2005 to 2010 Database Marketing Analyst Keithley Instruments, Inc - Solon, OH 2003 to 2005 Data Analyst Key Bank Corp - Cleveland, OH 2002 to 2003 Computer Show Manager IKON Technologies, INC - Solon, OH 2001 to 2002 Research and Development Programmer/Analyst InsurQuote // IAS - Beachwood, OH 1999 to 2001 Education Associate Degree in Computer Programming and Design in Computer Programming and Design ATS Institute of Technology - Cleveland, OH 1998 to 2002 Computer Science Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH 1997 to 1998 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2000, Replication, Sql, Clustering Additional Information Key Words SQL Server 2000 - 2017, Failover Clustering, Disaster Recovery, HADR, Distributed Availability Groups, Mirroring,  Replication, Log Shipping, Performance Tuning, Partitioning, Linked Servers, Sharding, Clustered Columnstore, Full Text  Indexing, Git, Red Gate, ETL, VLDB, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, PDW/APS, Azure, AWS, Agile, Jira