Assistant Property Manager Assistant Property Manager Administrative Assistant Pittsford, NY • Highly skilled Administrative Assistant with experience working in diverse office environments.  • Enthusiastic self-starter with strong background in performing tasks using exceptional communication and customer service acumen.  • Proven abilities in developing positive relationships with clients and co-workers.  • Ability to multi-task in a fast paced atmosphere.  • Outstanding capacity to meet objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Property Manager Crofton Perdue Associates, Inc February 2018 to November 2018 • Prepared all material to be handed out at Annual Homeowner's Association meetings.  • Entered all homeowner requests for changes in common areas into the TOPS system and submitted to the Homeowners Associate Board.  • Submitted requests by homeowners for repair to the personal area of their home.  • Mailed yearly budget reports to all homeowners at individual communities.  • Assisted Property Managers in all projects as requested. Front Desk Administrator Broadstone Real Estate, LLC October 2017 to December 2017 • Completed data entry and reconciliation tasks.  • Prepared manuals for presentation at internal meetings.  • Greeted and directed callers and visitors in a courteous and professional manner.  • Assumed other duties and responsibilities as needed. Operations Coordinator Chapman & Co., LLC June 2016 to November 2016 • Ran reports to track changes in the stock market.  • Created financial reports to be given to clients during meetings with advisor.  • Followed-up on state and federal return status in ATX system. Database Administrator Wall Street Financial Group July 2013 to March 2016 • Processed sales proposals to be approved by the Compliance Department. If rejected, contact the Financial Advisor for additional and/or correct information.  • Updated information submitted for current clients in the Laserfiche Management System.  • Followed up on Change of Broker/Dealer requests with finance companies.  • Ran weekly reports to find missing and deficient items on client paperwork submitted by the Financial Advisor. Worked with the advisors to correct missing information.  • Ran a weekly P.O. report for the Commissions Department to determine if agent fees should be released. Administrative Assistant Sonitrol Security Systems October 2012 to May 2013 • Prepared proposals, contracts and addendums.  • Produced weekly sales reports.  • Followed-up with customers regarding technical service visits. Results were reported to the President and Vice-President weekly. Executive Assistant/Customer Service AP Professionals - Rochester, NY March 2009 to August 2012 Baush & Lomb, Rochester, NY  Convergent Wealth Advisors, Pittsford, NY  LiDestri Foods, Fairport, NY  The Camden Group, Rochester, NY  Koch Containers, Victor, NY    • Prepared marketing, presentation and training materials.  • Responsible for management of client databases including the SharePoint and CRM systems.  • Opened and invoiced Purchase Orders and reconciled billing statements.  • Scheduled the completion of customer orders with the processing department. Lead Administrative Associate Wausau Signature Agency July 2000 to February 2009 • Managed the day-to-day work of the Vice President, Directors of Sales and Sales, Service and Marketing Managers throughout the North East and Mid-Atlantic.  • Scheduled training, meetings, appointments and travel commitments to ensure effective use of time.  • Negotiated with meeting facilities and monitored expenses for regional meetings throughout the Northeast.  • Supported Human Resources in completing and processing new employee and termination paperwork on behalf of the Managers to alleviate administrative burden.  • Successfully loaded all software programs onto PCs for new hires to ensure rapid transition into the work environment. This was successfully completed with 100% of our hires.  • Provided support to the Customer Service department generating Certificates of Insurance and proposals on the Sagitta Agency Management System. Office Administrator Comforce Technologies September 1996 to December 1999 • Responsible for administrative support for the Vice-President, Sales Manager, Recruiters and Resource Managers in the Rochester and Syracuse offices.  • Created formal correspondence, project bids and contracts to ensure that all technical placement openings were filled with capable contractors.  • Served as liaison between contractors and the Payroll Department to ensure that deductions were made correctly.  • Consistently processed all Health, Dental and Life insurance forms and provided customer support for any questions that employees and contractors had regarding their insurance.  • Consistently reviewed, submitted and followed up on expense reports to ensure accuracy and timely payment. Education License in Property & Casualty New York State Insurance May 2003 to January 2020 A.A.S in Social Science Finger Lakes Community College - Canandaigua, NY Skills Property Management, Outlook, Microsoft Office, Outlook, Microsoft Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dianepike Certifications/Licenses NYS Property & Casualty Insurance License May 2003 to January 2020