Database Analyst and Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst and <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Analyst and Administrator Redondo Beach, CA Certified and experienced database IT professional seeking new opportunities in the Database Administration field. Work Experience Database Analyst and Administrator Los Angeles County Sanitation District - Compton, CA 2018 to 2019 • Analyzed database and created new queries using SQL for reporting projects.  • Researched and implemented new SQL programming methods to clean duplicate records and dirty data.  • Recommended new layouts on front-end and back-end database structures to adhere to normalization standards.  • Created VBA programming scripts to enhance MS Access and excel functionality. Operations Assistant Children's Defense Fund - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2017 • Assumed role of primary architect of office database, created using Microsoft Access 2013.  • Created tables with Primary and Foreign key relationships to track financial transactions.  • Designed new financial reports off of queries using SQL summarizing spending on grants to remain in budget.  • Official IT representative for 3 California based offices; responsible for all computer, phone and email repair.  • Successfully troubleshooted, reformatted and maintained over 20 staff computers with minimal supervision.  • Worked with Washington DC IT Admin to administer and install updated company software.  • Designed office document library for financial, technology and other business documents.  • Acted as official financial liaison between state office and Washington DC HQ.  • Successfully launched and administered company sponsored Dropbox account for over 16 users. Office Administrator Children's Defense Fund - Los Angeles, CA 2014 to 2015 • Created simplified contact and vendor contract management system for leadership overview.  • Processed payments to vendors using AP system.  • Installed, updated and administered additional wireless access points for the Los Angeles office.  • Improved office inventory control and petty cash flows.  • Assumed role as primary HR contact for Los Angeles office, processing personnel requests as needed. Education Certificate Los Angeles Trade Technical College 2017 to 2018 Bachelor of Arts degree in Sociology California State University 2013 Skills SQL Server (2 years), SQL (3 years), C# (Less than 1 year), C++ (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-puchniarz-98788541/ Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate Database Fundamentals June 2017 to Present Demonstrated knowledge of fundamental concepts of database administration and development Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate SQL 2016 Database Development June 2019 to Present Demonstrated knowledge of SQL Server 2016 objects and use cases. Creation, utilization and maintenance of database objects such as SQL queries, indexes and relationships. Additional Information SKILLS:    • Proficiency in Microsoft Office (access, word, excel, outlook, etc).  • Experience in Database Management Software: MS SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2016, PostresSQL.  • Training in MS SQL Server software: SSMS, SSRS, SSIS.  • Experience in database development and administration, creation of queries stored procedures, functions, relationships and backup processes.  • Working knowledge and training with SQL to query databases and form reports.  • Proficient in C++, C#, Python and other computer languages.  • Experience with virtual machine software: VirtualBox, VMware Workstation Pro, VMware Workstation player 14.  • Knowledge of networking essentials and Windows Server 2012. Able to create domain server structures.  • Experience with data analysis software Tableau.