Budget & Planning Analyst Budget &amp; Planning Analyst Budget & Planning Analyst - TiVo Corporation Work Experience Budget & Planning Analyst TiVo Corporation - Durham, NC September 2018 to Present • Creates and updates forecasts and models related to operations and financial targets.  • Designed dashboard for maintaining and tracking department budget for business-as-usual and ad-hoc projects.  • Performs regular variance analyses for expenses and budget.  • Evaluates pricing structures to ensure alignment with company objectives.  • Creates operational efficiency plans for incoming projects from new and existing clients.  • Analyzes current operational processes and initiate improvements or assist in executive decision-making process, reducing operational expenses and allowing for higher volume production.  • Incorporates client delivery schedules and operational changes in into forecasts and models.  • Maintains and enhances automation systems, product/service costing models, and margin management tools/systems to effectively monitor and manage revenue/expenses.  • Created mapping system for content processing system in order to optimize operational efficiency.  • Processes weekly JIRA reports for various boards/projects to manage projects and internal resources.  • Processes vendor invoices and investigate discrepancies where necessary. Database Administrator and Executive/Operations Assistant ICON Residential - Tampa, FL October 2017 to September 2018 • Created and analyzed operational reports; streamlined reporting efforts; analyzed data trends with a key purpose in identifying operational issues and excessive costs. Maintained weekly "global" report/snapshot.  • Conducted research for executive projects and developed measurement criteria for department roles and impact within the organization.  • Assisted in implementation of enterprise-level software system.  ? Built templates for mass-data upload for Excel/SQL conversion  ? Mapped manual operational processes to function in a new framework  ? Acted as a liaison with technical client team and all internal departments to gauge and fulfill business needs  ? Tested functionality of software, looking for bugs, ensuring data integrity and efficiency  ? Provided training and technical support  • Strategized and implemented new business policies, initiatives, SOP's, and goals.  • Measured and analyzed KPI data across all departments.  • Assisted in the completion of operational projects that are initiated by the Managing Partners.  • Implemented new business policies, practices and initiatives and/or business goals.  • Trained employees on new procedures, software programs, and data tracking methods.  • Created presentations to assimilate data from various departments for analysis.  • Organized and attended weekly operational and strategy meetings to ensure effective recording of activities; provide clarification, accountability, and documentation of assigned responsibilities for the leadership team. Client Development Manager HireNetworks, Inc - Morrisville, NC March 2017 to July 2017 Designed and built a manual CRM tool for internal use by the Sales Team with documented instructions.  ? Created and presented marketing materials for internal and external use.  ? Assisted in facilitation of weekly sales team meetings to discuss progress and strategy.  ? Sourced and qualify prospective clients using networking, job posting sites, and periodicals.  ? Negotiated terms of service via either internal or Client contractual agreement, establish a statement of work when necessary and close agreements to balance net profit goals and Client needs. This involved customizing and creating new contracts, addendums and statements of work.  ? Conducted research on target and prospective companies in our niche markets by analyzing local publications.  ? Developed and maintained professional relationships with Client hiring managers and executives with companies ranging in size from startup to Fortune 100.  ? Presented qualified candidates to hiring managers and vendor managers for consideration of job requisitions, facilitate interviews, and ensure candidates are successfully placed with Clients in an organized and timely manner. Client Development Support (Promoted) May 2016 to February 2017 Assisted the CEO and VP's in various projects including, but not limited to: research, database consolidation, generating presentations and agendas, travel arrangements, and event or conference participation.  ? Designed and created a physical and electronic Handbook/Training Manual for new employees working on the Client Development Team.  ? Conducted internal audit of past and present clients to update internal database via running an electronic report.  ? Assisted the Client Development Team by interpreting prospective jobs with clients, submitting candidates to client job portals, and managing an internal job database via an Applicant Tracking System. Intern January 2016 to May 2016 Initiated various improvement projects related to marketing, back-office operations, business development, employee engagement, etc.  ? Created job descriptions for both internal and external use from initial Job Requisition provided by clients.  ? Assisted Technical Recruiters in tasks such as creating and updating both internal and external job postings, sourcing candidates, and learning from them the full recruiting cycle.  ? Assisted Account Managers by participating in client meetings and calls, attending networking events, speaking with prospective client companies to fill open positions, and other related tasks. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC May 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/malloryholtz Additional Information SOFTWARE PROFICIENCY  Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio, Access), Confluence, JIRA, Oracle, Adobe Acrobat DC Pro, Google Suite (Drive, Sheets, Docs, Calendar), CRM Software, Dropbox, Wrike (Project Management Software), Smartsheet (Gantt Chart), Hootsuite, Social Media, Applicant Tracking Systems.