Software Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Carolina, PR Skilled and dedicated Computer Engineer recent graduate with a passion for scripting/coding and developing with over 5 years of experience programming in a variety of languages. An active participant in Capture The Flag events and penetration testing/ethical hacking activities. Very enthusiastic about learning as much as one can about anything and everything. Desiring to become a valuable asset in your organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Intern Cardinal Health Inc May 2018 to Present • Optimize software to ease batch jobs by implementing a series of scripts.  • Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) data on a daily basis and developing.  • Perform Data Analytics in the form of reports for many of the EMEA countries' databases using advanced MySQL queries and relational database knowledge.  • Code and test software in high-level languages such as PowerShell, Perl, and Python.  • Responsible for providing daily progress reports in an Agile Environment.  • Analyze and apply, programming languages and scripting to new or existing processes, and programs.  • Develop applications with Python and CSS3 with proper security and testing methods, following the application development life cycle and successfully meeting goals such as implement tools to make the user’s database analytics easier and performing changes according to business requirements. Full Stack Web Developer Intern Vaquería Tres Monjitas Inc February 2018 to May 2018 • Designed and executed testing procedures following the Software Development Life Cycle (SLDC) in order to design a database for a web-based form.  • Designed and programmed a sales web form that improves data entry of the employees on the route and assures a full purchase delivery with a low percentage of data loss using PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, and MySQL. Project Manager and Database Administrator Teofus S.A February 2015 to March 2018 • In charge of updates and changes for the future better wealth of the company.  • Responsible for monitoring the team’s activity during offline hours to assure   the security of the server’s and our users’ privacy.  • Responsible for incrementing sales by an estimate of 50%.  • In charge of planning, designing, testing, implementing, and maintaining projects.  • Troubleshoot servers and offered technical support to the users.  • Was delegated a leadership role for a team of up to 15 members from different countries,   to teach and endorse their leadership and integrity as well as customer satisfaction skills. Education Bachelor of Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Polytechnic University - Hato Rey, PR August 2013 to February 2019 Skills DATABASE (4 years), PERL (3 years), PYTHON (5 years), Cyber Security (5 years), LINUX (3 years), Powershell (2 years), C++ (2 years), Java (1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), MySQL (2 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), CSS3 (Less than 1 year), Kali Linux (2 years), Windows (7 years), Mac OS X (4 years) Groups National Cybersecurity Student Association Present Additional Information • Comfortable identifying live machines and scanning ports with Nmap and Hping3.  • Technical experience Configuring Windows Firewalls.  • Good computer networking concepts, protocols, and network security methodologies.  • Experience analyzing traffic with Snort and Wireshark.  • Experience in reviewing code for vulnerabilities in Python and Perl.  • Basic working experience with virtualization and cloud computing software providers, VMware and VirtualBox.  • Basic understanding of C, and PHP programming.  • Good understanding of C++, Ruby, Java.  • Experience with XAMPP open source cross-platform web server solution stack package.  • Experience with Hyper-V creating a client, server, users and user’s authorization and computer access points.  • Experience in Tortoise SVN and Git version control software.  • Working experience with HeidiSQL and MySQL Workbench database interfaces.  • Working knowledge of Windows, Mac, and Linux (Kali Linux) operating systems.  • Working knowledge in Python, PowerShell, Perl, MySQL.  • Fully Bilingual (Spanish and English).  • Demonstrated experience working with confidential and proprietary information.  • Attention to Detail.  • Performed as a team leader in a variety of projects and organizations.  • Analytical and Logical thinking.  • Proficient in Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Office 365 tools like Planner and Flow.  • Excellent communication skills – written and oral.