Teacher Teacher Essex Junction, VT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teacher Ej's Kids Klub - Essex Junction, VT May 2018 to Present I work with babies thru pre kindergarten. I am a floater and also work in the kitchen serving all snacks and lunch, including cleaning, dishes and laundry. Housekeeper Pillsbury Manor South - South Burlington, VT March 2018 to Present My jobs were cleaning rooms, including bathrooms, dusting, vacuuming, cleaning kitchens as well as common areas and common bathrooms. Paraprofessional Missisquoi Valley Union High School - Swanton, VT August 2017 to Present I am working as a paraprofessional for the middle school. I work with children that have special needs and also assist teachers in the classroom. Supervisor Camp Johnson Exchange - Colchester, VT September 2016 to Present I work on a military base, serving all military personnel. I open and close the store, cash out and make deposits. On a daily basis, stocking, running the register and receive orders are the main duties. Office Assistant Cse, inc - Williston, VT September 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities  General office duties. Answered phones, input data to update new information, payroll, types quotes for new jobs.    Skills Used  Computer skills, excel, word. Shipping and Receiving Assistant Kelly services/windows and doors by Brownell - Williston, VT May 2015 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Ensure accurate records of purchases and daily checks on all deliveries coming in and going out. Attention to detail is a must in this position.    Skills Used  Computer skills, excel, word and data entry in peach tree. Cad Operator/ Database administrator Ch2MHill - Essex Junction, VT 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities  I worked on IBM's building drawings and input information into their Database.    Accomplishments  I have met many people and learned more about Engineering and their processes.    Skills Used  AutoCad, Excel, Word and the Database systems Evening Manager Mac's Market - Essex, VT February 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities  I was the evening Manager overseeing all employees. I dealt with cash drawrs and nightly deposits and was a big part of customer services during my entire shift.    Accomplishments  I enjoyed the customers, and my employees.     Skills Used  I used computer skills as well as customer skills deals with both happy and Upset customers on a daily basis. Machine Operator Green Mountain Coffe - Essex Junction, VT April 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities  I ran a machine that boxed the k-cups and sent them. This was a very fast paced environment.    Accomplishments  I was a very important part of this job because it had to be perfect in every way, there was no room for mistakes    Skills Used  I used computer skills and mostly my strength and body to do the job in the best and most efficient wat possible. Education Some college Skills Front Desk, Houskeeping, Special Education, Teacher Assistant, Child Care, Organizational Skills, Teaching, CPR