Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Tata Consultancy Services Bangalore Bangalore  +919916591153  anuanusha173@gmail.com    An accomplished Database Administrator with 2 years and 6 months of experience as an ORACLE APPS DBA with experience in administrating and troubleshooting Oracle Apps Instances, seeking a challenging position in a progressive organization. Work Experience Oracle DBA Tata Consultancy Services January 2018 to Present An accomplished Database Administrator with 2 years and 6 months of experience as an Oracle DBA with experience in administrating and troubleshooting Oracle Database Instances, seeking a challenging position in a progressive organization. Database Administrator ITIS October 2016 to Present Tata Consultancy Services    Presently working as an Oracle Database Administrator with experience mentioned below:    DBA Responsibilities:  ? Providing 24*7 supports in a team of 10 DBAs.  ? Supporting more than 80+ databases.  ? Proactive monitoring for 80+ databases (Production, Testing) through alert management tool.  ? Release support for all production database.  ? Performed Upgrade of Oracle Database from 10.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.3.  ? Primary and standby database sync monitoring and troubleshooting.  ? Refreshing test environment from production based on the request.  ? Export and import of schema, tables from production to non-production and vice versa.  ? Raising Oracle SR for critical errors in database and fixing the bugs.  ? Standby database configuration for existing primary database.  ? Database user and application user management and roles and responsibility assignment.  ? Monitoring space, wait events, locks and long operations running on the database and troubleshooting.  ? Weekly backup monitoring and support based on client request.  ? Applying PSU patch based on the request.  ? Scheduling and monitoring the cronjobs.  ? Database level parameter changes and implementation based on the recommendation.  ? Monitoring dataguard and troubleshooting. Assistant System Engineer Tata Consultancy Services Works as an Oracle Database Administrator. Education Board of Secondary Education April 1995 S.S.L.C. Pre-University Board 1994 Bachelor of Engineering in ECE Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills Oracle Database, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Database, Database Administration, SQL, UNIX Additional Information Skills    Languages/Technology: UNIX, SQL, PL/SQL  Operating System: Windows, Linux x86-64  Oracle Database: Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g  Tools: Putty, SDplus, Rational ClearQuest, Outlook, Excel