.NET Software Developer at Netways .NET Software Developer at Netways .NET Software Developer at Netways - www.netways.com Lebanon, OH A detail oriented and hardworking professional with remarkable analytical, logical skills and expert in performing complex operations possessing a .NET Software Developer. Excellent in developing various programs on different languages for existing software.  Proficient in maintaining the computer system and existing software.  Efficient in working at fast pace environment and excellent organizational and interpersonal organization Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience .NET Software Developer at Netways www.netways.com - Lebanon, OH October 2018 to Present Acquire skills and learn various platforms including Visual Studio, C#  ? Help to develop, test and deploy .Net applications across platforms within agreed time frames  ? Assist in identifying areas of modification and improvement  ? Learn and utilize established development tools, guidelines and conventions  ? Assist in maintenance of existing software systems by identifying and correcting software defects  ? Assist in investigating and developing skills in new technologies IT Technician Unlimited Technology Solutions - www.uts.com.lb - Lebanon, OH February 2018 to September 2018 A company that imports digital scales from Switzerland with a wide variety used in pharmaceutical, industrial, hazardous and retail areas. With the addition to POS solutions that meet the qualification of latest Transactional Processing Systems.  ? Installing and maintaining softwares on Mettler Toledo scales.  ? Designing and implementing customer specific requirements onto each product.    ? Analyze and maintain existing software applications    ? Discover and fix programming bugs    ? troubleshooting network and computer problems    ? creating a special environment for server connection to all pcs available in company    ? fixing electronic problems in mainboards of scales.    ? Staying up-to-date to the latest technologies that Mettler Toledo produce in the stock market.  ? Distributing Mettler Toledo products all over Lebanon and following up the payment documents with customer Database Administrator Majdalouna - Lebanon, OH January 2017 to January 2018 A company which sells construction equipment and hard tools that wanted to computerize all its products, equipment and client's information.  2017 -2018    ? Data Entry of all products and stock items available with quantity, purchase price, selling price etc  ? Creating a more detailed database where all items are divided into categories, sub-categories and suppliers.    ? Updating and manipulating the database daily.    ? Fixing all network troubleshooting problems. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Modern University for Business and Science - Lebanon, OH October 2015 to September 2018 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, CODING, JAVASCRIPT, OBJECT ORIENTED, VISUAL BASIC, DATABASE, RELATIONAL DATABASE, SQL, SHAREPOINT, JAVA, jQuery, HTML5, DETAIL ORIENTED, WCF, ASP Certifications/Licenses CCNA Introduction to Networks February 2017 to Present • Explain network technologies.   • Explain how devices access local and remote network resources.  • Describe router hardware.   • Explain how switching operates in a small to medium-sized business network.   • Design an IP addressing scheme to provide network connectivity for a small to medium- sized business network.   • Configure initial settings on a network device.   • Implement basic network connectivity between devices.   • Configure monitoring tools available for small to medium-sized business networks. CCNA Routing and Switching October 2017 to Present • Determine how a router will forward traffic based on the contents of a routing table.   • Explain how switching operates in a small to medium-sized business network.   • Use monitoring tools and network management protocols to troubleshoot data networks.   • Configure monitoring tools available for small to medium-sized business networks.   • Configure initial settings on a network device.   • Configure Ethernet switch ports.   • Implement VLANs.   • Implement static routing and RIPv2.   • Implement DHCP on a router.   • Implement network address translation (NAT).   • Implement access control lists (ACLs) to filter traffic Microsoft Certificate: Exam 70-483 Programming in C# February 2019 to Present Manage Program Flow:  • Implement multithreading and asynchronous processing  • Use the Task Parallel library, including theParallel.For method, PLINQ, Tasks;create continuation tasks; spawn threads by using ThreadPool; unblock the UI; use async and await keywords; manage data by using concurrent collections  • Manage multithreading  • Synchronize resources; implement locking; cancel a long-running task; implement thread-safe methods to handle race conditions  • Implement program flow  • Iterate across collection and array items; program decisions by using switch statements, if/then, and operators; evaluate expressions  • Create and implement events and callbacks  • Create event handlers; subscribe to and unsubscribe from events; use built-in delegate types to create events; create delegates; lambda expressions; anonymous methods  • Implement exception handling  • Handle exception types, including SQL exceptions, network exceptions, communication exceptions, network timeout exceptions; use catch statements; use base class of an exception; implement try-catchfinally blocks; throw exceptions; rethrow an exception; create custom exceptions; handle inner exceptions; handle aggregate exception    Create and Use Types  • Create types  • Create value types, including structs and enum; create reference types, generic types, constructors, static variables, methods, classes, extension methods; create optional and named parameters; create indexed properties; create overloaded and overriden methods  • Consume types  • Box or unbox to convert between value types; cast types; convert types; handle dynamic types; ensure interoperability with code that accesses COM APIs  • Enforce encapsulation  • Enforce encapsulation by using properties; enforce encapsulation by using accessors, including public, private, protected, and internal; enforce encapsulation by using explicit interface implementation  • Create and implement a class hierarchy  • Design and implement an interface; inherit from a base class; create and implement classes based on the IComparable, IEnumerable, IDisposable, and IUnknown interfaces  • Find, execute, and create types at runtime by using reflection  • Create and apply attributes; read attributes; generate code at runtime by using CodeDom and Lambda expressions; use types from the System.Reflection namespace, including Assembly, PropertyInfo, MethodInfo, Type  • Manage the object life cycle  • Manage unmanaged resources; implement IDisposable, including interaction with finalization; manage IDisposable by using the Using statement; manage finalization and garbage collection  • Manipulate strings  • Manipulate strings by using the StringBuilder, StringWriter, and StringReader classes; search strings; enumerate string methods; format strings; use string interpolation    Debug Applications and Implement Security  • Validate application input  • Validate JSON data; choose the appropriate data collection type; manage data integrity; evaluate a regular expression to validate the input format; use built-in functions to validate data type and content  • Perform symmetric and asymmetric encryption  • Choose an appropriate encryption algorithm; manage and create certificates; implement key management; implement the System.Security namespace; hash data; encrypt streams  • Manage assemblies  • Version assemblies; sign assemblies using strong names; implement side-by-side hosting; put an assembly in the global assembly cache; create a WinMD assembly  • Debug an application  • Create and manage preprocessor directives; choose an appropriate build type; manage program database files (debug symbols)  • Implement diagnostics in an application  • Implement logging and tracing; profiling applications; create and monitor performance counters; write to the event log    Implement Data Access  • Perform I/O operations  • Read and write files and streams; read and write from the network by using classes in the System.Net namespace; implement asynchronous I/O operations  • Consume data  • Retrieve data from a database; update data in a database; consume JSON and XML data; retrieve data by using web services  • Query and manipulate data and objects by using LINQ  • Query data by using operators, including projection, join, group, take, skip, aggregate; create methodbased LINQ queries; query data by using query comprehension syntax; select data by using anonymous types; force execution of a query; read, filter, create, and modify data structures by using LINQ to XML  • Serialize and deserialize data  • Serialize and deserialize data by using binary serialization, custom serialization, XML Serializer, JSON Serializer, and Data Contract Serializer  • Store data in and retrieve data from collections  • Store and retrieve data by using dictionaries, arrays, lists, sets, and queues; choose a collection type; initialize a collection; add and remove items from a collection; use typed vs. non-typed collections; implement custom collections; implement collection interfaces Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Developing Windows Forms Applications built on the .NET platform (Visual Studio 2017) using C# and creating a relational database with the help of MS SQL (Object Oriented Coding, Clean Coding).  • Proficient in many programming languages including: C#, Visual Basic, Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developing Microservices solutions based concept.  • Developing SharePoint websites, using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery.  • Maintaining and debugging software programs including fixing bugs and updating some software functions.  • Installing and maintaining existing software for computer systems.  • Able to find solutions for customers locally and remotely.  • Back-end of Social Platforms.  • PERSONAL SKILLS  • Unmatchable communication skills in verbal and written both  • Detail oriented and strong interpersonal skills  • Good conceptual, analytical and logical skills  • Ability to work individually as well as in group environment  • Highly competitive and motivated  • Ability to work under pressure and reach my goal.