COO and Director of Content Development COO and Director of Content Development COO and Director of Content Development - Code.I/O State College, PA Work Experience COO and Director of Content Development Code.I/O August 2017 to Present • Penn State based club working towards advancements of coding and algorithmic concepts amongst high school students.  • Led a team responsible for development of module content used in training and facilitations of interactive sessions.  • Demonstrated strong communication and leadership skills within the team during events. Web Developer and Database administrator CanvasPath January 2019 to May 2019 • Designed a course management website to help students and faculty to manage the assignments, grades and the schedules for courses.  • Developed a system for the registrar to keep track of more than 54 courses and their respective faculty and students.  • Created a database that included details and records of college faculty and students with more than 1000 records.  • Created and Managed the database using software like MySQL and XAMPP.  • Developed the front-end of the website using HTML and the back- end and database using PHP and JavaScript. Team Leader Nitanny Marshals August 2018 to December 2018 • Responsible for managing the team responsible for improving the efficiency of the graduation ceremonies at the Penn State University.  • Created a simulation models for the ceremonies before and after the suggested changes.  • Used software like Simio and Microsoft Excel for most of the Project.    CODING LANGUAGES KNOWN  • C/C++ • Java • PHP • Python • SQL • HTML Summer Analyst Intern GTPL Hathaway Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2018 to August 2018 India  • Assisted in technical implementation of GTPL's prime project which included installation of the GPON (gigabit passive optical network) and FTTX  (fiber to the X) technology for broadband services.  • Researched and analyzed the GPON (Fiber Technology) which resulted in the reduction of prices by about 46% and increase in speeds to up to a 100  Mbps.  • Researched the Information Technology aspects of the fiber optic service of GPON.  • Collaborated with technical consultants in auditing the organization resource planning for implementing GPON.  • Interacted with multiple vendors for outsourcing compliance of information security regulated by the DOT (Department of Telecom). Program Developer Poker Game August 2017 to December 2017 • Developed a C based software that lets multiple users play poker against each other using the pass and play concept.  • Used Linked Lists to manage the deck of cards and the user's cards. Used classes, vectors and functions to implement the rest of the algorithms. Software Developer What'sPoppin LLC August 2016 to December 2017 State College, PA  • Co-Developed the iOS app for the startup that managed user-accounts, events and occasions around the campus in a team of 2.  • Designed the front-end part of the app and also helped manage the database in a secure way for the website. Web Developer and Intern World in Conversation August 2016 to December 2017 State College, PA  • Remodeled the database management system to increase graphical operations and comply with information security controls.  • Assisted technical team in a machine-learning project to develop a speech to text engine using sequence-to-sequence model.  • Administered daily updates on the website and transformed it into the mobile friendly experience. Flight Scheduler, Program Developer January 2017 to May 2017 Developed a Java based application to manage flight bookings performing functions such as reservation, cancellation, and wait-listing using  database management.  • Used MySQL for the creation and management of the Database.  • Created GUI using java APIs such as the Abstract Window Toolkit (AWT). Program Developer Chess Game August 2015 to December 2016 • Developed a C++ based software that lets the user play chess against a computer.  • Implemented the algorithm using concepts like classes, 2-D arrays and multiple nested loops.  LEADERSHIP & INVOLVEMENT Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA August 2019 Skills C++, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, DATA STRUCTURE, MACHINE LEARNING Additional Information SKILLS  • Proficient in Software Development using SDLC Frameworks like Agile and Waterfall.  • Effective Verbal and Written Communication Skills.  • Well-informed and knowledgeable in trending topics such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Bigdata, and Cloud Services.  • Proficient Analytical and Problem-Solving skills.  • In-depth knowledge of C++ Development with data structure design and implementation.