Research Assistant Research Assistant Research Assistant Denton, TX Experienced and data driven data scientist with 3+ years of professional experience in the industry including 1+ years of Research Experience in the field of Deep Learning and Image Processing and 2+ years of Oracle Database Experience. Solid skills in databases, predictive analytics, statistical packages and data mining algorithms. Proficient in assortment of technologies including Python, Matlab, Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL, MS SQL server, JDBC, C, C++, Windows and Linux, etc Work Experience Research Assistant University of North Texas January 2018 to May 2019 Master's Thesis:  Title: Enhanced Approach for Classification of Ulcerative Colitis Severity in Colonoscopy Videos using CNN  • Develop a UCS-CNN, a fined tuned Convolutional Neural Network using transfer learning and endoscopic domain knowledge to classify UC severity of colonoscopy images.  • Preprocessing/Cleaning the colonoscopy images to remove all the Non-informative frames including higher specular reflections and non-homogeneous frames.  • Evaluate the severity of Ulcerative Colitis (UC) of a patient using the classified results.  • Computed the correlation among the predicted results and the domain expert results and improve the accuracy of the UC severity by around 15% using different feature selection and data mining algorithms.  ConvolutionalNeural Network using Keras with TensorFlow:  • Preprocessed/Cleaned the colonoscopy image dataset to remove all the Non-informative frames.  • Created a Convolutional Neural Network using Keras to classify the Ulcerative Colitis (UC) Severity of colonoscopy images.  • Computed the correlation among the predicted results and the domain expert results and plotted the results.  NIH Project:  • Deployed, Tested and configured the EM-Capture in the medical systems to run the endometric procedures.  • Deployed the EM-Central application to the Web server to provide a Web-based data interface for the procedures.  • Installed the SSL certificates into the web server to encrypt sensitive communications.  • Maintain the Systems to make sure the Endometric procedures are running properly. Oracle Database Administrator & Release Engineer Oracle - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to July 2017 • Served as an Oracle DBA and Release Engineer in the completion of Oracle utility products MDM and SGG version 2.2.0.0.0 and 2.2.0.1.0.  • Provided support to developers working on SQL and performed database system management functions (e.g., software installations, version upgrades and configuration management)  • Responsible for database design, development, backups, testing, provide maintenance, coordinate with consultants and manage vendors for patches and upgrades.  • Administered the existing software deployments and managed performance analysis of all production and test environments.  • Not only provides feedback about the work, but can also coach associates around personnel issues with support of the manager. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of North Texas August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Osmania University August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Bash (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Neural (1 year), Oracle (2 years), Sql (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET  Languages: C, C++, JAVA, PHP, Python, MATLAB, SQL, PL/SQL, Bash  Databases: MYSQL, Oracle  Platform/Tools: Linux, Eclipse, ORACLE DB, Tableau  Version Control Tools: GitHub, SVN  Skills:Data Cleaning, Modeling, Predictive Analytics, Supervised Learning, Neural Networks, Machine Learning, Databases.