SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA Microsoft SQL Server DBA with 5 years experience seeking new opportunity Dallas, TX SQL Server Database Administrator with 5 years hands-on experience in production support environment. I am a hardworking and result driven individual, able to utilize my skills to achieve the goals and objectives of the organization with great aptitude for learning and improvement as much as required. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA Lampy Technology and Consulting - Dallas, TX July 2017 to Present • Installed SQL server 2008, 2008R2, 2012 and 2016 for multiple Dev, QA and production environment.  • Performing SQL server daily health check and preparing a report based on it.  • Installed and configured SQL Server Reporting Services and Integration Services  • Managed and Implemented high availability on the various servers using Replication  • Monitored the complete environment for resource utilizations and to avoid any bottlenecks.  • Created various SSIS packages based upon the requirement.  • Configured data transformation services and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations  • Maintained various ETL packages   • Responsible for fine tuning of the database, troubleshooting, user administration, memory management, and running DBCC (Rebuilding Indexes and fine-tuning Stored Procedures).  • Managing Backups daily and Recovery as per request  • Optimized the performance of queries with modifications in T-SQL queries, removed unnecessary columns, eliminated redundant and inconsistent data, normalized tables, established joins and created indexes whenever necessary.  • Previewed SQL Server 2012 High Availability features such as Always ON  • Created and maintained various logins and managed security based on the required access.  • Supported Very Large databases (VLDB) and troubleshooting the problems  24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support SQL DBA Maxim Management and Consulting - Dallas, TX March 2016 to June 2017 • Creating logins and assigning proper permissions to the created logins, mapping logins to the database and granting appropriate permissions  • Verifying all instances are up and running as per the checklist  • Reviewing SQL Server and SQL Server Agent Error Logs  • Checking the status of backup, troubleshooting the failed backups and restoration of databases   • Scheduled and maintain routine Jobs, Alerts and Maintenance Plans   • Creating logins and assigning proper permissions to the created logins, mapping logins to the database and granting appropriate permissions  • Monitoring free space of database and server free space.  • Communicate problems and issues to business owners and management.   • Generated the weekly, monthly, and quarterly report by using SQL Reporting Services  • Verify backups and error logs on the servers and troubleshoot any failures or alerts, open trouble tickets if required to work with technicians from other departments.  • Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements.   • Develop and maintain complex SSIS packages.  • Participated and coordinated the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures with minimal supervision  • Disaster Recovery, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL Server databases to meet our clients’ requirements. SQL Server Database Administrator Northern Forms - Malaysia July 2014 to February 2016 • Participates in the planning, analysis, design & implementation of databases & a primary resource for new application implementation.  • Installation, configuration and upgrading of SQL server software and related products  • Performance monitoring and tuning by implementing efficient schemas, Tuning indexes and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities.  • Estimated disk storage requirements for database software, database files & database administration needs.  • Participated in meetings impacting databases physical design  • Database recoveries as per requirements.  • Very good communication skills, good interpersonal skills & desire to excel, fast learner, hardworking and a versatile team player Education Bachelor's in Business Information Technology Limkokwing University Of Creative Technology - Malaysia June 2011 to December 2014 Skills TSQL (5 years), Performance Tuning (5 years), Backup and Recovery (5 years), Clustering (5 years), High Availability (5 years), Indexing (5 years), AlwaysON (5 years), Redgate (5 years), IDERA (4 years), SSIS (3 years), SSRS (3 years), Pertitioning (4 years), Disaster Recovery (5 years), Sql Server, DBA, Sql Dba Links http://linkedin.com/in/ola-adegboyega-ba0728177