Information Technology Deployment Technician Information Technology Deployment Technician Information Technology Deployment Technician - TEXAS HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION Fort Worth, TX Recently ended active service in the Marine Corps. Position held dealt primarily with employee supervision, network and database administration, customer service, and required technical skills with both software and hardware in computers. Thanks to a number of challenging experiences, is capable of being an efficient worker and leader and is eager to connect with businesses that may benefit from the skills offered and the contributions that can be made. Qualifications include:    ? CompTIA Security + ? Active Directory ? SharePoint I, II, III  ? Microsoft Office ? Troubleshooting ? Leadership Experience Work Experience Information Technology Deployment Technician TEXAS HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION 2019 to Present Contracted via KForce for an information technology project consisting of staging, configuring, imaging, and deploying new personal computers at local offices within the DFW region. STUDENT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 2018 to 2018 Took Classes such as Networking, Pre-Calculus, Economics, Critical Thinking and Writing to further my degree plan and attain my Bachelors Degree in Information Systems Management. Network/ Database Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS 2012 to 2017 Created and managed a database server and its local network for use that allowed normal operations to be conducted in an international setting.  ? Ran patches and updates to assess vulnerabilities within the database network and performed daily backups and system checks to assess and maintain database integrity.  ? Compared post action improvement plans with other colleagues to best prepare company for travel to unfamiliar and international environments and then created post action improvement plans to review trips and diagnose faults and ways that preparation can be improved upon in the future.  ? Collaborated with other colleagues to implement procedures more effectively and find solutions to common issues.  ? Enforced all Marine Corps rules regarding network usage to ensure all users were in compliance and not jeopardizing their access privileges.  ? Created post action improvement plans to review trips and diagnose faults and ways that preparation can be improved upon in the future.    Information Technology Support  ? Served as the only information technology support specialist for two different departments comprised of around 300 users each.  ? Ensured all customers communications and I.T. needs were all met within a timely and efficient manner to maintain minimal downtime and optimal productivity.  ? Lead planning and directing of building transfer for over 300 users, over 100 computers, 35 phone lines, 10 printers, a database server and classified network.  ? Utilized time management and critical thinking to both be readily available and simultaneously assist up to 300 users in one department.  ? Worked extensively with Microsoft Office, Active Directory, SharePoint and Blackberry phones both improving and troubleshooting issues with these and other communications problems.  ? Collaborated with receiving businesses' communication specialists to meet all needs to maintain constant network and communication access for business trips to unfamiliar and international territories.  ? Used active directory for the creation of new users to department and to edit permissions for users in security groups for shared folders and e-mail distribution lists.  ? Created and administered SharePoint site from ground up for department to post pertinent documents for sharing between many users and shops at once.    Information Technology Support Supervisor  ? Supervised the training of new employees to our business and ensured that they all had the skills and training to troubleshoot common issues and complete daily tasks.  ? Instructed a 40-hour leadership course to impart basic leadership values in employees.  ? Supervised the creation and implementation of a brand-new database server for use within a department.  ? Performed quality assurance on employees work to ensure they are correctly following procedures and following up on work being completed.  ? Managed over 50,000$ worth of IT equipment. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Management Systems in Information Management Systems New York University - New York, NY Associates Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Grantham University - Kansas City, KS High School Diploma Longwood High School - Ridge, NY Additional Information ? Training Skills ? Critical Thinking ? Multitasking  ? Six Sigma ? Secret Clearance ? Time Management