Solution Project Manager Solution Project Manager Solution Project Manager - Gray Solutions, LLC Lexington, KY I am a Project/Product Manager, and a System Administrator who has leveraged my technical and business degrees with certification in multiple project management techniques so that I can utilize multiple approaches when addressing product delivery deadlines. Using SAFe, Scrum, Agile and Kanban techniques, I have converted a corporate culture from waterfall to Agile methodologies. I excel at Scrum, Scrum coaching, project management, process management, contract management, alliance management, marketing, training and sales support. Cross geographical teams have ranged from several people to well over 100. A major reason for my success is my ability to forge great relationships at all levels within an organization from Administrative Assistant to developer to Executive Level. Work Experience Solution Project Manager Gray Solutions, LLC February 2019 to Present Ensures project data and documentation is regularly updated in PM tools and kept current to ensure accurate communication of project status. Ensures project status is concise and uses business terminology.  ? Develop project schedules, track schedule progress and deliverables to ensure projects are delivered.  ? Coordinates the development of functional specifications and technical descriptions of systems based on customer and partner input to facilitate the programming of various systems ? Assists in design and engineering efforts; monitors and reports on financial status of the project(s).  ? Consulting with clients and internal teams to establish strategic, measurable objectives for projects ? Assists in the procurement of all needed materials for the project(s) ensuring conformance to specifications while monitoring, and visits job site(s) as needed to review progress and quality of work, with possible required relocation to the jobsite for commissioning ? Responsible for delivering projects within committed timelines, on budget, and with approved scope. ERP & Database Administrator/ IT Project Manager Yokohama Industries of Americas Inc November 2015 to July 2018 Supervised and holds teams accountable for their project responsibilities and deliverables; proactively ensures that teams are up to date with communication, schedules, issues, engagement and high-quality deliverables; manages teams in multiple locations. The responsibilities include Strategy, Planning, Acquisition, Deployment, and Operational Management.  ? Implemented and executed essential company system from the ground in Mexico and other countries by contracting and negotiating with foreign vendors.  ? Mentored/trained project methodologies by implementing and executing projects: develops project teams by promoting empowerment and reported the results to executives. Product Engineer/Owner Lexmark International Inc May 2008 to October 2015 Was responsible for quality of enterprise software that exceeds the expectation of stakeholders by managing all team's activities under the enterprise software. Emphasized collaboration with other software engineers, product experts, documentation, implementation, support, legal team and user experience professionals. Participated in user and market research to understand the needs and desires of target audience.  ? Prioritized requirements from various stakeholders to keep the product competitive in market and report the status. Delivered enterprise software to customer on-time with all assigned deliverables.  ? Evaluated product life cycle for enterprise software products and add values based on Stakeholders requirements.  ? Managed each team with various choices of methodologies that includes Agile, Scrum, Kanban and Waterfall. Continuous improvement was built in process for the software development best practices by empowering teams. Education Bachelors in Decision Science Information System in Decision Science Information System University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY Skills Ecommerce, Product Management, E-Commerce Certifications/Licenses PMI-ACP February 2018 to February 2021 Project Management Institute Agile Certified Practitioner Additional Information Core Competencies  Project, Strategy, Deployment Management, Project Management Institute Agile Certified Practitioner (PMI-ACP),  Project planning, Customer implementation management, Enterprise Software, Business Analytics, Acquisition, User Experience, Design, User Interface, Interaction Design, Heuristic Evaluation, Consultation, Cross Geographic Teams, Operational Management, Contracts, Negotiations, Agile Methodologies, Organizational Management, Vendor management, Research Open Source.