Box Office Manager / Database Administrator Box Office Manager / <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Manager Allentown, PA Extensive experience in customer service and technical support, with over 8 years of experience in a busy call center environment. Committed to providing customers with the highest level of customer satisfaction. Results-driven, self-motivated, and proactive. Excellent technical and analytical skills. Passionate and works to exceed expectations. Strong work ethic. Positive team attitude. Able to work in high pressure environments and meet deadlines. Strong written and verbal communication skills. Work Experience Box Office Manager / Database Administrator Allentown Symphony Association - Allentown, PA 2014 to Present • Manage and oversee box office responsibilities; which include, hiring, scheduling, providing feedback, and promotion of the box office staff, house manager, and maintenance/set up crew.  • Provide leadership to the box office staff and house manager on a daily basis.  • Ensure excellent customer service. Resolve customer complaints and ticket issues, in a professional and timely manner.  • Actively identify areas of improvement, in order to reduce costs for the organization and build lasting relationships with the customer.  • Excellent problem solver. Serve as in-house IT point-of-contact and Salesforce Administrator. Update staff software and troubleshoot staff computers.  Key Achievements  • Trained box office staff to upsell other upcoming events, as well as trained them on how to better customer service, positively promote the organization, and ways to help build our brand.  • Devised and implemented new initiatives, such as gift cards and print-at-home ticketing which is expected to save the organization over $8,000 a year.  • Made adjustments to current organizational processes that increased effectiveness, efficiency, and overall process improvement. Advanced Technical Support Specialist/ Interim Senior Support Tier 2006 to 2012 • Served as new hire training support. Served as Interim Senior (team lead) to tenured teams.  • Gave feedback to representatives, including successes and opportunities, in order to help develop representatives to their highest potential. Served as a mentor to representatives and assisted then with applying feedback.  • Created and implemented team incentives to motivate employees and enhance team productivity.  • Took action steps that lead to the achievement of goals outlined in the organization's strategy.  • Provided support to end users on technical issues, while using problem solving and decision making skills to ensure one call resolution.    Key Achievements  • Yearly recognized for being in the top 10 percent of technical support representatives within the organization nationally. These efforts helped the company attain several JD Power awards.  • Consistently contributed to the organizational knowledge base to provide representatives with solutions to technical issues. Quality Assurance Specialist Tier 2008 to 2010 department closure)  • Monitored technical support and customer service phone calls taken by front line representatives in order to provide feedback to management for employee improvement.  • Gave feedback on key drivers; quality, concern, timely resolution, and knowledge.  • Recommended and helped develop company policies and procedures to serve in the best interest of the company.  • Participated in call calibrations. Consistently remained calibrated with upper level management.  Key Achievements  • Identified trends and made recommendations for process improvement. Customer Service Specialist 2005 to 2006 2004-20016  • Exercised distinguished customer service and customer relations skills, as well as upselling and right fitting services to promote customer loyalty.  • Calmed angry and irate customer, while building a positive rapport with them.  • Used retention efforts to retain customer accounts.  Key Achievements  • Received a reward for being the 2nd highest customer service rep in the entire call center in 2005 and 2006.  • Yearly recognized for being one of the top 10 percent of customer support representatives within the organization nationally. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Muhlenberg College - Allentown, PA 2015 Skills CRM (3 years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (10+ years), Data Center (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Proficient in Salesforce CRM and Patron Manager  • Proficient in Microsoft Office Applications (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook, Publisher)  • Knowledge of TRG Arts Data Center/ eMerge  • Strong Leadership and team building skills  • Knowledge of Mobile Platforms (iOS, Android, Windows Mobile, Blackberry)