Technical Support Technical Support Technical Support - Underground Tree, LLC Logan, OH Work Experience Technical Support Underground Tree, LLC - Logan, OH May 2015 to Present Logan, Ohio  5/2015 - Present    We are a business developing company delivering enterprise solutions. Whether your company requires full technical support or hourly consulting to work with your current teams, our solutions are customized to fit your needs.    Many companies want to be more prepared for changes in technology. We strive to provide services that are going to have the greatest benefit for your company. During our time working with you, we will educate you regarding the solutions available and make the information deliverable in a way that removes the mystery. Our goal is to make your business better by providing the following services:    Network Services Technical Support  Managed Services Application Development  Web Solutions IT Consulting Great Lakes Assemblies - IT Supervisor East Liberty, OH October 2014 to May 2016 Planning of LAN/WAN, making decisions for changes, upgrades, and new projects to facilitate meeting the dynamic needs for all MAI Companies' (GLA, GSA, IA). Provide leadership, development and guidance to the IT team Provide leadership, development and guidance to the IT team. Develop, implement and oversee MAI Companies IT policies and procedures with direction from Director of Human Resources and Administration.    • Supervise the development of IT staff including cross-training between specialties to reduce reliance on a single source and assign projects and tasks to IT team.  • Supervise overall IT system development.  • Support Continuous Improvement initiatives, such as Kaizen teams, KPI boards, and Quarterly training.  • Develop and implement processes and design process manuals and Assists with special projects, as required  • Provide performance reviews and administer discipline to staff as needed to ensure accountability.  • Provide operational support for the company's IT infrastructure  • Work with partner and 3rd party providers of IT support.  • Provide support to end users, including LAN connectivity, hardware, software, and printing issues  • Serve as primary back-up for IT Specialists.  • Support QAD Specialist.  • Ensures business continuity and monitor delivery of service level agreements for various audiences  • Provide recommendations to Director for the development of processes, policies, and procedures Director of Information Technology Levy and Associates - Columbus, OH September 2009 to July 2014 Responsible for overseeing all of the Company's IT systems as well as managing other members of the IT team. The operation, maintenance, and development of the data center's servers, data network and environment are also within my scope of responsibilities on a regular basis. In addition, I provide direction and input on network design and architecture decisions for executive management. Interaction directly with clients to provide program management guidance and support and resolve underlying problems to ensure their confidence and satisfaction is another important function of my position. In conjunction, working with my team members to develop applications to improve design and performance within the organization, to reduce cost and improve the infrastructure is a key factor in the success of the business.  • Backend development and maintenance of system databases  • ETL language transformation and development  • Administering and maintaining end-user access and management thru Active Directory Services  • End user support, deployment, and troubleshooting  • Process and procedure development (creating and maintenance for day to day operations)  • Integration of vital network components including Microsoft exchange server and SQL servers.  • Failure with day to day operations involving multiple security protocols.  • Development and delivery of multiple intranet and internet applications Senior Database Developer / Website Administrator Recovery One, LLC - Columbus, OH September 2004 to 2008 Monitors overall database and website performance and oversees site maintenance and receives feedback from website and organization users. Evaluates, designs, implements and maintains database applications Involved with design reviews, systems testing for Columbus and Satellite Offices.    • Daily development and maintenance of SQL server database  • Design and development of intranet and internet applications for client and users.  • Develops and Develops system applications to increase job performance.  • Manage day-to-day computer support and networking problems Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Central State University - Wilberforce, OH Nuclear Biological Chemical School Skills Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Help Desk