Oracle DBA / Unix Systems Administrator Oracle DBA / Unix Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle DBA / Unix Systems Administrator - Connecticare, Inc Shelton, CT Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle DBA / Unix Systems Administrator Connecticare, Inc - Farmington, CT July 2010 to Present • Oracle DBA (11g and 12c) and Unix Systems Admin (HP-UX 9000)  • Support Amisys claims processing system running on Oracle under unix using tomcat  • Provide production support; monitor systems, DB tuning, backup and recovery (RMAN)  • Support business and Developers: DB design, query tuning, system issue resolution Database Programmer Consultant Critical Resource Technology - Albany, NY April 2010 to July 2010 • Consultant for New York State Department of Health  • Redesign an Oracle DB for a Medical Emergency Response Order Tracking System  • Create Oracle E/R model, created PL/SQL triggers and stored procedures  • Define data conversion process and interface to Vaccine Order Management System Senior Oracle Database Administrator Zygo Corporation - Middlefield, CT July 2004 to August 2009 • Provide Oracle DBA, Unix Administration and programming support for manufacturing/financial ERP system at a high-tech manufacturing company  • DBA Tasks include  ? Migration to Oracle 10g  ? Establish RMAN backup processes  ? Create stored procedures for auditing  ? Define process for Refresh of test DBs (using transportable tablespaces)  ? Automation of Unix/Oracle Disaster Recovery processes (SunGard)  • Programming Tasks include  ? Create views and extracts for external datamarts and reporting requirements  ? Create data processes and extracts for input to Hyperion financial system  ? Reverse Engineer ERP metadata into Oracle schema for automatic view creation and documentation within an E/R diagramming tool (DeZign)  ? Create process to allow efficient navigation of Bill of Materials hierarchy  This added new functionality used for inventory control and planning Database Design Consultant L.D. Weiss - New York, NY January 2004 to January 2005 Independent consultant: Design database for web-based marketing survey application Application Systems Administrator CT Distance Learning Consortium - Newington, CT February 2004 to June 2004 • The CTDLC is a CT state agency which hosts web-base e-learning solutions  • Provide systems and DBA support for WebCT Vista- a 3rd party Oracle 9i based package  • Duties include system configuration, data migration and technical liaison.  Work Experience (continued) Senior Programmer Analyst Oxford Health Plans - Trumbull, CT October 2001 to June 2003 • Support Corporate Data Warehouse and Operational Data Store (ODS)  • Write PL/SQL and Unix korn shell scripts and Business Objects solutions  • Support and automated ETL process.  • Identify and eliminate data anomalies to maintain referential integrity and data integrity  • Create process to cross validate claims loaded to Data Warehouse from multiple sources  • Write technical specifications and unit test plans Database Administrator Web Media Brands - Darien, CT May 2000 to October 2001 Senior Software Engineer Circle.com - Wilton, CT October 1998 to May 2000 • Designed a Call Center data model and reporting solution for Cross-Sell campaign  • Create data load and extract scripts (in Perl / OraPerl). Develop DBA Utilities Business Systems Analyst Physicians Health Services - Trumbull, CT September 1995 to October 1998 • Design, implement and support corporate star-schema Data Warehouse  • Wrote design specs and programs for ETL (Shell scripts, awk, C, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus) Education M.S. in Computer Science University of New Haven - West Haven, CT M.S. in Information Systems Pace University - White Plains, NY B.S. in Computer Science Fordham University - Bronx, NY