Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - SECURITY IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM CORPORATION Royal Palm Beach, FL Dynamic, self-motivated professional committed to becoming an expert in the ever-growing IT industry. Highly Skilled in:    • Network Configuration/Troubleshooting  • Windows Server Installation/Post  • Directory Services  • Virtualization  • Group Policy  • Performance Monitoring/Maintenance  • PC Repair/Cofiguration  • Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • SQL Queries/Commands  • Project Management  • Supervisory Experience  • Workforce Management  • Development training  • Product Development  • Organizational Planning Device Operations  • Analytical Problem Solving Work Experience Database Administrator SECURITY IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM CORPORATION May 2018 to Present Firebird and SQL Database Installation and management  ? Server and Client Workstation Installations  ? Install, configure, troubleshoot Proprietary software  ? Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting VPN client  ? Manage/Update call ticketing system  ? Client training and support  ? Configure and troubleshoot PC hardware  ? Identify potential project risks and create a risk management plan  ? Negotiate with clients on an appropriate schedule and scope of work IT Project Manager AT&T Mobility, PROFESSIONAL-SOFTWARE DELIVERY PROJ MGMT October 2012 to March 2018 Able to lead and motivate team from initial idea to Project Close  ? Able to negotiate with clients on an appropriate schedule and scope of work.  ? Research, forecast and organize vision meetings, for client requested projects.  ? Review and contact all needed project participants to ensure successful project kickoff  ? Establishes target delivery dates and ensures teams are aware and aligned  ? Manage project financials ensuring budget planning and execution  ? Develop project plan working with project teams and key stakeholders  ? Identify and overcome issues using conflict resolution.  ? Identify potential project risks and create a risk management plan  ? Able to perform Scrum Master role to manage complex products  ? Utilize all appropriate tools to capture, track and update project progress    Accomplishments:  • Assisted project managers in achieving higher compliance rating with Sarbanes-Oxley Act data-related regulations by performing clear informative Friendly Audits  • Drive successful delivery of Programs and Projects.  • Assist Project managers and Program Managers in keeping Projects and Programs with the most updated information available for leadership  • Build collaborative relationships with internal and external entities to enhance productivity. Identified and addressed gaps that improved work relationships which allowed for seamless work activity. Sr. Specialist / Customer Ops AT&T Mobility, PROFESSIONAL-SOFTWARE DELIVERY PROJ MGMT - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to October 2012 • Project Lead  ? Install and configure computer hardware operating systems and applications  ? Set up new users' accounts and profiles and deal with password issues  ? Remote support for end user issues  ? Research, organize, troubleshoot and document processes for new incubated products/devices  ? Review test and evaluate the functionality of new customer facing applications before release  ? Troubleshoot highly technical AT&T Network related issues as it pertains to end user problems and convey troubleshooting information to all pertinent departments downstream  ? Manage high level executive escalations regarding all nature of AT&T Mobility products and services including Office of the President.  ? Troubleshoot Call Center PC hardware and application related issues along with network connectivity related issues  ? Setup and/or troubleshoot Call Center telephony equipment to ensure Call Center availability  ? Monitor and coach, analysts on how to achieve and retain successful numbers for day to day operations.    Accomplishments:  • Project Lead for New Hire Training Curriculum creation and revisions resulting in an increased knowledge level for all PMC New Hire Classes  • Project Lead for the creation and implementation of PMC New Hire Nesting Curriculum, a 3 week training course designed to ready PMC New Hire employee for call taking  • Project Coordinator for PMC FLOOR SUPPORT team consisting of multiple projects designed to improve efficiency department-wide Service Technician EcoComp - Atlanta, GA March 2008 to June 2010 • Installed T1, Analog and DSL lines for business customers within Metropolitan Atlanta territory  • Extensive knowledge with GPRS/EDGE/SMS/MMS devices as well as PC Wireless Cards, Windows Mobile devices, RIM devices and GSM/UMTS handsets  • Coordinated with customers and central office staff in order to troubleshoot problems that arise    Accomplishments:  • Training Service Technician Lead for all new hires Retail Merchandising Rep Samsco - Atlanta, GA September 2006 to March 2008 • Perform on-site detailed chemical analysis for over 30 accounts in the North Georgia area  • Create detailed reports via Microsoft Word and Excel to present to local management per location providing recommendations for continued treatments and/or changes that should be made  • Contact engineering firms regarding upcoming projects and place business proposals based off of industrial blueprints to gain new business or service    Accomplishments:  • Retail Merchandising Rep of the year 2007 Sales Associate Bellsouth Telecommunications - Miami, FL October 2000 to May 2006 • Recommended and sold Data, Voice, Wireless and Digital TV products and services  • Handled and resolved customer service issues and exceeded customer care commitments  • Continuously met and exceeded aggressive sales quota  • Effectively utilized customized sales techniques to negotiate and close the sales  • Partner with Sales Coach to observe and coach employees, providing feedback around sales technique effectiveness and providing excellent customer service    Accomplishments:  • Sales team Lead Education Associate in B.S. Computer Networking Systems Devry University - Atlanta, GA 1990 to 1994 Skills Comptia, Sharepoint, Mobile devices, Provisioning, Problem solving, Network provisioning, Associate, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Windows xp, Mac Additional Information Technical Skills / Proficiencies    • Highly experienced Customer oriented professional, interacting with all levels of the organization and public.  • Microsoft Technology Associate Certified  • CompTIA A+ experience  • Excellent problem solving and negotiating skills.  • In-depth knowledge of Project Management Processes  • In-depth knowledge of Project Management Tools    • In-depth knowledge of Mobility 4G/LTE network and troubleshooting  • Troubleshooting Expertise Consumer Services including Software and Network Provisioning and Connectivity  • All Mobile Devices and their Operating Systems  • Windows XP, Vista, 7, 10 Operating Systems, Mac OSX  • Microsoft Office - Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, SharePoint