Trainer and Training Manager Trainer and Training Manager Charlotte, NC To obtain a challenging position in a financial institution that will allow me the opportunity for personal and professional growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Trainer and Training Manager Berkeley Hughes & Associates - Charlotte, NC December 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities  Responsible for training new hires on a weekly basis on how to utilize Simplicity and Five 9 Software. Conducts phone etiquette and script training to new hires in a classroom setting by creating several Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations and Microsoft Excel Spreadsheets. Responsible for monitoring phone calls and managing several associates on the floor for one week and preparing them to be assigned to a team. Interviewed and hired potential candidates. Quality Assurance Specialist ACCENTURE - Charlotte, NC June 2009 to March 2013 NATIONSTAR  • Loan Coordinator    BANK OF AMERICA - Quality Assurance Specialist   • CET, BPG and HAFA Short Sale Training    FANNIE MAE  • Foreclosure Claims Analyst    BANK OF AMERICA  • Loss Mitigation Specialist    CITIMORTGAGE CORPORATION  * Mortgage Closer  * Escalation Manager  * Mortgage Project Manager  * Mortgage Loan Processor Team Lead  * Mortgage Loan Processor Trainer  * Mortgage Underwriter Trainer Assistant  * Developer of On-the-Job Training Documentation  * On-the-Job Training Facilitator Loan Servicing Specialist I. - Default Docs Department WELLS FARGO HOME MORTGAGE - Fort Mill, SC August 2008 to June 2009 Responsible for executing and updating legal mortgage documents for attorneys using FileNet. Responsible for researching chain of title on Mortgage Deeds. Maintain foreclosure assignment inbox. Responsible for updating attorneys with the status on foreclosure documents  Update assignment status spreadsheet and track legal documents to be mailed. Mortgage Banker AMERICAN LENDING GROUP - Overland Park, KS September 2005 to May 2006 Responsible for originating FHA, Conventional and Sub-prime loans from internally provided leads and managing them through funding. Examining, evaluating, authorizing and/or recommending approval of customer applications for residential real estate loans. Compiling loan packages and negotiating the loan structure with applicants, including fees, loan repayment options and other credit terms. Senior Loan Officer OAK STREET MORTGAGE - Chesapeake, VA June 2004 to August 2005 Responsible for originating residential mortgage loans using Pro -V software. Responsible for refinances, debt consolidation and home improvement loans. General knowledge of Investors and programs. Responsible for origination of Conventional and Sub-Prime loans. Pull credit reports and order appraisals. Closed loans for qualified borrowers. Mortgage Broker NORTH CAROLINA MORTGAGE FUNDING - Charlotte, NC June 2003 to May 2004 Responsible for the origination of residential mortgage loans. Responsible for refinances, debt consolidation loans and purchase loans. Link borrowers to the mortgage lender that best suited the borrower's needs. Set office and in home appointments for the borrowers to complete mortgage documents. Prepared complete packages in preparation for underwriting purposes. Closed loans for qualified borrowers. IT Helpdesk Analyst One Call - Charlotte, NC August 2002 to April 2003 Responsible for incoming calls on an ACD line. Responsible for the creation and transfer of tickets on an ITSR ticket tracking system. Maintain and prioritize incoming telephone, voice mail, e-mail and in-person requests for assistance from users experiencing problems and collect information about the problem and leads user through diagnostic procedures to determine source of error. Log and track problems into Track IT system and will assign technicians for completion of work. Reset Windows NT, PeopleSoft, Filenet and Employ passwords. ACF2/RACF Database Systems Administrator STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANY - Bloomington, IL November 2000 to May 2001 Responsible for providing ACF2/RACF Administration access for regional field office locations using RUMBA and Vanguard Utility Tools (VRA, VSR, & VSA). Process multiple requests and implement tasks associated with regional and field project implementations with the knowledge of Data Security MVS DB2 Administration Tools, SPF, TSO, SDSF and JCL's. Troubleshoot problem tickets utilizing the SFQ system. Act as second level phone support to resolve Regional, Corporate and ISC first line helpdesk personnel. Provide support for an ACF2/RACF Conversion. Consult with project teams on administrative issues and procedures relating to applicable ACF2/RACF requirements. Provide 24-hour on-call support. Database Systems Administrator FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK - Charlotte, NC November 1999 to August 2000 Provided and maintained RACF, Tandem and AS/400 access to First Union associates using RUMBA. Provided telephone support and grant TSO, CICS and IMS access to First Union associates utilizing RACF on the First Union Mainframe System. Grant access to CICS and IMS transactions utilizing Vanguard and DB2. Received and processed online mainframe access request forms. Administered the security access to all First Union computer systems and assist associates in resolving security access problems. Provided 24-hour on-call coverage after hours for various types of security problems, which included granting access to production jobs with CICS and IMS transactions. Participated in the creation of the ISD Mainframe Procedures Manual. QA Audit Specialist BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC May 1999 to November 1999 Responsible for identifying and correcting errors on Information Security Request Forms processed by analyst located in Charlotte, Dallas, Jacksonville and Phoenix. Created several spreadsheets for this new environment for departmental records. Maintained and updated all errors that were found on a daily basis. Provided 24-hour oncall coverage after hours for various types of security problems, which included granting access to production jobs through userid and batch id. Data Security Analyst II BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC May 1997 to May 1999 Provided telephone support and grant TSO, CICS and IMS access to Bank of America employees and outside vendors using RACF, TopSecret, MVS and DB2 on Security Administration Manager (SAM) platform. Monitored, evaluated, and maintain systems designed to protect the data systems and data bases from unauthorized users both within and outside the company. Install, modified, enhanced and maintained data system security software. Administered the security access to all Bank of America computer systems and assist associates in resolving security access problems. Education Associates of Arts in Information Technology UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX February 2008 to December 2008