Driver/Admin Driver/Admin Ormond Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Driver/Admin BLAZER TRANSPORTATION LLC - Burlington, VT February 2016 to Present Drive customers to and/or from their location to the desired destination safely and professionally. Administrative functions include dispatch utilizing two different phone lines as well as a GPS application that shows location of vehicles in order to ensure the most efficient and effective use of company resources while maintaining customer timelines. Coordinating with Workers Compensation to arrange transportation to and from doctors appointments, hearings and evaluations. Confirming appointments, as well as billing, through state of Vermont portals to confirm appointments and ensure proper payment. Administrative Assistant Freedom Foods - Randolph, VT September 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities  Order needed supplies for clients, order needed supplies for efficient production and in accordance with company sanitary policies. Keep a running inventory of every clients ingredients, packaging and finished goods. Perform qa/qc checks on all production runs and maintain documentation of each. Invoice all clients for in house ingredients and bill for receipt of delivered goods. Arrange shipping logistics for clients as well as insure pallets are properly arranged for delivery.   I created the inventory management system that is in use now for all clients items in the warehouse. Office Assistant Upper Valley Produce - Barre, VT February 2014 to September 2015 Invoice and bill customers for freight charges. Verify incoming invoices and pay out for accounts payable. Prepare and scan outgoing invoices into the database for electronic records but also file paper copies for storage in accordance to company procedure. Receive shipments of produce into the database for distribution and inventory, check paperwork for errors and changes that need to be reflected in the database. Compile and update drivers' logs and truck maintenance schedules as well as keep a database of mileage for every truck. Sort fuel receipts to check against printouts to ensure proper payment. Answer phones and assist both customers and vendors. Data Manager Central Vermont Community Action Council - Barre, VT May 2012 to February 2014 Manage data and related processes for the Disaster Case Management program, utilizing CAN, Coordinated Assistance Network as the primary/preferred database. Manage the client management information systems for the department with a goal to reducing duplication of effort and focus scarce staff resources on client needs. Identify, gather and report key data that can be used to analyze the performance of the DCM program and services. Monitor CAN to ensure provider level compliance with implementation. Provide training to management and provider level staff. Provide quality assurance monitoring for CVCAC and subcontracted providers. Populate and update the resource database with flood recovery or other disaster related resources available in Vermont. Prepare statistical reports for DCM Program Manager and the Case Management Supervisor. Track and maintain client lists by type of need to support organizing resources and volunteers. Document Analyst/Supervisor Daticon Inc - Norwich, CT September 2001 to May 2009 Create, supply and maintain databases for companies involved in litigation as well as supervise 2nd shift coding department. Unitize, code, edit and QC all documents in accordance with the customers standards to maintain a minimum 99% accuracy rating. Train new employees as well as troubleshoot and repair computer glitches within the proprietary computer program. Worked closely with Human Resources on any disciplinary actions as well employee reviews and performance bonuses/pay raises. Database Administrator Millstone Nuclear Power Plant - Waterford, CT July 1998 to August 1999 Created Millstones first database by scanning and sorting condition report files. Update database by scanning additional documents as needed. Electronically forward files to investigators. Trained employees on the scanning and sorting process in order to help the company transition to electronic storage. Education A.S. in Criminal Justice Three Rivers Community Technical College - Norwich, CT Skills Ricoh and Fujitso scanners (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Google Docs (5 years), Data Entry (10+ years), Data Analysis (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Office Management (5 years), Quality Assurance (10+ years), Quality Control (10+ years), Typing (10+ years), Training (10+ years) Additional Information I have more than 10 years of experience in data entry and data management for both private and government databases. I've created and maintained numerous databases and have a proven record of accuracy, speed, various reporting functions and attention to detail. In my capacity of office assistant, I have a strong background and continually updated knowledge of office procedures, and programs designed for efficiency as well as the ability to shift tasks seamlessly according to the needs of the office.