Project Manager/ Database Administrator Project Manager/<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Hadoop Administrator Philadelphia, PA • Overall 7+ Years of IT experience in different business areas  • In depth and extensive knowledge of Hadoop architecture and its components.  • Passionate about Hadoop, Big Data and Machine Learning technology.  • 3+ years Hadoop Experience.  • Familiar with components of Hadoop Ecosystem: HDFS, Hive, HBase  • Linux background.  • Proficient in Shell Scripting.  • Experience in Hadoop Administration, Development, Data Migration  • Experience in using MapReduce to develop Hadoop applications and jobs.  • Developed applications for Distributed Environment using Hadoop, Mapreduce and Java.  • Knowledge of Spark and Scala to perform real time data analytics.  • A wide experience in Management, using the developed leadership qualitites.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and outstanding team player with an aptitude to learn.  • Energetic self-starter with excellent analytical and organizational skills. Achieves goals, objectives and in an accurate and consistent manner. Work Experience Project Manager/ Database Administrator Tatin.com Computers - Kazan, RU September 2004 to May 2009 As the project manager/ database administrator for Tatin.com computers, a retail office supply store, and business center, I oversaw a successful opening of M33 cyber café and monitoring network activity for 150+ computers.    • Responsible for answering and resolving customer technical support  • Strong command and knowledge of "Locker" software system, a program designed for daily operations and accounting in an internet café and computer clubs  • Worked independently in a frequently active and stressful environment Education Masters in Management & Management Information Systems in Big Data, Wilmington University - Wilmington, DE June 2015 to December 2017 Masters in Business Management & Organizational Leadership in Integrative Independent Study Project Wilmington University June 2012 to December 2014 Bachelor of Arts in English and German Languages in English and German Languages Tatar State University of Humanities and Education - Kazan, RU September 2006 to December 2010 Skills Algorithms (Less than 1 year), APACHE CASSANDRA (5 years), APACHE HADOOP MAPREDUCE (4 years), Hadoop (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Programming Languages/Scripting  Java, JavaScript, UNIX shell, Scala  • Databases  Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL,  • Big Data  Hadoop, MapReduce, Pig, Zookeeper, Node Clustering, Distributed Computing, Cassandra  • Cloud Environments  Cloudera, Hortonworks  • Operating Systems  Windows 10, 2003, XP, Vista, 7; GNU/Linux- Ubuntu, CentOS  • IDEs/Applications  Eclipse, Microsoft Office and Open Office suite  • Skills/Interests  Business Analytics, Machine Learning, Design and Analysis of Algorithms