Senior Oracle Database Administrator (Consultant) Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Consultant) Senior Oracle Database Administrator (Consultant) - TCS / Boeing Stanwood, WA Highly analytical, innovative, and goal-driven professional, with solid experience in database and project administration,  client relations, and continuous process improvement. Expert in Oracle Database 12c technologies (RAC and ASM, RMAN, Data  Guard and RAT); strong knowledge of server hardware, operating technologies, and replication and high-availability products  (Oracle Data Guard and Oracle RAC). Armed with dedication to providing support for next-generation database solutions in  Oracle enterprise, SQL Server, PostgreSQL and MySQL. Adept at database modeling with ERWIN and data security, backup,  and recovery, as well as performance tuning and capacity monitoring. Equipped with solid communication, troubleshooting,  organization, and time management aptitudes to attain set-forth objectives and targets. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator (Consultant) TCS / Boeing - Everett, WA June 2015 to Present Perform senior level database administration tasks for different projects such as Boeing Data Hub system and Velocity to document materials installed on the 787 line.  ? Fulfill Oracle database administration which involves configuration management, backup or recovery, performance  optimization, as well as space management.  ? Hold responsibility for engineering, documenting, and supporting builds of new clusters to utilize Oracle 12c RAC on Linux which include installation of cluster ware, ASM (and shared disks) and production of new databases.  ? Expertly applied DataGaurd (Standby) for high availability or disaster recovery purpose and arranged the database  to Switchover and failover.  ? Manage Oracle Active Data Guard physical standby and carry out database and SQL tuning troubleshooting with AWR, ASH, and ADDM on Real Application cluster.  ? Demonstrate database technical expertise and guide the Development Team members and external contacts.  ? Carry out general technical troubleshooting and consultation to Development teams.  ? Display expert knowledge of GoldenGate installation, configuration, maintenance, troubleshooting, and upgrade.  ? Provide 24/7 support of numerous Oracle RAC OLTP databases on ASM.  ? Implement Oracle Security PSU patches every quarter.  ? Comprehensively monitor databases through Oracle 11G/12c grid control  ? Carry out RAT captures and replays for modifications and/or patches to ensure changes are performed  appropriately.  ? Observe Data Guard implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  ? Make use of RMAN in setting up backup and recovery procedures. Web Designer Systems Administrator SeaSoft Computing May 2010 to Present Offer consulting services to many companies in the Pacific Northwest area.  ? Accomplish web site development with LAMP stack technology, Dreamweaver, CA Erwin Data Modeling, HTML, PHP,  and Photoshop.  ? Execute system administration service for the Linux, MySQL, and Apache web servers.  ? Accomplish varying programming tasks, encompassing coding in PHP, CSS and HTML through Dreamweaver.  ? Utilize Dreamweaver which includes a job time tracing system, social outdoor recreational site, and material tracking  system to produce websites.  ? Launch automated monitor and alert scripts and develop procedures and guidelines for MySQL environments.  ? Handle the installation and configuration of the LAMP Stack for the website, including organizing the Linux operating  system, MySQL database, and the Apache web server.  ? Expertly structure the Linux Server and MySQL clustering for high availability.  ? Perform programming tasks including coding in PHP, CSS and HTML with Dreamweaver.    • 2805 256th Street Northwest, Stanwood, Washington 98292 • 425.418.4251 • bill.c.dogget@gmail.com    2 Senior Oracle Database Administrator (Contractor) TEK Systems - Everett, WA December 2014 to June 2015 Served as support of several Oracle databases on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform.  ? Took charge of placing 11g environment on the AWS cloud platform as well as backup and restore procedures.  ? Introduced automated monitor and alert scripts.  ? Exhibited efforts on fulfilling data extractions, data integrity, SQL script development and maintenance to form  database reports and observe database usage and security, user administration, performance tuning, as well as database maintenance.  ? Diligently retained user accounts, covering dropping and unlocking account per requests to preserve user access  compliances.  ? Performed general technical troubleshooting and consultation to Development teams.  ? Proactively monitored the database health through automated scripts for checking the database and extents growth,  probing the alert log files, as well as tracking the rollback segments and temporary space usage.  ? Dealt with complex database incidents and problems and devised resolutions in a speedy and timely manner.  Career Highlight:  ? Delivered on-going performance monitoring and debugging, leading to major reduction in downtime due to issues. Senior Systems Administrator/Analyst/Developer HCIT - Snohomish, WA February 2014 to December 2014 Assumed responsibility for database performance improvement and restoration, implement recovery procedures,  performance tuning of applications, and regular system backups.  ? Maintained the alignment of technical and functional designs with business requirements.  ? Authored many interface scripts among two different medical facilities and the main medical software.  ? Exhibited efforts in reconfiguring the environment for all Oracle database to adhere to Oracle's Optimal Flexible  Architecture (OFA).  ? Expertly designed a new backup and recovery procedures with Oracle RMAN.  ? Developed a procedure which automated cloning procedures from production databases to development and test  environments.  ? Conducted physical database changes, testing, implementation procedures, database and application tuning, as well  as performance monitoring.  ? Drafted different reports for management and insurance companies.  ? Administered fine tuning initialization parameters, I/O, as well as memory and operating system kernel parameters.  ? Keenly monitored databases using Oracle 11G grid control  ? Provided DBA support and technical expertise for multiple applications in development, test, quality assurance and production with SQL Server 2005 and 2008 environments.  ? Developed strategies in migration SQL 2005 servers to 2008 SQL servers.  ? Retained SQL server database, guaranteed accuracy of information, and automated many functions.  ? Carried out database logical and physical design, maintenance, tuning, archiving, backups, replication, recovery,  software upgrades, capacity planning, and optimization for SQL server database.  ? Displayed solid understanding of writing procedures, triggers and functions with T-SQL. Senior Database Administrator (Contract) TCS / Boeing March 2012 to March 2013 Conducted performance tuning on 787 decision support system which included evaluating current SQL statements,  providing recommendations on indexing and materialized views, as well as installing and configurating Oracle  GoldenGate.  ? Effectively functioned as led database administrator for 787 Cognos Reporting Systems.  ? Applied skills in installing and configuring Oracles real application testing environment to conduct investigation on initialization parameter and index changes.  ? Collaboratively worked with Congos developers to support, recommend, and tune SQL statements through development of SQL changes and materialized views.  ? Provided Oracle support with on-call, night, and weekend projects.  ? Managed and oversaw GoldenGate database replication from manufacturing systems to reporting systems.  ? Led the conversion of Cognos reporting database from IBM AIX to Redhat Linux virtual environment.  ? Performed database and application tuning and performance monitoring encompassing fine tuning initialization  parameters, I/O, memory, and operating system kernel parameters utilizing Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad, and AWR reports.    • 2805 256th Street Northwest, Stanwood, Washington 98292 • 425.418.4251 • bill.c.dogget@gmail.com    3  ? Maintained SQL Server Database; ensured accuracy of information and automated numerous functions.  ? Performed RAT captures and replays regularly for modifications and/or patches to ensure that changes are  performed as planned. Senior Database Administrator (Contract) Snohomish County Public Utility District - Everett, WA June 2008 to December 2011 Acted as the lead database administrator for Snohomish County PUD data warehouse and PeopleSoft databases.  ? Functioned as part of the Purchasing Data Mart Database Project which involved planning, development, and execution of the application by providing the schema design that allowed performance, growth, and security through  materialized views, partitioning, and roles.  ? Assumed full responsibility in migrating all of PUDs Data Warehouse from version 10 on IBM AIX to 11g on Linux.  ? Held responsibility for installing and configuring Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control for versions 11 and 12.  ? Took charge of database and application tuning as well as performance monitoring.  ? Utilized various tools such as Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad and AWR reports in a IBM AIX and Linux environment  for fine tuning initialization parameters, I/O, memory and operating system kernel parameters  ? Suggested and devised materialized views to assist in boosting the performance in data warehouse systems.  ? Administered database which entailed capacity planning, instance creation, storage management, backup and recovery, and general troubleshooting.  ? Conceptualized and tested storage strategies and disaster-recovery plans for the district's operational database;  utilized Oracle RMAN to recover on outside vendor servers.  ? Drafted management reports regarding database performance and growth with Oracle Enterprise Manager and various shell scripts. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business in Management Information Systems Washington State University - Pullman, WA Additional Information * CORE COMPETENCIES    Failover Administration ~ Database Development ~ Strategic Planning and Execution ~ SQL Tuning  Conflict Resolution ~ Cross-functional Collaboration    OPERATING SYSTEMS: Linux AIX Windows Unix  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE: HTML CSS PHP PLSQL Shell Scripting  TOOLS: Adobe Dreamweaver Adobe Photoshop Paint Shop Pro Microsoft Visio  DATABASE MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM /SERVER:  PostgreSQL MySQL Microsoft SQL Server (2005, 2008, 2012, 2014)  Oracle 9i/10g/11c/12g Microsoft Access  OTHERS: ODBC Oracle Data Guard Oracle Golden Gate Apache Web Server  Oracle Real Application Testing