Global Sales & Marketing Global Sales &amp; Marketing Global Sales & Marketing - Preval Des Plaines, IL Highly motivated and talented business professional with diverse work experience and an expertise for developing strong customer relationships. Talent for effectively handling multiple tasks simultaneously and grasping complex situations with ease. Professional Integrity, sense of accountability, strong database management skills, well organized, detail oriented, and excellent problem-solving abilities. Adapts easily and learns quickly, exceptional communication skills, computer savvy, and comfortable working independently or as an integral member of a team. Accustomed to handling confidential and sensitive material exceeds in high-pressure situations, and extraordinary customer service skills. Work Experience Global Sales & Marketing Preval - Bridgeview, IL 2012 to Present Responsible for all communications and account management for international distributors and customers that results in sales. This includes:  • Identification of Customers' needs  • Presentation of products that could be beneficial to the customer  • Demonstrating and troubleshooting to insure best product experience.  • Insuring that the Customer has all marketing material for their success in distribution.  • Follow up on leads via phone or email.  • Prepare sales reports  • Manage lead database  • Negotiate with potential customers  • Attend tradeshows to obtain new customers  • Maintain relationships with current customer and/or distributors  • Monitor all international orders for processing efficiency    Planning exhibitions/tradeshows to provide the opportunity for a wide range of potential buyers to meet with a salesman and experience the company's products. Tradeshows range from general consumer shows to specialist trade events, organization and involves:  • Financial and managerial administration  • Marketing exhibition space/stands  • Advertising and publicizing events  • Problem solving  • Logistics  • Air travel and hotel accommodations    Also responsible for uploading current or new products onto websites (i.e. Home Depot, Amazon, Etc.). Maintaining the accuracy of product descriptions, pricing, images, videos, and YouTube links. Merchandiser American Greetings - Harwood Heights, IL 2010 to 2012 Responsible for keeping the card department orderly and stocked. This involves offering stocking orders, re-ordering merchandise as needed, maintaining seasonal, and special display according to plan-o-grams. Also, handling any customers and/or store staff questions or concerns while on site. Database Administrator Boys & Girls Clubs - Chicago, IL 2001 to 2008 KidTrax certified and worked in conjunction with Nfocus software tech support and development staff to maintain 32+ individual databases. Create and prepare complex weekly, monthly and yearly reports. Authored Company Training Manual for other KidTrax users within the organization covering the Metro Chicago Area. Coordinate and schedule meetings and events. Responsible for all general office duties, electronic filing system, and UPS shipments for the department. Responds calmly and efficiently to client issues quickly resolving problems that emerge. Identify creative solutions to client problems and assist clients to understand database related queries. Maintain close, respected relationships with clients to ensure continued business success. Trained new employees. Point of Contact for Customer Service Line assisting staff with technical related issues. Front Desk Agent Double Tree Club Hotel - Des Plaines, IL 1999 to 2001 Greeting guest upon check-in into the hotel, and offered concierge service to all guest. Attended to any complaints personally and resolved quickly. Daily data entry and billing duties, switchboard, cash handling, and general office duties. Also assisted in the Operations Department during events held in the hotel banquet rooms. Import/Export Agent, Miami aircraft support - Chicago, IL 1998 to 1999 Preparing documents for cargo on inbound/outbound international flights and clear all cargo with U.S. Customs. Maintained all data entry, general office duties, and switchboard. Greeted drivers and directed them to the correct area of the warehouse for incoming and outgoing shipments. Worked in the warehouse loading and unloading cargo when needed. Medical Clerk Family Planning Associates - Chicago, IL 1998 to 1998 Sterilizing medical instruments and disposing of medical waste after procedures. Covered front desk operations when needed. Greeting patients upon arrival, scheduling appointments, data entry, general office duties, and switchboard. Education High school or equivalent Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD, Scheduling, Marketing Additional Information Skills  Microsoft Office Programs: Word, Excel, Outlook  iWorks Programs  Type 50 words per minute  Strong Customer service skills