Database Administrator/Software Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Software Engineer Database Administrator/Software Engineer - KBRwyle, Inc Solid hands-on experience from redesigning existing software to solving complex technical problems with object-oriented programming with over 20+ years experience as a software developer and database administrator; Proficiency in database architecture, design and implementation. Work Experience Database Administrator/Software Engineer KBRwyle, Inc - Lexington Park, MD January 2016 to Present Install upgrades, service packs, and security updates for SQL Server database environments to protect data from intrusion and maximize system stability.  Maximize the uptime of SQL Server databases supporting the Enterprise Production, QA and Test/Dev environments through system monitoring, performance tuning, and routine maintenance tasks such as index rebuilds, file compressions, statistical updates, and database consistency checks.  Manage the storage environments for the SQL Server databases, including optimal sizing, monitoring space, requesting additional storage, and providing growth statistics.  Create and execute SQL Server backup and recovery policies, and maintain integrity and reliability of access to information, along with performing routine backup and recovery testing, including testing and documenting recovery scenarios.  Manage database users and security, also work with development teams to assist in overall database design, helping developers tune queries, assigning proper indexes, and aiding developers in the creation of triggers and stored procedures.  Import and export data to and from the SQL Server database(s) and create/maintain detailed operating procedures, configuration documentation, and maintenance plans for the SQL Server environment.  Responsible for SQL Server database performance monitoring and capacity planning.  Updated and/or developed MVC pages for web application to communicate and display data; utilizing C#, Telerik, Java, CSS, HTML and jQuery technologies.  Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control, creating tasks and initiate change requests.  Support team with guidance relating to Business Intelligence, Analytics and Reporting.  Designed Power BI graphical and visualization solutions utilizing provided requirements.  Created reports using SSRS, Power BI per business requirements  Developed reports utilizing QlikView to display data in a graphical layout as required. Programmer/Analyst QED Systems Incorporated - Virginia Beach, VA October 2012 to December 2016 Implemented requested changes, modifications and enhancements as requested by Navy Inactive Ships (NIS) management on existing Visual Studio VB.NET web based applications.  Converted projects from VB.NET to C# utilizing AJAX controls to transfer data which allowed users to update their inputs in a more expeditious manner.  SQL Database administration support and maintain databases for all web based applications which includes but not limited to: modifying tables, stored procedures, restoring data and generating reports by querying database as needed. Implemented jobs to perform routine maintenance.  SQL server migration: migrated all databases and updated web applications to point to correct SQL server as per directed to have data reside on different server than previously configured.  Created entity-relationship (ERD) model to visually represent the structure of databases to institute logical and functional databases.  IIS administration included configuration settings for web servers and sites  Supported NIS site data calls and information requests via telephone and email inquiries  Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control, creating tasks and initiate change requests Senior Developer Virginia International Terminals - Portsmouth, VA June 2010 to October 2012 Maintain and develop existing consumer website utilizing Visual Studio 2010 C#, .NET v 4, ASP.NET and ADO.NET  Continuing to streamline functionality on the site including but not limited to third party jQuery components, javaScript and HTML5  Deployed code changes to production and disaster recovery servers  Monitor Help Desk tickets and requests which involves trouble shooting and fixing any issues or bugs within existing code base  Research, document and implement program requirements and specifications  Created custom .NET components and user controls using ASP.NET and C#  Produced the SQL Server database schema and updated SQL stored procedures for SQL 2008 Senior Developer TekSystems - Virginia Beach, VA September 2009 to June 2010 Design, development, code unit test, and debugging and providing complex enhancements to issue tracking software application using Visual Studio 2010 C# and Entity Framework 4  Exemplary understanding of reusable UI/design pertaining to .NET web forms  Designed Master pages for centralization of design HTML and global CSS across application.  Well versed in CSS standards to create cross-browser supported CSS (support IE, FF, Chrome)  Created external style sheets encapsulating site CSS.  Extensive SQL knowledge using LINQ, T-SQL, Entity Framework, stored procedures for data population  Strong front end object oriented programming skills  Utilized JQuery to provide high performing, cross browser JavaScript support to application  Implemented C# web services in conjunction with JQuery to provide IssueTrak with cutting edge, data intensive features with quick load times  Integrated third party Component Art tools with client side events and web service data population  Developed and created prototype SQL Reporting Services and implementing Report Viewer. Tested various methods accessing data using either DataSets and DataTables, stored procedures or Entity Framework.  Selected and implemented agile development practices according to the application requirements Software Developer Advanced Health Media - Chesapeake, VA July 2007 to July 2009 Created and maintained web applications using .Net C# and ASP.Net technologies and T-SQL (stored procedures and user-defined function calls) to create and Framework 2.0 and SQL Server 2005.  Works with technical staff to understand and develop resolution of software problems while taking responsibility for on-time delivery of assignments, communicated statuses with team members  Assists in training and mentoring less experienced software development staff members.  Contributes and adheres to standardized documentation and writes detailed requirements, program functional specifications and technical design documents.  Contributed to the development and enhancement of reusable architectures as directed Sr. Systems Engineer CrystalView Technologies - Norfolk, VA April 2004 to June 2007 Analyzed, designed, and created Software Requirements Specifications (SRS), Software Design Documents (SDD), and Software Project documents for the Department of the United States Navy. Research, document, and implement program requirements and specifications.  Direct research on emerging application software development products, languages, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts.  Created data export module to hand-held barcode scanners and separate flat file to upload into clients system.  Utilize Enterprise Library to create dataConfiguration files to access SQL databases and also to encrypt data that is transferred from hand held scanners to pc and vice versa.  Created barcode recognition utility that allowed customer to select orphaned system images and update Microsoft Data Engine (MSDE) database with barcode information after validation. This utility processed over 3,000 images which saved the customer man hours hand scanning images and manual validation using .Net (C#) and Accusoft third party toolkit.  Produced recognition objects that decipher and validate 3 of 9 and non-linear barcodes; PDF417 and Data Matrix (2D) barcodes and OCR utilizing .Net (C#). Personal time off September 2000 to April 2004 System Analyst Portfolio Recovery - Norfolk, VA November 1999 to August 2000 Create and implement conversion programs for data integration using Visual Basic and/or Access.  Develop customized modules for data importation at end-user level. Analyze data from purchased portfolios using Access and SQL Plus.  Create and maintain SQL database, including creating tables, users and permissions for access by various applications.  Research and analyze latest technology in software and hardware upgrades for servers and personal computers.  Maintain and develop intranet and Internet web pages.  Writes detailed description of user needs, program functions and steps required to develop or modify programs.  Confers with personnel of organizational units involved to analyze current operational procedures, identify problems and assess specific input or output requirements into forms and summaries for reporting/tracking purposes.  Administer Domain Users, internal/external email accounts and software applications for two hundred and fifty plus seat Windows NT and Novell networks.  Provide onsite documentation, training, software installation and configuration for users.  Utilized optimal organizational skills including handling and prioritizing multiple tasks for both long term and daily projects. Senior Systems Support Coats - Virginia Beach, VA November 1995 to November 1999 Supervise technical support department for custom software development firm. Utilizing knowledge and understanding of Visual Fox Pro programming concepts.  Created custom design forms and reports in conjunction specifically for individual client needs. Produced and implement conversion programs for data conversion into database formats for the COATS program.  Maintained database integrity using various software applications.  Problem solved issues involving software and/or hardware conflicts with client operating systems.  Responsible for software and hardware upgrades for servers and personal computers.  Maintained Windows NT networks for corporate and branch offices, approximately one hundred plus seats.  Onsite training including database installation and configuration for clients.  Support included optimizing telephone and remote software applications. Education B.S. in Business Administration Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA Skills Ado, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Stored procedures, Visual studio, C#, Design patterns, Html, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Xml, T-sql, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Unit testing, Parsing, Scraping Additional Information Skills  Microsoft SQL Server: Normalization, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexing, Report Services and Importing/Exporting data  Development, debugging and unit testing with Visual Studio 2017 and 2018  Object Oriented Programming with C# including design patterns  Parsing, querying, scraping and transforming XML and HTML  Developing applications leveraging ADO.NET, LINQ to SQL, Entity Framework 4.5+ and Microsoft Enterprise Library Data  Building web applications with ASP.NET, C#, HTML, XHML and CSS