Tech Support Tech Support Tech Support - US Patent Office Clinton, MD • Re-imaged and setup large quantities of machines for hardware refresh project  • Tested and Packaged applications for corporate wide distribution using VMware  • Experience in using FTP, Telnet and SSH  • Brought linked mapped drives back online via troubleshooting  • Demonstrated expertise in the diagnosis, troubleshooting and resolution of printer issues.  • Performed maintenance on PBX phone systems per customer requests  • Performed database administration tasks including creating SQL scripts, running hot and cold backups, executing procedures and functions, administering user profile access and performance tuning.  • Managed the design and installation of performance databases as it relates to multiple platforms.  • Diagnosed, installed, and corrected problematic hardware and software.  • Experience in communications and a background for troubleshooting transfer abort.  • Have over 5 years Oracle experience. Work Experience Tech Support US Patent Office July 2019 to Present Performed quality control checks on all installations of equipment and software, both baseline new and refurbished equipment to designated specifications as requested by daily schedule. Performed connectivity and data issue troubleshooting. Completed client data migration using SCCM. Assisted in keeping quality control of assets in and out of work areas. Setup various laptops and handheld computers as necessary and installed at clients site when required. Updated Remedy tracking system to provide support, repair, maintenance, configuration and installation of laptops, desktop computers, printers, peripheral equipment and software. Ensured that the EAMS ticket was completed and resolved to the user's satisfaction. Ensured that the Remedy and SharePoint tickets were completed and resolved to the users' satisfaction Tech Support Lincoln Housing May 2019 to June 2019 Diagnosed and corrected problematic operating system software. Coordinated with Vendors in installing phone systems. Remotely supported and maintained PBX phone systems per user's request. Installed and setup IBM network servers for Call center. Setup and supported wireless access points (WAPs) for guest logins. Installed and setup Video conferencing devices for meetings across the region. Setup and configured Checkpoint and Fortinet UTM edge devices across Mid-Atlantic region. Tech Support Fannie Mae - Washington, DC February 2011 to April 2011 Deployed large quantities of machines for the Fannie Mae Refresh project using Ghost imaging software. Initiated requirements meeting with business units to discuss application specifications and to generate installation procedures. Performed user acceptance procedure testing procedures (UAT) to ensure data transfer was not compromised. Provided access to network drives by linking mapped drives to the Registry. Increased turnaround time for completing and closing out tickets in Remedy. Tech Consultant Native Staffing Firm - Washington, DC August 2009 to February 2011 Installed and configured Windows applications for support operations. Configured and coordinated the huge rollout of inventory workstations and printers to client site locations. Wrote and developed database scripts for enforcing referential integrity. Performed independent researches on problematic applications on ways for troubleshoot efficiently. Coordinated hardware configuration of remote access networks for new work sites. Supervised, directed, and monitored the productivity of four installers. IS Tech Support II Verizon Wireless - Hanover, MD July 2008 to August 2009 Created and provided email notifications for help-desk trouble tickets. Implemented data backing methodology to prevent network outage issue. Resolved and entered technical support documentation into Remedy ticket system for faster resolution. Installed and configured ACSS and Microsoft applications for support operations. Implemented backup procedures and participated in several Disaster Recovery tests.Wrote and implemented database triggers to enforce database integrity. Developed and trained new employees on strategies to decrease churn. Worked independently as well as part of a team to troubleshoot, monitor systems and applications, responded to phone calls and e-mail inquiries. Telecom Analyst Chevy Chase Bank - Laurel, MD November 2003 to April 2008 Coordinated hardware configuration of remote access networks for new Branch locations. Supervised and directed the distribution of inventory equipment worth millions of dollars. On-site technician for installation of Branch networks with full accountability of all hardware, software and network support to ensure Branches opened on schedule. Managed both off and on-site contractors to control and manage project risks using Microsoft Project software. Supervised various department heads for the procurement and installation of network and computer equipments. Wrote triggers and functions to maintain Data integrity and return quick search results for the Bank's software record database. Skills used LAN/WAN, SMTP, TCP/IP, VPN, Microsoft Project, extended access list controls, NT, XP, and Windows 2000- 2003 server. Oracle Database Administrator Das Inc - Silver Spring, MD May 2000 to August 2003 Implemented business rules to production database using procedures, packages, trigger scripts. Mounted several new databases on windows and unix platforms for developmental projects. Supervise the design phase of the layout structure for each database. Implemented optimized SQL scripts to increase database efficiency and resolving resource conflicts. Wrote and implemented triggers at various levels to add functionality and security to tables and reports. Planned and performed the backup and recovery procedures using RMAN. Set up a high availability environment for some round-the-clock applications using a standby database. Help Desk Support Towson U - Towson, MD September 2001 to May 2003 Diagnosed, installed, and researched problematic software and hardware.Tier I and Tier II desktop support analyst. Debugged scripts written in various languages. Developed Problem Resolution Center (PRC), a team dedicated to using remote tools and technology to resolve students' issues. Operating systems supported: Windows XP, Windows 2000, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 98, Windows 95, and DOS Windows. Team Lead for S.T.E.P program. Support Training and Enhancement Program (S.T.E.P.) for in-house education of peers and integration with other services. Created and managed user accounts in the Solaris environment.  Computer / DBA Skills  Hardware: IBM Intellistation and M series workstations, X series servers, UTM-Edge Devices, Wireless Range Extenders, Routers, CPM Port management, Wireless and LAN printers  Software: LogMeIn, WebHelp Desk, Checkpoint, Access DB, Windows, Oracle RDBMS, RMAN, SQL Enterprise Manager, Microsoft Office 2007, MS SQL Server, Unix Shell Programming, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Power shell  Operating Systems: Windows NT, Windows XP, Windows Server 2000, Windows 2003, Unix, IBM SYSM  Databases: Oracle, DB2, Sybase, SQL, Access Education Bachelor of Science degree in data modeling Towson University 2001 to 2003 CLI Technical Institute 2000 to 2001 University of Maryland, College Park - College Park, MD 1999 to 2001 Skills Db2, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Unix, Windows 2003, Windows xp