Technical Representative / Club Fitting Specialist Technical Representative / Club Fitting Specialist FINANCIAL OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT PROFESSIONAL Summit, NJ Work Experience Technical Representative / Club Fitting Specialist Titleist Golf - Carlsbad, CA 2010 to Present Charged with sales, marketing, and personalized golf club fitting functions for high-profile  golf equipment company; ranked within the top 5% of fitting specialists, nationally.  ? Analyze customers' golf swings and recommend equipment to maximize performance.  ? Secure new and expanded opportunities through prospecting, networking, relationship  building, and deployment of various innovative marketing strategies.  ? Research and analyze competition, market trends, and industry changes in order to identify, evaluate, secure new opportunities, and expand market share. FINANCIAL OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT PROFESSIONAL One Call Management - Parsippany, NJ 2009 to Present Parsippany, NJ 2009 to Present  Originally hired in a temporary position, was quickly promoted and assigned to positions of increased responsibility to include Agent, Provider Services Specialist, Team Lead,  Supervisor, and ultimately to Manager Provider Retro/Retro Direct.  ? Manage daily operations for national healthcare network management company with oversight for onboarding, planning and directing resources, maximizing productivity,  recapturing lost revenue through alternative workflows, and developing and implementing  effective standard operating procedures.  ? Align operational requirements, process improvement initiatives, and client needs that result  in the achievement of overall business objectives.  ? Conduct training needs assessments and evaluations to determine the impact on performance and identify skills or knowledge gaps that need to be addressed.  ? Hire, train, schedule, develop, supervise, and mentor team members to guarantee optimal  performance and enhance employee engagement.  ? Ensure strict compliance with policies, procedures, operational and safety protocols, contractual obligations, documentation, and federal and state regulations (HIPAA).  ? Designed, created, and implemented Special Programs Group (SPG) workflow process that  resolved 90,000 claims over the past five years and successfully converted 64,000+ of those into $21.8M of revenue that had been classified as financial leakage or lost revenue;  during the past 12 months $5.5M in revenue has been generated with only $400K in operating expenses, ultimately yielding a 30% margin.  ? Consistently recognized for excellence in job performance, heightening accountability, effective time management, increasing revenues, exceling in demanding and fast-paced  environments, and exceeding corporate expectations by over 20%.  CAREER SUMMARY (Continued) Technical Representative / Demonstration Specialist Cobra Golf - Carlsbad, CA 2002 to 2010 Served as National Lead Specialist with responsibilities for exclusive sales, marketing, and golf club fitting; two-time recipient of "National Demonstration Specialist of the Year" award.  ? Maximized sales and profitability through tenacious follow-up, product knowledge expertise, regular connection with clients, and nurturing relationships with prospective customers. General Manager The Golf Zone - Flanders, NY 2005 to 2009 Directly contributed to the achievement of corporate business development and revenue  growth objectives via reducing overhead and expenses, streamlining processes, maximizing  productivity, and improving customer contact techniques.  ? Attended and participated in industry tradeshows, marketing events, and a variety of networking functions. Database Administrator Grand Court Lifestyles - Saddle Brook, NJ 2000 to 2005 Developed and implemented innovative database system that catalogued critical documents  for 300+ properties, allowed immediate access to files and legal documentation, and significantly reduced billable hours.  ? Planned, coordinated, and implemented security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification, or disclosure. Education Certification Middlesex County College - Edison, NJ Union County College - Cranford, NJ Skills Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Additional Information Computer Skills: Office Suite to include Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint  Data Bases in Windows Operating Systems