Data Engineer / Informatica administrator / ETL Programmer and Analyst Data Engineer / Informatica <span class="hl">administrator</span> / ETL Programmer and Analyst Data Engineer / Informatica administrator / ETL Programmer and Analyst - Experian Consumer Services Irvine, CA Work Experience Data Engineer / Informatica administrator / ETL Programmer and Analyst Experian Consumer Services - Costa Mesa, CA 2013 to Present Satisfied business requirement with various b2b vendors. Accomplished in development and support of Data Engineering using AWS toolset. Data Warehouse using ETL for Reporting. Technologies used are: Informatica Power Center v10.2.0, AWS Redshift v4.2, AWS EC2, AWS S3. MS SQL server v2010, Netezza database, Control-M scheduler, Alteryx ETL, Tableau reporting, Denodo virtualization server and Linux.  • Installed and migrated Informatica Power Center to AWS EC2 Redhat Linux in order to move out of on premise data center to the cloud.  • Stand up Denodo virtualization server on AWS EC2 Amazon Linux to facilitate data availability to business self service portholes.  • Preserved Informatica administration for migrations, database connection, security permission and conduct code review to confirm to best practice and standards.  • Enriched Informatica ETL as the data integration tool. Writing and supporting Informatica code with mapping, workflows. Creating parameter files to create seamless environment promotion.  • Coordinated the Informatica ETL using tools such as: AWS Redshift, Microsoft SQL and Netezza database. Planned testing cycles, parallel testing tasks with outsourced staff.  • Produced enterprise solution scheduling in Control-M instead of crontab, Informatica scheduler.  • Participated in daily stand up of Agile/Scrum team to provide transparent task management. Utilizing task tracking using JIRA. Partake in iteration planning with grooming and planning sessions.  • Communicate with Business to clarify requirements then derive unit test case data. Derive business requirements document (BRD) to help manage expectations to new data sets. Senior Technical Consultant Automobile club of Southern California - Costa Mesa, CA 2012 to 2013 Achieve development and support of Business Intelligence and Data Warehouse ETL for Reporting initiatives. Technologies used are: Informatica v9.1.0 and SSIS 2008. Teradata and MS SQL server v2005, v2008 Fast Track. Control-M scheduler.  • Accurately satisfy business requirements by isolating unique business test case. Using known input to provide expected outputs. This address two issues: ETL accuracy and customer satisfaction.  • Facilitated Quality Assurance test management cycles by enabling static baseline database tables to measure deltas in data testing cycle.  • Streamlined performance and tuning of ETL batch jobs for Data Marts. Achieving 3 minutes table materialization instead of 30 minutes.  • Improved ETL and database support in area of coding standards. Standards achieved reliability, maintainability as well as rapid development of code. Improved a 2 days process to 2 hours. Database Developer Access Data Consulting Corporation - Lake Forest, CA 2011 to 2012 Retained to facilitate the Information Technology support of this commercial services office. Technologies used are: MS SQL v2005 & SSIS ETL v2005.  • Improved SQL server and ETL job performances 60% with recognition the bottlenecks. Techniques include utilize lookup transformation in asynchronous transformations and minimizing logging data with bulk mode instead of row by row.  • Increase business productivity 95% by improving SQL & ETL architecture of intraday delta loads. Approach was to enable data high availability by using pointer references during the long load times.  • Eliminate monthly emergency change tickets by planning and standardizing the business process. Proactively mitigate the weakest links with redundancy to critical processes. Business Intelligence Associate Arch Bay Capital - Irvine, CA 2011 to 2011 Primary focus is to sustain BI/DW ETL initiatives for mortgage investment firm to allow for maximize return company investment. Technologies used are: MS SQL v2008, SSIS ETL v2008. Team Foundation Services for source control. Student New Horizon computer Learning Center - Anaheim, CA 2010 to 2011 MCITP education - Microsoft Certified IT Professional DB Developer for SQL Server 2008 with Business Intelligence (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS) Training Program with Instructor Led Training. Senior Programmer/Analyst Capital Group Companies - Irvine, CA 2003 to 2009 Experience with BI ETL integration processing to provide Human Resource data to internal application and outside vendors with quality and punctual implementation. Technologies used are: Oracle 10g, Sybase v12.5, Informatica v8.1, Perforce, AutoSys. HP UNIX 11i and Solaris. Unix ksh. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University at Pomona - Pomona, CA Skills Ssis, ETL, Data Warehouse