Service Contracts Sales Support Service Contracts Sales Support Service Contracts Sales Support - Olympus Corporation of the Americas, Pennsylvania Wescosville, PA • A self starter who is proficient and result oriented.  • Possess strong problem-solving and organizational skills.  • Quick learner who is eager to learn and practice new concepts.  • Capable of working independently or in a team environment.  • Excellent multi-tasking abilities by working with different projects.  • Fluent in English, Kiswahili, Gujrati, Urdu and Hindi. Work Experience Service Contracts Sales Support Olympus Corporation of the Americas, Pennsylvania November 2018 to Present USA  • Run various reports and use the data to validate and analyze details related to service quotes and equipment ownership.  • Maintain service contracts in CRM by extending, adding or removing items as per the requests.  • Proactively prepare addendums to add newly sold equipment or remove items to existing service contracts which includes Trade-in items.  • Creating new and renewal quotes for existing and new service contracts. Medical Insurance Customer Service Representative Sykes Enterprises, Incorporated October 2017 to March 2018 Pennsylvania, USA  • Help resolve customers' needs via inbound phone calls.  • Assist members and providers with understanding individual health care benefits.  • Assist to explain the benefits and coverage associated with different types of health care plans and describe exclusions and non-covered treatment approaches.  • Follow up with members and providers. Office Administrator Computer World, Pennsylvania May 2010 to June 2017 USA  • Proficient in writing and handling business correspondence which includes invoices, LPOs, billing and monthly reports.  • Proficient in working effectively in a fast paced environment while juggling multiple tasks at a time with proven ability to organize personal work priorities.  • Proven front desk handling skills, demonstrated ability to handle phone calls and correspondence effectively.  • Proven ability to schedule appointments involving more than one department effectively.  • Competent in basic PC operations and software including windows OS, internet and MS office suite and demonstrated skills in computer maintenance and basic troubleshooting of windows.  • Operational knowledge of the functioning of various office equipment including facsimile machines, scanners and photocopiers. Junior Database Administrator ITB - Toronto, ON June 2006 to July 2007 Canada  • Creation of profiles for users and restricting resources to users through these profiles.  • Creation of table spaces, adding data files, sizing data files of table spaces altering database, dropping of unwanted table spaces.  • Backup database which included backing data files, log files, documenting backups, verifying the integrity of backup files.  • Database performance tuning for optimal results.  • Exporting and importing of data using export/import utilities.  • Assisted in creating triggers, functions, queries and generating reports. Programmer/Analyst Net Plus - Toronto, ON January 2004 to December 2004 Canada  • Worked in a team to gather information from clients with face-to-face meetings to identify their project requirements.  • Analyzed systems, designed user interfaces according to user requirements.  • Developed and designed programs using Visual Basic.NET, ADO, Oracle 9i and Crystal reports and used UML and the Rational Rose to model the software.  • Deploy the program and any make necessary changes required.  • Prepared user manuals and technical documentations and provide training for proper use of the program. Education Diploma in Software Developer, Database Administrator Seneca College - Toronto, ON 2003 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, DB2, MS ACCESS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages:  • C, C++, Java, Visual Basic Visual Basic.Net  Operating Systems:  • Windows, UNIX, Linux, AS400  Databases Environment:  • MS Access, My SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Database Administration, Database Design & Modeling, Oracle Productivity Tools, Oracle Forms, DB2.  Software Tools:  • Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Office 365, MS Project, Flash MX, Dreamweaver, Rational Rose, Visual Studio, Visio