Database and Marketing Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> and Marketing <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database and Marketing Administrator Clearwater, FL My objective is to expand my growth and advance within a thriving company, maintain status as a respectable employee, embark on new ideas and face challenges head on, complete tasks and fulfill my duties. Work Experience Database and Marketing Administrator Myriad Computer Solutions - Largo, FL June 2011 to April 2014 • Verifies information, operates data entry devices and prepares documents.  • Process purchase orders.  • Handle inbound calls on new Shoretel Systems Phone, directing to correct person.  • Process account information, customer information, and a variety of other forms of documents by resolving inconsistencies and reviewing data for errors using standard data entry procedures.  • Keeps records of tasks, files and proofread reports; Checks completed work for errors or duplicate information before submitting the final product.  • Verifies, corrects and deletes unnecessary data, and/ or combines data from several sources before entering into a file.  • Clerk enters alphanumeric data from reports and study documents into an electronic tracking system on a day-to-day basis.  • Prepare account statements.  • Quickbooks- Process credit cards, help with payroll and banking. Customer Service Sales Representative Vici Marketing - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2008 to April 2011 • Utilized a script to pitch vacation sales (cruises)-inbound and outbound.  • Performed QA and QC monitoring.  • Logged daily transfers and sales.  • Input credit card data for authorization of sale. Customer Service Representative National Foundation for Debt Management - Largo, FL September 2005 to December 2007 • Received inbound calls and assist clients with credit card debt.  • Pulled account information on credit cards and checking accounts.  • Assisted with calculations and percentages. Quality Assurance Representative Talk America - Orlando, FL September 2003 to September 2005 • Monitored both the sales and third party verifications of telecommunication offers to clients.  • Determined and protected the integrity of the sale.  • Effectively communicate each session both on paper logs and monitor logs using an excel spreadsheet. Telemarketing Sales Representative G.E.F.A - Saint Petersburg, FL March 1999 to April 2003 • Made outbound calls to clients offering trials in insurance, legal and financial services. Promoted to customer service after 6 months.  • Received inbound calls assisting clients with activations on their Wal-Mart and Lowe's credit cards. Promoted to Quality Assurance in October 1999.  • Monitored taped verified sales from representatives.  • Determined the quality and integrity of the sales.  • Logged information both on paper for the reps and logged n excel for the employer and major client. Education St. Petersburg High School - Saint Petersburg, FL May 1997