Transcriptionist Transcriptionist Transcriptionist - AUTOMATIC SYNC TECHNOLOGIES Fayetteville, GA 11 months of daily transcription experience for court proceedings and general transcriptions for closed captioning for the hearing impaired.  20 years of computer technical experience including five years of supervisory/management experience working with project teams. 17 years of professional sewing and embroidery experience including digitizing, design and embroidering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Transcriptionist AUTOMATIC SYNC TECHNOLOGIES March 2019 to Present Transcribe audio and video files, creating transcriptions for closed captioning for the hearing impaired.    WENDY'S TREASURES 2001-Present  Owner/Operator of http://www.wendystreasures.com, Digitizer, embroiderer, marketing  Retail web-based Internet store. Creator of digitized embroidery designs. Commercial embroiderer. Site offers sewing/quilting/embroidery notions, blank apparel, screen printing and embroidered apparel for corporations, schools and local organizations. Responsible for sales, marketing and advertising as well as all computer implementations of both hardware and software. Professional sewing for several companies as well as individual clients. Oracle Database Administrator DELTA TECHNOLOGY/ DELTA AIR LINES 1998 to 2001 Responsible for installing and maintaining Oracle 8i software on Sun Solaris and HPUX database and application servers enterprise-wide.  1 Configured Oracle product software on database and application servers.  1 Increased database storage and database resources by 50%.  1 Upgraded Oracle databases to 8i within project timelines  1 Assisted in establishing connectivity from clients to database server.  1 Experienced in database upgrades, migrations and consolidations.  1 Designed Oracle databases both logical and physical, based on user requirements  1 Involved in investigating, troubleshooting and resolving database problems.  1 Have operated as a Server, Instance and Schema DBA.  1 SQL and PL/SQL programming  1 Have created prototype databases in MS Access. DELTA TECHNOLOGY/ DELTA AIR LINES 1996 to 2001 Internal Systems Engineer - Project Lead DELTA TECHNOLOGY/ DELTA AIR LINES 1996 to 1998 Performed as Project Lead for various deployment projects and NT Administrator for Clear Case - Configuration Management Team.  1 Led contractors and coordinated the installation, configuration and deployment of the Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 95 workstations campus wide and on a global level.  1 Completed project with 3000 users with 4-person team within 3 months, well within project timeline.  1 Experienced with NT 4.0 workstation and server, Windows 95 (including remote connectivity).  1 Knowledgeable of domain structure and experience working in multi-technology, multi-platform environments.  1 Knowledge of workgroup components (H/W, S/W, operating systems, peripherals, etc.) Documentation, communication, and team skills.  1 Project management experience.  1 Deployed, supported, and administered networks within the Delta Technology and Delta Air Lines infrastructure.  1 Responsibilities included end user support, hardware and software deployment, network workstation and server support and administration, process implementation, technology documentation, and some dedicated project work (such as application roll outs to entire company) using Windows NT, Win95, MS Office, MS Exchange and all PC software and peripherals.  1 Created workflow application utilizing MS Access Financial Systems Assistant Manager III FULTON COUNTY GOVERNMENT, FINANCE DEPT - Atlanta, GA 1993 to 1996 Responsible for the management of the Information Systems Division within the Finance Department.  1 Responsible for Novell 3.X Administration, Novell servers, mainframe to PC data transfer, the budget database and various other application development, systems analysis, testing, and maintenance.  1 Created several EIS projects using FOCUS/EIS and DDE capabilities with Excel and Focus/DLL.  1 Installed Client Server capabilities using the Database Server (sync machine) on the Novell Network. Application analysis, design and development and PC Support. Software Support Specialist (Supervisor) AGNES SCOTT COLLEGE - Decatur, GA 1991 to 1993 Academic Computing  Technical Responsibilities: Responsible for organizing, managing and supporting information technology for faculty, staff and students on campus.  1 Re-organized and managed computer center and satellite labs  1 Acquired computer software, hardware and peripherals  1 Repaired, installed, maintained, customized, recovered, configured and upgraded campus hardware and software.  1 Worked heavily with various vendors.  1 Tutored students and faculty  1 Instructed classes of 18-25 students, faculty and staff.  1 Worked extensively with MS Access. Education Brown College of Court Reporting October 2018 to Present Master of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Phoenix 2013 Bachelor of Arts in Telecommunications/Business Administration Indiana University