Program Coordinator, Promise Academy II Charter School Program Coordinator, Promise Academy II Charter School Program Coordinator, Promise Academy II Charter School - Harlem Children's Zone Bronx, NY Work Experience Program Coordinator, Promise Academy II Charter School Harlem Children's Zone - New York, NY June 2017 to Present After School Teen Program  • Review and provide feedback for Enrichment Specialist on lesson plan design and instruction, assuring that it is aligned to youth centered and 21st Century Skill building.  • Create and enforce project standards and production schedules and ensure that Enrichment Specialists are properly planning,  developing, and executing projects for scholars that culminate in a youth centered, themed, and large-scale production on a quarterly  basis.  • Ensure HCZ, SACC, DOH and DYCD regulations compliance and proper implementation by maintaining a ROP of 75% of 6th-8th  grade scholars attend program 85% of program days.  • Manage and monitor all protocol and procedures for staff and scholar performance measures and compliance.  • Liaise with parents to retain the number of participants in program and conduct student recruitment as needed.  • Provide weekly supervisions and leadership development, professional development, and staff training as needed.  • Prepare and complete daily attendance, staffing, occurrence and highlights report, monthly supply orders, and required monthly reports.  • Work with Enrichment Specialists to organize quarterly trips that directly expose scholars to their art of study.  • Ensure all scholars apply for or engage in an external arts project, audition or community service opportunity.  • Facilitate and host staff, parent, and student meetings. Arts Coordinator July 2016 to May 2017 • Supervised and managed Arts Specialists and Project Teams component of programming.  • Prepared and developed curriculum, lesson plans, activities, and special projects that fuse the arts and academic competencies.  • Engaged youth in the following areas through the arts: critical thinking; evaluation; risk-taking; rehearsals; hands-on project-based  learning; documentation of work; community-building and activism.  • Coordinated subject related trips, guest speakers, special events, student exhibitions, and college trips. Database Manager, Learn to Earn October 2015 to June 2016 • Corresponded with component coordinators via memorandum to determine best practices for data upkeep.  • Reviewed all intakes thoroughly and gathered documents needed for DYCD and ETO audits before enrollment and reviewed all intakes  quarterly for compliance and submitted reports to Program Director to assess accuracy.  • Created daily/weekly stat sheets and monthly component growth charts.  • Recorded and tracked attendance for all component activities and special events.  • Performed regular quality assurance for all entered data on the Efforts to Outcomes (ETO) database to ensure data integrity.  • Supervised Data Aides with weekly supervisions and component meetings.  • Provided Program Director with weekly data component reports and data administrative monthly report that outlines HCZ goals. Communications Manager ES Investments and Stop Abuse Campaign - Atlanta, GA April 2013 to September 2015 Charleston, SC, and Washington, DC metro areas for ES Investments and in New York City for Stop Abuse Campaign.  • Produced and designed all written content for website and print materials for each entity. Membership Database Analyst, SEIU Local Union 1199 The Bachrach Group - New York, NY August 2014 to July 2015 Prepared data for computer entry by compiling and sorting member benefit and life insurance forms collected during the Union's merger of the Home Health Aide and Home Care Workers Funds using the Vitech Version 3 software. Reviewed data for deficiencies; resolved discrepancies by correcting, deleting, or reentering data; combined multiple member accounts and at times, purged files to prevent duplication in system. Database Clerk Archdiocese of New York November 2013 to August 2014 Reviewed and organized membership database to track The Cardinal's Annual Appeal donations and its distribution. Database Administrator Comunilife - Bronx, NY July 2012 to September 2013 Successfully maintained the overall integrity and quality of client resident databases by verifying client records. Reviewed, collected, deleted, and reentered data to streamline business practices for the congregate and scattered housing programs. Helped develop database business processes, code values, and business rules and other set-up functions of the client database using Salesforce platform. Reviewed and updated organization procedures for use of Salesforce platform to increase efficiency and enhance performance. Contract Administrator International Alliance of Stage and Theater Employees - New York, NY August 2011 to July 2012 Assisted the President's Department of the International Alliance of Theatre and Stage Employees in the issuance of contracts for traveling attractions, shows, and tours for incorporation on the International Union's website and database. Maintained detailed and accurate records through hard copy, electronic and database filing systems. Community Specialist SEEC, Employment Services Division - Silver Spring, MD November 2010 to June 2011 Assisted consumers of the Employment Services (ES) Division in obtaining and maintaining competitive employment or volunteer opportunities consistent with their Individualized Plan (IP). Assisted with the development of each consumer's IP based on recommendations from the ES division and review board and spent at least 65% or more of total scheduled work hours in the community engaging clients, contacting employers for job development, and providing follow-along support. Insurance Claims Specialist Cesar A. Caceres, Inc - Washington, DC May 2009 to October 2010 Received inbound customer service calls and made outbound calls to patients and health care providers in order to process routine claims, investigate pending claims and resolve discrepancies. Examined complex or unusual claims to determine whether or not coverage was applicable and requested claim payment accordingly from insurance providers. Served as primary liaison with insurance companies and practice by drafting preliminary and follow-up correspondence with patients and insurance providers alike. Processed patient and insurance provider invoices and maintained patient confidential accounts. Database Manager American Forum - Washington, DC January 2008 to March 2009 Managed and supervised data entry for donor database and ensured the accuracy of data in FileMaker Pro. Established and maintained a structure within the database to effectively identify specific segments of data for various analyses and targeted marketing efforts. Press Aide One Economy Corporation - Washington, DC June 2006 to November 2007 • Executed the marketing campaign for a multi-state media outreach campaign with sponsors, AT&T and Habitat for Humanity to bring broadband internet services to over a quarter-million impoverished Americans. Produced written content for website and social media use to promote awareness and garner further support. Used market drivers to target specific consumer-sets. Education Bachelor of Arts in Public Communication & Spanish Language American University, School of Communications - Washington, DC Skills drafting (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Front Page (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkd.in/1yWAY5J Groups Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. March 2004 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  English, Spanish  Highly skilled in drafting press releases, media alerts, speeches, and blog posts.  Social Media Management (i.e. Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Foursquare and YouTube).  Access, Excel, Filemaker Pro, HTML, Outlook, Powerpoint, Salesforce, Word, Raiser's Edge,  Front Page, Illustrator, Pagemaker, Photoshop, MS Publisher, Adobe.