Product Support Specialist Product Support Specialist CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE - IRS Cincinnati, OH Analyst position that will utilize my knowledge of sales, marketing, contracts; with interaction between client and data management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Support Specialist LCS - Cincinnati, OH March 2019 to Present Troubleshoot issues within customers software. Provide support via phone, email or remoting into their computers. Answering questions regarding the software, installation, printing issues. Creating websites for the customer using word press interface. Assist with scripting of documents, notifications and email messages sent to people within their database. Create reports, answer accounting questions. Testing different aspects of the software from reporting, accounting, singable documents, letters, posting charges. Creating user defined fields as well as custom tabs. CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE IRS November 2018 to Present • Provide administrative and technical assistance to individuals and businesses over the telephone • Comprehensive knowledge of guidelines related to individual and business tax law • Collection knowledge techniques and skills to fully advise the taxpayer of options available to meet tax obligations • Communicate effectively specialized information orally and in writing with internal and external customers • Obtain and exchange information under sensitive conditions • Knowledge of systems to research materials, processing procedures, data security to resolve problems or issues • Investigative skills sufficient in extracting information from a variety of sources to determine the appropriate and quality of information relayed to customer • Understanding of IRS principles, practices and procedures regarding tax payers rights, enforcement of policies, payment processing, pertinent appeal procedures and processing of casework • Utilize inventory management procedures to contract casework and conduct research BUSINESS MANAGER ASSISTANT ACOSTA INC September 2014 to November 2018 Plan with clients for promotions throughout the year. Update client distribution charts, pricing reports, track new items reports. Fiscal Forecasting for promotions and digital coupon disbursement. Assist category managers with preparing promotion analysis for specific manufacturers. Negotiating sales and allowances with buyers. Utilized customer management proprietary systems. Maintain APL's, New Items Entries, Pricing, Client and Customer Data for the Business Manager. Plan meetings with clients to review promotional plans. Product integration into Kroger VIP product system. Work closely with clients with pricing issues on invoices. Generate memos, emails and reports when appropriate. Assist with training of co-workers and new hires. Implement and monitor processes as directed by management. Manage workflow by assigning priority to ensure deadlines are met and work is completed. Perform investigations into claims to determine the accuracy of the claims; make decisions on the validity of the claims and how we should proceed in the deduction/repayment process. Work independently and prioritize projects  Submit promotional contracts based upon the fiscal planner. Implement price changes to transmit to client via EDI. Execute events in Acosta proprietary system for sales promotions  Assist business manager in preparing sales meetings, customer appointments and principal meetings. Analyze information for business manager to assist with the management and develop fund expenditures for the client. Assessing issues with Kroger buyers regarding price and distribution of products. Review questions from claims department regarding issues with contracts and post audits. Communicating with supervisor regarding any changes with the parameters of client data changes. Maintain positive relationships with clients. ADMINISTRATOR- BENEFITS ADECCO September 2012 to September 2014 BENEFITS SPECIALIST LUXOTTICA AND ANTHEM July 2011 to September 2012 Reviewed claim information with providers and members, update authorizations for providers. Assisted providers with submitting claims, resolved claim issues, reinstate member benefits. Assisted members with questions regarding their plan benefits/coverage. Established procedures for processing cash, credit card/electronic receipts of payment. Monitored customer accounts for delayed or non-payment issues, research and resolve payment discrepancies and customer inquiries. Checked insurance benefits coverage and /or get authorizations for services.  BENEFITS SPECIALIST AETNA HEALTH INC 7/2011-9/2012  Enrollment and eligibility-invoice, billing, answer questions regarding monthly payments, took payments via the telephone or online. Assist with any questions for missing or lost payments. Spoke with providers and collection agencies regarding member's accounts to resolve any outstanding issues for the member. Answered inquiries from Medicare Advantage members via inbound calls, Internet inquiries, and written correspondence. E-COMMERCE ONLINE MANAGER TAKE TWO INTERACTIVE February 2005 to November 2011 Utilized the Yahoo Small Business Website to maintain orders from the Rockstar and Take 2 online stores. Managed content and product loads into the ecommerce platforms. Calculate sales and imported financial totals into Access database, forecasted for pre-game sales based upon analysis from previous years. Maintained inventory and maintained archive catalog of obsolete items, handled requests for video and apparel returns. Processed and shipped over 10000+ units of Grand Theft Auto for new game launch. Computed charges for shipping via UPS and USPS in Corporate database. Coordinated shipping of products outside of the US, Canada and throughout the world. DATABASE TECHNICIAN UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI April 2004 to May 2005 Education Certificate Cincinnati State College - Cincinnati, OH June 2016 Skills training, Excel, Management, database, Customer Support, Help Desk, Customer Service Additional Information Resource and reliable administrative administrator with over 15+ years of experience providing exceptional service for internal and external customers. Detail oriented and comfortable working in a fast-paced environment. Excellent verbal and digital communication skills. Dedicated, committed to upholding the rules and goals of my employer. Ability to analyze and revise office operating practices to improve efficiency. Superior organization skills and dedicated to completing projects in a timely manner. Website development and execution using Adobe Creative Cloud, CSS, HTML, WordPress, WIX and Yahoo Small Business. IRS Proprietary systems and others such as; SHARP, GenWeb, DemandTec, Share Point, MEI, EDI, Demantra, Adesso, Claimtrax, 4- sight, 8451 data coupon interchange, Microsoft Office Suite. Data Analytics using: Nielsen/IRI, SAP, AS400 and Oracle. Medical Terminology, ICD 9, Medical Billing, CPT code, Medical Billing.