SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - Wells Fargo, NJ Sayreville, NJ • 20+ Years of extensive experience in Information Technology, out of which 15+ years as an SQL Server DBA (6.5, 7.0, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016), Oracle DBA (9i, 8.x, 7.x) in Production, Development and Test Environments under UNIX and Windows platforms,  • Possess 15 years of experience in Database Design, Administration, Implementation, and Application Development.  • Expertise in performance tuning the application and Database.  • Expertise in migrating databases from Oracle to SQL server and SQL server to Oracle.  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Installing SQL Server in a Cluster Environment.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping, Mirroring for different customers.  • Configured High availability groups using SQL 2012.  • Involved in migrating SAP environments from Oracle to SQL server.  • Backup and restore VLDB databases using Veritas Net backup, Litespeed, Legato, Hyperbac, Evault and Tivoli.  • Played a key role in business requirements analysis, architecture design, physical and logical Data modeling, application development, testing, training, production support and Project review with client.  • Extensive experience in space allocation, database migrations and database security.  • Extensive experience in Capacity planning, Performance Tuning, Disaster Recovery and troubleshooting.  • Experience in Azure Cloud installing, configuring and administering, Azure Geo Cluster  • Mentoring Junior DBAs in database troubleshooting.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Extensive experience in backup and restore procedures.  • Extensive experience in creation and maintained of PL/SQL Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  • Extensive experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Sql Loader, Shell scripting, Cron Jobs, Database Monitoring tools and application support.  • Extensive experience in architecture, replication management and interaction with management teams.  • Extensive experience in Installation, Configuration and Upgrading of Oracle Server, Client Software and related products for Production, Development and Test Environment.  • Extensive experience in multiple instances on single Database, share memory, design and implementation.  • Extensive experience in controlling the user privileges, monitoring the security and Audit issues.  • Extensive experience on working with Data scrubbing and Data masking.  • Created logins using different security models like Windows, Standard and certificate authentications.  • Installed and Configured SQL Server in PolyServe Environment.  Extensive Knowledge with HTML, XML, Vb Script, Java Script, ASP, IIS, Java, website design, FTP, Telnet, uploading, software development life cycle.  • Expert in MS SQL Server Database Administration and Implementation (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including Installations and Upgrades, Physical and Logical Data Modeling, Implementing Data Integrity, Schemas, Performance Tuning, Disaster Recovery, Database Maintenance, Data Migration and Scrubbing, Cross-platform Connectivity, Query and Stored Procedure Tuning and Optimization, Coding Triggers and Stored Procedures using TSQL and PL/SQL, Security Implementation, Replication, Fail-over Clustering, Configuring SQL Servers (sp_configure), and Databases (sp_dboptions), Capacity Planning, Data Transfer using DTS and BCP, Blocking and Deadlocking, Log Shipping for Disaster Recovery, DBCC checks, Database storage specifications, Remote Administration of the databasaes and various other areas.  • Proficiency in other RDBMS like Sybase 10, Oracle 7x/8i and 9i and MS Access 97/2000 and languages like PL/SQL, Visual Basic 5.0/6.0, ASP, .Net 2.0, and C++.  • Strong Communication and Time Management skills and excellent team player.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA Wells Fargo, NJ March 2017 to Present Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 on Windows2008r2 and Windows 2012. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server Internal customers with Projects, Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers for all in house and Vendor applications.    Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Server Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, SSIS and Application Jobs and other tools.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 2008r2, 2012 and 2014.  • Install, configure and Deploy SharePoint Services and Team Foundation Servers.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Upgraded the existing Servers from SQL Server 2008 to SQL 2012 and 2014.  • Create and manage SSIS packages.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Worked extensively on Data scrubbing and masking for restored databases.  • Created security policies for SOX and PCI environments.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for automated deployments.  • Creating Replication, database Mirroring and Always-on for different Applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2008r2, 2012, 2014 on Windows 2008 R2 and 2012, .Net, Java, Oracle, 9i, 10g and 11g, Remedy, Dynamics CRM and AX, Redgate, SharePoint, SSRS and SSIS. SQL Server DBA Sanofi-Aventis, NJ October 2013 to February 2017 Providing Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 on Windows2003, 2008 and Windows 2012. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server Internal customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers for all in house and Vendor applications.    Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Migrated Oracle databases to SQL server for SAP Migration.  • Create always on availability group using SQL 2012.  • Created multi Mirroring partners using SQL 2012.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Involved in datacenter migration and consolidation projects.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Member of SWAT team to troubleshoot performance issues after datacenter migrations.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Developed SSIS packages for Oracle database migrations.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Assign tasks to L2 and L1 offshore teams for taking care of day today activities.  • Mentor and transfer knowledge to junior DBAs.  • Created Security policies for SOX, PCI and FDA regulated environments.  • Worked extensively on Data scrubbing, masking while supplying the backups to Vendors.    Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and Azure on Windows 2008 R2 and 2012, .Net, Java, Oracle, 9i, 10g and 11g, Remedy, SAP, Sharepoint, Safecom, Crystal Reports, Cognos, Qlickview. SQL Server DBA Market Axess - New York, NY April 2013 to September 2013 Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2005 and 2008 on Windows2003 and Windows 2008. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server Internal customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers for all in house and Vendor applications.    Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Server Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN and SSIS Jobs and other tools.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008.  • Install, configure and Deploy SharePoint Services.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Involved in Data Center Migration and Consolidation Project.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Create and manage SSIS packages.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for Control-M Jobs.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping for different Applications.  • Created Heterogeneous replication between Oracle, Sybase -SQL Server and SQL Server - Oracle.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows 2003, 2008, 2008 R2, .Net, Java, Oracle, Java 8i/9i, 10g and 11g, Precise, Crystal Reports. SQL Server DBA Forest Labs October 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Provided a conceptual design for migration and upgrade from 2000 and 2005 to SQL 2012 with Data center move.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2012 with all new features for conceptual design and presentation to the management.  • Installed SQL server in VMware environment utilizing VMware cluster with SAN and Local Drives for optimal performance with application.  • Installed SQL server for always on availability groups in clustered environment.  • Designed and configured SQL server per the FDA and SOX compliance.  • Test migrated and upgraded SQL servers to SQL 2012 version.  • Moved some of the servers using lift and ship and migration methodology.  • Involved in SAN layout design for SQL servers along with SAN teams.  • Configured Legato networker backup tool for backups in test lab environment.  • Configures SQL 2012 per the Microsoft best practices standard.  • Ran test scenarios with replication, log shipping, database mirroring and Clustering and suggested alternatives for the applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2012 on Windows 2000/2003 and 2008, Visual Basic, .Net, Java, Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g, PeopleSoft, SharePoint (WSS and MOSS), SAP, Legato, Tivoli, BMC Patrol, VERITAS Net backup and Crystal Reports. SQL Server DBA Deutsche Bank, NJ March 2011 to October 2011 Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows2003 and Windows 2008. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server Internal customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers for all in house and Vendor applications.    Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Server Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN and SSIS Jobs and other tools.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Installed SQL Server in PolyServe environment.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008.  • Install, configure and Deploy SharePoint Services.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources.  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Involved in Data Center Migration and Consolidation Project.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Upgraded the existing Servers from SQL Server 2000 to SQL 2005 and 2005 to 2008.  • Create and manage SSIS packages.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for Control-M Jobs.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping for different Applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows 2003, 2008 2008 R2, Visual Basic 6.0, .Net, Java, Oracle 8i/9i, 10g and 11g, SharePoint (WSS and MOSS), Tivoli, Foglight, SQL Litespeed and Crystal Reports. SQL Server DBA GSK\EMC\Siemens\EclipSys - PA May 2010 to January 2011 Location: King of Prussia    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Data Center Migration and Consolidation Project.  • Migrated many Instances of SQL Servers to SQL 2005 and 2008.  • Relocated some of the servers to new data center Located in Collegeville.  • Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows2000 Windows2003 and Windows 2008.  • Remote Monitoring SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008.  • Provide on Call support for different internal clients.  • Installed SQL Server (Active/Active, Active/Passive) in Clustered and non clustered environment with Multiple instances.  • Created partitioned tables for Data warehouse environment.  • Architect, design and configure SQL Instances  • Installed configured and Deployed SSRS using local, scale out and Scale up Topologies.  • Supported Many in house and 3rd party developed Applications.  • Developed custom monitoring scripts based on application requirement.  • Performance tuning of the newly upgraded SQL 2000 servers in order to reduce I/O and Memory contentions.  • Redesigned the Replication topologies during the upgrade and migration process.  • Created peer to Peer to replication for Load balancing the application load.  • Configured the SQL Servers using Microsoft best practice standards.  • Designed the security per SOX, PCI and FDA regulations.  • Involved in SAN Migrations to New version of SAN.  • Creating Replication, Log shipping and Mirroring for different Applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 and 2008 R2 on Windows 2000/2003 and 2008, Visual Basic 6.0, .Net, Oracle 8i/9i, 10g and 11g, PeopleSoft, SharePoint (WSS and MOSS), Tivoli, NetIQ, VERITAS Net backup, SQL Litespeed and Crystal Reports. SQL Server DBA JPMC - New York, NY October 2007 to April 2010 Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows2000 Windows2003 and Windows 2008. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server Internal customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers for all in house and Vendor applications.    Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Sever Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN and SSIS Jobs and other tools.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Installed SQL Server in PolyServe environment.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008.  • Install, configure and Deploy SharePoint Services.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Upgraded the existing Servers from SQL Server 2000 to SQL 2005 and 2005 to 2008.  • Create and manage SSIS packages.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Worked extensively on Data scrubbing and masking for restored databases.  • Created security policies for SOX and PCI environments.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for Control-M Jobs.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping for different Applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 on Windows 2000/2003 and 2008, Visual Basic 6.0, .Net, Oracle 8i/9i, 10g and 11g, PeopleSoft, SharePoint (WSS and MOSS), SAP, ESP, Tivoli, BMC Patrol, VERITAS Net backup, PolyServe, SQL Litespeed and Crystal Reports. SQL Server DBA IBM - New York, NY November 2003 to September 2007 Provide Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 6.5/7.0, 2000 and 2005 on Windows NT 4.0, Windows2000 and Windows2003. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers. Some of the prominent customers include John Hancock, ACE, Covance, Merrill Lynch.    Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Sever Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 7.0/2000, 2005  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN and SSIS Jobs and other tools.  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Create and manage SSIS packages  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Upgraded the existing Servers from SQL Server 7.0 to SQL Server 2000 and 2005.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for ESP Jobs.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping for different customers.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance    Environment: SQL Server 7.0/2000, 2005 and Windows NT/2000/2003, Visual Basic 6.0, Oracle 8i/9i, Brio, Cognos, Peoplesoft, SAP, ESP, Tivoli, BMC Patrol, Veritas Net backup and Crystal Reports. SQL Server & Oracle DBA BrainyBrawn, NJ April 2000 to October 2003 At Brainybrawn, as a senior Database Administrator, I administer SQL Server 7.0/2000 & Oracle 8i/9i and involved in the development of the new proposed application using VB 6.0, ASP and Java. The application is aimed to keep track of the money, transactions that take place in the financial department.    Responsibilities:  • Upgraded 5 of the existing Servers from SQL Server 7.0 to SQL Server 2000.  • Performance tuning of the newly upgraded SQL 2000 servers in order to reduce I/O and Memory contentions.  • Tuning of SQL Sever Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • DBA support for a development team customizing and testing new releases of client-server applications  • Coded 'Instead of Triggers' on SQL 2000.  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Remote Monitoring of SQL Server 7.0/2000  • Responsible for writing SQL Batch Scripts.  • Creating Replication and Log shipping for different Applications.  • Writing stored procedures and DTS packages for maintenance tasks in Production environment.  • Scheduled Backup/Recovery jobs and developed Disaster Recovery Plans.  • Monitoring SQL Server and other remote servers under Windows NT and Windows 2000 through Enterprise Manager, Linked Servers, Performance Monitor, Profiler trace and Terminal Services.  • As an Application Developer, designed the GUI and involved in developing and implementation of the application using Visual Basic ADO-DB Record Set and OLEDB provider for SQL Server.  • Developed Crystal Reports for business reporting purpose, funds released to each project within the company and expenditure reports.  • Extensively worked on PL/SQL programming to develop database triggers, stored procedures to populate tables into one of the Oracle databases  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN Jobs and other tools.    Environment: SQL Server 7.0/2000 and Windows 2000, Visual Basic 6.0, Oracle 8i PL/SQL, Crystal Reports MS SQL Server Database Administrator American Dairy Goat Asscn - NC October 1999 to March 2000 Provided Database Administration and Support for SQL Server 6.5/7.0 on Windows NT 4.0. Responsibilities include assisting Microsoft SQL Server customers with Configuration, Administration, Implementation and troubleshooting SQL Servers. It also includes maintaining Internal SQL Server databases for Microsoft.    Responsibilities:  • Performed Physical and Logical Data Modeling for databases of varied sizes including VLDBs. Designed and implemented capacity planning module to make future projections in terms of system resources. The module gathers resource usage statistics like number of transactions, engine utilization and stores them in tables.  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Web based, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server by 40- 70% for many clients.  • Tune and Monitor SQL Servers in Web based and Transaction intensive environments.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Reduce server downtimes by appropriate Disaster Recovery Planning. Recovered the databases lost due to hardware or software failures, or due to database corruption issues. Includes renaming, moving and copying databases to new locations and new devices.  • Schedule regular Database Maintenance tasks like re-indexing, maintaining the Fill-Factor for the indexes, updating the statistics, remove Fragmentation for VLDBs.  • Scheduling Full and Differential Database backups, and Log Backups to disks, tapes or remote servers, using batch scripts, TSQL and Maintenance Plan Wizard and configure appropriate Recovery Model for the databases.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption) . Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Data Migration and Data Scrubbing among SQL Server 6.5, SQL Server 7.0  • Also from other data sources like MS Access, Oracle, Sybase, flat files using Import/Export of DTS  • Connectivity to Heterogeneous Data Sources like Oracle, MS Access, Sybase through Linked Servers and Distributed Transactions.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, DTSRUN and SSIS Jobs and other tools.  • Installing and Upgrading SQL Server 6.5 to 7.0 on NT4.0  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Implementing Data Integrity (Domain, Entity and Referential) by means of Constraints, Rules, Defaults and Triggers  • Coding efficient SQL Server Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions using TSQL and using appropriate Index hints, Join hints, Lock hints and suitable Transaction Isolation level.  • Improve query execution times by reducing stored procedure recompilations, making use of auto-parameterization, using sp_executesql, creating Covered Indexes, using Server-Side Cursors to reduce the network roundtrips between Client and Server.  • Setup Transactional and Merge Replication between Servers, and troubleshoot and monitor Publishers, Distributors, and Subscribers. Involved in designing and configuring a replication server where production database was replicated into two different databases: Read-only reporting database and disaster recovery database.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production  • Setup and troubleshoot Active/Active and Active/Passive Clustering on SQL 7.0.  • Configuring SQL Mail and setting up Log Shipping as a part of Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Setting up and Troubleshooting Microsoft Full Text Search.  • Use all the SQL Server tools for the Implementation and Administration of the databases. The tools include Performance Monitor, Profiler Trace, Index Tuning Wizard, Blocker script, ISQL, OSQL, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, Component Checker, Regmon and Filemon.  • Worked with MS Access and Crystal Reports for querying and generating reports.  • Developed applications in Visual Basic, ADO, and RDO with SQL Server as backend and designed VB Forms using the Forms. Created Reports in Visual Basic using Data Environment and Data Reporting  • For clients with multiple databases, tuned stored procedures and queries in Oracle.  • Tuning front-end applications like Visual Basic and MS Access, which query the SQL Server databases. Troubleshooting MDAC, ODBC and OLEDB issues between the application and the server.  • Worked with development teams in testing the Beta versions of the products and identified and filed many issues qualified as bugs. Contributed to many internal and external (Knowledge Base articles) technical articles and delivered triages internally on various topics.  • Provided remote and on-site support for the Production Database Servers in 24x7 environment and assisted clients through each step helping them with SQL Server installation, upgrade, restoring and various other tasks.  • Strong Customer Interaction skills. Interacted with and assisted both External and Microsoft internal clients from cross technologies in several scenarios. Extensively interacted with clients of various professional levels and from various countries.  • Worked with customers with various types of businesses ranging from small (Individual home developers) to large (Wal-Mart, Salomon Smith Barney, Barnes and Nobles, Southwest Securities, Compaq, Texas Instruments, Universities, Banks and many more)    Environment: SQL Server 6.5/7.0 and Windows NT 4.0, Oracle7.3/8.0, MS Access 97/2000, Visual Basic 6.0, Crystal Reports. SQL Server &Oracle Database Administrator Prospect Drugs - New York, NY November 1998 to September 1999 Responsibilities:  • Assist in Setup, configure and maintenances of SQL Server Implementation  • Database Modeling, Physical Structure and implementation of Schema.  • Used DDL and DML (data definition language and data manipulation language) queries as needed.  • Application development involving Stored procedures, functions and shell scripting Monitored logical logs, daily backups, and shared memory allocations.  • Used Oracle/SQL Database Administrator techniques and methodologies to troubleshoot bottlenecks.  • Implemented backup/restore strategies, procedures and database security.  • Granted permissions to end users according to their level of access to database objects.  • Performed Query tuning and used fragmentation strategies to avoid contention.  • Created/altered databases, table extents, indexes, constraints as necessary.  • Assist Developer in Developing the Material Management (MM) Module  • Mentored developers and supervised their work for accuracy and improvement.  • Worked on DSS systems on SQL Loader, parallel data querying and loading.  • Loaded and unloaded data sitting in fixed width and comma delimited files into or off tables whenever and wherever needed (created load files or converted entire fixed width files into comma delimited files using MS excel to accomplish the task. Worked overnight periodically to load and unload data)  • Interacted with database and application issues of users daily.  • Isolated large tables into their own table space for quick restore purposes.  • Monitored disk space utilization and added or freed extents accordingly.  • Tuned Initialization parameters and monitored checkpoint duration on OLTP systems for further improvement.  • Developed PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers, SQL and Unix Shell scripts.  • Executed Cron jobs and monitored Cron job logs for errors.    Environment: Oracle 7.3, 8, SQL Sever 7.0, PL/SQL, Sql Loader, RMAN, Oracle Parallel Server, Import, Export, Log miner, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Advance Replication, TOAD 6.5, Oracle warehouse Builder, DTS, Erwin Designer, SQL Navigator 4.1, Oracle Expert, Visio 2000, BMC Patrol and SQL Backtrack, Sun Solaris 2.5 and Windows NT. Education Master's Skills DATABASE (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS:  Database: SQL Server 6.0, 6.5, 7, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 Oracle 10g, 9i, 8i, 7.x, MS Access and Azure environment.  O/S: Sun Solaris, HP-UX, Linux, Windows 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012 and Window NT  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports, Shell Scripting, ASP, HTML, VB, VB Script, Java 1.2 and Java Script  Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manger, Advance Replication, RMAN, Oracle Parallel Server, Oracle Failsafe, Crystal Report, Oracle data warehouse Builder, Informatica Power Center 5.0, Data mart, SQL Loader, Import, Export, Performance Manger, Oracle Expert, Erwin, Quest Central, Quest SQL Navigator, TOAD, SQL Programmer, VISO 2000, IIS, Visual Interdev 6.0, MS OFFICE 2000, IIS, BMC Patrol and Sql Backtrack for Oracle, VERITAS NetBackup.