Project Manager | Business Analyst Project Manager | Business Analyst Program Manager - Project Enhancement Corporation Lake Forest Park, WA Detailed on my resume you will find a strong background in the arena of data analysis and project management. In my over 14 years of experience, I have developed a wide variety of skills through experience in programming and technical analysis in fields including database development, structural engineering, and system design. My most recent work focuses on supporting the Department of Energy in building data analysis tools for an integrated assessment of their environmental sustainability and workers safety performance. In addition to management experience in database design and application development, I have great experience meeting DOE's rigorous quality assurance requirements writing detailed test plans and procedures addressing specific design specification requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager | Business Analyst Project Enhancement Corporation 2006 to 2017 Provides a broad array of program and project management services to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) on with particular expertise in coordinating between clients and software developers through the system development lifecycle on a variety of client-specific applications and intelligent reporting of data analysis.    • Managed the development of integrated analysis tools related to worker safety and health, which tracks, analyzes and reports on health related incidents across the DOE complex, evolving from Access databases to SQL Server to MicroStrategy analysis services.  • Developed a QA Issue Tracking Tool for integration in the comprehensive integrated safety analysis tool enabling the identification of recurring safety issues within DOE and trending safety improvement for specific issues.  • Managed the development of integrated analysis tools related to the client’s environmental sustainability programs assessing overall and site-specific performance against a variety of defined environmental stewardship goals.   • Managed the development of a custom-built communication forum providing a secure means to connect complex-wide stakeholders with software experts and share information regarding a wide array of safety-related software, from general usage to technical support to current events. Lead the system development lifecycle from initiation to acceptance in addressing operational needs and security concerns.  • Developed a suite of 508 and SCORM compliant, computer-based training modules.  • Developed a data analysis tool to administer monthly reporting on critical inspection and testing processes for quality assurance of HEPA filter acceptance program and participated in a working group improving acceptance inspection and testing performance. Project Manager | Contract Manager Legin Group, Inc - Germantown, MD 2005 to 2006 Provided project management and coordination services to multiple federal agencies in support of their ongoing missions.    • Supported the development of Safety Evaluation Reports for nuclear power plants as part of their license renewal applications with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  • Provided contract management services to DOE.  • Supported EPA in docketing national hazardous waste sources with responsibilities including budget and schedule management.  • Prepared reports on lead-based paint in federal-aid housing for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Administrative Aide Manpower and Sparks Personnel Services 2004 to 2005 • Provided support to Montgomery County Department of Capital Development.    • Primarily responsible for auditing building construction project accounts and for providing office support ranging from data processing and clerical duties to basic Information Technology responsibilities. Structural Engineer | Database Administrator Titan Corporation - Lexington Park, MD 2002 to 2003 Supported the Department of Defense as an engineer in their Fatigue Life Extension program to more accurately reflect the remaining flight life of their aircraft.    • Managed the development of database tracking Replaceable Structural Assemblies in support of the Structural Appraisal of Fatigue Effects task for the Navy’s F/A-18s.  • Provided routine reporting on aircraft life usage identifying specific planes of concern.   • Acted as the primary contact between the software developers and customer to ensure that all requirements were satisfied. System Engineer | Configuration Management Lockheed Martin Energy Technologies 2000 to 2001 Provided system engineering and configuration management services to the Department of Defense’s Defense Threat Reduction Agency in their effort to build a solid rocket motor disposal facility in Russia under the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.    • Developed lower level system engineering specifications and a requirements tracking database, as well as procurement documents.  • Developed Internal Interface Control Documents as part of the systems engineering team.  • Interfaced with configuration management in distributing and maintaining base-lined documents. Education Certificate in Business Intelligence University of Washington - Bellevue, WA 2015 to 2015 Certificate in Database Management University of Washington - Bellevue, WA 2015 to 2015 M.E., Project Management University of Maryland - College Park, MD 2012 B.S. in Mechanical Engineering Bucknell University 1998 Skills Earned Value Management, Microsoft Access, MS Project, Javascript, HTML, MicroStrategy, SCORM training standards, 508 Compliance, SQL Management Studio, Sharepoint Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/blaneyp/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License