Legal System Analyst Legal System Analyst Legal System Analyst Auburn, MI Work Experience Legal System Analyst DOW CORNING 2017 to 2018 Managed the legal department's content management system and associated databases. Oversaw the document integration process and assure new documents.    • Improved 60% on audit table queries, reducing turnaround time by 70%.  • Enhanced the performance of the content management system and associated databases through tuning and hardware upgrades which increased storage capacity and faster document retrieval.  • Created forms and reports for user self-service that improved data input time and initiated user involvement.  • Increased searchability of PDF documents by collaborating with vendors to improve reliability of OCR process. DOW CORNING - Midland, MI 1998 to 2018 Senior Database Analyst DOW CORNING 2016 to 2017 Provided troubleshooting, monitoring and tuning on ETL processes and manipulated data from SAP to data warehouses.    • Improved data integrity in SAP and data \warehouses to prevent extract and imports from failing.  • Created staging tables that transformed data and performed calculations before loading into the destination table.  • Applied new technology which improved data integrity in data warehouses and SAP.  • Converted all data extracts to use the data services tool, from PL/SQL.  • Drove improvements in sales planning by developing data extracts and loads for an in house forecasting tool.  • Created data extracts and loads using a data services tool or PL/SQL scripts. Production Batch Scheduling Analyst DOW CORNING 2012 to 2016 Administrator of the batch scheduling software that runs 5000 batch jobs a day. Added new batch jobs to the schedule and troubleshot problems with jobs and the scheduling software. Provided support to project teams that needed new batch job scheduled.    • Used queries to create mock schedules using job statistics for run times. This helped to plan on what jobs needed to run during long upgrades.  • Created disaster recovery process for batch scheduling software that ensured tier 0 availability.  • Planned and performed two upgrades of the scheduling software which improved efficiency and provided a self-service portal for user.  • Reduced 10-15% of run time for large job streams by changing the order of the streams to reduce table contention.  • Standardized the job request process which eliminated mistakes by inserting required fields and SME approval.  • Created scripts to show future runs of critical job streams which reduced errors and provided on time delivery to executives. Database Operations Administrator DOW CORNING 2008 to 2012 Preformed daily operational support for Oracle and Microsoft SQL server databases. Support end-users with database questions and problems.    • Increased operational efficiencies by providing on-call support for databases.  • Checked the integrity of backups by doing mock recoveries.  • Worked with application owners in planning current and future database needs.  • Collaborated on the creation of procedures for installing and upgrading database software. Computer Operator DOW CORNING 2001 to 2008 Monitor and escalate problems with servers and the network. Provide helpdesk support to users during off hours. Provide administrators with a central point of contact during outages and major incidents. Education Bachelor of Science in Data Management DAVENPORT UNIVERSITY - Grand Rapids, MI Skills Database (5 years), Database administration (Less than 1 year), Oracle (4 years), Performance tuning (Less than 1 year), SQL, testing, training, access, Security, HTML Additional Information DBA Skills:  Performance Tuning, Capacity Monitoring, Oracle Database Administration, Forms and Reports Development, Oracle Install and Patching, Standby/Failover Administration