Engineering Assistant Engineering Assistant Weirton, WV Several years of experience, as System Administrator/ Database Administrator in development and production environments. Skilled in designing and implementing complete life cycle client servers and database applications with various development tools and languages. Manage internal databases, from planning and testing stages through implementation and support. In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity. Superior communication, presentation, analytical and problem solving skill. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineering Assistant Bidell Gas Compression - Weirton, WV January 2019 to August 2019 Coordinating project management activities, documentation, contractors, and various internal departments. Help to prepare change adders by using internal costing tools. Coordinates changes to the contract including communication with engineering, design and production departments and ensure documentation is updated promptly.  Creates and maintains comprehensive project documentation and keeps detailed project notes and records. Tracks and manages incoming paperwork and keep the project managers up-to-date with current information and paperwork. Coordinate and ensure submittal of project closeout documentation. Maintain the files and control logs as required by the project. Works with precision to ensure that all electronic and hard copy filing is accurate and is easily retrievable. Scanning hard copies of Red Books and QC Manuals onto the S: Drive to create an electronic copy as back up. Filing latest revision of drawings onto the S: Drive.  Following up with the PM and Client to make sure documents are received and sent on time.  Setting up of project in SL and issue Bar codes. Receiving and filling the documents sent by the customer, and notifying the Project Manager and Project Engineer documents have been uploaded and are ready to be reviewed. Creating Unit manuals at the end of the project.  Creating Red Books at the start of the project. Issuing Skid, Majors, and Structural Drawings for Fabrication. Issuing Vessel and spooling drawings to the QC Department and Vessel Department. Data Entry-Electronic Report Administrator National Heat Exchange - Boardman, OH September 2017 to December 2018 Worked with Quality Control to tracked and document electronically, all aspects of equipment that was serviced by National Heat. Photo documenting steps in the process of work, gathering dimensional data, and testing certifications. Using Word, Excel and Fast Photo software to produce an electronic report for the customers. Distributing the report via flash drives or email utilizing Microsoft Outlook email  Terry Meek (330) 720-2590 Student Mat Su College February 2017 to August 2017 Security Guard/Patrol Officer Mat-Su College Campus - Palmer, AK December 2015 to March 2017 Provides access control and safety management for the Campus. Patrols Campus buildings on a regular basis to ensure unauthorized persons do not enter the Campus Grounds. Patrols all parking lots and exterior buildings to ensure there are no unsecured doors, trespassers, vandalism, fire and other breaches of security. Patrols and is alert for maintenance problems, such as water leaks, broken windows and doors and leaking hazmat. Assists with fire and emergency evacuation. Responds to fights and threats of violence, and thefts. Assists with customers locked out their vehicles. Responds to Slips, Trips and Falls. Addresses Control and Safety concerns as they arise. Keeps a log of activities during shift and reports to higher.  Supervisor: Zachary M. Albert (907)745-9723 Contract Change LGB and Associates - Anchorage, AK October 2012 to September 2015 Responsible for implementation, and maintenance on Windows 7. System Administrator supporting the 9th Army Reserve Command. Administers MS Windows 2003 Servers in two locations, file, print and mail servers. Manage and support several Army Reserve databases including RLAS, ITRS, DTS. Managing database security. Creates and administers accounts in Active Directory. Images and installs patches and software using Altiris Deployment console. Installs Cisco hardware and networking switches and routers. Install and configure network scanner software on server and client computers. Make minor repairs. Sets-up and maintains the Video Teleconferencing systems.  Supervisor: Erik Senter (808) 286-7333 System Administrator IV SAIC, JBER - Anchorage, AK January 2011 to October 2012 Handled database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, capacity planning and database security. Creates and administers accounts in Active Directory. Images and installs patches and software using Altiris Deployment console. Install and configure network scanner software on server and client computers. Sets-up and maintains the Video Teleconferencing systems.  Supervisor: Erik Senter (808) 286-7333 System Administrator SAIC, JBER - Las Cruces, NM March 2007 to December 2010 System Administrator maintaining two main Sun Microsystems Databases. Managed Oracle databases include versions 7,8,10. Performed account management, storage management, backups, restores, exports, imports with scripts. Performed space estimation and calculation, application installation, performance/memory tuning, server/ database monitoring, configuration, and troubleshooting. Administered Microsoft Enterprise using Active Directory. Created, maintained Microsoft user and mail accounts. Loaded and updated system software and hardware. Managed several government off the shelf software (GOTS) and licensing inventory. Installed and managed three GIAT servers running Sun Server software and 10 Client applications. Migrated Users data and maintained backup of critical data. Maintained Cyber-guard firewall and Cisco Network switches.  Supervisor: Bill Sheridan (505) 528-7740 Information Management Specialist/Base Defense Liaison US Army/Alaska National Guard July 2006 to November 2007 Deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom)  Information Management Specialist/ Base Defense Liaison  Established mail and user accounts. Set printers and mapped network drives. Managed team profiles and assisted users. Maintained exercise spreadsheets and sent reports to headquarters.  Managed force protection assets for Camp Buehring, Kuwait. Moved, placed and constructed blast mitigation fortifications. Conducted force protection exercises. Conducted vehicular Improvised Explosive Device (IED) exercises. Contract Officers Representative(COR)for contracted security. Supervisor: Richard Mohammadi (907) 788-6107 System Administrator/ Database Administrator SAIC, JBER - Elmendorf AFB, AK March 2003 to March 2007 Managed Air Force Global Command and Control System (GCCS/TBMCS). Managed Sun Solaris Unix Database both client and server. Responsible for maintaining, developing, and troubleshooting Oracle 10g databases, Oracle forms, shell scripts on Sun Solaris 10 servers. Install, setup, and maintain Oracle Infrastructure products (Databases, Enterprise Manager, GRID Control). Apply patches and upgrades. Enforce security policies and procedures. Troubleshoot and resolve issues with installations, upgrades, and patching, including support of all production and development issues. Maintained windows user and mail accounts with Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange. Built a baseline master image using Ghost utility. Imaged hard drives and deployed workstations. Networked buildings using cat 5/6 copper network connections and fiber connections. Supported Cisco VOIP secure phones system and network management center. Administered TACLANE Cryptographic systems.  Supervisor: William Galligan (907) 552-9443 Network Tech State of Alaska Dept. of Law - Anchorage, AK July 2001 to March 2003 Operated basic Novell Net-ware 4.11. Set up and configured Novell client workstations. Maintained network administration help-desk resolving networking trouble tickets. Set printers and administered print servers. Distributed and configured new computers. Built computers from individual components. Maintained department web page link using cascading style sheets and HTML. Supervisor: Beth Law (907) 465-9807 Computer Specialist USPFO Alaska - Fort Richardson, AK July 1995 to July 2001 Responsible for maintaining, developing, and troubleshooting Oracle databases, Oracle forms, shell scripts on servers and client workstations. Install, setup, and maintain Oracle Infrastructure products (Databases, Enterprise Manager, GRID Control). Maintained Burroughs and HP Unix hardware platforms with specific emphasis on multi-vendor systems. Managed HP Unix Database both client and server. Implemented data security systems for Microsoft 9x platforms. Implemented TCP/IP networking protocol fundamentals and network architecture components. Apply patches and upgrades. Enforce security policies and procedures. Troubleshoot and resolve issues with installations, upgrades, and patching, including support of all production and development issues. Maintained windows users, upgraded software/hardware on government workstations and trained personnel on upgrades. Performed backup of file systems to tape and managed offsite storage. Supervisor: Edward Morse (907) 376-2135 Telecommunications Specialist/Computer Operator US Army/Alaska National Guard - Washington, DC November 1987 to June 1995 Managed AUTO-DIN circuit connectivity for incoming and outgoing message processing. Ensured proper handling and distribution of messaged traffic. Performed quarterly updates on Crypto equipment KG84, KIV- 7. Com-sec custodian and account holder for crypto keying material. Education AAS CIS in program studying networking and computer support Ma-Su College September 2016 AAS in Computer Information Systems University of Alaska, Mat Su College Skills Ccna, Cisco certified network associate, Cisco, Networking, System administration, Lan/wan, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Ios, R2, Mainframe, Technical support, Lan, Windows 10, Windows server 2003, Windows server 2008, Windows server 2008 r2 Additional Information Operating Systems: Unix-AIX, Solaris, Linux (Red Hat),  Windows 3.1 through Windows 10 workstation  Windows Server 2003 through Windows Server 2008 R2  Cisco IOS 15.0  LAN/WAN based systems and applications, system administration and implementation, mainframe systems, microcomputers technical support, publishing systems, testing and evaluation, training and customer interface.    Computer/Networking Certifications    Network + Certification  MCTS Certification  CCNA 2, Cisco Certified Network Associate (In progress)