Infrastructure Project Manager Infrastructure Project Manager Infrastructure Project Manager - TiVo Inc Morgan Hill, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure Project Manager TiVo Inc November 2018 to Present I am a Project manager for Business Continuity & Risk Management team. I have been responsible for deploying Private/Public Cloud infrastructure for business continuity. Also, I have managed the deployment of security management tools like CrowedStrike, Exabeam, and Netscope. During project deployment, I have worked closely with Network Engineers, Network security Team, Technical Architect, and Operations Managers to implement appropriate solutions.    • I have Managed Disaster and Recovery implement plan for Enterprise Applications to secondary Data Center. Responsibility includes failover setup & testing for SLB, Storage, VM environment, and monitoring tools. I worked closely with the Architect, Technical Team, and Technical Managers to implement DR Solutions.  • I have managed the infrastructure project to consulate data centers and infrastructure move/migration Co-loc data center managed by AT & T. I worked with Enterprise Application owners, Architect, Technical Team Managers, and Vendors for a smooth migration to new Data Center.  • I have managed Project to implementation of security management tools like CrowdStrike, Exabeam, Netskope. Also, I worked with executive and auditors to implement and California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). Software/ Infrastructure Project Manager SamTrans - San Francisco Bay Area, CA September 2012 to November 2018 I have managed IT project to upgrade vehicle GPS/radio system and mobile data terminals, Oracle database upgrade and migration to Virtual/Cloud (AWS) environment, upgrade from Cisco firewall to Palo Alto network firewall to improve PCI security, and desktops migration to VDI.  • I have experience in delivering IT Projects on-time and under budget  • Managed project to implement the Payment Card Industry (PCI) security standards for Oracle 11g database and VMware environment and Palo Alto firewall  • Managed project to upgrade VMware, SAN storage and network equipment to support VoIP upgrade for customer service, a database for failover, Interactive Voice Response (IVR) application and VMware cloud  • Developed and implemented IT plans and disaster recovery  • Planned and managed test cases for Mobile Data Terminal (MDT) integration with Trapeze MDT/AVL software for para-transit operation  • Manage onsite vendors and consultants who provide support and maintenance for Information Technology projects  • Pre-Production environments migration from one Data Center to Standby (failover) site.  • I have managed projects to implement database and system security/redundancy/failover  • I worked on a project to upgrade to the Cisco network and Palo Alto firewall Database Project Manager Intuit Inc - San Francisco Bay Area, CA September 2009 to September 2012 I have been an integral part of the project team at Intuit Inc. to build and deploy SAS/Cloud environment. I managed the project to build RAC 11gR2 clusters with ASM and Active Data Guard. I also managed OEM monitoring deployment for Database/VM/Siebel/BRM/EBS and NetApp.    • Project Manager supporting Enterprise Applications Systems Management team (EASM)  • Managing Operations Metrics / Reporting / Process Improvement  • Manager of a project to build and deploy 300 Oracle RAC 11g clusters, Active Data Guard and Golden Gate replication  • Part of the project team to deploy Oracle SOA architecture, Oracle Siebel CRM, Oracle BRM on the virtual environment  • During performance testing, I worked with onshore and offshore team to meet the timeline  • Managing Projects/Programs to gather required environments/infrastructure  • Pre-Production environments migration from one Data Center to Standby (failover) site.    Environment: Oracle RDBMS with ASM/RAC, Linux, OVM, Golden Gate, OEM monitoring for Siebel/BRM/EBS RAC Administrator Cypress Semiconductor Corporation 2007 to 2009 I actively supported the production Oracle EBS Application and enterprise application databases.    • I led a project to migrate from the stand-alone database to Oracle RAC for Fault Tolerance and High Availability; this included the installation and configuration of Oracle9i and 10g RAC Real Application Clusters on RedHat Linux and Solaris operating systems  • Implemented partitioning tables and bitmap indices resulting in 30% performance improvement  • Automated refresh of Oracle EBS for development using Oracle Rapid Clone and NetApp Snap/Flex Clone  • Collaborated on a project to migrate from Ingres Legacy System to Oracle EBS for Order Management and Warehouse Management System  • Performed Backup and Recovery through RMAN, and Cloning of Oracle Database through Hotbackup and Cold backup  • Led proof of concept (POC) project for the Finance Department to bring data from Oracle E-business Suite (EBS) to Oracle OBIEE for Dashboard and Reporting    Environment: Oracle 10.2 with RAC/ASM, and MS SQL Server 2005 Cypress Semiconductor Corporation - San Jose, CA 1999 to 2009 Data Warehouse Administrator Cypress Semiconductor Corporation 2002 to 2007 Lead team member to bring data from a legacy system into Star Schema Data Warehouse (Dimension and Fact Tables). I made a vital contribution to the creation of data models, data interfaces, and design document. Also, I collaborated with System Administrator to plan storage management and configuration for the optimal I/O performance of database servers.    • Anticipated and planned for Data Warehouse growth of 500%  • Used Informatica Power Center to develop ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) procedures to move data from transactional systems to Data Warehouse  • Actively participated in Data Warehouse Project, which included ETL development, analysis, design, build, testing and documentation  • Worked closely with the development team to identify top SQL statements and rewrite them, improving performance by 40%  • Used Erwin to model data into a Dimensional Data Model (star schema model with dimension and fact tables)  • Designed and developed security procedures for Data Warehouse access to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act  Environment: Informatica PowerCenter 8/7, OBIEE 9.0, and Erwin Operations Database Administrator Cypress Semiconductor Corporation 1999 to 2002 I was responsible for monitoring ETL performance, evaluating and recommending third-party tools (e.g., Toad Spotlight, monitoring user data access for reporting to comply with security procedures). Also, I was responsible for daily backup, storage management, and planning for different recovery scenarios. Additionally, I designed the database schema, tables, indices, and materialized views.    • Implemented Sarbanes Oxley Act controls for databases and enterprise systems  • Supported production databases (24/7) for Manufacturing, Marketing and Sales Database with 99.98% uptime  • Administrated and Planned Database Upgrade, Patching and System Changes  • Set up automated database refresh to support development efforts Education Computer Science San Jose State University Certificate University of California Santa Cruz Extension - Santa Cruz, CA Skills Data Center, Migration, Data Warehouse, PMP, Vmware, Itil, Cisco, M&A, LAN, Telecom Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pranayozapmp