2LS support Engineer 2LS support Engineer I seek solutions when others have given up. Rio Rancho, NM many issues have a common cause, fix that, many issues fixed Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience 2LS support Engineer HP, Inc - Rio Rancho, NM July 2018 to January 2019 Position to pickup tickets passed from Tier One support , fill in any information gaps, resolve the problem or escalte to Tier Three (3LS), contact the client, verify steps, get more information or unit(s) to test, in house to reproduce the problem if we couldn't from our systems. I dealt with several schools and commerical customers. I assisted to help the load of the group to help the team improve over all goals for better CS (Customer Service) Windows Administrator Santa Fe Indian School - Santa Fe, NM March 2017 to January 2018 • Used Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, Power-shell  • Created virtual Windows 2016 servers for new database system per specs  • VMware (virtual systems), Veeam  • End User and system support Systems Administrator Albuquerque Public Schools January 2002 to November 2016 • Lead the development of the first APS websites and Data Recovery Team  • Lead the initial team effort to add, change and repair multi-node TCP/IP network.  • Lead the creation of an end user Help document, targeting site techs and administrators  • Systems: Windows XP-Windows10, Windows Server NT to 2012, Mac 10.1-10.11, Linux  • Analyzed, researched and developed projects from specifications to completion  • Maintained and updated a Graphics CentOS server and several Linux servers at school sites  • Analyzed site systems needed for critical operations for recovery and disaster planning  • Administrator for the District Help Desk: Cherwell, an ITSM application.  • Active Directory administrator created & maintained systems per recommend best practices  • Team Supported Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers (PARCC)  • Interacted with vendors for equipment and services.  • Installed, and maintained Windows and Apple/Mac and Linux server and desktop software.  • Installed and maintained Sleuth, a police record management and dispatch system.  • Used IMC, Intelligent Management Center, a network management system by HP  • Created, recommended, assisted in the security of server and desktop systems, Win, Mac, Linux  • Reviewed schools' needs to determine if needs match their budgets and adjusted.  • Performed site surveys, work orders and vendor coordination for network cable infrastructure. Web Site Developer TEMA - Albuquerque, NM June 2001 to September 2001 retail furniture. redeisgned the website, graphics advertising copy, printer maintenance, End user support Network Administrator PC Tech Provider Services Group - Albuquerque, NM August 2000 to June 2001 Created their first back up system, using proven methods and software. Until then they were living on borrowed time.. Desktop support for coders and managers, Database & System Analyst Dyntel Inc - Jacksonville, NC March 1998 to July 1998 defense contractor) Instructor Albuquerque TVI, (CNM) - Albuquerque, NM September 1997 to April 1998 Adult Education. Taught computer basics, and remedial math Assistant Network Administrator TERA (EMRTC), Socorro, N July 1987 to June 1989 defense contractor)  Consultant/Developer Designs by tC, part time, databases, websites, remote repair, graphics Electronics/Radio Technician Radio Communications Bureau, State of NM June 1983 to March 1985 NM state government. radio tech, installed, replaced tested state vehicle radios for all the state departments. worked to fix anttena unit in the field, also maintained and checked the prison guards' radio systems, mobile and on site equipment Electronic Tech (ET) U.S. Navy, Naval Air Station - San Diego, CA April 1975 to April 1981 US Navy Honorable DD214, (docum on request) Radar and Nav-aids systems, IFF tie-in for radar systems, radio, and crypto equipment in a shipboard environment and later at a NAS(Corpus Christi, TX) Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics NM Institute of Mining & Technology - Socorro, NM May 1989 Associates of Applied Science in Applied Science University of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM May 1984 Skills Active directory (10+ years), Data recovery (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Mac (10+ years), security (10+ years), Network Plus Certification ~2005 (8 years), Tech Support, Desktop Support, O365, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Red Hat (1 year), Linux Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4 radar, IFF systems, Nav aids, Radio, crypto gear: (as needed) maintain (PMS) replace or tune per instructions.Document results Certifications/Licenses ITIL® Foundation Certificate in IT Service Management #5726761.20551365 June 2016 to Present first basic course in the ITIL framework, passed test first time Network+ Certification July 2005 to Present network basics , documentation available if requested Certified LANDesk Administrator August 2004 to Present covered using and administering the LANDesk product for desktop control and management Assessments Written Communication — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zvopuxufeuv2l0e Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Overview of Skills:    • Help/Service Desk Management, ITSM systems administrator and problem analyst  • Team Leader and program coder for student data recovery project  • Team Leader and analyst of the PARCC testing and evaluation team.  • Documentation Manager for Site Technicians  • Team Leader and Management of Sleuth (small police dept management software)  • Initiated the management of the network switches for Albuquerque Public Schools. 156 sites.  • End User Tier 1,2,3 Support for Windows, Mac, Linux  • 2LS call center support  • Active Directory management, Windows systems, Mac systems, Linux support  • Network Infrastructure support and vendor contracts and support.  • Web site creation and maintenance, HTML  • Worked with users from engineers to novices.  • Instructed and trained users about applications, security, system and hardware use  • I have initiated, coordinated and oversaw equipment installation by vendors  • Used diagnostic tools to troubleshoot network and computer systems    My diverse background and willingness to team with others when required is an asset. I can draw upon my knowledge and perspective from several areas to analyze problems and find practical solutions or to resolve situations. I have analyzed and created documentation for many user related problems and solutions needed. I have provided technical support and assistance to users and administration sites.    I was assigned to analyze a material management system on a Marine Corps Air Station. The existing system relied on outdated technologies and violated Federal and State transportation laws potentially endangering the drivers and First Responders. I created summary reports which included a recommendation to halt using the legacy application, to invest in a federal certified COTS application, update all supporting hardware and software and to rewrite all policies in accordance with all regulations, leaving no ambiguity with any step or process for the materials handling.    I was the Team Lead on a project to recover information from an old Student Information System. I analyzed the situation and constraints and created a plan, then designed and coded an application and worked with others to produce the required files given very limited system access. I had to recreate the data dictionary based on print files and the operator screen interface. The result was the most of the missing data was recovered and made usable for the sites.    As Team Leader for the PARCC Testing and Site Readiness Evaluation at Albuquerque Public Schools we analyzed 42 of 154 elementary, middle and high schools to understand the online national PARCC testing issues. We had to meet federal and state requirements while discovering problems ranging from hardware, software and connectivity issues to the roles people had to fill. I documented, consolidated the information with potential solutions for the full scale roll-out.    I have worked as an analyst, network/system administrator and technologist for several years. I've worked solo and have teamed with others to troubleshoot systems, networks, applications and equipment. I've handled and resolved user problems that went beyond equipment failure.    Operating systems:  Used: HP-UX, Solaris, FreeBSD, Novell 4.5, Banyan Vines (Unix V)  Installed and Used: Linux: Mint, CentOS, Ubuntu, Fedora, Damn-Small, Puppy, Madriva,  MacOS, System7, Mac 10.1 to 10.11  Windows Desktop XP to 10, Windows Server NT to Windows Server 2016