Customer Representative Customer Representative Hyattsville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Representative Federal Emergency Management Agency - Hyattsville, MD October 2017 to August 2018 Ensured that individuals and families affected by disasters had access to the full range of FEMA programs and information in a timely manner  providing the highest level of service to applicants. Communicated with survivors about their case statuses, disaster assistance programs, devel- oping partnerships, and providing referrals. Registrar/ Database Administrator The SEED School of Washington DC - Washington, DC November 2002 to July 2015 Database Administrator: Designed and implemented a stand-alone para-grading system for the schools boarding program which led to the program's grading system's induction into the regular Student Information System (SIS) grading program. Managed the database's security access protocols establishing more secure roles and permissions. Designed and implemented specialized unconventional grading system for Special Education department to provide student progress report data and reports for federal and state requirements. Provided database and SIS helpdesk for in schools in district. Played key role in reviewing, evaluating and implementing new Student Information System (SIS) Software PowerSchool in the DC and MD schools. Trained school leaders and created departmentally specific documentation for all end-users. Co-planned, organized and implemented the migration of school databases including antiquated systems into current SIS. Designed the migration process from a handwritten record log to a digital nursing visitation log, immunization recording system, and allergy and screening tracking system for health care professionals for schools in district. Implemented required state and federal mandatory regulations for grading, attendance, graduation, NCLB free lunch, Special Education, and disciplinary data reporting into the SIS. Assisted staff members with using and integrating data into instructional and non-instructional areas. Trained new hires and temporary employees on the SIS for data entry purposes. Created and/or incorporated data tracking and reporting systems for federal and private school grants. Frequently implemented and resolved data requirements and issues as given.    Registrar: Annually worked with principals and staff to help create and enter master schedule for middle and high schools. Managed teacher gradebooks and grade reporting, student report cards and transcripts, student disciplinary data entry and reporting, and student attendance entry, tracking, and reporting. Regularly met with students, parents, teachers and administrators concerning grades, GPAs, report cards and transcripts regarding issues and questions. Executive Assistant/Help Desk Technician Institute for Family Centered Care September 2001 to September 2002 Help Desk: (Macintosh Network Environment) Provided technical support to staff. Provided research and written reviews for hardware, software, and peripheral purchases. Recommended and implemented office software upgrades including: implementing voice recognition hardware, software and peripheral purchases, transferring 600 page seminar notebook from MS Word to Adobe PageMaker. Implemented digital storage system for software and photo CDs. Applied system-wide upgrades and software patches as necessary.    Executive Assistant: Managed travel arrangements, meetings, speaking engagements and conferences for principal executive. Prepared internal and external communication including writing letters, memorandums, compiled data for reports created in Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Page- Maker. Transcribed dictation and speeches. Edited and proofread outgoing communications. Created ads, flyers and catalogs for company products. Prepared and arranged for printing and shipping of products. Database Administrator/Network Administrator/Help Desk Associate Evangel Cathedral - Upper Marlboro, MD September 1998 to June 2001 Database Administrator: Managed Database security and monitored usage. Maintained, updated, and revised database systems. Trained end- users. Hired, trained, and managed data-entry operators, temporary hires, and volunteers. Reorganized the organizations information retrieval and storage process. Composed technical documentation and database information policy and procedure manual for end users and database operators. Managed and prepared over one-million+ member mailing lists using USPS CASS certification process. Oversaw the preparation pro-  cess of mailing lists for bulk mailings.    Network Administrator: Assisted in the planning and upgrading of a small Novell Netware 3.11 network to an NT 4.0 network. Planned and began implementing the upgrade of the NT 4.0 network to a Windows 2000 network. Installed, configured, maintained, upgraded and monitored net- work resources. Planned and implemented network security. Assisted in the planning and installation of a DSL internet connection. Manage the ISP. Served as email postmaster. Implemented email policies, installed upgrades, and monitored usage. Maintained network cabling. Selected, installed, repaired, and inventoried workstations, and workstation software.    Help Desk Technician: Provided technical support to staff by troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues. Provided resources and documentation to promote continued trouble free maintenance. Developed and provided necessary training for staff and management. Tested potential software. Added software patches, upgraded and/or replaced software and hardware as necessary. Maintained a working inventory of hardware and software. Provided research and written reviews for new technology purchases. Instructor/Co-Owner/Operator Typhoon Studio of Martial Arts - Capitol Heights, MD May 1993 to June 1998 Directed operations of a Martial Arts school including class instruction, curriculum design, and instructor training. Developed a specialized demonstration team that gave regular presentations and motivational messages to schools, youth and church organizations on the east coast and abroad. Organized and directed intense day and overnight intense summer programs for youth and adults. Technical Librarian /Project Assistant Booz-Allen & Hamilton - Bethesda, MD September 1990 to September 1992 Librarian: Provided technical resources including computer software, hardware, and periodicals to over 1000 company employees. Maintained extensive inventory, provided research assistance, purchased and made recommendations for IT related purchases.    Assistant: Answered and directed phone calls, managed office correspondence including emails, letters, memos, and flyers, produced weekly and monthly reports including financials, maintained physical and digital filing system, managed office supplies and inventory including purchas- es, maintained travel booking and related paperwork, reconciled expense reports, greeted and supported visitors, and fulfilled general administrative duties including filing, typing, copying, binding, and scanning. Provided assistance for various projects upon request. Publications Assistant/Typographer Evangel Church - Washington, DC April 1989 to September 1990 Overall duties included the design and typesetting of church's weekly bulletin The Communicator as well as other church publications including books, plays, special programs, certificates, awards, brochures, promotional material and any other  assignments given by supervisor. Responsible for transcribing, light editing, proofreading, and typesetting materials for the church's national  magazine BridgeBuilder. Receptionist Evangel Church - Washington, DC August 1987 to September 1990 Welcomed and directed visitors in person and by phone. Managed telecommunication system including system maintenance, and company contact database. Maintained entry security, and visitor records. Education Communications University of the District of Columbia 1982 to 1983 Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL, NETWORKING, CSS, HTML, DATABASE MANAGEMENT, DESKTOP PUBLISHING, PUBLISHING, EXCEL, MS EXCEL, MS WORD, WORD, PUBLISHER, MS PUBLISHER, MAC, Call Center, Customer Service Additional Information RELATED SKILLS  Database Management, PowerSchool, Education Edge, MS Access, SQL proficiency, Microsoft Networking, general computer knowledge PC and  Mac, MS Excel, MS Publisher, MS Word, Google Cloud Suite proficiency. Experience with HTML, CSS, and desktop publishing.