DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS - GEOSTAR PROFESSIONALS Newark, OH Work Experience DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS GEOSTAR PROFESSIONALS November 2018 to Present TELECOM CONSULTANT)  Analyze overhead expenses and negotiate highest quality contracts for maximum  optimization in order to generate savings for organizations nationwide. Professionally  research large corporations' billing histories and build relationships with telecommunications providers, in order to obtain the best possible savings for our  clients. ADMINISTRATIVE PASTOR VINEYARD GRACE FELLOWSHIP July 2014 to October 2018 Planned and coordinated the administration of a two-million-dollar annual budget, including facilitating quarterly budget review meetings with our board and maintaining  ministry budget achievement. Reconciled many ministry accounts that had multiple users  on each. Analyzed accounts payable and provided alternative solutions in order to significantly reduce expenses. Built and inspired large teams of volunteers and paid  employees to facilitate the logistics of running the organization efficiently. Collected and counted tens of thousands of dollars in offerings weekly. Managed highly confidential  information with continuous integrity and discretion. Acted as purchasing manager for all organizational purchases. Negotiated all vendor contracts and maintained great  relationships to drive down costs. Oversaw the implementation of new church  management software and trained staff to use it, increasing productivity and communication between ministries. Maintained a professional, yet fun atmosphere for both employees and guests. Attended weekly staff and biweekly council meetings in order  to update general operations and budget accountability. BILLING AND CONTRACT ANALYST GEOSTAR PROFESSIONALS August 2009 to June 2014 TELECOM CONSULTANT)  Reviewed contracts and billing history of hundreds of prestigious clients, in order to resolve billing issues and obtain optimal savings for telecommunications expenses.  Created complex PowerPoint presentations and delivered analysis to executive  leadership teams. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR II SPRINT August 2005 to August 2009 Managed the day-to-day operations of Sprint's company-wide, contracts repository  database. I managed a team of 15 regional, work-at-home employees who performed  work in the database. Made sure best practices were followed, and that only fully executed agreements were housed and properly stored for ease of use for all Sprint sales  teams nationwide. PROJECT MANAGER III SPRINT July 2002 to August 2005 Managed large, complex telecom switched and dedicated wireline projects for large  Fortune 500 customers. Assisted our Director in creating a "Maintenance Team" that  handled all day-to-day account incoming "maintenance" and change orders for these  large accounts I was assigned to. Additionally, hosted weekly conference calls with their  upper management to keep them abreast of all projects' status on an ongoing basis. i.e.;  Chevron-Texaco, Bank of America, Chase, and Hershey's just to name a few. SPRINT June 2001 to June 2002 Reviewed and implemented incoming switched and dedicated voice telecom orders for Fortune 500 customers in an entry level capacity. Education JOHN GLENN HIGH SCHOOL 1994 to 1997 Skills Project oversight, Quickbooks, Relationship development, Detail-oriented