Enterprise Application Administrator ( Database and Automation Architect) Enterprise Application <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (<span class="hl">Database</span> and Automation Architect) Enterprise Application Administrator ( Database and Automation Architect) - Eze Castle Integration New York, NY • Extensive experience in ConnectWise Automate monitoring software to automate the monitoring of security, alerts and maintaining the desired state configuration of servers and applications.  • Extensive experience in scripting languages like Windows PowerShell, Java and Python for automation and data processing.  • Designed, prepared interactive and intuitive dashboards and reports using Grafana to show the raw data from our difference source of data like cloud database, ConnectWise Manage Database, Portal Database, ConnectWise automate Database(MySQL) to most understandable and easy readable graphical and tabular way.  • Over 9+ years of experience in MS SQL SERVER Azure, 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2,2008/2005 Database Administration (DBA) in Windows environment.  • Experience in migrating SQL database from On-prem servers to Azure database as service.  • Intensive experience in monitoring/tuning SQL Server and Database performance using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Windows Performance Monitor.  • Expert level skills in data modeling, data mapping, installation, patching, upgrade and configuration.  • Experience in using Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and Dynamic Management Functions (DMF) for finding out long running queries and troubleshooting OS and DB level issues.  • Proficient in creating indexes and tuning indexes, Views, complex Stored Procedures, user defined functions and Triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation and data consistency.  • Experience in using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages for data loading.  • Extensive experience in designing and setting up Disaster recovery solutions using Mirroring and Always on Availability functionality. The designs are based on our client's need and based on the version the clients can afford.  • Experienced in logical database design and physical implementation.  • Excellent in collaborating with others in a team environment for security implementation.  • Expertise in MYSQL database administration and generating reports for the business need.  • Extensive experience in Sentry One, SolarWinds DPA SQL monitoring tool. SolarWinds we used to monitor the SQL servers in on-prem and in Azure.  • Four years of experience in C++ application development connecting Order Management system and feed handler to stock exchanges using FIX protocol.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project-oriented team player with solid communication, analytical and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise Application Administrator ( Database and Automation Architect) Eze Castle Integration - New York, NY 2017 to Present New York, USA  Eze Castle Integration has been the premier provider of managed services and technology solutions to the investment management industry, servicing hedge funds, private equity firms and other financial services organizations.  Enterprise Application Administrator ( Database and Automation Architect) 2017 - Present    • Serves as an Enterprise Tools administrator specializing in the implementation and support of SQL Databases for ECI Clients, ECI Monitoring solution: enabling servers, databases, network, web as well as Service & Business Impact monitoring.  • Responsible for automating the ECI client on-boarding, daily task, auto fixing of failures based on the alerts using ConnectWise Automate monitoring tool.  • Responsible in ConnectWise Automate tool for collecting the information for automation, monitoring server failures, monitoring security, auto fixing based on the data.  • Expertise in PowerShell, java and python scripting languages and integrating with ConnectWise Automate for the Automation  • Responsible for patching the vulnerability for the SQL servers and application servers using ConnectWise automate.  • Responsible for working on JAMS scheduler to automate the client's internal process. JAMS scheduler uses SQL query, PowerShell and python to automate the data analysis part.  • Designed, prepared interactive and intuitive dashboards and reports using Grafana to show the raw data from our cloud database, ConnectWise Manage Database, Portal Database, ConnectWise automate Database (MySQL).  • Responsible for Query optimization and Performance tuning, T-SQL queries using Show Plans and Execution Plans.  • Responsible for configuring and management of SolarWinds to monitor database.  • Managing the Azure SQL databases for Eze Castle hosted clients (Hybrid). Responsible for synchronizing the data from on prem to cloud servers, Geo replication and Data Sync (Bi- directional and unidirectional) between the databases.  • Responsible for planning the resources and maintain the proper utilization of resources for SQL servers (On-prem and Azure).  • Creating and publishing daily reports regarding the servers and databases to the upper management and clients. Database Engineer Eze Castle Integration - New York, NY 2010 to 2017 • Installed and configured SQL server 2014, 2016 and Always On Availability Groups.  • Experience in creating cluster environment, adding cluster nodes, created the creating group and Listener.  • Successfully created a package for the regular maintenance of SQL servers.  • Worked on buffer pool extension for a project.  • Worked on converting the regular tables to Memory-Optimized Tables.  • Responsible for MySQL procedures and queries for jasper reports.  • Responsible monitoring the database using Sentry One.  • Installed SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 with service packs on existing servers ensuring minimal downtime.  • Experience in migrating whole database from SQL server 2005/2008 to SQL 2016 successfully as per the requirement from the clients.  • Implemented Backup, Restore and Disaster Recovery procedures.  • Involved in Managing and scheduling daily jobs related to data transfers, Backup and Recovery.  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases.  • Managing security, which includes monitoring and controlling database access, assigning permissions to application owners.  • Created and monitored database maintenance plans for checking database integrity.  • Successfully implemented Database Mirroring with High Availability Mode in SQL 2008R2, 2016, 2017.  • Responsible for providing daily and weekly reports to the immediate supervisor and actively involved in the daily and weekly meeting to discuss project status.  • Trouble shooting all the issues in MS Reports and maintained documentation for future reference.  • Responsible for Query optimization and Performance tuning, T-SQL queries using Show Plans and Execution Plans.  • Extensively involved in setting up Database Mirroring & Linked Servers.  • Maintain Operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs and Schedules.  • Monitor connections, locks and performance of SQL server.  • Implemented Standard Performance Log Events and Counters on all Production, Development and Test Servers.  • Coordinated with the Windows Sever Administration team to setup the clusters on windows level.  • Configured Active/Passive Clustering setups for failover on production servers.  • Helping application teams in query analyzing and its optimization. Coordinating with users for downtime and maintain the system 24x7 running. Senior Software Engineer Geojit BNP Paribas - Kochi, Kerala 2006 to 2010 Cochin, India  Geojit is a leading retail financial services company in India with a growing presence in the Middle East. The company rides on its rich experience in the capital market to offer its clients a wide portfolio of savings and investment solutions. The gamut of value-added products and services offered ranges from Equities and Derivatives to Mutual Funds, Life & General Insurance and third-party Fixed Deposits.    Senior Software Engineer 2006 - 2010  Played instrumental role in development of India's first mutual fund ordering solution for the National Stock Exchange (NSE).  Feed handlers  • Developed and architected the Feed handler application which provide access to quote, trade, full depth and breadth of all feed vendor informations, including global exchange data, global depth of book, and fields of information published for symbols for many national and international feeds.  • Feed handler application developed in Java and uses Fix protocol to communicate with Stock Exchange.  • Designed three-layer application architecture helps to map the Tibco RV Message from OMS to FIX message on the Exchange side.  • Exchange connector developed in Java which convert the Tibco RV message from OMS to Fix protocol and send to Exchange. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Pondicherry University Skills DBMS, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, MYSQL, SQL Additional Information Technical Skills  RDBMS/DBMS  SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, AZURE, MYSQL.  Automation Tool  ConnectWise Automate, JAMS Scheduler.  Monitoring Tools  ConnectWise Automate, SolarWinds (DPA), Sentry One.  Scripting Languages  C, C++, T-SQL, VB script, PowerShell, Java, Python, PowerShell.