Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Oracle with H1B approval Clarksburg, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator ABCO Advisory Services January 2015 to Present Employed with ABCO Advisory Services, as 'Database Administrator' since May 2012 to Dec 2014.  • Employed with ADSS Technologies, as 'Database/ETL Administrator' from Sep 2009 to April 2012. Education Master in Computer Applications ICFAI University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2004 Skills DATABASE (7 years), DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR (7 years), ETL (3 years), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (3 years), AND SELLING (Less than 1 year), MYSQL (Less than 1 year), DBA, Oracle Dba (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Databases & Tools: Oracle 11g/12c, Oracle Enterprise Manager 12C, TOAD, MyOra 4.0  • ETL: Informatica 8.1/8.6/9.1/9.6  • Languages: PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Operating Systems: Windows, Red Hat Linux  • Reporting Tool: MicroStrategy 9.4.1  Senthil Kumar M msenthil2505@gmail.com    PROJECTS    1. Project Title: Selling System  Client: Western Motors, Dubai.  Duration: Mar 2011 to Feb 2012  Role: Database Administrator  Technical Environment: Oracle 10g, Linux  Description: Selling System is a web application with capabilities for the users to browse  for the vehicles available in the inventory and buy them. The users can also provide their preferences to  reserve a vehicle with specific features. This project involved large OLTP database with concurrent  user transactions. End users of the system wanted to access/add records 24x7, hence it was  challenging for DBA to proactively deduce bottlenecks and maintain optimum performance. The  application also has features for the users to trade their own vehicles with Western Motors. A reporting  module is included in the system that helps to generate various sales and purchase reports for auditing  and documentation reasons.    Responsibilities  • Installation and configuration of Oracle server and creation of databases.  • Developing UNIX shell scripts and SQL scripts to carry out routine checks on databases. This  includes checking whether all databases are running, listeners are running, Unix error  messages, disk space availability, segments with greater than 10 extents, segments nearing  max extents, checking for errors in alert logs and trace files, etc.  • Creation of tablespaces, data files, users etc., for the project requirement.  • Controlling the users operations by limiting the memory spaces and granting the necessary  roles, privileges and profiles to the users.  • Creation of clone database using RMAN for testing.  • Maintaining archive log files for the Database.  • Performing hot-backups for the entire database.  • Restoring the latest backup for recovering corrupted and lost data files.  • Export and Import of Tables, Table spaces and Full Databases.  • Monitor the performance of the Instance and data file structures through OEM.    2. Project Title: WL Transportation Management  Client: World Mega Logistics (Thailand) Co., Ltd.  Duration: Jun 2010 to Mar 2011  Role: Database Administrator  Technical Environment: Oracle10g, Linux  Project Description: WL Transportation Management is a 24x7 web application that provides the  customer service representatives around the globe to retrieve specific Cargo details and to track the  status of cargoes in transportation. As a DBA for logistics system SW product based on Oracle DB, I  installed DB with product recommended configuration with separate tablespaces for table and indexes.  The application provides various operational details about Cargos, Liner details, Transportation  materials and Customs clearance details. Implemented both RMAN and cold backup for  comprehensive backup and recovery process. The application interfaces with the database for data  from processing units like Manifesting, Verification units, IS information and CRM department.    Responsibilities  • Creating Users with Quota Management.  • Creating Physical files.  • Creating user Profiles and granting specific privileges and roles to the users.  • Monitoring unwanted sessions and killing them if needed.  • Monitoring physical and logical backup and Recovery Strategies.  • Implementing Backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backups.    2  Senthil Kumar M msenthil2505@gmail.com    • Monitoring the backup and checking its consistency and integrity.  • Logical Backup Using Export & Import.  • Monitoring the database for CPU utilization, blocking locks and changing priority or killing  unwanted user processes.  • Monitoring the database growth using OEM and re-organization of Tables.  • Analyzing and rebuilding indexes to rectify segment fragmentation.  • Performing regular RMAN backups to safeguard from user errors and media failures.    3. Project Title: Inventory Management  Client: ARCO Qatar Inc., Qatar.  Duration: Sep 2010 to Jun 2010  Role: Database Administrator/ETL  Technical Environment: Oracle 9i, Linux, Informatica  Description: Arco Qatar Inc. is a Dubai based company that offers Oil & Petroleum for  industrial segments and consumers. The project maintains an Inventory control system, which stores  items, and its stock details as well as the buying and selling rate of each unit of item. Various  departments involved in the entire operations such as production, sales & distribution team access the  centralized database to implement the projects as per the schedule, midlevel management and  operational teams access the database through various report generation tools and report to the  management. The movement of items is tracked and Break-Even analysis is done periodically using  this system.    Responsibilities  • Assisted in developing Informatica mappings to extract, transform and load data from source to  target.  • Manage/Maintain the Informatica servers/Services.  • Worked with ETL architect to develop ETL design.  • Performed ETL/Informatica administration which includes Code migration/User  management/folder management/System maintenance/System health check.  • Maintenance of Oracle Databases as per the requirement.  • Managing the logical objects of the Database.  • Rebuilding Index to rectify segment fragmentation.  • Frequent analysis of objects or schemas to improve the speed of the database.  • Taking hot Backups.  • Export / Import of Tables, Table spaces and Full Database.  • Restoring the latest backup for recovering corrupted and lost data files.  • Monitoring the database for Memory and I/O utilization.  • Killing unwanted user sessions or processes.  • Monitoring the database growth, Re-Organization of Tables.    4. Project Title: Database/ETL Administration and Support  Employer: ABCO Advisory Services  Duration: May 2012 to Dec 2014.  Role: Database/Informatica Administrator  Technical Environment: Oracle 11g, Informatica 9.1, Linux    Responsibilities  • Datacenter and Database Migration.  • Performance tuning for long running queries. Optimize queries and improve performance.  • Analyzing plan of the query to improve performance.  • Production and Development support on Oracle and Informatica.  • Release activities on Oracle and Informatica.    3  Senthil Kumar M msenthil2505@gmail.com    • Monitoring the database health and react to the alerts which is configured.  • Tested with various phase for Database backup and recovery scenario.  • Performing logical backup of Databases using Export/Import Utility.  • Setup of various automated jobs using shell scripting.  • Troubleshooting from Automatic Workload Repository reports on Oracle.  • Checking log files and trace files for any errors and taking necessary actions to rectify them.  • Configure and Monitor RMAN database backups.  • Migrate database from normal instance to Automatic Storage Management instance.  • Creation and partitioning of ASM disk groups.  • Installation of Oracle Binaries, Oracle Enterprise Manager Agent, ASM Grid.  • Creation of Clone database for the test database environment.  • Tablespace fragmentation and monitor the growth.  • Monitor the unwanted user session and killing them if necessary.  • Creation of users, profiles and granting specific privileges and roles to the users.  • Creation of database using DBCA.  • Analyze long running sessions and provide solution to increase performance on Informatica.  • Monitor Informatica loads and work on session failure or slowness.  • User creation and assigning roles and privileges for Informatica users.  • Monitor Integration Service and Repository Service on Informatica.  • ETL object migration on Informatica.  • Responding to Nagios alerts on Oracle and Informatica Servers.  • Providing 24x7 on-call technical support.    5. Project Title: Database Administration and Support  Employer: ABCO Advisory Services  Duration: Jan 2015 till date  Role: Senior Database Administrator  Technical Environment: Oracle 12c, Linux    Responsibilities  • As a senior DBA, Iam responsible for maintaining the highest possible performance standards  and meeting agreed upon commitments even under difficult circumstances.  • Taking responsibility for outcomes of actions and decisions.  • Cultivates and applies creative thinking to solve problems or challenge conventional thinking.  • Collaborates within and across teams, functions, and stakeholders to support continuous  process, product, and service improvement.  • Uses rigorous logic and methods to address issues and provide solutions creatively, efficiently  and successfully.  • Executes with thoroughness, delivering quality value-added results. Tenaciously fights through  obstacles to achieve goals.  • Created (Dataguard) physical standby database in stand-alone database as DR Solution for  production database.  • Automate manual tasks to reduce complexity for Tier 2 Operations.  • Responsible to maintain >95% compliance with SLAs.  • Ensuring no compromise on quality and performance.