Item Master Data Analyst Item Master Data Analyst Item Master Data Analyst - Cengage Learning Inc Cincinnati, OH ? 15+ years of experience in ERP environments including SAP and J.D. Edwards  ? Experienced in working within a multi-faceted manufacturing environment for Fortune 500 companies  ? Expertise includes employee training, process and policy development, data analysis. Work Experience Item Master Data Analyst Cengage Learning Inc January 2016 to Present Master Data troubleshooting. Daily integrity review of all system inputs to insure proper alignment of reporting and distribution data.  - Conduct mass imports of monthly and quarterly financial reporting criteria to support company strategic initiatives.  - Ad hoc data pulls and report development using SQL, Showcase, Excel and Access.  - User Acceptance Testing of system and process improvements  - Extensive work with European, Asian, and Australian business units providing data review, cleansing, & recommendations to insure alignment with Company and system wide performance standards. Material Master Coordinator Honeywell, Inc January 2014 to September 2014 Contract position to support SAP Material Master processes during the shift of production from Cincinnati, OH to Juarez, Mexico  ? Co-ordinated engineering project implementation through SAP into production  ? Set up and maintain material masters, bills of material, labor routings and production versions  ? Troubleshoot and correct production problems  ? Trained Juarez, Mexico staff on Material Master and Product Data Management processes Product Database Administrator Ariva Distribution - Covington, KY July 2012 to July 2013 Responsible for entering and maintaining finished good master data standards in JD Edwards for all items Analyst, Finished Goods Material Master Sara Lee Shared Services - St. Louis, MO October 2008 to July 2012 Responsible for implementing standardized material master processes across multiple lines of business  ? Participated in both internal audit and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance  ? Lead material master trainer - Trained IBM Philippines support personnel on material master processes and procedures  ? Function as the material master subject matter expert Data Standards Analyst Sara Lee Foods - Cincinnati, OH July 2003 to October 2008 Responsible for administration of the company wide project management database(stagegate), and coordination & maintenance of finished goods item attributes & data standards Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Wilmington College Skills Excel, Microsoft Office, SQL, MS Office, Powerpoint, access, testing, Business Intelligence