MS SQL Server Database/IT Support Manager Freelance Contractor MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span>/IT Support Manager Freelance Contractor IT Database Consultant - MS SQL Server Database Manager Kansas City, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MS SQL Server Database/IT Support Manager Freelance Contractor Self-employed - Kansas City, MO October 2017 to Present Responsible for providing operational and development database services to the organization. Owning, tracking and resolving database related incidents and requests, participation in design of database architecture for current and future products, responding to database related alerts and escalations and working with research and development teams to implement strategic solutions. IT Database Consultant - MS SQL Server DBA UNIVERSITY OF IOWA - Iowa City, IA August 2014 to October 2017 • Management and Administration of SQL Server instances and indexes that resulted in better query performance.  • Managed and performed migration, configuration of database with along with performance tuning  • Managed sensitive and personally identifiable information (PII) is protected from unauthorized access or compromise by developing and implementing data masking.  • Utilized SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS) for ETL processes to extract data from different types of sources and as part of the maintenance plan task for SQL Server  • Designed database schema, tables and layout per request  • Managed User Acceptance Testing and Production environments.  • Managed users secured permissions based on the level of database access.   • Recovered the databases to a specific point in time as per requests. .  • Leveraged database monitoring tools to improve database performance and efficiency  • Designed database backup and restoration strategy while making sure backups are performing optimally.   • Implemented the award winning SQL Server Maintenance Solution scripts by Ola Hallengren for Full/Diff/Log backups, database integrity check, index, and statistics maintenance with file cleanup tasks  • Documented major changes to the SQL Servers  • Utilized T-SQL for querying, altering and building performance baseline for databases instances  • Automated processes that needs to be performed on daily basis and/or requires manual intervention to save time Senior IT Specialist/ Database Management (MS SQL SERVER) U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY - Arlington, VA February 2010 to December 2014 • Management and Administration of SQL Server instances and indexes that resulted in better performances of queries.  • Performed migration, configuration of database with performance tuning  • Managed and ensured sensitive and personally identifiable information (PII) is protected from unauthorized access or compromise by developing and implementing data masking.  • Utilized SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS) for ETL processes to extract data from different types of sources and as part of the maintenance plan task for SQL Server  • Used SSRS and Power BI to build simple reports for the agency  • Designed database schema, tables and layout per request  • Managed User Acceptance Testing and Production environments.  • Managed users and assign secured permissions based on the level of database access.   • Implemented and managed both Filestream for Binary Large Objects and Data compression.  • Recovered the databases to a specific point in time as per requests. .  • Setup High-Availability as part Disaster Recovery Strategy for the Databases with Double-Take software ( Database Mirroring and Replication)  • Leveraged database monitoring tools to improve database performance and efficiency  • Designed database backup and restoration strategy while making sure backups are performing optimally.   • Implemented the award winning SQL Server Maintenance Solution scripts by Ola Hallengren for Full/Diff/Log backups, database integrity check, and index and statistics maintenance with file cleanup tasks  • Documented major changes to the SQL Servers  • Utilized T-SQL for querying, altering and building performance baseline for databases instances  • Automated process that needs to be performed on daily basis and/or requires manual intervention  • Provided 24x7 supports when required by management. Data Transmission/Web Application Support (Part-time) TAX ANALYSTS - Falls Church, VA August 2007 to July 2010 Data Transmission/Web Application Support (Part-time)  • Managed reports using SQL Server2005/2008 and exporting to excel for data analysis  • Navigated through various SQL databases/tables to verify and retrieve internal/external data.  • Responsible for supporting and maintaining websites and applications   • Participated in the design, development, and delivery of software applications with programmer.  • Ensured that backups and restores are completed in a timely and efficient manner.  • Performed system backups and maintain accurate records of all backup media.  • Monitored network applications and escalate any faults noted immediately.  • Maintained a record of processing events by using operational checklists.  • Prepared files for Lexis and E-mail by running a program used by Tax Analysts  • Send daily files to Lexis using WS_FTP  • Made sure the Lotus Notes databases are updated and have replicated on servers  • Send e-mail news updates to customers worldwide and made sure current edition is up-to-date  • Performed scheduled server operations daily  • Made sure servers for Lotus Dominos and FTP are up. Database Engineering Support (Contractor) U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE - Arlington, VA May 2008 to February 2010 Database Engineering Support (Contractor)  • Administered, monitor disk space, respond to customer requests and troubleshoot Consular Affair’s domestic and overseas Oracle databases.  • Creates, deletes, modifies accounts on Oracle 10g using SQLPlus  • Utilized PL-SQL scripts for status of users, databases, and updates.  • Ensured that all databases servers are available for use.  • Provided a means to consolidate all post data (including American Citizen Services, Diversity Visa, Immigrant Visa, and Non-Immigrant Visa) in a central database.  • Updated SSA Death Master File on Consular Consolidated Databases(CCD) website  • Deployed Oracle 10g Patch to post databases worldwide  • Monitored Datashare, IDENT, US-VISIT, and IAFIS biometric packages.  • Provided means to send data from the Consular Consolidated Databases to the post.  • Ensured that backups and restores are completed in a timely and efficient manner.  • Ensured that tape storage is maintained at the proper level and that backup media is rotated at post. IT Administrator NORTH-SHORE BARRINGTON ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS - Barrington, IL January 2006 to July 2007 • Worked with IT staff in preparing, implementing, and administering GE Security Key Information Management Systems applications.  • Utilized the GE SupraNet to complete web-based electronic transactions, add keyholders, upgrade, downgrade keyholders, assign and program keys.  • Conducted computer class training with members on different computer software updates/issues.  • Provided technical support/advice on Multiple Listing Service of Northern Illinois software program to members.  • Provided technical support on GE Security Supra Key/KeyBox  • Installed, configure and troubleshoot PC hardware and software.  • Installation of anti-virus software and PC upgrades on members desktop and laptops as needed.  • Provided desk side remote assistance support as needed.  • Managed NSBAR web site support to members.  • Responsible for providing monthly statistical information data report to CEO.  • Responsible for using the Association Management Software program which runs on MS SQL server for call tracking/ticketing, membership tracking, inventory tracking, data exchange tracking, key box tracking, Mail list certification tracking, and account tracking.  • Responsible for managing branch offices and representing the Association in different seminars. Computer Assistant Intern (E-document management project) U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - Ames, IA May 2005 to October 2005 • Team with IT Specialist to deliver positive and effective services on information management and security.  • Arranged, secured and copied pictures of (I) Directory/ Database structure of IC Department.  • Used Adobe Professional for creating, converting and designing Special Outlined forms into PDF fill-able forms for IC Department.  • Used Microsoft Visio for creating business processes for the IT section.  • Performed hands-on fixes at the desktop level, including installing, upgrading software and installing anti-virus software, implementing file backups, and configuring systems and applications.  • Responsible for special electronic scanning projects, tracking, and documentation of documents stored online.  • Researched, assessed and provided timely reports on current scanning project processes.  • Tested and used Adobe Professional to scan Special Outlined forms and secured them according to USDA security measure standard. Drug Screening Technologist U.S. DRUG TESTING LABORATORIES - Des Plaines, IL April 2000 to March 2005 • Entered/updated client information into computerized database system.  • Performed standard laboratory test in accordance with written methods.  • Updated SOP (Standard Operational Procedures) manual with Laboratory Manager.  • Conducted weekly laboratory inventory with Laboratory Supervisor.  • Contacted hospitals and clients to verify and assure proper drug screening.  • Sets up, operated, and calibrated a variety of laboratory equipment Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Master of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland (UMBC) - Catonsville, MD Skills Help Desk, Customer Service, Desktop Support, Customer Support, Direct Support, Data Entry