Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - BEREANS TECHNOLOGY Inc Windsor Mill, MD A fulfilled Oracle database Administrator with a track record of implementing database services geared at optimizing the functionality and productivity in heterogeneous environments. Have five years in improving and optimizing the performances of Oracle 10g, and 11g databases. And cumulatively, hold five progressive years of Information Technology and related experiences. Have demonstrated a high skill in accomplishing environmental expectations; database installations and upgrades, troubleshooting, backup and recovery performance tuning, perform other related database services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator BEREANS TECHNOLOGY Inc - Silver Spring, MD 2013 to Present A member of the DBA team that manages several production and development databases in diverse environments for a multitude of clients, managing over 200 databases (Oracle on MYSQL on Sun Solaris (UNIX), Linux (Red hat, Unbreakable Linux & Centos) platforms, with sizes ranging from 20GB to about 20 terabytes. Responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Create and configure Oracle Databases using both the DBCA and manually using database creation scripts.  • Create primary database storage structures (tablespaces) and objects (tables, views, indexes etc.).  • Schedule and perform various modes of backups using RMAN  • Monitor and proactively tuned Oracle databases via the OEM grid control (10g) and RAC platforms (11g) or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts.  • Enhanced existing database designs for improved longevity, reduced maintenance, and improved performance.  • Database design, Maintenance, Configuration, Installation, Deployment and Administration using file system and ASM cluster file storage system.  • Assist with the development and implementation of database architectures for new projects.  • Perform database migrations, conversions and upgrades  • Design, build, test, and deploy new/changed databases  • Maintain and administer databases and supporting automation (e.g. database objects, security roles, capacity, performance tuning, import/export, alert rules)  • Resolve database issues (incident and problem management)  • Establish database standards and best practices  • Work on High Availability, Backup and Recovery options and help to implement solutions  • Design, implement and maintain database security procedures  • Automate routine database support tasks  • Monitor and optimize the performance of the database, also advise development staff of opportunities to improve  • Perform database replication using Oracle Streams    • Allocation of system storage and planning for future storage requirements for the database and related functions.  • Modification of the database structure, as necessary, per direction given by the application developers.  • Design, implementation and maintenance of database security procedures. Ensures compliance with Oracle License agreement.  • Control and monitor user access to the database.  • Monitor and optimize the performance of the database, also advise development staff of opportunities to improve.  • Plan and execute backup and recovery activities (Control Files, Redo Logs, Rollback Segments, System Data Files, etc.) to insure timely and complete recoverability. Maintains archived data on tape or other media as defined. Backup and restore the database (On line and Complete) to assure restoral capability.  • Plan and perform set up, maintenance, and troubleshooting of replication tools. Advise Development staff of "best practices" in this area.  • Complete Software Readiness Review Checklists (Take Action As Required). Additional Information • Experienced in database administration on Oracle databases (10g, and 11g).  • Extensive knowledge on RMAN backup and recovery  • Experience in export/import, and the data pump utility. Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • Experienced in database and application proactive and level tuning.  • High Abilities in troubleshooting and resolving environment issues and providing timely interventions.  • Experience with database administration on MS SQL server 2000 and 2005.  • Experience with the application of database backup/recovery architectures and procedures.  • Shell scripting.  • Motivated self-driven technical troubleshooter - independently digs into technical issues.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A Strong team player with perfect collaborative skills  • Possess a Strong active communication and documentation skills.  • Always ready to learn and embark on challenging tasks  • Strong knowledge of Dataguard and RAC instances  • Strong knowledge in data replication using Oracle Streams