Senior BI/OBIEE Developer Engineer Senior BI/OBIEE Developer Engineer Senior BI/OBIEE Developer Engineer - Verizon Corporation Dallas, TX • 11+ Years plus Oracle Business Intelligence Certified Developer / Engineer. Extensive Data modeling experience in Star Schema/Snowflake schema design in the RPD with Fact and Dimensions tables, Physical and Logical Data Modeling and BI Administrator.  • Expert working knowledge of OBIEE Tool including dashboard Development and RPD.  • Build Dashboard, Score Charts, KPI's and Ad hoc reports in OBIEE, Tableau and other tools.  • In deep knowledge on Fusion Middleware Technology, concepts and data warehouse architecture.  • Worked on BI Financial, OBIA App CRM version 7.9.6.1.1 and HRMS version R12 managing performance, caching and customizing reports.  • Working knowledge Data Visualization concerts.  • Administer BI Server in Linux, UNIX and Windows environment.  • Expertise in design and building Dashboards & Reports.  • Working knowledge in ETL/Data integration using ODI and Informatica as a data source.  • 15+ plus Years of IT experience.  • 7+ Years Tableau Expericence  • Working knowledge of Cloud computing IAAS, PAAS and SAAS.  • Working knowledge in Informatica Power Center.  • Oracle Business Intelligence Administrator  • Setup ETL process to extra data from various data source.  • Data Analysis Modeling Skills designing both Normalized and De-Normalized dimensional Data Structures.  • Extensive knowledge in Tableau Desktop and Server  • United States Security Clearance Holder for Homeland Security and US Department of Agriculture  • Design and develop OBIEE report, dashboards and answers in prospective business.  • Develop complex ad-hoc queries using OBIEE tools like Answers.  • Design and develop Repository (RPD's).  • Expert in writing SQL statement to verify table content.  • Develops reports using BI Publisher and setup different agents.  • Participates in the day-to-day support of existing dashboards and reports.  • Converting Hyperion Reports into OBIEE.  • Develop and govern standards relating to Data Warehouses, Business Intelligence and Reporting.  • Work with Managers to establish data quality baselines.  • 10+ Years of extensive experience with OBIEE version 10g, 11g /12c analytical backend development.  • Extensive experience with Fusion Middleware with working knowledge of DAC Support and ESSBASE cubes.  • Currently taking classes in Cyber Security Assurance.  • Strong in OBIEE Metadata development including (Projects, MUD Environment, Migration, Deployment, Applying patches, Maintenance etc.)  • OBIEE metadata (RPD) design and development - including design and definition of logical tables, physical sources, dimensions, columns and aggregation rules.  • Responsible for the deployment and maintenance of the Physical Layer, Business Model and Presentation layers in OBIEE repository with security.  • Good foundation in industry standard Data Warehousing design concepts.  • 11+ years of extensive experience in Database Administration include Database Design, Programming and Deployment in Oracle and MySQL.  • Proven working knowledge of star schemas and data warehousing modeling techniques.  • Strong Oracle SQL Skills, PL/SQL, SQL Developer and Toad.  • Skilled in writing SQL queries and optimization of SQL queries.  • Responsible for ensuring compliance with performance criteria through database SQL and metadata/report tuning.  • Ability to work independently with little or no supervision.  • Good ELT/ETL knowledge, preferably ODI or Informatics.  • Good written and verbal communication skill.  • Flexible working schedule.  • Team player.    IT Certifications, Training and Awards:    Oracle Business Intelligence 11g Certified (OBIEE Certified Developer) Oracle 11g Certified Database Administrator  Oracle BI ERP Certified,  MSQL Certified Database Administrator HP Certified, Dell Certified, Microsoft Certified, Toshiba Certified, Aspect ACD Certified, Cisco Certified and A+ Certified.  Special Achievement Award from Sprint Corporation Professional Recognition 2010, Deloitte LLP and Verizon Telecom for completing projects two months before deadline in 2016. Presently working on Cyber Security Certification Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior BI/OBIEE Developer Engineer Verizon Corporation - Irving, TX December 2017 to Present Irving, Texas  Project Descriptions: Project Description: Oracle Fusion Middleware Developer. Build RPD files and create dashboard to capture financial data. Using OBIEE analytics and dashboards to build reports for Verizon Vision, Settlement, Refund, Collection, Bad Debt, Revenue Assurance, Reseller Wireless Building, Finals and Write-off and Usage Tracking Off. All the report build were used by business to make better decision for Verizon. Use Enterprise Manager for Deploying RPD, Web logic for managing groups in Linux, UNIX and Windows environment. Worked on OBIA App CRM version 7.9.6.1.1 and HRMS version R12 managing performance, caching and customizing reports. Working knowledge Data Visualization concerts.    Responsibilities:  • Identified various source systems to better understand business needs.  • Better Knowledge of Oracle Cloud infrastructure.  • Managing Clustering, Load Balancing and User Management with Tableau.  • Working knowledge of Cloud Computing. Setup Star Schema/Snowflake schema. Design Fact and Dimensions tables, Design Physical and logical data model mapping layer.  • Design Project in MUD Environment, Migration, deployment, applying patches, maintenance and use ETL process to extra data from various data sources.  • Using Tableau for data Visualization.  • Developer Report and Graphs in Tableau Desktop Workbook.  • Customize and increase performance in Oracle 11g and 12c Database tables.  • Create and setup table size within Oracle Databases.  • Expert in Modeling Facts, Dimensions, Hierarchies, Measures, Partitioning, Aggregation Rules, Time Series, Cache Management.  • OBIEE metadata (RPD) design and development - including design and definition of logical tables, physical sources, dimensions, columns and aggregation rules.  • Responsible for the deployment and maintenance of the Physical Layer, Business Model and Presentation layers in OBIEE.  • Performed gap analysis and feasibility study for the given requirement.  • Created mockup reports and dashboards for review by the business users.  • Work in MUD project environment by check in project in RPD and check out project in RDP and later merge the RPD.  • Customized the OBIEE Repository (physical, BMM, and presentation layers). Created connection pools, imported physical tables and defined joins in the physical layer of the repository.  • Created dimension hierarchies, aggregates, and keys in the BMM layer.  • Modified Presentation Layer to add presentation tables and columns to meet the business user needs.  • Worked on repository using session variables and use Enterprise Manager for deployment. Senior BI/OBIEE Solutions Engineer Deloitte Consulting - Orlando, FL February 2015 to November 2017 Project Descriptions: Worked with US Department of Home Land Security. Develop RPD to support Department of Home Land Security assets management and Real Property Data Warehouse    Responsibilities:  • Senior OBIEE Developer. Design Symantec Layer for the Department of Home Land Security. Include Physical Layer, Business Model and Mapping Layer and Presentation Layer. Deploy and assign security on presentation tables and columns. Build dashboard and reports to support Department of Home Land Security support property assets management. Hold a Security Clearance.  • Fusion Middleware Administrator.  • Build dashboard and analysis for Home Land Security to streamline US Government warehouses and assets.  • Responsible for the deployment and maintenance of the Physical Layer, Business Model and Presentation layers in OBIEE.  • Performed gap analysis and feasibility study for the given requirement.  • Created mockup reports and dashboards for review by the business users.  • Developer Report and Graphs in Tableau Desktop Workbook.  • Work in MUD project environment by check in project in RPD and check out project in RDP and later merge the RPD.  • Customized the OBIEE Repository (physical, BMM, and presentation layers).  • Created connection pools, imported physical tables and defined joins in the physical layer of the repository.  • Created dimension hierarchies, aggregates, and keys in the BMM layer.  • Modified Presentation Layer to add presentation tables and columns to meet the business user needs. Worked on repository using session variables.  • Train and mentor junior OBIEE Developer in various projects.  • Use BI Application for various customer projects. Meridian Technology Contract Portland Power and Gas - Portland, OR May 2014 to January 2015 Project Descriptions: Portland Power and Gas. Develop RPD for service level for various outages with customer cost codes to determine outages by region, equipment and nature.    Responsibilities:  • Understand the business. Gathered Business requirements by interacting with various teams, users and managers.  • OBIEE Developer. Design the Semantic Layer. Include Physical Layer, Business Model and Mapping Layer and Presentation Layer. Deploy and assign security on presentation tables and columns.  • Defined subject areas for analytical data requirements.  • Identified source system OBIU (Oracle Business Intelligence Utilities) ODI, OMS and Informatica. Work with ODI and Informatica developer.  • Business requirements by interacting with various teams, users and managers, defined subject areas for analytical data requirements.  • Fusion Middleware Admin  • Setup connection pool and the data model. Start developing physical layer. Determine fact tables, dimension tables, start creating aliases and joins.  • Build dashboard and Ad hoc report. Schedule report and setup agent to run report.  • Setup KPI (Key Performance Indicator) for usiness to make decision in a timely manner.  • Create Business and model layer by creating logical table, logical columns, dimension and hierarchy. Example years, half, quarter, month and day. Run consistency check to determine errors and correct them.  • Develop the presentation layer, setup presentation tables, apply security on the various tables, and build dashboards and reports. Create agent and schedule reports to run before business hours. Work in a MUD environment, check in and check out other projects. BI/OBIEE Developer University of Texas Dallas - Dallas, TX August 2012 to April 2014 Dallas, Texas  Project Description: University of Texas at Dallas, Build RPD files and create dashboard to capture financial and registration data. Using OBIEE analytics and dashboards to implement centralized student interactions and enable mangers to be able to get real time data for decision making. Students, staff and teachers deal with several legacy systems with data across multiple environments. OBIEE was deployed across the organization to over 200 employees and staff enabling the gathering of real time data which in turn increase registration attendance by 35% within one year period. Fusion Middleware Admin    Responsibilities:  • Identified various source systems to better understand business needs.  • Design ETL to load data from data warehouse, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server and Teradata to meet business needs.  • Advance knowledge and concepts on Essbase architecture.  • Developer Report and Graphs in Tableau Desktop Workbook.  • Setup Star Schema/Snowflake schema. Design Fact and Dimensions tables, Design Physical and logical data model mapping layer.  • Design Project in MUD Environment, Migration, deployment, applying patches, maintenance and use ETL process to extra data from various data sources.  • OBIEE metadata (RPD) design and development - including design and definition of logical tables, physical sources, dimensions, columns and aggregation rules.  • Build dashboard and analysis student performance including top subject area student register in Texas  • Responsible for the deployment and maintenance of the Physical Layer, Business Model and Presentation layers in OBIEE.  • Performed gap analysis and feasibility study for the given requirement.  • Created mockup reports and dashboards for review by the business users.  • Work in MUD project environment by check in project in RPD and check out project in RDP and later merge the RPD.  • Customized the OBIEE Repository (physical, BMM, and presentation layers).  • Created connection pools, imported physical tables and defined joins in the physical layer of the repository.  • Created dimension hierarchies, aggregates, and keys in the BMM layer.  • Modified Presentation Layer to add presentation tables and columns to meet the business user needs.  • Worked on repository using session variables.  • Used the security settings in Siebel Analytics Admin tool to setup users, Groups and Access privileges.  • Created materialized views and aggregates to improve performance.  • Customized Activity and Revenue star schemas.  • Setup Usage tracking option to monitor frequently run reports in order to provide caching for the reports and perform database optimization by analyzing query performance.  • Customized reporting with OBIEE Answers and integrated them into the Dashboards.  • Generated Reports and Dashboards by using Report features like Pivot tables, charts and view selector.  • Created dashboards with global prompts, column selectors, navigation, and automatic drill-down.  • Created user level security for intelligence dashboards based on Business Requirement.  • Customized and Developed OBIEE Analytics Reports Account Activity, Revenue on business segmentation, and Actual vs. Forecast Response rates, Segment and Offer responses.  • Created Dashboards with Dashboard prompts, Charts, Pivot tables.  • Performed Data Validation of data in the reports and dashboards.  • Extensively used SQL Tuning to improve performance.  • Created Agents to send pre-processed reports using OBIEE Delivers.  • Unit, integration and system testing for all components in OBIEE. Test cases have been prepared and documented the results.  • Worked on evaluation of Oracle BI Enterprise Edition and its new utilities including BI Server, Answers, Delivers and Publisher.  • Document the project for future references.  • Performed production support for the project. Oracle Business Intelligence Developer Sprint - Irving, TX November 2010 to July 2012 Project Description: Sprint is the world's leading provider of wire-line and wireless communications. The goal of the project is to implement Siebel Analytics system to analysis Retail Sales, Marketing and business functions. Several RDP files were created in a MUD environment with dashboard to satisfied business needs.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the business users and managers to make sure that business requirements are correctly translated into database schemas and ultimately into the application.  • Interacted with end users and developers to validate the data model.  • Developer Report and Graphs in Tableau Desktop Workbook.  • Work in a call center environment to capture data to build the physical layer and create aliases.  • Design ETL to load data from data warehouse, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server and Teradata to meet business needs and work with ETL Developer.  • Design and develop repository for various groups and projects in Sales, Marketing, Finance, HR and call center environment.  • Requirement validation of the reports and drill downs with business users.  • Analysis of existing OLTP system and Identification of required dimensions and facts from the Database.  • Creation and Customization of the OBIEE Repository (Physical, Business and Presentation layer).  • Responsible for creating users and maintaining visibility privileges using Analytics administration on the repository side.  • Manage cache management, Repository migration, data level and object level security in OBIEE Analytics.  • Created connection pools, imported physical tables and defined joins in the physical layer of the repository.  • Worked on role-based dashboards in Retail sales.  • Created hierarchies based on the territory level for territorial level sales and contact reports.  • Modified Presentation Layer to add presentation tables and columns to meet the business user needs.  • Worked on repository and session variables for various user accesses.  • Created materialized views and aggregates to improve performance.  • Setup Usage tracking option to monitor frequently run reports in order to provide caching for the reports and perform database optimization by analyzing query performance.  • Customized reporting with OBIEE Answers and integrated them into the Dashboards.  • Generated Reports and Dashboards by using Report features like Pivot tables, charts and view selector.  • Created dashboards with global prompts, column selectors, navigation, and automatic drill-down.  • Created Dashboards with Dashboard prompts, Charts, Pivot tables.  • Resolve performance issues on reports and dashboards.  • Extensively used SQL Tuning to improve performance.  • Unit, integration and system testing for all components in OBIEE. Test cases have been prepared and documented the results.  • Worked on evaluation of Oracle BI Enterprise Edition and its new utilities including BI Server, Answers, Delivers and Publisher.  • Write and document RPD design process for intuitive understanding and future reference.  • Performed production support for the project. Oracle Database Administrator Sprint - Irving, TX March 2008 to October 2010 Project Description: Created and maintained 50+ Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases. Some configurations use Oracle Data Guard for the DR/Standby solution and RAC in a SAN platform. Use RMAN for backup and recovery; use oracle tool AWR/ADDM and OSWatcher to diagnose database problems.    Resposnibilties:  • Create and monitor 10+ plus MySQL Databases in Solaris, Linux using MySQL Workbench to monitor databases.  • MySQL installed on various versions.  • Database changes and implementations follow strict Change management process.  • Install patch and maintain all Oracle software.  • Configure, Install and Troubleshoot RAC environment.  • Write PL/SQL script to pull detail information on production performance issues using explain plans.  • Monitor and configure RAC services and check alerts logs on the primary and standby database for error.  • Tune Oracle instance components including MySQL, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Design and implement backup and recovery systems.  • Implement Oracle failover technology Data Guard.  • Experience with OLTP, dimensional database design and code implementation.  • Work closely with the Developers in resolving performance issues and implementing process.  • Proactive personal with a proven track record of delivering responsibilities and task.  • Work closely with the Business Intelligent Team with home grown application RMS Application to resolve issues at the retail stores.  • User Golden Gate 11g for data replications and movement of large data from one platform to another platform with decision making  • Managing up to 40 Oracle databases on different UNIX platforms in SAN environment: Sun Solaris, Linux Red Hat and AIX, HP and Dell. Administered in releases from 11g/10g/9i. Task includes install, migrate and upgrade Oracle, create database, database maintenance, database security, performance tuning, backup and recovery. Provide 24x7 production supports for mission critical databases.  • Use and configure RMAN for database backup and recovery.  • Use Enterprise manager to monitor database health and check logs files for error.  • Managed 20 databases for 5 different sites across Texas.  • 24 x 7 worldwide rotations on call as last line system supports defense System Administrator AT&T Capital Corporation - Grapevine, TX July 2006 to March 2008 Project Description: Administer, install, maintain and configure windows and Linux servers in a call center environment. Install and configure router for AT&T leasing unit.    Use tool and write scripts for mass installations in Window environment. Use tool like FTP in UNIX environment to copy and transfer files between systems. Resolve and load customer software and test and approve installations.    Resync Aspect ACD Switches in (Windows and UNIX Platform). Administer Aspect Ray 6, 7, 8 & 9 Voice Switch (Unified Platform). Install Aspect Telset and bounce trunks. Run back up for, voice and data, setup IP for each telset to access, and monitor Agent and Supervisors on the Aspect Switch. Responsible for the daily maintenance of the Aspect ACD switch, servers and desktop applications  Maintain Cisco Routers and Network for AT$T customer. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (7 years), MYSQL (6 years), ORACLE (7 years), DATA WAREHOUSE (6 years), BI (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Data Warehouse: Enterprise Fusion Middleware, Essbase, SQL Loader, Oracle BI App 11.1.8.1  Business Intelligence: Fusion Middleware, Oracle Technology Business Intelligence OTBI, Business Intelligence Cloud Services BISC, 12C, 11.1.1.9.1, 11.1.1.7, 11.1.1.6, 11.1.1.5, 10.1.3.4, 10.1.3.4.2, Seibel Analytics, Informatica 8.2, OBIEE, Seibel Answers/Delivers, Security, Oracle APP 7 ERP and Performance  Operating Systems: UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX, HP, Dell,) Linux, Red Hat and Window Servers,  Database: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MySQL, SQL, Teradata  Data modeling: Erwin 3.1, Toad, SQL, SQL Developer  Tools: DAC 10.1.3.4.1, Siebel Analytics .7.8.2/7.7.1, Informatica 8.2, Toad, SQL, PL/SQL, WinZip, IBot, Source Anywhere, Microsoft Excel, Outlook, Messenger, PowerPoint, Word, Access, Visio, SQL Developer, Putty, Web logic Control, Golden Gate 11g, Secure CRT, Secure FX, WINSCP, Text Pad, MySQL Workbench, Note, JIRA, Source Anywhere, Password Manager, Nagois, OEM, Grid Control, Toad, Putty, Exceed, VM Ware, ASM, SQL, Oracle Enterprise Manager, RAC, Service Manager, JIRA, AWR, PKPROF, SQL Developer, HP Database and Middleware Automation Solutions.  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Java scripts, Visual Basic, UNIX Scripts, C++, XML, Perl scripting, Shell Scripting, C++, Visual C.