Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Woodstock, GA Highly motivated, conscientious, results-oriented professional focused on total customer satisfaction, utilizing extensive and varied experience in Information Technologies, including full life cycle software development and technical support. Work Experience Technical Support Specialist ClickDimensions - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to March 2019 Key Objectives:  • Successfully resolve support tickets to our customers' satisfaction by conducting support sessions though email, phone and web meetings.  • Help team members in resolving support tickets and troubleshooting.  • Identify and highlight best practices in support and contribute to a knowledgebase of articles.  • Proactively assist new customers and partners in deploying and using the ClickDimensions solution.  • Provide a structured, informative and enjoyable support experience.  • Develop strong relationships with clients.  • Interact productively with ClickDimensions sales people and development team.  • Able to listen to customers and partners and understand their goals.  • Able to articulate technical information in a manner that is suited to the customer or partner who has requested assistance.    Technical Duties:  • Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and OnPrem deployments.  • Microsoft Dynamics CRM configuration, security and application usage.  • Microsoft Dynamics CRM error troubleshooting and plugin registration.  • HTML and email template design/modification.  • Simple JavaScript (e.g. web form field validation).  • ClickDimensions Application deployment/installation (i.e. follow a detailed installation procedure and troubleshoot/resolve issues as they arise).  • Solution and networking concepts at a high level including web services, deployment types (e.g. online vs. on premise), Windows Servers, Active Directory, connections, firewall, etc.  • SaaS based applications and support. Information Technology Specialist Victory Circle Consultants - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to May 2018 Repeated success guiding Information Technology with established and emerging technologies to achieve maximum operational impacts with minimum resource expenditures. Hands-on experience championing business process improvements, cost reductions, and identifying the most cost-effective, value added IT solutions. Expert presenter, negotiator, and businessperson; able to forge solid relationships with strategic partners and build consensus across multiple organizational levels. Expert in full life cycle software development. Director, Information Technology Georgia Chamber of Commerce - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to February 2017 Manage and direct day-to-day Information Systems and Technology Programs and Services to achieve and exceed the needs and expectations of the Georgia Chamber of Commerce and its Affiliates. Manage contractors and service providers. Provide technical expertise to evaluate changing technologies to improve services, contain costs, and meet long-term Chamber business and operating strategies. Monitor industry trends for new technology to determine consistency with established IT standards, relevance for meeting Chamber business and operating requirements and expected return on investment. Recommend and implement long-range IT direction and strategies.    Additional responsibilities:  • Provided direct oversight and management of Managed Service Provider (MSP) operated IT Help Desk, including ticket management, resource allocation/task priority, Standard Client protocols and enforcement, hardware deployment and software installation, established End-User Acceptable Use Policy, monitoring of all IT systems and devices for efficiencies and issues identification, etc.  • Responsible for on-site Level 1 and Level 2 support when necessary.  • Managed all financial aspects of the IT Department, including Purchase Order/Procurement, Accounts Payable/Billing, Software Licensing management, budgeting, etc.  • Managed website domain acquisition, ongoing maintenance and renewals.  • Management of AT&T/RingCentral Virtual PBX phone system, handset deployment and maintenance.  • Project Management for all IT Department projects, including:  ? All Requests for Proposal (RFP) process and procedures, including Data and Telephony provider, Managed Service Provider (MSP) for IT Help Desk, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software support vendor selection, etc.  ? Migration from internal Microsoft Exchange environment to Cloud-based Microsoft Office 365 platform.  ? Implementation and migration to virtual PBX phone system, deployment of VoIP PoE network hardware and handsets.  ? Data Center migration from internal server hardware to hosted VM server environment.  • Provided end-user mentoring and training in both one-on-one and classroom based environments. Created software manuals and educational documentation for staff.    In addition, continued to perform the role of Database Administrator (below). Database Administrator Georgia Chamber of Commerce - Atlanta, GA June 2008 to January 2014 Responsible for design, implementation, maintenance and repair of Chamber's database, principally the iMIS (CRM) Membership database and supporting application system; development and design of database strategies, monitoring and improving database performance and capacity, and planning for future expansion requirements; plan, co-ordinate and implement security measures to safeguard the database; plan, execute and verify database backup procedures; create, maintain and support data extraction and output presentation via Crystal Reports and Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS); create and maintain all necessary Stored Procedures and Scripts to update/validate/extract data. Manage and maintain iMIS Client installations on company workstations.    Additionally, support IT Director/Help Desk in all necessary capacities (Network and Email Server administration and maintenance, iPhone/iOS/BlackBerry device support, hardware installation, etc.); support the Chamber staff in all manner of computer and IT related interaction when necessary. Architect/Senior Programmer Analyst ACOM Solutions - Duluth, GA November 2005 to November 2007 Architect: Provided leadership in interpretation and specification of programming work, selecting optimized architectural approaches in terms of resource consumption, future flexibility, maintainability, reliability, and ease of use of all systems developed.    Translated requirements defined by business user or IT management into logical, economical and practical systems designs. Prepared detailed specifications from which complete sets of programs would be written. These specifications show system linkage, data movement and resource requirements; document specifications for input handling, processing and output preparation for each system function; and file, report and input formats. Coordinated workflow during all phases of product development, including: creation of design specifications for offshore development team; return product analysis and installation; documentation and preparation for Quality Assurance testing; and final production environment deployment.    Senior Programmer Analyst: Responsible for analysis, design and programming support of ACOM software package utilizing RPGIV, CLLE, DDS, ILE constructs, IFS, and C++ program object integration. Lead resource for implementing change management policies and procedures for deploying the Aldon CMS software package. Senior Programmer Analyst The Athlete's Foot - Kennesaw, GA December 1998 to January 2005 Senior Programmer Analyst: Additional responsibilities included: Standards development and Best Practices implementation; technical interviews of potential new hires; peer review and change management supervision; software evaluation/purchasing recommendations; project management. Develop/coordinate Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) with vendors utilizing Gentran:Server and Extol EDI software packages. Responsible for all aspects of EDI administration, development, and processing, including: Partnership Agreements; VAN administration; Document Standards development and publication; Document Map development and implementation; Document Database development and interface to EDI software package; development of interface programs for Distribution/Warehouse Management software package to EDI Document Database; development of programs to process sending/receiving EDI documents in both batch and interactive environments; monitor EDI procedures for possible issues and execute problem resolution.    Programmer Analyst: Responsible for development/modification/support of Island Pacific software package; Y2K development/testing/readiness; Point-of-Sale software (DataVantage) to AS/400 interface development and support. Involvement in total lifecycle development of custom databases and applications utilizing DB2/400, AS/400 RPGIII, RPGIV, subfiles, CL, and Query/400. Education High school or equivalent Skills Desktop Support, Active Directory, Help Desk, MAC