Project Manager Project Manager Olathe, KS Experienced leader and project manager with 25+ years of IT experience having specific expertise in production support, software implementations, and RDBMS. A consistent high performer with a track record of delivering and exceeding expectations. Excels as a PM by leveraging strong communications and relationship skills and taking ownership in critical, highly visible situations. Highly regarded by peers and management, always seek ways to improve as a team and make an impact. Recognized numerous time for innovative work in areas such as Follow the Sun / Global support, EBI DB re-architecture, SPDE, EAI PS, RMS Adaptability Study, DWBI PS review, and Wireline Rewrite project. Trained in Agile, Dev/Ops, and Garage methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager IBM Global Services September 2004 to Present Operations Manager - Prepaid Web IBM Global Services - Overland Park, KS December 2017 to May 2019 • Supported Operations for Consumer, and Dealer platforms for Boost, VMU, Sprint Prepaid - Production support, escalations, coordinating QA and PS for all deployment  • Tracked over 500 production impacts (deployments and tests) per year.  • Reduced typical production ticket backlog by over 50%; managed ticket aging.  • Leveraged existing relationships across organizations to quickly bring resolution to issues. Test Manager - Wireline IBM Global Services - Overland Park, KS February 2016 to December 2017 • Managed testing for major rewrite of wireline system order & provisioning systems.  • Implemented new tools and processes to simplify tracking and executive reporting.  • Coordinated a cross team effort of 30 resources globally to define & track test cases, manage defects and deliver releases on an aggressive timeline.  • Built relationships and established a system to prioritize issue with the business & dev team. Project Manager / Liaison IBM Global Services April 2006 to February 2016 Provide liaison and project management function for offshore resources on the Sprint account for the critical EAI middleware layer. Changed the liaison/customer relationship in EAI from one of  contention to a partnership at the manger & director level.  • Developed and implemented 24x7, 'follow the sun' support strategy for supporting outsourced  production support DBA and middleware analysts  • Oversaw outsourced staffing for MQ and 3rd Party Software teams, in addition to overseeing  major software upgrades, software vulnerability remediation & executive reporting  • Implemented 24x7 support bridge to meet requirements from Sprint prod support director  • Stabilized critical EAI applications and reversed customer's perception from a problem area to a model of excellence & set a new standard for the account Team Lead, Sprint Account IBM Global Services - Overland Park, KS September 2004 to April 2006 Managed a team of 32 people in the US, Brazil, and India responsible for delivery of database work and support for 3 different RDBMS, over 175 applications, working over 400 projects.  • Responsible for resource assignment, forecasting, risk mgmt. & mitigation, escalations, and budget mgmt. for the team's work on 375+ concurrent projects providing 24x7 support  • Managed knowledge transfer and training for off shore resources on applications, client methodology, and practices. Created & implemented needed support infrastructure. Developed a global team atmosphere receiving the highest customer satisfaction score.  • Possess strong crisis management skills having worked several critical production situations with CEO visibility. He was asked to assist in the with post implementation issue on the SPDE project and was part of the IBM 'critsit' team for this strategic $92 million project. He was recognized for his strong contributions in stabilizing the SPDE deployment.  • Leads and manages a team which consistently exceeds productivity targets and is ranked the highest in the department. Supervisor, Data Management Sprint June 2000 to September 2004 Managed a staff of 15 DBAs and Data Analysts supporting over 250 development, test, and 24x7  production databases for 50+ applications and over 100 concurrent projects. Databases ranged  from 10 GB to 4+ TB, supporting 5 to several hundred concurrent users  • Built and maintained relationships with customers, 15 dev groups, and other IT orgs. Leveraged  relationships to facilitate more effective solutions and reduce MTTB  • Managed a critical lease replacement effort for the Enterprise Business Intelligence databases.  Set technical direction, oversaw the database architecture, and managed the project meeting an aggressive schedule to retire obsolete hardware. Delivered a new system on less expensive  hardware, yielding a savings of $1.4 million while increasing system availability by over 25%, reducing runtimes, & increasing performance by an avg. of 400%.  • Develop and managed Service Level Agreements; Provided executive status for key projects Sprint - Overland Park, KS March 1999 to September 2004 Database Administrator Sprint - Overland Park, KS March 1999 to June 2000 • Hired as a staff DBA, quickly becoming a lead DBA and growing the team from 3 to 9 DBAs  • Lead Oracle DBA managing dev and test environments, maintaining 3 concurrent releases for 10 applications in 100+ databases across 65+ servers supporting 24x7 development & testing  • Coordinated DM efforts with multiple development teams, managed dev, test, and production databases, supporting a key strategic initiative for the company.  • Participated on multi-discipline tiger teams to resolve severity 1 tickets and other critical issues Database Administrator Olsten Health Services - Overland Park, KS May 1996 to March 1999 • Lead Oracle DBA for large managed care network system and Carrier Eligibility database  • Supported 60+ databases, up to 30 GB, 1000+ concurrent users, in a 24x 7 environment  • Lead a migration team in converting a mission critical system from MSSQL to Oracle  • Lead effort document systems and reengineer DBA tasks by function; Mentored new DBAs Programmer / Analyst Multi Service Corp - Overland Park, KS October 1994 to May 1996 • Programmer / Analyst for large, nationwide fleet maintenance system & dispatching system  • Programmer supporting credit card processing system for trucking industry Education University of Missouri at KC, Bloch School of Business 1988 BS in Information Systems Kansas State University 1986