Controller Controller Controller - Sunroof Express Allen Park, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Controller Sunroof Express - Troy, MI January 2018 to Present * Organize, direct and control all accounting functions and operations including, Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Invoicing/Billing, Inventory Accounting, General Ledger, Budget and Forecast preparation and Purchasing activities.  * Ensure the accounting of revenues and expenses are performed in an accurate, Efficient and timely manner and researching and resolving technical accounting issues for compliance with GAAP.  * Prepare and review monthly and annual corporate financial statements and all related supporting schedules for completeness, accuracy and to ensure compliance with GAAP and company policies.  * Develop and document business processes and accounting policies to maintain and strengthen internal controls.  * Coordinate and manage the year-end audit, preparing schedules as required by external CPA's and ensure proper maintenance of accounting records and documentation in compliance with statutory requirements and company policies.  * Manage and comply with local, state, and federal government reporting requirements and tax filings including quarterly and annual tax returns and Sales & Use Tax filings.  * Manage payroll and oversee payroll reporting and submission for accuracy.  * Coordinate outsourced financial relationships and activities involving pension and Insurance providers. Manager FORD FIELD/DETROIT LIONS October 2006 to January 2018 * Authority of the financial operations, which includes budget preparation and administrations, audit, taxation, accounting, monthly closing of books, journal entry adjustments, benefits administrations, and payroll approval.  * Executed all accounting functions for Lions Charities arm.  * Develop financial statements; analyze business trends and daily operating costs, including managing cash flow.  * Implementation of GP system and accounting system including set-up of companies and account procedures.  * Created income statement, balance sheet and other reports.  * Prepare month-end reports for managers to help identify and resolve problems. Manager FORD FIELD/DETROIT LIONS - Detroit, MI September 2002 to January 2018 Staff Accountant i.e., NFL September 2002 to October 2006 * Assisted with setting up accounting system for new stadium and associated companies. Created report for all companies using FRX reporting software and Excel.  * Assisted controller in preparation of financial statements and all league (i.e., NFL) required reporting.  * Assisted with corporate budget in preparation and maintenance of budgets.  * Assisted with monthly closing including journal entries. ACCOUNTEMPS - Detroit, MI June 2002 to August 2002 * Worked with external auditors to produce accounts receivable reconciliation of twelve different accounts. Company was able to identify $1,000,000 in receivable due.  * Assisted in auditing of bank reconciliation, journal entries, cash receipts and ad hoc reports.  * Created reconciliation layout to assist accounting clerk in continuing account reconciliation going forward. Business Analyst VISUAL SERVICE INC - Bloomfield Hills, MI May 2000 to April 2002 * Coordinated and integrated departments and clients to translate marketing program proposal into actionable development work plan though successful implementation of the program.  * Supported development of business proposal and pricing, identified process improvements, and maintained program integrity after launch.  * Created and monitored program budgets. Marketing Analyst/ Database Programmer & Administrator MICHIGAN CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY June 1995 to May 2000 * Developed and implemented enhancement to computerized systems. Liaison between IT and marketing.  * Created transportation contract database which created a new transportation contract in Microsoft word.  * Coordinated implementation of billing and ACTs system with IT.  * Departmental expert in Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, ACTs, and Visual Basic.  * Created financial analysis of customer contract to offer additional charges or discounts. MICHIGAN CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY - Detroit, MI June 1976 to May 2000 Staff Accountant MICHIGAN CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY June 1989 to June 1995 * Coordinated upgrade of new accounts payable/material accounting system.  * Managed special project which downsized accounts payable from 24 employees to 6 employees. Projects included invoicing through corporate credit cards and Lotus Notes. Streamlined entries and approval of invoices, payments and checks.  * Managed seven employees and their daily tasks. Education Master of Science in Finance in Finance WALSH COLLEGE - Troy, MI Bachelor of Arts in Accounting in Accounting UNIVERSITY OF DETROIT - Detroit, MI Skills accounting (10+ years), Accounts Payable (7 years), credit (7 years), Excel. (10+ years), PowerPoint (4 years), Management, Payroll, Employee Relations, Quickbooks, Financial Reporting, Word, Financial Analysis, access, Strategic Planning, Human Resources, Budgeting, ADP Certifications/Licenses A valid CPA CMA or other related accounting designation