Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA - MiCORE Solutions, Inc Edmond, OK Oracle Certified Professional Oracle 11g with 23+ years' experience with Oracle database. Oracle Database Administration skills include:    Installation, upgrade, and patching of Oracle software in various operating system environments, Architecture and Administration of Oracle databases, Backup and Recovery planning, testing and implementation, Disaster Recovery planning, testing and implementation, Oracle Network Administration, ASM in both standalone and clustered environments, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Compression, Partitioning, and database Performance and Tuning.    Implemented Oracle Advanced Compression for several databases at Williams-Scotsman. This reduced the disk space requirement by 53% and improved full table scan performance by 5%.    Experienced with Oracle on an Exadata X4-2, X6-2. This included three (3) major clients; Williams-Scotsman, ManTech and Engility (now SAIC).    Assisted in migrating 26 databases from IBM PowerPC to an Oracle Exadata for Williams-Scotsman. Set up the physical standbys for each of the nine (9) production databases. The primary data center has an Oracle Exadata ¼ Rack. The DR site has an Oracle Exadata 1/8 Rack for the physical standby of the production databases.    Migrated a major system from a proprietary government hybrid (hierarchical and relational) database GIMSII to a commercial off the shelf (COTS) Oracle relational database. Designed the logical entities and the relationships between them. Mapped the logical design to the physical design and created and maintained the database.    Also skilled in areas of applications development and systems programming. Thirty-six years background dedicated to database administration, programming, and analysis. Previously held an ISSC Top Secret Security Clearance.    AREAS OF SKILL & EXPERTISE  Oracle: 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, Clusterware: standalone and RAC, RAC One Node, ASM, RMAN, OracleNet, Oracle PL/SQL, Partitioning, Real Application Testing (RAT), Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 11g, Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c, Data Guard, Active Data Guard, Data Guard Broker, Advanced Compression, Hybrid Columnar Compression (HCC), Exadata X4-2; X6-2, Oracle GoldenGate, Quest SharePlex.    OS: AIX, Sun Solaris, HPUnix, RHEL Linux, Oracle Linux    Storage: EMC Clariion, DMX3, DMX4, VMAX, NetApp, IBM XIV Gen    Backup Technologies: Symantec NetBackup, IBM® Spectrum Protect(TM), formerly Tivoli® Storage Manager    Other: Unix shell scripting, ASM, VERITAS Clustering, Vxfs, NFS, Fibre Channel    PREVIOUS AREAS OF SKILL & EXPERTISE  VS/SP, MVS/XA, MVS, ESA, VM/SP, VM/HPO, VM/XA, VM/ESA, MS DOS, OS/2, Windows, MS Office, PL/1, REXX, Visual Basic, Lotus Notes Development. Work Experience Senior Oracle DBA MiCORE Solutions, Inc - Reston, VA October 2016 to Present * Responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of Oracle databases to support 9 diverse clients in over 5 states. Major clients include Williams-Scotsman, Benepay/HCM, CustomInk, Engility/SAIC, eOriginal, WorldAware (iJet), ManTech International, National Student Clearinghouse (NSC), North American Bancard/Argus/Inovio.  * Team lead for various other clients including Erickson Living, FedBid/Unison, HomeServe USA, NYSA SAVI and Strayer University.  * Implemented Oracle Best Practices on Exadata to improve performance throughput by 8% for Engility.  * Implemented the backup and recovery strategy for Engility's 37 Oracle databases.  * Implemented Data Guard Broker for Williams-Scotsman's primary databases.  * Performed bundle patching on Exadata X4-2 and X6-2.  * Upgraded databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 for Williams-Scotsman and Inovio.  * Implemented GoldenGate replication from source DB to Reporting DB for Williams-Scotsman. Senior Oracle DBA RDX remote dba experts - Oklahoma City, OK December 2013 to October 2016 * Responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of Oracle databases to support 14 diverse clients in over 5 states. Major clients include OCLC, Inc., Williams-Scotsman, Spark Energy Holdings, LLC, BloodCenter of Wisconsin, eSpoc, II-VI, Inc., Ozburn-Hessey Logistics, LLC, American Traffic Solutions, and ShopperTrak.  * Implemented ASM as standalone for the BloodCenter of Wisconsin and improved disk space utilization and performance.  * Implemented Oracle Advanced Compression using table compression and saved Williams-Scotsman 53% of disk space utilization saving them money because additional disk space purchase was not required  * Implemented the backup and recovery strategy for Williams-Scotsman's 27 Oracle databases  * Implemented Data Guard for Williams-Scotsman's primary databases  * Supported the migration of databases from IBM PowerPC running AIX to Oracle's Exadata X4-2  * Implemented Hybrid Columnar Compression (HCC) to improve performance and reduce disk space requirements Senior Oracle DBA Chesapeake Energy Inc - Oklahoma City, OK October 2005 to October 2013 * Responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of Oracle databases to support the Oil and Gas industry. The major system was designed using a three node RAC cluster supporting a 5TB database. This contained the SCADA data received from the oil and gas meters in the field. The application is a COTS application from Flowcal to manage gas and oil flows from the well.  * Supported the Enterprise Data Warehouse database of 4TB and over 4000 users.  * Responsible for the production management of 105 databases varying in size from 6GB to 5TB.  * Worked with Oracle Corporation to perform an Exadata Proof of Concept for use at Chesapeake Energy. Oracle Consultant Seliquini Associates - Oklahoma City, OK November 2002 to September 2005 * Consultant DBA for International Environment - Performed health check and performance analysis on existing Oracle database. Upgraded database from 9i (9.2.0.4) to 10g (10.2.0.2). Knowledge transfer to employee responsible for ongoing management of the database.  * Various short term contracts to support existing Oracle Databases.  * Consultant DBA for Tinker AFB - Production Support DBA for various Oracle Databases. Oracle Certified Instructor Thinkspark, LLC - Oklahoma City, OK March 2000 to October 2002 * Oracle Certified Instructor teaching:  ? Database Administration I  ? Database Administration II  ? Backup and Recovery  ? Introductory PL/SQL  ? Advanced PL/SQL Consulting Database Administrator CCS&T, Inc - Manassas, VA April 1996 to February 2000 * Supports Oracle database residing on a Unix operating system.  * Responsible for installation, software upgrades and maintenance in Sun Solaris System.  * Performs performance and tuning of the Oracle rdbms.  * Performs tuning of SQL queries.  * Develops and maintains backup and recovery strategies.  * Responsible for maintenance of the database and the integrity of its data.  * Designs, develops, and implements automated procedures to enhance the migration of data from DB2 to Oracle.  * Designs, develops, and implements standard reports for the customer's Oracle based Enterprise Data Repository using Oracle Developer Report Builder.  * Plans, develops, and instructs training classes in the use of the Oracle DBMS for a state educational institution. Classes include:  ? SQL and SQL*Plus  ? PL/SQL  ? Database Administration  ? Backup and Recovery  ? Performance and Tuning  ? Oracle Networking  * Supports MS SQL-Server database with an Access front end.  * Generates ad-hoc reports for the customers.  * Provides close support to the customer user base' Education None Skills Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, 11g Present