Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Technical Support Specialist Dine Brands Global - Glendale, CA September 2018 to August 2019 91203    Duties and Responsibilities  • Customer focused, attention to detail and proactive approach to serving the user community  • Resourcefulness; ability to research problems and resolutions  • Perform root cause analysis as a routine part of supporting the computer environment.  • Logs all customer interactions into the current Incident Reporting System and updates incident for existing issues  • Supports Microsoft Office365, Windows 7, Windows 10 and Corporate Standard Desktop, Dell laptops/desktops.  • Take ownership of incidents and troubleshoot through to resolution  • Reasonable judgment in time management so as to minimize user work interruptions with regards to troubleshooting and resolving problems  • Software installation  • Maintain equipment for end-users keeping them up to date and in optimal condition.  • Perform technical refresh (replacing desktops and laptops in accordance with the quarterly refresh program)  • Onboarding and off boarding users (backing up/restoring data, reimaging and setting up computers)  • Basic network understanding with the ability to troubleshoot user connectivity issues  • Responsible for asset management and inventory of KC office computer equipment.  • Utilize remote control technology to serve our customers quickly and efficiently.  • Keep management informed on escalated issues.  • Collaborate and assist internal IT departments with project related initiatives Technical Support Specialist MODIS, 2600W Olive Ave - Burbank, CA April 2018 to September 2018 91505, Client Assignment-Dine Brands Global IT Specialist/System Administrator UNI - Glendale, CA November 2011 to January 2018 91203    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of Local Area network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  • Administer Microsoft Windows Servers (Active Directory), Microsoft Workstations, and network security devices for 230 users.  • Supported 230 total users in 6 locations nationwide, as well as corporate office users.  • Responsible for hardware and software applications for workstations, servers, and network data communications. Collaborated with executive management and department leaders to assess network capacity needs.  • Performed all levels of hardware and software systems support for 230 computers.  • Responsible for e-mail system and Internet Information Server, meeting employee and customer needs 24/7 printers  • Managed all new install projects for servers, switches, and other network resources.  • Installed and configured secured environments, VPN Internet connectivity of virtualized server environment and clients.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of [Windows servers, Cisco infrastructure] system network components.  • Monitored the LAN/WAN network environment including routers, switches, firewalls, Internet access and software applications.  • Maintained MS Exchange Server - Performed troubleshooting and provided resolutions for server problems.  • Implemented proper recovery procedures for disasters and administered user-accounts' mailbox.  • Maintained the timely back-up of important data and management resources.  • Assist in identifying and implementing Directory management and audit/change management solutions for Directory Services.  • Participate in the development and deployment of Active Directory implementations to support mission applications.  • Perform AD Disaster Recovery design and implementation including live DR tests that ensure the design and implementation meet the business objectives.  • Develop and maintain web applications, back-ended by SQL and AD, used by both operations teams and end-users.  • Manage all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, hubs, and UPSs.  • Oversee installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of end user workstation hardware, software, and peripheral devices.  • Responsible for analyzing requirements for designing, integrating and supporting VPNs that provide secure connectivity to the company's Partners and Customers.  • Responsible for analyzing new application data flows and designing firewall policies that support application requirements, adhere to security practices, and meet project timelines.  • Responsible for analyzing firewall change requests and integrating changes into existing firewall policies, while maintaining security standards.  • Develop and maintain security documentation and standards documents, as required.  • Responsible for the support and maintenance of the 10+server Wintel environment, including Microsoft software, Linux, and VMware.  • Server monitoring & performance - monitoring of disk space, system and application errors, memory and swap space utilization, disk performance, CPU, and processes.  • Implement, maintain, audit and monitor the VOIP telecommunications network environment.  • Facilitate and manage telecommunications network related issues and concerns.  • Responsible tier one problem support, incident response and business continuity Database Administrator Musicians Institute - Los Angeles, CA September 2010 to November 2011 90028    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers and analysts to make changes  • Review project requests describing database user needs to estimate time and cost required to accomplish project.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations  • Select and enter codes to monitor database performance and to create production database.  • Review workflow charts developed by programmer analyst to understand tasks computer will perform, such as updating records.  • Writing database documentation, including data standards, procedures and definitions for the data dictionary (metadata);  • Working closely with IT project managers, database programmers and web developers;communicating regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and security;  • Responsible for all phases of Business Objects report development and administration including Universe development and maintenance; report development; end-user and application team training and product support. Administers, maintains, develops and implements policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the Business Objects Environment  • Developing, coding, installing, testing, debugging and documenting SharePoint applications using appropriate editors  • Developing and communicating SharePoint site usage, security policies, governance documents and standards to all users COLD Team Member/COLD Operator Optimis Systems - Moorpark, CA June 2002 to January 2009 93021    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Support the design and implementation of new customer solution setup, including Design and Configuration of Alchemy databases  • Design and author custom definition and conversion scripts to support new or modified customer data conversion  • Maintain databases and conversion scripts for existing customers  • Perform quality assurance on all assigned customer conversions to ensure 100% accuracy  • Manage own workflow within team workflow to ensure timely delivery of converted data to customers  • Ensure compliance with all project procedures and processes.  • Provide advice to the management team regarding where efficiencies can be gained through custom IT definitions and scripts  • Provide advice to the management team to support new customer migration planning  • Other tasks as required Programmer/Consultant Information Professionals, Inc June 1998 to November 2001 1474 MariaClara St. Sampaloc, Philippines    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Gather all information on user requirements from the areas to be automated to be used for system design and analysis.  • Design application systems on LANs and stand alone microcomputers based on requirements and specifications of system users.  • Code and compile application programs and update existing applications on LANs and microcomputer following programming standards.  • Develop specifications of file back-up and recovery procedures for the application.  • Prepare system test data for program testing.  • Test code programs for errors using test data to ensure error-free coding.  • Documents application programs being developed according to prescribed standards.  • Develops and maintains systems documentation/manuals for the systems application developed.  • Revises and maintain existing application programs and corresponding documentation.  • Develop and conduct user training to inform and educate system on how to use the systems applications developed on the microcomputer.  • Train bank users on standard PC- Based software packages for common applications such as word processing and spreadsheet usage.  • Attend user inquires and request coursed through by Help Desk Operators for PC-based software training and maintenance as well as other aspects of office automation  • Develop file archiving procedures of the application.  • Adhere to the system development life cycle methodology. Analyst/Programmer Lica Management Inc July 1995 to March 1998 Duties and Responsibilities:  • Define and Investigate problems.  • Write & Prepare Feasibility Studies.  • Prepare System Software Specification.  • Prepare Hardware Specification.  • Database Design.  • Conduct System Testing & Perform system evaluation & follow-up.  • Assistance during implementation & prepare system documentation.  • Installs program and configures software problems and application.  • Manages database retrieval and storage procedure.  • Assisting in NETWORK management. Education Master in Business Administration in Business Administration University of Sto - Manila