SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - U.S. Department of State Upper Marlboro, MD Experienced and knowledgeable Database Administration Professional with Four years' success in designing, implementing, and managing database solutions that improve business functionality. Possess a diversified technical background with enterprise systems solutions. Proven abilities to implement resource that decrease cost increase performance and constantly exceed targeted goals. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator U.S. Department of State - Rosslyn, VA January 2019 to Present Zolon Tech.    • Proactively manage IT database systems to deliver high availability  • Secure the IT database environment according to the IT department's security policies and guidelines.  • Install and configure new SQL instances.  • Maintain high availability SQL Clusters and nodes.  • Develop, manage and test back-up and recovery plans.  • Control Access permissions and privileges.  • Performance tuning and identifying performance bottlenecks.  • Special projects and additional duties as assigned.  • Implement TDE Encryption to databases  • Configure, Troubleshoot, and Manage SSRS SQL Server Database Administrator Naval Air Systems Command - River, MD, US November 2015 to November 2015 January  General Dynamics Information Tech.    • Maintain, and monitor multiple SQL Server databases running on Windows Server 2008 R2 & 2012.  • Refresh Databases in the Production, Development, and Staging Environment.  • Ensure current patching for security and bug fixes are maintained, and provide advice for patching schedules and outages.  • Create and maintain SQL Server user accounts and Access.  • Create Standard Security Protocol Documents for team SharePoint for reference.  • Created plan, and scheduled database migration for numerous department from SQL server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2014.  • Assisted in migrating more than 200+ databases.  • Run and edit different scripts to make changes to databases provided by developers.  • Create, Edit, and maintain Maintenance Plan based on customers requirements.  • Use diagnostic tools to find source of issues once they occur such as SQL Profiler, and Database Tuning Advisor.  • Apply Service Pack, Hotfixes, and Security Patching to SQL Server environment to prevent vulnerabilities. SQL Server Database Administrator The Federal Reserve Board - Washington, DC April 2015 to November 2015 Kforce Government Solutions    • Installation of SQL Server 2012 /2008 /2005 on Windows 2008, and applied service packs with security fixes.  • Installing MS SQL Server and maintained multiple Access database.  • Implemented the SQL Login Security for developers and users.  • Created Windows Logins and privileges to User Accounts/Groups and objects.  • Created jobs, alerts to packages periodically. Created the automated processes for the activities such as database backup processes and Packages run sequentially using SQL Server Agent job.  • Created and Configured OLAP Cubes (Star Schema and Snow flex Schema) using SQL Server 2008 Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Performance tuning of SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard in Management studio.  • Configured Server for sending automatic mails to the respective people when a SQL Job is failed, log files are grown beyond the predefined limit, or free space of the hard disks fall below the threshold limit.  • Created Database and Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, User Defined data types and functions.  • Developed Query for generating drill down reports in SSRS 2008. Prepared AD HOC reports through report builders.  • Creation of Schema objects, rules and granting of roles to the users. Desktop Support Tech National Institute of Health - Bethesda, MD July 2014 to April 2015 Dell, Federal Government Services    • Install, maintain and troubleshoot Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac OS desktop, Laptops, and Tablets.  • Support, troubleshoot, and maintain users Mobile Devices (Blackberry and IPhone).  • Reimaging, Ghosting, and Backup systems then adding them back to the domain.  • Set up, Maintain and Troubleshoot printers, scanners, and fax Machines.  • Activate and Configure Switches, Ports, and Routers in the LAN closet.  • Perform troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems with users PC.  • Setup and Support Video Teleconferences, Goto meetings, and Lync Meetings in Conference rooms using monitors, Projectors, Podiums, and room configured Tablets.  • Create and descriptively Document issue resolution using the Remedy ticketing system.  • Utilize Active Directory to Manage User, Network, and Administrative accounts and groups.  • Clearly communicated technical concepts to non-technical end users, and also maintain excellent communication with other members of the technology department.  • Install and configure Numerous Software's.  • Executed assigned tasks and Projects as assigned by the Technology Director. Education Masters in Computer Systems Database Technologies in Computer Systems Database Technologies University of Maryland University College March 2020 Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice in Computer Science University of Maryland Eastern Shore Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Sql, Ssrs, Netiq, Security, Active directory, Clustering, Netiq, Scom, Splunk, Vmware, Solaris, Unix, Aix, R2, Server migration, Analyzer, Loader Additional Information Technical Expertise    Disa Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs)  Built SQL server 05,08R2, 12,14,16  SSIS, SSRS configured  SQL server Migration  SQL server Clustering    AlwaysOn High Availability  SS Query Analyzer  SQL server Tuning.  SQL server Node configuration.  Database Encryptions  Patching    Database Design/Modeling  SQL Loader  SCOM Alert  Failover Clustering  ESX Clustering  VMWare  SQL Loader    Windows servers: 2003, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2016  Unix, Solaris, AIX  NETIQ  Active Directory  Database Monitoring  Splunk Alert