Family Advocate Family Advocate Family Advocate - Our House Duluth, GA Resourceful Human service professional with ten years of serving children and families in foster care as well as the homeless population who are diagnosed with serious emotional disturbances, medical fragility and developmental delays. I have been the link to assist the youth/family in acquiring, developing and accessing functional skills and supports (both social and environmental) needs to function more successfully in their community environment. Work Experience Family Advocate Our House - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to Present * Responsible for developing case plans with families using empirical goals and measureable outcomes which will transition the families into permanent housing.  * Provide support for ECE (Early Childhood Education) & CDA (Certification Development Associate) for students working with the growing childcare sector.  * Conduct intake/ assessments with each family to determine the current and ongoing needs of the family employment, housing, health care and other needs identified.  * Provide conflict resolution, problem solving, planning and life skills development support to all clients.  * Meet with clients twice a month to ascertain progress and determine additional needs.  * Coordinate and facilitate group events, including parent, community and psycho-educational meetings.  * Build partnerships for the enhancement of services for the clients that are need of mental health services, skill building, transitional/permanent housing, clothing, supplies etc.  * Assist with appropriate community referrals, and follow-up to assess the effectiveness of the referrals.  * Prepare monthly, quarterly & yearly data for client services outcome.  * Assess housing barriers of individuals and families experiencing homelessness to determine housing and service needs.  * Develop a housing procurement, financial, and self-sufficiency case management plan with clients, which determines client's needs, goals, and eligibility.  * Provide mediation and advocacy with landlords on the client's behalf to develop a workable plan to obtain and or maintain housing.  * Create and maintain consistent communication channels, both verbal and written, between several parties (i.e. tenant, landlord, referral source, collaborating agencies, debtors and creditors).  * Assist in development of and encourage adherence to a personal budget through pro-active housing and budget counseling sessions; provide budget counseling and education to assist clients in establishing payments plans for bills and past debts and to assist clients in obtaining and maintaining their housing.  * Assist in development of a strength-based/solution-focused individualized goal and action plan that promotes permanent housing and self-sufficiency; develop an effective, timely referral network in order to ensure ongoing direction and support as needed.  * Identify participant strengths and barriers to stability and assist participants to reducing barriers and linking to resources and services.  * Assist in development of and encourage adherence to a personal budget through pro-active housing and budget counseling sessions; provide budget counseling and education to assist clients in establishing payments plans for bills and past debts and to assist clients in obtaining and maintaining their housing.  * Assist in development of a strength-based/solution-focused individualized goal and action plan that promotes permanent housing and self-sufficiency; develop an effective, timely referral network in order to ensure ongoing direction and support as needed. Health Care Integrator & B2H Database Specialist /Operations Coordinator Graham Windham Agency - New York, NY March 2010 to July 2017 * Responsible for Monitoring the Waiver Service Provider's work in relation to the requirements of the goals outlined in the Individualized Health Plan.  * Developed an Individualized Health Plan for child and caregiver.  * Interceded on behalf of the child or caregiver to gain access to and or facilitate needed services and support.  * Conducted Team Meetings and a constellation of services and providers to meet the specific needs of each enrolled child.  * Developed a close working relationship with the child's case planner and Waiver Service Provider.  * Stabilized the environment for the child and caregiver, advocated for the child's needs.  * Conducted a face to face visit twice a month with the child and caregiver.  * Communicated with the caregiver and waiver service provider to construct a plan for the child's medical, social, rehabilitative, vocational, and educational needs.  * Entered client information and services summaries into the eCMS (Enterprise Management Systems) database, B2H Site Admissions page and into a Connections database page.  * Tracked and update enrollments, disenrollments, adoptions, denials and transfers.  * Completed Quarterly and Weekly Reports referring to the progress of clients within the program.  * Assigned Health Care Integrator's & Supervisors access to client cases into the Connections database.  * Completed client case record reviews for quality management. Jewish Child Care Association Agency - Brooklyn, NY June 2014 to August 2016 Brooklyn, NY Waiver Service Provider (Part-time) 6/2014 to 8/2016  * Interacts with clients and families in a variety of settings including biological, pre-adoptive and foster homes, schools, and neighborhood, community and group care settings.  * Demonstrated skills that promote a safe physical and emotional environment for children and families within the context of their living environment.  * Provided a variety of waiver services to youth and families for children with developmental delays and emotional disturbance.  * Completed all necessary paperwork, service summary forms, detailed service plan goals and progress notes.  * Provided reports on progress towards goals at service plan reviews and team meetings.  * Possess a valid/clear driver license and dependable vehicle. Executive Office Administrator American Institute of Chemical Engineers - New York, NY July 2006 to February 2009 * Provided high-level executive support to the President, Executive Director and Board of Directors.  * Prepared special projects requiring the procurement of confidential and highly sensitive information.  * Managed heavy calendar scheduling for Executive Director.  * Managed logistics for Board of Directors, Executive Director and Leadership Team company's special events, spring and national conferences, which includes but not limited to procuring lodging, meeting room facilities, audio equipment, business dinner reservations, and transportation.  * 5% Travel to company spring and national conferences to provide assistance to the Board of Directors meetings.  * Arranged Board and Committee meetings and organize the flow of a meeting.  * Coordinated Executive Office / Leadership Team Annual Memberships for AIChE.  * Processed expense reports, invoices and yearly budget for Executive Office.  * Prepared agenda and materials for executive and finance committee meetings.  * Typed correspondence, created reports and presentations for board meetings.  * Supervised mailroom manager to ensure building operations, office systems and vendor requests were met in an efficient and timely manner.  * Staff liaison to the Admission Committee of upgrading senior and fellow's membership.  * Maintained Executive Office and Admission Committee pages on AIChE website to ensure information was current.  * Organized directory to ensure information of outgoing and incoming President and Board of Directors was accurate and up to date.  * Ordered office supplies, furniture, letterhead, business cards, pins and plaques for executive office. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Professional Studies St. Francis College - Brooklyn, NY January 2007 Skills Outlook, Time Management, Case Management, Documentation, Organizational Skills