DONOR DATABASE MANAGER DONOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> MANAGER Data, Operations and Development Non-profit Professional Mission Hills, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DONOR DATABASE MANAGER YTREGAH Present Oversee the Raiser's Edge Database and Data department.  Create and implement policies and procedures for user security, data  entry and extraction, and reporting of donor data.  Create a Moves Management system with training, documentation and reporting around Planned Giving and Major Gifts.  EVITCEJBO LANOSREP  Analysis and strategic planning data for annual fundraising and engagement planning.  To work in an environment where my non-profit fundraising Prospect research, providing donor and prospect profiles and and database experience coupled with my organizational and recommendations for possible donations.  people skills will be used to benefit the success of projects and overall organization goals. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR St.Moncia Catholic Community 2009 to 2018 Created and Implemented online application process for new members and coordinated data collection.  Created and Implement online payment process for donations, events and recurring gifts.  Helped create recurring sustainer program, started with 50 donors and  in 5 years grew to close to 1000 strong.  Designed and implement policy and procedures for the Raiser's Edge, Financial Edge, Net Community, and Education Edge databases.  Coordinated operational procedures within the development  department, data and other departments in regards to the database and administrative procedures.  Created and implemented Moves Management procedures, policies,  documentation and training in fostering donors.  Managed the operational structure and flow of information through departments and tracked within the database for moves management.  Data analysis for development and outreach departments, support with fundraising and membership engagement.  Trained all employees on database procedures and best practices.  Managed data integration processes between databases.  Coordinated donation data entry, donor acknowledgment processes, and parish membership.  Maintained the upkeep of the Raiser's Edge, Financial Edge, NetCommunity and support upkeep of the Education Edge.  Supported the Communication department with Net Community, Website, changes, and updates.  Supported all departments with data entry and data analysis.  SLIATED TCATNOC    - Mobile: 818-568-4762 EDUCATIONAL CONSULTANT Blackbaud, Inc - Mission Hills, CA 2005 to 2009 Train clients on multiple fundraising and educational databases.  On-site consulting on best practices for using databases and fundraising techniques, operations and integration of products.  On-site consulting and creating of policy and procedure manuals  Coordinate onsite custom training for clients and handle client  satisfaction calls and follow-up  Work with courseware department to assist in class designs.  Specifically created a class for executives.    DEVELOPMENT, MARKETING, PROGRAM ASSOC. Volunteer recruitment, training, and placement Cancer Support Community - WLA 2000 to 2005 2000 - 2005    Marketed all programs and program events through press releases, public service announcements, and organization branding.  Event planning and coordination.  Assisted the Program Director with program evaluations, questionnaire development, and database management. Collect and  analyze data from participants.  Increased community awareness of CSC services by cultivating  relationships with local hospitals and non-profit organizations.  Volunteer recruitment, training, and placement.  Responsible for contacting and meeting with new participants, educating them about CSC and getting them involved in the program.  Grant writing and submissions.  Administration duties including project management, budget  SLLIKS management, and internal office communications.    -Microsoft Office  -The Raisers Edge