Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - CosmoPortals Gaithersburg, MD I am an Oracle DBA with 2 years practical hands-on experience in very large scale database environment and mission critical OLTP systems. I have worked as Oracle Database Administrator in the development, testing and production environments. I have experience in managing Oracle RDBMS on Microsoft Windows 2003, 2008 R2, NIX-based OS servers (such as RHEL) and ASM setup. I have experience in Installation, Troubleshooting and maintaining Oracle 11gR2 databases. I have great understanding of backup and recovery strategies to insure database availability and recoverability. I am proficient in automating database backups through Oracle Linux shell scripts, excellent skills in upgrade, migration and applying quarterly patches. I have extensive experience in Database Backups using RMAN (Full/Incremental backups).I have excellent monitoring and tuning skills on Windows and nix platforms. I am familiar with tools like TOP, VMSTAT, AWR, ADDM and ASH when engaging in performance tuning tasks. I am a highly motivated professional who works very well with cross-functional team members. I have excellent skills in User/Schema management and capacity planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cosmoportals Inc - Silver Spring, MD October 2015 to Present Installed and configured Oracle 12c RAC(real application cluster) and also, created pluggable database (pdbs)  Setup oracle 12c dataguard on RAC(Real Application Cluster)  Installed and configured Oracle 11g /10g RAC using ASM for storage, conducted daily incremental and weekly full backups using RMAN, and also performed database cloning with RMAN  Administered and supported Oracle version 11g R2 on Linux (RHEL) and Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and 2008 platforms  Upgraded oracle GI and RDBMS (grid infrastructure) from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4   Applied patches to Oracle Databases using Opatch utility and upgraded databases manually.  Successfully architected and implemented RAC 11gR2 databases on RHEL platforms with remote Data Guard (11gR2 physical stand by) for supporting large mission critical environment  Refresh/manually cloned database from production to testing environment to test backup and recovery  Administer Automatic Storage Management (ASM) on Linux (red hat 5.4) platform utilizing fail groups and stamped disks.  Supported activities including performance tuning exercises, backup and recovery, installations and upgrades, replication and disaster recovery, scripting, data loading, and data reporting.  Quickly resolve performance related issues as well as performance tuning of assigned databases using snap shots run from AWR report  Identified System Bottlenecks via top utility to resolve performance issues at the OS level  Monitoring, administering and troubleshooting database issues using OEM Grid, Toad, SQL Developer, and SQL command line  Developed a RAC Systems Design Document detailing the implementation of RAC architecture in High Availability using the entire technology stack (GI, RDBMS, OS) Internship Chaveran Inc. - Bowie, MD January 2014 to October 2014 Installed and configured Oracle 11g on both windows and Linux servers.  Ensure that all aspects of database environment(s) are OFA compliant (giving environment limitations)  Schema -object management and User Security implementation.  Configured ASM with normal and high redundancy.  Troubleshoot and resolve various database issues including space management  Used datapump import/export utility for logical backup and migration   Restored and recovered Oracle Database files using hot/cold backup techniques  Scheduled/automated backup using CRON utility  Performed hot/cold backup solutions using RMAN  Reinstated a damaged datafile from an image copy that experienced media failure  Implemented integrity constraints to preserve data integrity in application.  Implemented database security through profiles, resources, roles, auditing and password  Enhanced incremental backup performance by implementing Block-Change Tracking   Automated database administration routines for backup and recovery Education Master's in Information Technology University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD September 2016 to August 2018 BSc in Information Technology Pentecost University Ghana Skills SQL Plus ? Shell Scriptng ? Oracle 10g/11g Administration ? Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Opatch ? Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) ? Installation on Windows, Linux, UNIX ? Cross Platform Migration ? Datapump Exports & Imports ? RMAN Backup, Restore and Recovery ? GNU/Linux OS - Red Hat and OEL ? SQL Loader ? Oracle ASM Administration ? Installation on Windows, Linux, UNIX ? Oracle Upgrade Implementation ? Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) Certifications/Licenses OCA