Program Manager, Office of Personnel Management Program Manager, Office of Personnel Management Program Manager, Office of Personnel Management - Salient CRGT Waldorf, MD Over 30 years of Project and Program Management experience. Strong technical background as Database Administrator, Architect, and Software Engineer. Certified Project Management Professional (PMP). Work Experience Program Manager, Office of Personnel Management Salient CRGT - Fairfax, VA January 2017 to Present Manage all aspects of database administration support for the National Background Investigation Bureau (NBIB), Office of Personnel Management. Provide 24/7/365 availability of 19 critical database systems on various platforms, including Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, and ADABAS. Responsible for all program management activities including managing task order performance, budget and financial performance for multi-year contracts worth over $13 million. Supervise 12 Database Administrators.  • Lead multiple, concurrently running initiatives.  • Maintain close communication and coordination with the Chief, Database Management Branch, the COR, and all other system stakeholders within the National Background Investigation Bureau (NBIB) and for other supported systems.  • Maintain knowledge of ongoing NBIB initiatives to anticipate, plan, and deliver DBA support.  • Create and maintain DBA project plans using MS Project.  • Create and maintain required Management Reports using MS Word, SharePoint, Confluence, Jira, and MS PowerPoint.  • Determine priority activities and projects for each system.  • Leverage DBA experience for technical support and to keep abreast of the status of all systems.  • Monitor and coordinate DBA support and troubleshooting efforts.  • Maintain current, expert knowledge of the Enterprise Change Management process to ensure timely approval of Database projects.  • Attend IT PMO Change Request review meetings, ERB, CRB, and DRR meetings as required and prepare all necessary documents to support the Enterprise Change Management process.  • Plan DBA deployment activities. Conduct Pre-Deployment reviews. Keep the stakeholders well  informed of planned deployments.  • Keep data security as a primary focus. Project/ Program Manager, Database Administrator Serco Inc - Reston, VA August 2000 to December 2016 Managed task orders, budget and financial performance for contracts worth over $8 million supporting the General Services Administration. Supervised 10 technical staff. Designed and developed Sybase databases supporting various GSA applications. Integrated multiple technologies and COTS products. Lead the design and development teams in the proper application of system designs for current and future technologies. Used PowerDesigner, TOAD Data Modeler, SQLDeveloper, and Microsoft Visio for modeling tasks. Our efforts resulted in a 300% increase in the rate of data processing.  Project Manager, Database Architect, and Developer for financial and performance management systems supporting the National Park Service Office of the Comptroller. Managed all aspects of performance for contracts worth over $3 million dollars. Managed a staff of 9 persons. Database Administrator for 6 Oracle 11g databases, supporting up to 350 concurrent users. Developed web services, created screens and reports using Oracle Developer Tools and Crystal Reports. Used Oracle Designer to model and construct the initial system architecture. Documented database design using ERWin and Visio.  Supervised 5 Help Desk staff and 1Web Designer supporting the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). Managed and staffed multiple contracts worth over $3 million. Ensured proper maintenance of clearances for Direct Hires and Subcontractors. Supervised 1 LAN/ IT Support Specialist supporting Customs and Border Protection, Office of Training Development. Managed task order and financial performance for contracts worth over $500,000 dollars. Consulting Manager, Software Developer SI International - Reston, VA January 1997 to March 2000 Designed and developed applications for Celgene Corporation, supporting Pharmaceutical, Financial, Sales, and Call Center business functions, using Oracle tools. The system supported over 200 users. Performed an Independent Verification and Validation (IVV) of the Case Tracking System for the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA). Presented methodology and findings, and recommended mitigations. As a result, the client reported no Year 2000 related issues. Provided technical guidance and supervision to 5 software developers supporting the Department of Justice. Developed reports and forms for various systems using Oracle tools and COGNOS software. Developed curriculum, created illustrated training manuals, and conducted 40 4-day classes on SQL*Plus, Oracle database and Reports tools, training over 300 technical staff and management analysts. Presented technical seminars at 3 annual Systems Managers Conferences before audiences of over 120 Senior Staff. U.S. Army Officer, Healthcare Administrator, Personnel Manager United States Army February 1986 to January 1997 Responsible for all aspects of Human Resource Administration including staffing, position classification, payroll, education and training, performance appraisals. Managed personnel operations for a 120-bed hospital and 14 clinics. Conducted staffing audit, developed a successful plan to comply with a government furlough and downsizing of 140 positions. Streamlined compensation and evaluation processes, resulting in 19% increase in timeliness and accuracy rates. Technical lead for Human Resource Information System that tracked over 1300 employees. Developed financial, personnel, and logistical applications using Oracle Reports, Oracle Forms and MS Access. Education Master of Science in Business Administration Boston University Bachelor of Science in Biology Penn State University Skills Adabas, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle forms, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Erwin, Perl, Visio, Macromedia, Sharepoint, Configuration management, Jira, Linux, Red hat Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) June 2009 to Present Project Management Professional (PMP) Oracle Certified Application Developer December 1996 to Present Oracle Certified Application Developer Additional Information Technical Skills  • Development Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  • Configuration Management and Collaboration: SharePoint, Confluence, Jira, Remedy, SBM  • Relational Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase, Oracle Enterprise Manager  • Mainframe Databases and Technologies: ADABAS, Natural  • Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux, UNIX, MS Windows, Windows Server  • Programming Languages: SQL, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, T/SQL, JSP, JSF, PHP, Unix, Java, Perl  • Modeling Tools: Oracle Designer, Sybase Power Designer, ErWin, TOAD, Visio.  • Developer Tools: TOAD for Oracle/Sybase, Oracle Reports Oracle Forms, Oracle JDeveloper, SQL Developer, Oracle Application Express, WordPress, Adobe/Macromedia CS3, Microsoft Publisher