Business Intelligence Consultant Business Intelligence Consultant Business Intelligence Consultant - Monsanto Akron, OH ? Seasoned professional with vast technical and project management experience that spans multiple industries including IT, banking, energy, logistics, mortgage, agriculture and research.  ? 5+ years of post-MSc experience in analysis, development, administration, implementation, support, service delivery and project management of IT infrastructure, IT solutions, business intelligence, data warehouse and database solutions.  ? Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, an excellent team player accustomed to work in an environment with tight schedules and capable of working efficiently under pressure and managing multiple projects.  ? Strong knowledge of systems/software development life cycle either through waterfall or agile methodologies  ? Strong leadership and team building skills with ability to coordinate across functional groups to accomplish objectives and meet critical deadlines.  ? Experience in establishing standards and best practices for enterprise wide deployment, development and management of BI solutions within organizations.  ? Hands on experience in installation, administration and configuration of business intelligence tools like TIBCO Spotfire, Tableau, QlikView and Power BI  ? Hands on experience in using SharePoint application for collaboration, content management and workflow designer  ? Involved in Tableau platform upgrades and installation in single and clustered environments  ? Good knowledge of business process modeling/mapping using UML and BPMN notation for process improvement initiatives.  ? Providing technical and analytical expertise in responding to complex, specialized report requests requiring complex business logics and detail-level data analysis.  ? Providing 24X7 Operational/Application support for business critical applications.  ? Good working knowledge of Oracle 8.x/9.x,10.x/11.x, SQL server 2008, SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Have working experience on different platforms Windows, AWS, UNIX and Linux.  ? Good understanding of network architecture and networking protocols  ? Involved in all phases of testing, which includes Unit Testing, Performance Testing, system Testing and Integration Testing.  ? Extensive experience in troubleshooting, performance tuning and supporting business applications and reporting solutions. Work Experience Business Intelligence Consultant Monsanto - St. Louis, MO June 2016 to Present Monsanto is a multinational agrochemical and agricultural biotechnology corporation. A leading producer of genetically engineered seed, roundup and glyphosate-based herbicide. The company is committed to creating and providing innovative solutions to help nourish and feed the growing world population.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Lead report development initiatives by modeling, creating, publishing and managing dashboard reports within the planning organization.  ? Act as the project lead for all BI initiatives within the supply planning organization  ? Involved in planning, estimating, executing, testing, streamlining and delivering projects and infrastructure changes.  ? Collaborate with other teams (IT, business users) and stakeholders to identify business KPI's and create reports to measure and monitor them to enhance decision making.  ? Ensuring BI initiatives and resources are prioritized to align with the business objectives of the supply planning organization  ? Establishing a framework for report development by introducing standard and best practices for existing reporting platforms.  ? Organizing user trainings on usage of existing or newly created reports and deployed BI tools.  ? Modeling report by identifying different data sources, data points, data extraction, data consolidation and data transformation.  ? Develop report metrics to measure demand and supply planning efficiency and variability.  ? Improve user experience by modifying existing reports to be more user-friendly using HTML and inbuilt advanced functionalities in Spotfire, Tableau and QlikView.  ? Automation of report and dashboard updates in Spotfire using Iron Pythons, Spotfire service automation and Spotfire web player  Tools: TIBCO Spotfire 7/7.5, Tableau, SQL Server 2013, Oracle 11g/10g, SharePoint 2010/2013, Teradata, Teradata Studio Express, AWS, SAP, SAP Power Designer, Seedbin, QlikView, Toad and PowerBI, Microsoft Project Microsoft Teams Data Management Analyst (Consultant) Federal National Mortgage Association - Washington, DC May 2014 to April 2016 FannieMae is one of the biggest mortgage companies in the U.S.A and operates in the secondary mortgage market by securitizing mortgages in the form of mortgage-backed securities, allowing lenders to reinvest their assets into more lending.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for leading report development initiatives within the Enterprise Data Governance unit.  ? Participated in project planning sessions with management and end users to analyze business requirements for real-time and historical reports and dashboards.  ? Automation and process streamlining of all reports using Tibco Spotfire and Tableau  ? Creating enterprise wide compliance reports biweekly and monthly for management's performance tracking and decision making.  ? Involved in requirements gathering sessions with various business units to develop any requested Key performance tracking reports.  ? Involved in the establishment and creation of an enterprise wide reporting framework and best practices governing reporting and metrics generation.  ? Creating easily understandable reports and meaningful insights by utilizing various visualizations from simple bar charts to complex waterfall charts and predictive modeling.  ? Established preconfigured connection to various data sources using the Information Designer  ? Documentation and creation of guidelines and step by step instructions for every report created within the Enterprise Data Governance Unit.  ? Documentation and creation of business process flows using Visio and BPMN notation and UML 2.  ? Created project sites, document libraries, work flow processes and managed user access lists and permissions using SharePoint 2013  ? Maintenance and administration of in-house compliance database (Access 2001/20013).  ? Involved in Analysis, design, development and testing of EAI application.  ? Analysis, profiling and validation of data using tools such as Toad, Sql developer and Microsoft Excel.  ? Responsible for creating dynamic and adhoc reports using TIBCO Spotfire.  Tools: TIBCO Spotfire 5.5,7, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g/10g, SharePoint 2010/2013, Microsoft Visio, Toad IT Project Lead/Technical Support Supervisor Oando Plc May 2007 to December 2011 Largest indigenous oil and gas company in sub-Saharan Africa with listings in London, South Africa and Canada Stock Exchange.    Roles and Responsibilities:  IT Project Lead  ? Facilitated interview sessions to identify Business rules and Requirements and then document them in a format that can be reviewed and understood by both business and technical teams.  ? Acted as IT technical project lead on all IT/Business related projects  ? Extensive experience working with End Users, Business System Analysts in understanding their requirements, assisting in providing technical solutions and implementing them.  ? Coordinated document migration and uploading from numerous shared location to a central SharePoint repository    ? Experience using object oriented design and development methodologies (e.g. UML, Use Case)  ? Usage of MS project and Primavera to plan, monitor and report project performance and update.  ? Highly skilled in performing project assessment using the matrix approach  ? Assisted in documenting the business flowchart, user manual and technical manual.  ? Involved in the proof of concept and assessment of the tableau visualization tool before final adoption    Technical Support Supervisor  ? Acted as lead IT support officer within the organization with responsibilities for managing of resources and recommending training for IT Staff within my unit.  ? Developed Procedures and Packages for populating the data from different Databases.  ? Analyzed Database Objects and involved in Performance Tuning of long running queries.  ? Use of various types of SQL Joins, Views, Synonyms and Sequences.  ? Involved in creation of enterprise site hierarchy nomenclature and implementation in SharePoint  ? Coordinated and collaborated with technical engineers to ensure, availability, reliability and scalability of corporate servers to meet business demands  ? Worked to ensure that the department meets and exceeds user expectations about system services in line with SLAs  ? Design and developed PL/SQL procedures and functions to retrieve data from backend.  ? Designed and deployed visualizations for the IT group and all other supported business units  ? Responsible for end user training and scheduling    Tools: Oracle 10g, Oracle Developer, SQL/PL SQL, Tableau 4/5, Tableau Server, Windows, MS Project '07/10, Primavera, MS SharePoint 2007, MS Office Suite '07/10. Oracle Developer/ Database Administrator Unity Bank Plc July 2005 to April 2007 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Developing SQL*Reports  ? Creation of schema objects i.e. Developed tables, views in the Oracle Database also created indexes, sequences, constraints and partitions.  ? Developed various database objects like Tables, Views and Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages by using SQL*Plus, PL/SQL in Oracle  ? Using SQL*LOADER to load input data into the database tables.  ? Perform coding, implementation and testing according to the company's methodology after analyzing user's requirements.  ? Used Export and Import Oracle Utilities to Move Tables between Schemas  ? Create indexes to improve performance and discuss SQL query tuning with the DBA.  ? Used various levels of triggers and procedures to validate the data at each level.  ? Monitor application related jobs and data replication activities.  ? Extensively involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages.  ? Performed Nightly, Weekly and Monthly Data Backups of Oracle Database  ? Maintaining and administration of the development, testing and production environment    Tools: Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle Developer, SQL, Windows, MS Office Suite '03/07. Education Masters of Science in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management The University of Akron - Akron, OH December 2013 Bachelors of Science in Engineering Physics Obafemi Awolowo University June 2001 Skills Ms access, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Qlikview, Business Process