Transport Engineer Transport Engineer Transport Engineer Walnut, CA Work Experience Transport Engineer Randstad - Irvine, CA 2016 to 2019 Design lit/aggregated SONET, Dark Fiber ring, CRAN, Remote BBU and Microwave fronthaul  and backhaul with Granite/Xng Adaptive inventory.  • Create and issue work orders for new site build, transport type migrations and service disconnect.  • Create and issue a connection diagram for fiber installers.  • Update SiteTracker and Site IP addresses.  • Implement and maintain the Verizon Wireless 3G and 4G switched and routed networks:  network integration and maintenance.  • Manage and update database that consists of all the traffic within a switching facility down to a T1 level  using XNG and using Xperweb as a viewer.  • Build tools and diagrams to define and support Core network engineers and assist in the development  and planning of the future network.  • Develop project by conducting requirements gathering, design sessions and technical reviews with customers. Manage and maintain reports during the life of the project.  • Gather data from different sources, analyze it, and present the analysis result to upper management. Senior Reporting Analyst T-Mobile - Denver, CO 2015 to 2016 • Worked with functional leads and finance to identify opportunities for cost reductions and avoidance by creating data models with pivot tables and graphical reports.  • Created and deployed targeted category strategies supported by robust analysis and research.  • Designed, deployed and monitored indirect procurement metrics.  • Created and/or ran reports from various database platform to provide actionable data and interactive dashboards.  • Conducted requirements gathering, design sessions and technical reviews with customers. Business Data Analyst Nexius - Costa Mesa, CA 2014 to 2015 • Performed data mining, analysis and reporting to support multiple projects.  • Designed, developed, and administered reports, dashboards and reporting portals.  • Developed effective data visualizations for presentations.  • Performed various statistical analyses using data drawn from diverse sources to map and identify  genuine trends and relationships.  • Identified data quality and consistency issues and work with other teams to improve data collection  and processing.  • Maintained nationwide AccuV database. Implementation Manager Ericsson, Inc - Irvine, CA 2012 to 2014 • Managed daily project schedule for cell site integration to make sure reach the completion date.  • Researched and provided Alarm report for troubleshooting purposes.  • Added all sites with alarms into schedule for troubleshooting.  • Managed the development and maintenance of network communications. Utilized knowledge on LTE/LAN/WAN systems to help design and install internal and external networks.  • Created and maintained Master Tracker.  • Managed data integrity. Created and developed high level reports.  • Troubleshot and diagnosed a nonfunctional, multi-layered, switched network, and rectifying proper, network operations through the use of a switching device and external management tools.  • Part of Ericsson team to support Verizon Wireless Network design engineering that was  responsible for providing network configuration, integration, and troubleshooting for Southern  California area. Database Engineering Manager/Information Technology Manager Velotera Communications, Inc - Garden Grove, CA 2010 to 2012 Responsible for managing all data on cell-site network and connection for all sites in southern California  from OC12 to DS1.  • Maintained the existing tracker and converted the tracker from Excel to live database in SharePoint.  • Managed and created cut sheets illustrating Microwave Network for San Diego and Las Vegas market.  • Resolved network configuration problem for data accessing to various switches as well as DCS and microwave radio.  • Built all necessary microwave equipment to reflect current network.  • Maintained the accuracy of Xng database.  • Managed the FTP, SharePoint and mail server.  • Maintained security integrity of all network connection to the server.  • Troubleshot and diagnosed a nonfunctional, multi-layered, switched network, and rectifying proper, network operations through the use of a switching device and external management tools.  • Proficient in constructing, installing, configuring and troubleshooting multiple IBM compatible computers  and Macintosh. Network Design Engineer IV Randstad - Irvine, CA 2008 to 2010 Created and managed cut sheets covering various migration projects. Cut sheets illustrating pre/post  network configuration topologies.  • Part of a team of Verizon Wireless Network design engineering that was responsible for providing  network configuration, integration, and troubleshooting for southern California area.  • Built the network for OC-n/DS1 end-to-end circuit design into network configuration database. Including  various architectures such us: E911, SGSN, AMU, UMTS, GPRS/GSM, ATER/ALINK and TDMA.  • Validated and resolved network configuration data accessing various types of switches as well as DCS  (Digital Cross-connect), including Lucent, Nortel, Ericsson, Alcatel and Tellabs. Senior Database Project Manager/Transport Engineer Technology Associates International Corp - Los Alamitos, CA 2005 to 2008 Responsible for gathering all data on cell-site network and connection for all the site that need to have  batteries back up replace to meet the FCC requirement.  • Maintained the existing tracker and converted the tracker from Excel to InfoPath for Power 8 project.  • Managed and created cut sheets illustrating Microwave Network for San Diego and Las Vegas market.  • Resolved network configuration problem for data accessing to various switches as well as DCS and microwave radio.  • Built all necessary microwave equipment to reflect current network.  • Maintained the accuracy of current Xng database. Transport Engineer Randstad - Cerritos, CA 2003 to 2005 Created and managed cut sheets covering various migration projects. Cut sheets illustrating pre/post  network configuration topologies  • Managed the input of all equipments and paths in Xng database.  • Devised procedures and documentation to establish connectivity between the switch to Telco and ensure  accurate entry of the information into the circuit inventory database that accelerated the time of the completion. Transport Engineer Database Randstad - Santa Fe Springs, CA 2000 to 2001 Responsible for gathering of all data about the cell-site network and connection from Switch engineer, Transport Engineer and Operations. Used Windows NT 4.0 base operating system to connect to server  at different location through Cisco router.  • Implemented NT scripts for user authentication, and network application access.  • Managed and updated the database consists of all of the traffic with in a switching facility down to a T1  level used Citrix base program call Xpercom (Xng) and used Xperweb as viewer.  • Verified all data via accessing the various types of switches as well as DCS (Digital Cross-connect). This  equipment would include Lucent, Nortel, Ericsson, Alcatel & Tellabs.  • Resolved and corrected the records to reflect the true configuration of these networks. As well as T1  acceptance, turning up trunks and trouble shooting with different vendors  • Worked on a project with AT&T Wireless by the name of TED (Transport Engineering Database). IT Administrator Silicon Avenue Inc - Fullerton, CA 1999 to 2000 • Part of a team of administrators responsible for providing network configuration, integration, and troubleshooting services for small business and end user clients located in the southern California area.  • Provided network analysis, determined bandwidth utilization, simplified IP addressing schemes, and configured appropriate services in networked environment. Configured services included DHCP, DNS,  and WINS in a client server Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 2000 environment.  • Proficient in configuring various interfaces including Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Serial, and Point-to-Point.  • Desktop support for peripherals including installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of Hewlett  Packard and Clone systems on Windows 9x platform, Rockwell modems, Ezonics USB webcams, and Sony digital video equipment. Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering Technology in Electronics Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Anaheim, CA 1996 to 2000 Skills PIVOT TABLES, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, EXCEL, MICROSOFT EXCEL, TRAINING Additional Information GENERAL SKILLS    • Over twenty years of experience in network engineering, administration, project management, training,  desktop support, technical support.  • Analytical thinker that consistently resolves ongoing issues with the ability to work on multiple  simultaneous projects.  • Ability to effectively communicate with senior management, technical staff, third-party vendors, and  non-technical end users.  • Highly motivated, interpersonal, focused, and team-oriented.  • Ability to meet tight deadlines and identify priorities; accomplish assigned responsibilities and solve  problems.  • Highly experienced in Granite Web XNG and Client.  • Highly experienced in Microsoft Excel: programming using macros and advanced functions (VLookUps, Index Match, Pivot tables, etc.)