Founder, President, CEO Founder, President, CEO Founder, President, CEO - Eboro Seattle, WA Work Experience Founder, President, CEO Eboro - Seattle, WA April 2018 to Present Launched this startup to address pain points in the clean energy market. Also providing IT consulting services and technical services for local area businesses. Full stack software development w/ ASP.NET MVC.    My role here is best summarized as 'wearer of all hats'.    • Competed in US DOE American Made Solar Prize Competition  • Applied for WA state Clean Energy Fund III grant, made it to second round of applications Sr. Software Developer Mesa Mundi - Sharon, MA April 2014 to August 2015 Recruited to develop business strategy, responsibilities ranged widely over the scope of business activities.    • Reported directly to CEO, major efforts included working to consolidate product lines to better fit  organizational capabilities and resource constraints.  • Developed roadmap for major rewrite of a core product using a modern engine. Implemented, this would  have significantly improved the development team's productivity. Sr. Software Developer Tech USA - Kennedy Space Center, FL February 2013 to February 2014 Recruited by Tech USA, a staffing firm, for Abacus Technology, which held the IMCS contract at Kennedy Space  Center. Developed and maintained, as a contractor on that project, software applications in support of various  Center teams.    • Advised Abacus leadership, as only non-employee member of Abacus Technology's Technology Steering  Committee. Specific technology recommendations were adopted for use in all new projects.  • Developed solution as part of agile team that won a "Best of 2013" award from Kennedy Space Center.  • Developed and implemented plan for limited modernization of mission-critical system, which involved  coordinating work with the Air Force and several departments around the center    * Indicates this was a startup company.  Technology Management MBA Innovation Strategy Analysis  • Approached after departure by Abacus to explore possibility of launching a contracting firm to partner with Abacus on future contract awards. Discussions came to a halt as the funding climate at NASA deteriorated. Computer Programmer III Nakuuruq Solutions - Panama City Beach, FL August 2012 to February 2013 Provided IT support at a Naval Surface Warfare Center in Panama City Beach as member of a team modernizing the intranet.    • Developed modern replacements for legacy web applications.  • Managed team conflict which would arise as responsibilities and roles shifted for some of the long-term  staff. Resolved through mutual buy-in and investment in the project as a "win" for everyone involved. US Army, Active Duty and Reserves July 2011 to October 2012 CEO / Co-Founder Beachhead Engineering - Orlando, FL January 2011 to February 2012 Co-founded this startup with Army colleague, intending to develop an IT consulting business in Orlando while pursuing MBA at University of Central Florida. Various issues led to dissolution of the partnership within months.    • Tested the wisdom of advice such as "Don't go into business with friends" with practical field exercises. NCO December 2005 to December 2010 Primary duties included conducting SIGINT missions in CONUS and deployed environments, both at the strategic  and tactical level; preparing target packages and intelligence summaries based on SIGINT/GMA and national  asset databases. Was frequently cited for using technical background and capabilities to create novel solutions to enhance mission performance. Service concluded with an Honorable Discharge.    • Directly contributed to actionable intelligence in support of OIF/OEF.  • Produced intelligence reports and near real-time analysis supporting ground troops.  • Maintained mission-critical systems and developed custom programming to enhance system performance.  • Developed customized test system to isolate the cause of operational errors, which resulted the system gaining  a significant increase in performance.  • Provided training and mentoring to peers and junior soldiers in systems, tasks, and technologies.  • Prepared training material for use by peers, juniors, and supervisors.  • During deployment was cited by both commanders, soldiers, and civilian consultants for efforts providing  assistance beyond the team, directly enhancing the productivity of the entire unit. Business Intelligence Analyst California Pizza Kitchen - Los Angeles, CA April 2005 to December 2005 Hired during rapid organizational growth, as CPK was seeking IT solutions that would enable it to scale  effectively. Worked closely with consultants to manage growth and complex systems integrations.    • Pushed for data warehousing implementation which resulted in decreased report run times from hours to minutes.  • Planned and implemented high-availability architecture for mission-critical databases. Database Administrator Autry Museum of the American West - Los Angeles, CA December 2004 to March 2005 Established best practices for data management working closely with development staff. Programmer Analyst Hixardt Technologies - Pensacola, FL April 2002 to October 2004 Recruited by CEO of Hixardt, a technology solutions provider, as the third employee. Acted in consultative role with customers, managing customer relationships, business development, and service delivery.    • Worked with contract development team, advising on technical details and company capabilities.    * Indicates this was a startup company.  Technology Management MBA Innovation Strategy Analysis  • Conducted interviews with client organization staff, learning their existing processes, skill sets, and work  environment, developing not just working solutions, but appropriate ones. Application Administrator Network Telephone - Pensacola, FL January 2000 to August 2001 Hired as a report writer, duties expanded rapidly to match demonstrated capabilities. Exercised broad  responsibility for business intelligence relating to service provisioning, training, infrastructure, and sales.    • Developed reporting infrastructure for Network Telephone from ground up.  • Frequently submitted bug fixes and software patches to infrastructure application vendor's development team.  • Performed NPV analysis of project proposals, potentially saving >$300,000 and a year of development time.  • Identified training gaps, reducing error rates and training failures, while increasing customer satisfaction.  • Established inter-departmental working group to manage critical resources that de-escalated a major source of conflict, resulting in a shift from zero-sum thinking to a more collaborative, team-oriented attitude.    * Indicates this was a startup company. Education Master of Business Administration in Technology Management University of Washington, Foster School of Business - Seattle, WA June 2017 Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy University of West Florida, College of Arts, Social Sciences - Pensacola, FL 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/aaronbodmer Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SGT December 2010 to December 2010 SIGINT Analyst. Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qwo2ftbpc5xr8jeq Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/e-b4ivnctku-8if6 Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7rpfcrw0v8kycyoj Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5xwyxccjfuijnl-x Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f1mxqif2jywzmum7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.