Lead Database Administrator -telecommute Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> -telecommute Lead Database Administrator Winnetka, CA IT Professional with over 22 years of experience as a Database Administrator, designing, managing and tuning a range of Online Transaction Processing, Data Warehouse and Operational Data Stores. Highly skilled with SQL Server, Oracle and Oracle Rdb. Consistently engineering solutions to meet and exceed exacting customer requirements for system security, resilience and performance. Known for speedy complex problem solving as well as a proactive, adaptive approach in dealing with both customers and system issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator -telecommute Xerox - Long Beach, CA 2010 to 2019 In charge of SQL Server (2005-2014), Oracle (10 & 11 on Windows) and Oracle Rdb (6 & 7 on VMS) systems.  o Performed version upgrades and patching of SQL Server, Oracle and Oracle Rdb systems.  o Configured and supported SQL Server clustered environment and applied rolling updates  o Redesigned the core system backup procedures resulting in a 60% reduction in time taken.  o Migrated all SQL Server databases over to virtual machines (VMware).  o Led project to encrypt all database data, both in transit and at rest.  o Rewrote Oracle backup routines to utilize RMAN.  o Produced a suite of audit reports usable on any of the Oracle databases for the Audit and Compliance departments  o Worked with the Audit Dept to provide all requested system information for external audits.  o Developed centralized monitoring and reporting system for SQL Server scheduled jobs.  o Worked on conversion of old DTS packages to SSIS.  o Installed and supported SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  o Worked on project to implement SQL Server replication.  o Wrote and tested Disaster Recovery procedures for SQL Server, Oracle and Oracle Rdb systems.  o Performed extensive performance tuning both on databases and SQL code.  o Performed multiple real disaster recoveries of SQL Server, Oracle and Oracle Rdb systems after corruptions  caused by database software bug and UPS system failure.  o Performed code reviews and provided support for developers  o Provided on call support for all database platforms. Senior Database Administrator Health Net - Woodland Hills, CA 1998 to 2009 Database Administrator for Oracle and Oracle Rdb databases. Implementing system enhancements and providing  technical support to application teams.  o Designed, built and tuned the Transaction Repository database, an Oracle RAC based system that provided a consolidated single source for the corporate website, call centre and EDI systems. Based on SOA architecture it  was accessed through common objects via TIBCO and sourced via active replication from multiple core systems  based on DB2, SQL Server and Oracle Rdb.  o Lead DBA for all Developmental Oracle Rdb and Oracle databases on VMS platform.  o Upgraded Transaction Repository to use Oracle RAC architecture, enhancing failover functionality and improving  system uptime.  o Re-engineered problematic, third party-developed system, replacing underperforming code and improving process  flows.  o Completed a Data Centre move to Sacramento involving the rebuilding of all core Production Oracle and Oracle  Rdb databases onto new machines.  o Developed reusable utility routines, reducing application team development time and increasing standardization of code.  o Fixed performance issues on a SQL Server system leading to an 80% performance improvement.  o Created and supported Data Mirror replications, providing users with real-time data.  o Worked with multi-terabyte databases containing tables with hundreds of millions or rows.  o Created and maintained partitioned tables.  o Authored and tested backup and disaster recovery plans.  o Fully acquainted with HIPAA requirements. Education BSc in Physics Leeds University Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Rman, Ssis, Sql Database, RAC, ETL Additional Information Skills  o SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000, Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8/7 and Oracle Rdb 7 & 6.  o Expertise with entire database system life cycle (planning to implementation and support) using a variety of  methodologies - Waterfall, Agile and DevOps.  o Skilled in logical and physical data modelling.  o Installation, upgrading and patching of Oracle, SQL Server and Oracle Rdb databases.  o Creation and support of high availability systems utilizing SQL Server clustering, Oracle RAC and VMS  clustering.  o Replication using SQL Server Replication and Data Mirror.  o Well versed in T-SQL and PL/SQL for the creation of triggers, functions, procedures and packages.  o Disaster recovery (biannual practice) and backups maintenance  o Able to use analysis and monitoring tools such as Quest Spotlight and Solarwinds Database Performance  Analyzer as well as Oracle utilities - Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database  Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) to monitor, analyze and quickly resolve issues.  o Data load (SQL Server BCP, Oracle SQL Loader and Data Pump) and integration (Informatica).  o Use of partitioning and materialized views in Oracle  o Experience working with Windows, UNIX (Sun Solaris), VMS and VMware platforms.