Infrastructure Director, Application Infrastructure Hosting, Compute Infrastructure Director, Application Infrastructure Hosting, Compute Infrastructure Director, Application Infrastructure Hosting, Compute Bennett, CO Work Experience Infrastructure Director, Application Infrastructure Hosting, Compute Catholic Health Initiatives - Englewood, CO October 2015 to August 2017 Englewood, CO, October 2015 to August 2017.  • Governance and budgetary responsibility for over thirty data centers in nineteen states. This included facilities infrastructure, servers, storage, operating systems, hypervisors, Network in certain locations and databases. The environment runs multiple Electronic Medical Record platforms, including Cerner, Epic, Meditech, Allscripts and McKesson.  • Oversight and Governance for the outsourced IT Operations infrastructure environment. This included Server and Storage Management, Email and Messaging, Database Administration, Data Center Operations, UNIX, VMware and Data Protection.  • Responsible for planning and management of multiple Operating and Capital budgets in the tens of millions of dollars each.  • Primary IT Sponsor and leadership on multiple projects engaged in massive infrastructure transformation and refresh across all towers in Technical Services.  • Primary IT Sponsor and leadership for the complete migration of a major hospital system Data Center to a Co-Location facility  • Responsible for Vendor Management, Selection and negotiation for all Data Center environment vendors, Including EMC, HPE, Microsoft, Oracle, Veritas, IBM, and Cisco. Catholic Health Initiatives - Englewood, CO February 2010 to August 2017 Health Care. Platform Manager - IT Technical Services Catholic Health Initiatives - Englewood, CO December 2012 to October 2015 • Responsible for the management of Data Center, Windows Server, VMware, eMail, UNIX, SAN, DBA, Mainframe, Disaster Recovery and Backup platforms in an enterprise wide, outsourced IT Technical Services environment.  • Responsibility for all vendor contracts for maintenance, budgeting and purchasing for all environments.  • Extensively involved in infrastructure projects as a technical sponsor.  • Liaison between the Company and the outsourced organization in my managerial towers.  • Primary tower manager for all the listed environments, and managed the transition to the outsourcing company for these environments. Manager, Servers - UNIX, SAN, DBA - Technical Services Catholic Health Initiatives - Denver, CO September 2010 to December 2012 • Managed two supervisors and their teams in the UNIX and DBA disciplines, and directly managed an additional four Storage Administration Technicians.  • Responsible for environment design and architecture, as well as ordering and budget management for all hardware and software in the UNIX, SAN and Database environments.  • Developed strong, positive relationships with all levels of management across numerous application and infrastructure environments throughout ITS.  • Vendor negotiation for hardware, software and professional services engagement pricing.  • Successfully managed two full storage environment refreshes. All of the storage at Mercy Hospital in Des Moines, and the full CLARiiON environment in Denver.  • Contributing member of the CHI Technical Services outsourcing selection team.  • Extensive experience with conflict resolution and people management.  • Heavy involvement with nearly all OneCare and Steady State Projects. UNIX Administration Supervisor - Technical Services Catholic Health Initiatives February 2010 to September 2010 • Supervise a group of ten UNIX and Mainframe administrators in four states.  • Implemented a UNIX server inventory system that brought together all the servers in IT.  • Working closely with the Cerner HIS application team, successfully performed a major hardware upgrade to the environment without impact to the users.  • Balancing the workload and enabling cooperation and shared responsibilities with the local and remote administrators.  • Implemented a centralized SharePoint task tracking, document revision and management system for the UNIX Administration Team. Senior IT Manager / Architect, IT Operations Echostar L.L.C April 2006 to January 2010 Directly managed the Backup and Storage Administration, UNIX Administration and Database Administration Teams, before hiring dedicated managers for each.  • Built and managed the first Storage Administration team in the company.  • Successfully re-negotiated and reduced the cost on numerous vendor maintenance contracts by hundreds of thousands of dollars.  • Responsible for design and layout of the physical and virtual UNIX Environment. Including the research and ordering of all servers and equipment.  • Research and testing of new hardware and software for the Open Systems Environment, including Solaris ZFS, and HP-UX virtualization. Echostar L.L.C - Englewood, CO November 2000 to January 2010 Direct Broadcast Satellite Television Provider. Senior IT Manager, Backup and Storage Echostar L.L.C June 2004 to April 2006 Directly responsible for a team of six administrators, providing management, allocation and maintenance of data storage and backups for all of Echostar. This incorporated over 1.5 Petabytes of SAN connected physical disk space and a backup environment consisting of six StorageTek libraries with 120 LTO2 tape drives.  • Worked closely with Sarbanes Oxley auditors and developed implementation plans to bring the environment into compliance.  • Developed numerous policies, procedures and best practices for SAN/storage planning, appropriation and maintenance  • Set security policies for data protection, tape handling and destruction.  • Heavy involvement in the planning and implementation of a total production data center move of over 1000 UNIX and Windows servers to a new data center.  • Designed the backup environment for Echostar's new production data center.  • Participated in the selection of hardware and software equipment vendors and products, including contract and price negotiation.  • Selection and hiring of new employees. Training coordination and performance reviews.  • Architect and design of SAN environments and High Availability server clusters. Principal UNIX System Administrator Echostar L.L.C November 2000 to June 2004 Principal System Administrator leading a group of ten employees. Primarily responsible for the administration of HP-UX Servers and the team website.  • 7x24 Support for over 200 Sun and HP UNIX Servers in a high availability environment.  • Storage Area network design and implementation incorporating virtually all storage and UNIX Servers in Echostar's 400TB environment.  • Designed and implemented multiple Veritas VCS high availability server clusters incorporating Oracle Databases, and SAN storage.  • Technical lead on a load balancing and failover project using CISCO Content switches in UNIX and Windows environments.  • Technical lead on a project to design and create two new data centers and facilitated the move of over 100 UNIX and Windows Servers twenty miles to the new facilities. IT Manager, UNIX System Administration Qwest Communications Inc September 1998 to November 2000 Managed and led a staff of ten administrators, including career development, performance evaluation, and salary administration.  • Managed a significant capital and expense budget for the UNIX server infrastructure and negotiate contracts with hardware and software vendors.  • Primary member of the Qwest Dex Resource Planning team, ensuring cost effective purchasing and re-use of all Dex infrastructure. IT Manager Qwest Communications Inc May 1981 to November 2000 Telecommunications and Phone Directory Publishing Senior UNIX System Administrator Qwest Communications Inc July 1995 to September 1998 Senior System Administrator for production and development UNIX machines in an environment consisting of HP 9000, Sun, NCR and BSD/OS based x86 boxes. Database Administrator Qwest Communications Inc September 1994 to July 1995 The only DBA for multiple HP 9000 computers running INFORMIX OnLine 5.03, and INFORMIX DSA products 6.x and 7.x. Systems Analyst, UNIX Administrator, Programmer, Database Administrator Qwest Communications Inc May 1981 to September 1994 Trainer and maintenance for all data equipment. Education Internal Management Parks Business College 1979 to 1981 Skills Hp-ux, Ux, Solaris, Unix, Cluster server, Veritas vcs, Apache, Korn, Korn shell, Shell scripting, Database, Mysql, Veritas, Html, Scripting, Cgi, Brocade, Microsoft windows, People Management (10+ years), Vendor Management (10+ years), Contract Negotiations (10+ years), Outsource Management (5 years), Outsourcing Selection and governance (5 years), Conflict Management (10+ years), Presentation Skills (10+ years), Budget Management (10+ years), Budget Development (10+ years), ITIL (7 years), ITSM Development (7 years), Project Sponsorship (7 years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundations Present ITIL Foundations Certification through Pink Elephant Additional Information Other SKILLS and QUALIFIERS    Operating Systems / Database Managers  HP-UX all versions 9.04 through 11.31  Solaris through version 10  Other UNIX Operating Systems  Microsoft Windows  MySQL    Application/Development software  Veritas VCS Cluster Server and Manager  Apache  HTML  CGI Scripting  Brocade Fabric Manager  Extensive Korn Shell Scripting  Numerous other UNIX based applications  Numerous Windows applications