Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Houston, TX Work Experience Owner/Operator OLIVE & VINE - Houston, TX 2011 to 2019 Owner and operator of a retail boutique specializing in premium extra virgin olive oils and Italian balsamic vinegars.    ? Oversaw day-to-day operations including in-store sales, customer service, online orders, and store merchandising.  ? Managed inventory and purchasing of oils and vinegars and related product lines.  ? Developed marketing strategies and created all marketing materials including email and social media campaigns, product descriptions, brochures, and website content.  ? Planned and produced special events including educational classes, private parties, and oil and vinegar tastings. Database Administrator SEABURY HALL - Makawao, HI 2005 to 2010 Responsible for the performance, integrity, and security of the Raiser's Edge database for the Development and Alumni Departments at an independent school in Maui, Hawaii.    ? Collaborated with Development and Alumni department staff on all aspects of the Annual Giving Campaign including  initial planning, execution, tracking and follow-up.  ? Managed accurate donor records, gift solicitations, donor acknowledgments, and reporting for all fundraising events.  ? Maintained the integrity of all constituent accounts through regular database audits and clean-up procedures.  ? Developed a manual of standard operating procedures for the use and maintenance of the Raiser's Edge database and provided training to other department employees.  ? Provided writing and editing support for the annual giving report, annual alumni publication, monthly parent newsletter, and other department collateral material. Marketing Communications Manager DRESSER INDUSTRIES, INC - Houston, TX 1984 to 1988 Houston, Texas  Ten years of progressive experience in all aspects of marketing and training communications for a $480 million high technology  supplier to the energy industry.    Marketing Communications Manager 1984 - 1988  ? Managed the publication of marketing communications literature including sales brochures and fliers, technical  documentation, and a monthly in-house newsletter.  ? Supervised the coordination of trade show displays with an annual exhibition schedule of 10 major regional and national  conventions.  ? Coordinated public relations activities such as the placement of press releases and editorial features in trade journals, and special events including customer sales presentations and seminars. Audio-Visual Services Supervisor 1978 to 1984 Supervised a 12-member staff in all aspects of media programming including video and photography for customer sales presentations, technical training, and employee information programs.    ? Produced and directed video and audio-visual programs for marketing, training, recruiting, and employee news.  ? Directed all stages of video production including original scriptwriting, studio and field production, and master editing. Education Bachelor of Arts in Communications in Communications Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX