Business Lead Business Lead Business Lead - Best Buy Co Results driven visionary leader seeks a promising opportunity that will enable her to leverage her 20 years of experience in Business Development and Software Engineering Management.  Strong leadership skills along with proven ability to multi-task, work under tight deadlines. Excellent communications, collaboration skills with powerful influential leadership to handle cross-functional work. Work Experience Business Lead Best Buy Co April 2018 to Present Business Process Architecture, Re-engineering Business Process Design, Best practices    Business Process architecture work to streamline processes in Market and consumer insights team along with data architecture enabling analytics team to access data needed for analytics as part of Transformational office.    ? Responsible for process re-architecture for Market and consumer insights team at Best buy.  ? Responsible for data design and architecture enabling Market and Business Intelligence team to generate metrics.  ? Streamlining Business Intelligences processes along with data integration  ? Managing and producing KPIs for enterprise analytics leadership. Technical Manager Best Buy Co October 2016 to April 2018 Enterprise Analytics, Data Architecture, and Analysis for Enterprise Analytics    Enterprise Analytics team provides information required to make key decisions in best buy with Analytics done using data in Best Buy Systems.    ? Responsible for generating Key KPI's for weekly reporting and support leadership with Data Analysis required on Key KPI's.  ? Responsible for providing data for Marketing Mix Models, which is used in making key decisions for Marketing spend in Best buy  ? Responsible for automation of Marketing Performance review KPI's.  ? Responsible for process re-architecture of Enterprise Analytics team enabling 75% process efficiency. Program Manager Best Buy Co December 2010 to October 2016 Operational Data Store for CDC    This initiative was to set up for Operational Data store for the Mobile computing department of Best buy to enable business stakeholders and internal development team to house data and build internal reports.    ? Responsible for identifying Funding, identifying approach along with initiation of the project, conducted the requirements sessions for each module to identify and scope each module.  ? Responsibilities included defining Project Charter, project planning, budgeting and coordinating cross-functional IT and Business teams, managing risks, issues and reporting project status to management.  ? Responsible for handling delivery for multiple programs and coordinating with multiple teams for resource timelines budget and delivery.    Program Manager: Best Buy Mobile Corp to Store Efficiencies  This initiative was to improve the corporate efficiencies that support store demands on inventory on a $2M as budget.    ? Responsible for initiation of the project, conducted the Blue-SKY sessions for each module to identify and scope each module.  ? Facilitated the cost benefit analysis with the Business owners and got approval for the $ 2 Million budget for 2012(FY13).  ? Responsibilities included defining Project Charter, project planning, budgeting and coordinating cross-functional IT and Business teams, managing risks, issues and reporting project status to management.    Project Manager: Best Buy Mobile Beast Portal/In Store Efficiencies  Tools/Methodology - Version One, Agile Scrum.    This initiative was to create a tool which would serve as one-Stop-Shop for the store associates to look up for all the information regarding customers/systems in best buy mobile. This tool makes the store associates about 40% more productive in comparison to using the tools that existed prior to this.    ? Worked with Product Owner and Development Team in assessing and managing Scrum artifacts.  ? Coordinated Scrum events (sprint planning, sprint review meetings). Managed the Scrum process and removed impediments from the development team's path.  ? Maintained ongoing communication with senior management, customers, and other stakeholders regarding project status.  ? Participated in front-end project cost-benefit and return-on-investment analyses.  ? Presided over end-of-project reflection meetings as part of continuous improvement initiative.  ? Managed projects that used remote, offshore software development teams.    Project Manager: Best Buy Mobile Loaner Phone tool  Tools/Methodology - Version One, Agile Scrum.    This tool was developed for the After Care and services team of Best buy mobile, which enabled the store associates to keep track of all the phones that were loaned to customers while their phone was being serviced by Geek Squad or Mobile associates. This was a major success since prior to this tool the loaner phones details were maintained in a paper copy at every store. This got very good appreciation from the retail.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the delivery of this tool, this project was executed in agile worked along with the 'ISE' team in 2 weeks iterations to the delivery of the tool.  ? The pilot for the Loaner phone was 200% successful as the news of this tool spread like wild fire and about 100 stores were using when we had released the tool to only 24 stores.  ? This tool was used to create 30000 entries within one month of release of the tool.  ? Excellent Feedback from Store employees    Project Manager: Best Buy Mobile Cloud Computing  This initiative was to set up a Cloud environment using the Amazon cloud services for hosting 6 applications, which were developed in best buy mobile. This was used as a proof of concept for setting up Best Buy Cloud environment    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for setting up the Cloud environment and hosting all the applications in the cloud environment and once the applications were set up and handing it over to the production support team. Lead Business & Senior Systems Analyst Best Buy Co November 2007 to December 2010 Project Name: Best Buy Mobile  Environments - MS Project, ER Win, Visio and Teradata.    The software division of Best Buy mobile supports business decision-making thereby enhancing mobile sales and has increased the market share from 1% to 4% in the past two years.    Responsibilities:  ? Lead the business analyst team in gathering requirements from mobile businesses and Carriers.  ? Analyzed requirements and generated reports for Best Buy mobile.  ? Designed reports for directors and VPs for business decision-making.  ? Received 'Above and Beyond Award for 2010' Data Administrator Target Co May 2006 to November 2007 Project Name: Red Rock/Domain: Pharmacy.  Environment - Oracle, SQL Server, MS- Access, PDX, ER Win, Visio and Clarity    The Project replaced the current PDX reporting with a robust Target pharmacy processing system.  Responsibilities:  ? Maintained 4 database instances and coordinated data base activities.  ? Coordinate administer, and support activities related to data design and solution.  ? Responsible for all database activities like table changes, code migrations, creating users, compiling forms and batch programs and trouble-shooting issues.  ? Worked with data modeling studies for detailed models based on business requirements.  ? Participate in the development and maintenance of data architecture, data management standards and conventions, data dictionaries and data element naming standards for multiple computing environments.  ? Designed and developed data generation tools as utilities for the team.    Project Lead: Analytical Data Warehouse Test Strategy  Environment - UNIX, Tandem, DB2  The project standardized the testing strategies for Analytical data warehousing.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for complete lifecycle of the project including planning, execution, progress monitoring and closure.  ? Managed the resources to meet project deadlines, post-production roll-over and support.  ? Developed excellent infrastructure for team work and facilitated a co-operative culture.  ? Identified and implemented continuous improvement programs to enhance performance. Database Architect Best Buy Co October 2004 to May 2006 Contract)- Geek Squad DW Operational Reporting/ Domain: Retail  Environment - Teradata, Informatica and Business Objects    The Project implemented Best Buy Financial Reporting by integrating the revenue reports of Geek Squad, a service arm of Best buy. Report generation was done using Business Objects on Teradata.    Responsibilities:  ? Analysis, Design, Modeling and implementation of Database structures using Teradata.  ? Verified database designs meets requirements, including data volume, frequency needs, and long-term data growth.  ? Assisted in determining the cross-application data standards, data distribution standards and tuning strategies.  ? Reviewed database deliverables during development to ensure quality and trace ability to requirements and adherence to all quality management plans and standards.  ? Identified cross-area issues and resolved them through team effort.  ? Participated in quality management reviews.    Data Analyst (Contract)- Daily Business Tracker  Environment: SQL Server, Teradata, MQ Queue, Informatica and Business Objects    The project enabled point of sale data to be available for financial reporting near real time. The data was sent using MQ queues to SQL server and Teradata marts.  Responsibilities:  ? Conceptualized the data requirements and structure for the application by working closely with designers, technical architects, customers and end users.  ? Responsible for Database design and development of application data structure.  ? Verified the database design against the requirements, including data volume, frequency needs, and long-term data growth.  ? Reviewed the database deliverables during development to meet the requirements.  ? Ensured trace ability and adherence to all quality management plans and standards.  ? Facilitated programmers and administrators in understanding the requirements and designs. Database Architect & Functional Consultant - Gemini-Entry Capacity Transco January 2001 to April 2005 Environment: Oracle 8i, Rational Data Modeling, Rational clear quest and PL/SQL    Transco provides multiple Auctions for selling Capacity, which needs to enter, be balanced and exit Transco pipelines. This functionality was automated using Gemini system, which replaced the existing RGTA and AT Link Two tier systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed and Gathered Requirements to build Gemini (Three Tier) from RGTA (Two Tier).  ? Designed Entry Capacity Product Functional Framework for Gemini.  ? Assisted a 5-member Functional team that managed a group of 200 members.  ? Functional consultant for Gemini Entry Capacity team responsible for the Functional Design.  ? Lead a team of 40 members in a project.  ? Participated in complete Life cycle activities of the Project from Inception (Onsite) till Go Live.  ? Performed estimation of Entry capacity both by WBS and FP.  ? Modeled, Designed and Implemented the Physical Database architecture for Entry capacity.  ? Administered 7 database instances in parallel as a Project DBA.  ? Designed and coordinated batch process (Job Scheduling, Scripting, batch programming)  ? Monitored the performance of the system during development and maintenance.  ? Setup the Environments and coordinated with the UNIX team and Administrative team.  ? Designed and developed POC and implemented successfully bulk upload using Oracle Queues.  ? Received Client Appreciation for the Proof of Concept. Database Architect PEPSI Co - Valhalla, NY March 2004 to October 2004 Contract) - Parts Reimbursement  Environment: Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, J2ee and Business Objects    The reimbursement of Pepsi Outlet expenses is done online using the Pepsi tracking system.  The project automated manual data feed into auto scan facility. I designed and implemented the backend architecture and database design.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated with Functional Leads, technical architect, and application designers to construct the data requirements and structure for the application.  ? Modeled and designed the application data structure, storage, and integration.  ? Modeled Database diagrams and built physical database.  ? Updated logical and physical database designs.  ? Generated, configured, and optimized the performance of the databases.  ? Supported the efforts of the test lead and deployment lead to plan, manage, and deploy the application.  ? Operated the database and assisted with Production Support.  ? Documented benchmarks and procedures needed to optimize performance. Ensured that all guidelines  ? Received Feather in my Cap award of excellence for the project Programmer - Demand Forecasting Migration Allied Signals - Phoenix, AZ September 1997 to January 2001 Environment - MS-Access, Oracle 7.3.1, PL/SQL  Allied Engines forecasts the demands of the engine parts by analyzing historic demand data. This forecasting is done at the end of every year for the consecutive year. Manual forecasting was replaced by MS-Access. In turn was migrated to Oracle due to increase in data volume.    Responsibilities:  ? Studied Business requirement for demand forecasting and arrived at Technical Architecture.  ? Scripted in Unix and PL/SQL the core logic of Demand Forecasting  ? Implemented and Supported at client site during User Acceptance Testing  ? Received outstanding Performance appreciation for the project by Allied Signals. Education Master's in business administration in Education Capella University Master of Science in Software Engineering Birla Institute of Technical Sciences Master's in business administration in business administration Capella University Master of Science in Software Engineering Birla Institute of Technical Sciences - Pilani, Rajasthan Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills ARCHITECTURE, DATA ARCHITECTURE, INFORMATICA, POWER BI, SPLUNK