Consulting Senior Database Developer Consulting Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Consulting Senior Database Developer - PIMCO Irvine, CA Work Experience Consulting Senior Database Developer PIMCO - Newport Beach, CA July 2015 to May 2019 - Newport Beach, CA July 2015 - May 2019  A global investment management firm with a focus on preserving and enhancing investors' assets.    Consulting Senior Database Developer  Added Strategy tagging to Proteus Risk Analytics application. Designed and created system for Risk Outlier tracking. Enhanced User Data Configuration (UDC+) applications and reports.  • Created Proteus Strategy Package combining 5 data sources rolling up to 7 levels of strategy.  • Refactored Hedge Share Class report procedure converting complex temp table DML into SQL.  • Created system to create UDC+ tables, audit, triggers, and sequences from the front end.    Consulting Senior Database Engineer  Led tech team that analyzed production database and reduced size by 45 TB. Identified tables to decommission, tables to partition and archive to history. Worked with application teams to get  approval and sign-off of plans and schedule and to implement in production after full testing.  • Created system to track weekly size of production database to identify largest growth.  • Converted 2.5 TB covariance matrix table to partitioned Index Organized Table with compression.  • Participated in Oracle Big Data Appliance Proof of Concept. Senior Database Developer/Analyst Liquidnet - New York, NY July 2011 to June 2015 Liquidnet - New York, NY July 2011 - June 2015  Global institutional trading network. Connects the world's leading asset managers to one of the largest pools of liquidity.    Senior Database Engineer/Analyst  Designed, data modeled, configured, and developed Global Reference Database (GRDB) used and the MDM single source of reference within Liquidnet, improving matches in the trading systems and increasing trades and revenue.  • Imported reference data feeds from multiple vendors, processed and cleansed data, served data via services.  • Extended processing to add new asset classes (Warrants, Fixed Income), new data and advanced calculations.  • Designed and Developed advanced SQL and PL/SQL packages, and UNIX scripts to support data feeds.  • Analyzed queries and optimized performance using indexes and partitioning. Development Manager - Architect Thomson Reuters, Lipper - Denver, CO August 2004 to July 2011 Denver, CO August 2004 - July 2011  Leading global provider of business information to financial, legal, tax & accounting, healthcare, science and media markets    Development Manager - Architect  Progressed through increasingly responsible positions, culminating in responsibility for high growth flagship product  Lipper for Investment Management. Lead teams of up to 10 including a mix of local reports and offshore resources.  Manage ETL and data replication for several systems to support product database development for web services.  • Led 15 Oracle releases for Lipper Access Platform with a focus on streamlining processes and enhancing cross- functional collaboration. Maximized constrained resources and consistently beat aggressive deadlines.  • Enhanced performance for replication and queries price table with 1B rows. Developed partitioning standards  and processing and established global partitioned indexes for alternate query paths for fast performance.  • Created user-focused query tools that allowed non-technical users in research, content management, and quality assurance to access product database.  • Revised Multex data load to slash run time from 4+ days to just 1 hour.  • Drove motivation and team collaboration by establishing open communication across culturally diverse team. Database Administrator Jones Cyber Solutions - Centennial, CO March 1999 to April 2004 Centennial, CO March 1999 - April 2004  Software provider specializing in communications, entertainment, and education industries    Database Administrator  Maintained database environments for 4 web-based applications and worked with developers to develop effective code  improvements. Ensured high performance and functionality through consistent performance tuning and development of data models. Resolved all issues related to imports/exports, archives, backup, restore, and data reconciliation.  • Significantly enhanced performance of online education product by converting data from MySQL to Oracle  schema. Wrote scripts to convert data types. Handled loading of large data sets.  • Automated database administration tasks using UNIX shell scripting. Avoided need to hire additional staff for support and expedited response time for IT requests.    TECHNOLOGY PORTFOLIO  Databases: Oracle 7 through 12c, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Oracle Tools: SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, Exadata, Compression, CDC, Streams, Partitioning, RAC, Developer, Enterprise  Manager, SQL*Loader, Import/Export, Log Miner, Application Server, RMAN, Performance Pack  Design Tools: Toad, ERWin, Oracle Designer, Visio, Power Designer  Data Warehouse Tools: Oracle Discoverer, Oracle Express, Oracle Financial Analyzer  Languages: Shell Scripts, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, C/C++, Excel Education BA in Communication Oakland University - Rochester, MI MS in Computer Science University of California - Santa Barbara, CA Skills CVS (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Linux (10+ years), SDLC (Less than 1 year), UNIX (9 years) Additional Information Methodologies: Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  Source Code Management: Git, SVN, CVS  OS: Linux, Solaris, Unix, Windows