Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Exadata DBA Mechanicsburg, PA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Department of Health and Human Services, Commonwealth of PA July 2005 to Present Independent consultant placed through contract with Unisys  Database Security:  1. User privilege management.  2. Making database security settings compliant with IRS and CMS auditing standards.  3. Configuring database accounts for use with CyberArk.  4. Implemented network data encryption (encrypted data in motion).  5. Implemented Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to protect data at rest. Wallet management.  6. Implemented export encryption.  7. Implemented backup encryption.  8. Implemented Oracle Data Redaction.  9. Attended on-site hands-on workshop conducted by Oracle ACS on Oracle Database Vault.  10. Did a proof of concept to implement Oracle Database Vault.  11. Implemented VNCR to prevent instance cross-registration.  12. Setup database auditing. This has proven useful in identifying DBAs who made changes to databases and then forgot about it.  High Availability:  1. Implemented Oracle RAC, ASM, GI on Windows and Linux.  2. Convert non-RAC databases to RAC.  3. Implemented Oracle Data Guard (physical and logical).  4. Implemented Heterogeneous Data Guard between Windows and Linux.  Backup, Recovery:  1. RMAN backup to EMC Data Domain using BOOST to optimize backup speed.  2. Performed TSPITR and DBPITR several times to recover accidentally deleted data.  3. Database cloning.  4. Export/import (conventional and Oracle Data Pump).  Database Upgrade and Patching:  1. Upgraded databases from 9i to 10g, 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and from 12c to 18c/19c.  2. Applied patches to databases as required.  3. Performed rolling upgrades to minimize downtime.  4. Applied patches in rolling manner to minimize downtime.  5. Converted non-CDB databases to CDB/PDB architecture.  Database Migration:  1. Migrated databases from local data center to remote data center using Data Guard, export/import/cloning.  2. Cross-platform TTS.  Database Monitoring:  1. Setup different versions of Oracle Enterprise Manager/Grid Control/Cloud Control up to 13c to monitor various versions of databases.  2. Configured OEM to generate alerts for various OS and database events.  3. Upgraded and patched OEM as new versions were released.  4. Reviewing AWR/ADDM/ASH reports when performance issues were reported by OEM.  5. Alert log monitoring.  SQL and PL/SQL:  1. The nature of DBA job is such that work with SQL and PL/SQL is unavoidable. I work extensively on these languages as and when required like when performance tuning, writing triggers, stored procedures, developing database utilities, debugging code written by large team of developers of varying skill levels.  Shell Scripting:  1. Developed Linux shell scripts and Windows batch files to do backup, exports, manage ADR data and numerous other utilities.  Hand-on Workshops Attended:  1. Oracle 12c DBA training  2. Exadata hands-on workshop  3. Monitoring and managing Exadata through 12c Cloud Control  4. Exadata cellcli tool  5. Oracle Golden Gate  6. 4-day Oracle RAC conducted by Oracle  7. 2-day Oracle Streams conducted by Oracle  8. 4-day Data Guard conducted by Oracle    Infrastructure:  1. Identified database connectivity issues with firewalls.  2. Identified connection pools dropping because of inactivity timers.  3. Configured keep alive.  4. Managing ASM diskgroups.  5. Managing ASM disks.  6. Managing clusterware, adding nodes to cluster, removing nodes from cluster.  7. Install Linux and configure server for install of Oracle server software and OMS.  8. Perform variety of OS (Linux) activities like identifying and fixing issues with performance, accounts, file permissions etc.  Working with Oracle Support:  1. Work extensively with Oracle support to resolve most complicated issues.  2. Have identified several bugs in Oracle server software over the years.  License Compliance:  1. Worked with Oracle license audit group to identify deficiencies in the license compliance.  2. Identified weakness in Oracle license compliance checking queries which were incorrectly identifying installed Oracle options.  3. Developed a very good understanding of Oracle licensing policies, both on-premises and cloud based products.  Working with Peers:  1. I have trained my peer DBAs to develop a greater understanding of inner workings of Oracle server software, Oracle client installs and various DBA activities. This is done through one-on-one sessions, hands-on help and e-mail help.  2. Many times, work involves working with other teams like Network, Firewall, Server Admins. I can communicate with them using their terminology. Contract DBA Deloitte Consulting - Harrisburg, PA December 2000 to June 2005 Client: Department of Health and Human Services (formerly Department of Public Welfare), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  Deloitte Consulting designs and implements large projects for various state agencies across the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  Data Modeling:  1. Logical and physical data modeling using Erwin.  2. Interaction with application teams to understand the business requirements.  3. Translating the business requirements into logical and physical data model.  4. Get the data model approved by the client.  5. Implement the physical data model in the database.    Capacity Planning:  1. Database server capacity planning.  2. Database growth projection based on past growth.    Database Management Throughout Application Lifecycle:  1. Code deployment from development to integration test to acceptance testing to production.    Performance Tuning:  1. Tuned various queries to perform optimally either via a rewrite or hints.  2. Optimized PL/SQL code to minimize PL/SQL usage.    Database Feature Usage To Help Optimize Applications:  1. Suggested the use of Fine Grained Access Control (aka Virtual Private Database) to maintain user role based access to consumer data. This feature is still being heavily used.    Database Consolidation:  1. Consolidated several application databases into a single database thus reducing the server resource requirements. This was done across all environments from development to production. The task was completed in 3 weeks and earned high praise from the client as they did not have to invest in extra servers to handle the increased workload. Oracle DBA Infotech Consulting Inc - Mechanicsburg, PA July 2000 to October 2000 Mechanicsburg, PA  I performed the task of Oracle Apps DBA on projects and in evaluating new versions of Oracle database server and other products like Oracle Application Release 11 and 11i. I worked on various web related technologies including XML, HTML, JAVA for front end, JAVA and PL/SQL for middle tier and databases for back end. I worked on these technologies under Windows NT and Sun Solaris (SPARC) platforms.    I also worked on setting up DNS server for the corporate web site, Apache web server, Apache Jserv, qmail and NcFtp under Red Hat Linux 6.0. In addition, I learnt basic CISCO router configuration to establish a web and network security policy using access lists and NAT features of CISCO. I also used Webload from RADView to determine a web site's capability to perform under simulated load.    Duration: August 1999 to December 1999  Project: Construction Management System  Sub contract: CTA, Topeka, KS  Job Title: Oracle DBA  Client: Kansas Department of Transportation  Worked as Oracle DBA on the KDOT CMS project. The KDOT uses CMS to track all aspects of construction including contracts, materials and utilities. The CMS tables resided on Mainframe (MVS) under DB2. The project involved setting up Oracle replication between Oracle 8i Lite and Oracle on OS/390. The front end used JAVA to manipulate Oracle 8i Lite tables and then, using advanced replication, these were replicated to the main Oracle database.  I created the logical data model from a reverse engineering of DB2 database, transported this logical model into Oracle 8i (on OS/390) as a physical database and setup Oracle Transparent Gateway for DB2. Setup the replication between Oracle 8i server and Oracle 8iLite. This enabled the client side JAVA application to work on a subset of data. The proof of concept demo was based on creating the front end application both in VB and Visual Café to allow the client to make a choice. I earned appreciation from the project manager and project team for help in creating VB and JAVA screens. Oracle Developer July 1998 to July 1999 Electronics Design and Development Engineer Yale University - New Haven, CT July 1984 to June 1998 New Haven, CT  Yale customizations to Banner 2000 forms, design of new forms as per user requirements, preparing custom reports, writing back end PL/SQL programs and solving end-user problems regarding existing forms and reports.    From July 1984 to June 1998:  Worked as Electronics Design and Development Engineer for various companies in India. Started working as Senior Technical Assistant and progressively, moved to position of Deputy Manager for IS&T Division of Bechtel India office. Education Bachelor's Skills DBA, Oracle Dba