Database Administrator/ Reporting Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Reporting Analyst Database Administrator/ Reporting Analyst Bothell, WA Accomplished and energetic IT Professional with three years of experience of managing projects and databases in multimillion dollar organization. Motivated leader with strong organizational and prioritizing abilities. Seeking entry level position in Project Management/ Product Management discipline.  Projects  System Development Project  Provided high quality of project management consulting service to the Glamorous Beauty Salon by creating feasibility reports including technical, economical and organizational reports in order to help them to expand their business successfully. We analyzed their current system, designed a new website for the business and gave them development and implementation road map with ROI.  IT Engineering Management Project  Explored issues in software engineering such as development methodologies and standards, reusability, software quality assurance, CASE tools, software metrics and tools to evaluate, control and estimate the system development function by establishing an imaginary Gaming Organization. We also developed specific plans like; leadership and organization plan, software process and deliverables plan, communication plan, configuration management/ release management plan, metrics/ quality plan and team development plan to be a pioneer in gaming technologies by providing unique gaming solutions which supports different mobile technologies and OS platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/ Reporting Analyst Shantam Pharmaceuticals PVT. LTD - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2006 to July 2009 Worked on projects to configure new interfaces, as well as re-engineered the backend database to support  • Effectively interfaced with business  • Gathered requirements from end users and interfaced them with end users  • Maintained databases by identifying and solving database requirements; supporting users.  • Identified database requirements by interviewing customers; analyzing department applications, programming and operations  • Evaluated existing systems and designed proposed systems.  • Installed new systems by proposing specifications and flowcharts. Education MS in Management Seattle Pacific University - Seattle, WA 2012 to 2014 M.SC Gujrat University 2004 to 2006 Additional Information Skills  • Managing larger databases and data sets  • SQL  • Power point  • SDLC  • Knowledge of project management, Microsoft project, Team Foundation Server  • distributed applications  • Information systems networking and security  • Operations management  • Excellent management and documentation skills