IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - Zavda Cheltenham, MD Seeking a position in Oracle/Sybase Application Database Administrator that will allow execution of technical skills and an opportunity for professional growth based on performance.    SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE  Oracle (7.3.4, 8.1.7,9i,10g,11g 12c), Oracle for Toad 12, Oracle Designer 12, Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g grid control, Oracle Application Server 10g, Oracle 10g/11g RAC, Sybase (11, 15) ASE and Replication Server, Remedy Action Request System (3.x, 4.x, 5.x, 6.x), Remedy ARWeb, Remedy Mid-Tier, Remedy ITSM Suite, Microsoft Windows 2000 Advanced Server, Microsoft Windows XP Professional, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Power Point, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office Publisher 2003, Dreamweaver MX 2004, Adobe Acrobat (full version), SQL, PL/SQL, Perl , shell scripting, C++ (introduction) and Linux (introduction). Use UNIX (Solaris 2.8) daily for systems administration and troubleshooting. Work Experience IT Consultant Zavda - Baltimore, MD September 2016 to Present • Over the past two years, I have taken some online Oracle classes and provided varies IT support while waiting on my clearance.  • Assist the team in identifying, monitoring and controlling all project requirements as well as supporting programming sequence by analyzing requirements; using knowledge of computer capabilities and subject matter.  • Assist with developing strategies to support projects, programs, and objectives.  • Work within a team to compile, complete, formulate and interpret technical data relating to assigned programs and projects.  • Produce information by researching, formatting, inputting, editing, retrieving, copying, and transmitting text, data, and graphics.  • Complete projects and action items by following up and tracking to closure.  • Prepare reports by collecting and analyzing information. Database Administrator July 2016 to August 2016 PSIPAX (California, MD)  • Create database design and development using SQL Server.  • Installation of database software.  • Performance Tuning for databases.  • Conduct data model reviews with project team members.  • Created entity relationship diagrams using the primary key and foreign key column.  • Monitor and maintain databases, database environments, track database issues, and provide timely resolution.  • Experience with insuring the integrity and security of the data  • Data refresh  • Database maintenance  • Create and Load Oracle Tables from Excel Spreadsheet using Toad.  • Import and export multiple tables using csv or txt file.  • Create inserts statements for tables using Toad.  • Query data from tables in a Toad editor window.  • Create a user and grant permissions in oracle by Toad.  • Debug a stored procedure in Toad.  • Management of Rollback segments. Database Administrator Zavda - Fort Meade, MD May 2008 to April 2016 • Oracle, Sybase, Unix, Windows, Linux and currently learning MongoDB  • SQL, Perl, shell scripting, some java and currently learning Pig  • Troubleshoot and performance tune Sybase ASE and Replication Server systems.  • Performed data base administration activities on Sybase databases.  • Supported Sybase servers including installation/upgrade, managing user accounts, implementing backup recovery procedures.  • Performed logical and physical database design, installed and configured Sybase SQL Server, built databases and other application-related objects in Sybase, and troubleshot Sybase servers fixing corruption problems.  • Production DBA support for custom and COTS systems: MS SQL Server  • Partitioning the database to improve performance and maintenance. By splitting a large table into smaller and reindexing tables as needed.  • Data refresh.  • Support activities such as creating accounts, granting and removing privileges, creating and distributing account reports, and enforcing application security using means supported within the DBMS.  • NPMS - a GOTS network monitoring application, which is built on a platform of C shell, Perl, Java and Unix shell scripting. NPMS is the Hewlett-Packard's Openview Performance Insight Product (OVPI).  • Maintains and implements all backup and recovery procedures and processes for databases.  • Responsible for maintaining, managing configurable variables, developing, and maintaining automated and semi-automated PERL and shell scripts.  • Installed Oracle 10g/11g RAC software.  • Experience in configuring of Oracle 10g RAC, 11g RAC, Standby Databases (active Data Guard) for high availability and disaster recovery.  • Supports the customer's databases by providing expert DBA advice and knowledge.  • Monitors and tune Sybase and Oracle databases servers for optimal performance.  • Proficient with Structured Query Language (SQL), PL/SQL and iSQL planning the structure and design of a database, the creation of databases and database objects, such as tables and views, database security, and the creation of interfaces and reports with which to input and view the data.  • Reviews database and application system log files to assess health of applications and systems. Designs and enhances Sybase and Oracle database tables, triggers and stored procedures.  • Create reports to monitor database information including statistics on schemas, tables, indexes, and space usage.  • Work with network architects, network analysts, fault management, and configuration management personnel to exchange network management data with other databases. Assists in troubleshooting host system hardware and software problems.  • Recommends and analyzes requirements and implement solutions for data manipulation.  • Designs and implements software to produce WEB and e-mail based performance reports.  • Manages information that is critical to the operation of the organization.  • Duties include design, development, installation, performance and maintenance of the organization's database management systems.  • Understands, and then translates, the business needs of an organization into a database system.  • Possesses a working knowledge of large and small-scale relational database applications. Oracle Database Administrator, Phacil Missile Defense Agency October 2007 to May 2008 • Support system implementation with database installation/configuration.  • Monitor and maintain databases, database environments, track database issues, and provide timely resolution.  • Manage, administer and upgrade Missile Defense Agency (MDA) Oracle database 9i and Oracle 10g technology.  • Perform daily checks on database servers, confirming status of backups, file compression, and exports; troubleshoot any errors.  • Modify existing infrastructure elements for secure BEA Plum tree portal access.  • Integrate existing legacy systems into database technology using either Oracle Portal application server single sign-on technologies.  • Perform application testing of new MDA portal applications and interface.  • Upgrade and maintain other database daily responsibilities. Oracle Database Administrator AB Floyd (Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), the Pentagon) November 2005 to March 2008 • Assists in the administration of Solaris 8 and Windows 2000 servers to include user account management, patch installation, system backup and minor system maintenance.  • Responsible for the administration of multiple Oracle database systems to include installation, user accounts/privileges management, performance tuning, database maintenance, backups, and integration with Open Database Connectivity (ODBC).  • Provide Tier 2 database support for the GCCS community and National Military Command Center database managers utilizing the Joint Operations Planning and Execution System (JOPES) and Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS) applications, resolving various Oracle errors and application problems.  • Responsible for creating, recording, tracking and solving trouble tickets generated by the Remedy Action Request System.  • Automate several system maintenance tasks using UNIX shell and SQL scripts. Tasks accomplished include backup of data to remote sites, monitoring of systems, adaptations to existing scripts for increased security, and recovery of damaged systems and ensures 24/7 functionally.  • Install and maintain Oracle database servers by adding and dropping user accounts; granting and revoking roles and privileges; evaluating tablespaces; ensuring oracle processes are running; managing redo-logs and full backups; performing system imports and exports; and monitoring system logs. Use Oracle Enterprise Management to view or change the table spaces. Also, to view the sessions.  • Write and maintain Standard Operating Procedures for key servers. Jr. Oracle DBA AlphaInsight Corporation September 2003 to November 2005 • Assisted with backup and recovery strategy.  • Assisted with security patches and bug fixes.  • Supported Project management and interface with application support team.  • Assisted others in defining technical solutions for projects utilizing the Oracle RDBMS.  • Performances tuning of database, develop procedures for migration of data for Senior DBAs, installed concurrent instances for the database on most servers, assist project manager with scheduling, resource allocation, etc., came up to speed on Business Objects as quickly as possible designed the main Universe database interface to assure proper data retrieval for drag and drop report users.  • Assisted senior developers in design of Business Object reports.  • Developed and implemented database & application tuning strategies.  • Created new databases and users, setup RMAN backups, Export, and other monitoring scripts.  • Knowledge of Public Key Infrastructure; worked alongside Network Engineers with new programs to include but not limited to Machine Readable Passports and Information Encryption using Entrust products.  • Working knowledge of Perl and UNIX shell scripting.  • Able to script many database tasks such as Table construction and data transfer. Program Analyst Thomas and Herbert Consulting June 2002 to July 2003 • Provided on-site technical and documentation support for the United States Army's Product Manager- Secure Electronic Transactions Devices (PM SET-D).  • Developed, wrote, updated, revised, maintained and published PM SET-D documentation and database. This included maintaining an electronic and paper library for all PM SET-D documentation and preparing the weekly and monthly status reports.  • Tracked all documentation for PM SET-D Common Access Card (CAC) /Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), Augmented Infrastructure and Biometrics. Supported the Biometrics Team.  • Provided graphical support for documents, briefings, displays, newsletters and brochures when necessary.  • Researched PM SET-D document management system.  • Provided graphical support for documents, briefings, displays, newsletters and brochures when necessary.  • Traveled, as necessary, to attend meetings, conferences, and demonstrations, training and working group meetings to support the PM SET-D program. Data Analyst FDIC December 1999 to June 2002 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)  • Provided data analysis support for the Design and Printing Unit Database.  • Updated the Design and Printing Unit action item database, distributed action items to leads, obtained information from leads, and updated the database.  • Researched required data and provide the data in a format suitable for processing.  • Updated, verified, and generated reports using Microsoft Access and Excel.  • Used creative thinking to recognize and define problems, collect data, establish facts, draw conclusions, and suggest corrective measures.  • Wrote data access and data manipulation code for data management.  • Managed and analyzed company data using Structured Query Language and other tools.  • Built ad hoc and canned reports of data using Crystal Reports and MS Office.  • Created tables, stored procedures, and other relational database objects.  • Worked independently to perform data entry. Education Masters in Public Administration University of D.C. B.A. in Political Science University of D.C. - Washington, DC Associate in Computer Information Systems Strayer University