MIS Director/Homeless Management Information Systems Database Administrator MIS Director/Homeless Management Information Systems <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MIS Director/Homeless Management Information Systems Database Administrator - Community Alliance for the Homeless, Inc Memphis, TN A highly motivated and skilled professional, seeking career advancement within a dynamic, high growth  organization that welcomes fresh ideas, initiative, dedication, and experience; demanding excellence in  consistently meeting business objectives and exceeding expectations.    PROFICIENCIES  • Database Administration • Database Security  • Assessment Building • Regulatory Adherence to Policy & Procedures  • Team & Project Leadership • Contingency Planning  • Budgeting • Contract Negotiations  • Staff Management • Data Quality & Integrity Work Experience MIS Director/Homeless Management Information Systems Database Administrator Community Alliance for the Homeless, Inc March 2010 to Present formerly Partners for the Homeless) Mar 2010 - Current Network Administrator CVM - Memphis, TN August 1999 to February 2010 Major Functions: Spearheaded community-wide goals and the implementation of ending  homelessness across Memphis and Shelby County in partnership with both city and county  Mayors while facilitating a city-wide reporting tool in compliance with HUD and outcome  funding measures.  • Manage the data collection and analysis reporting for over 130 homeless-specific housing,  services, shelter and support assistance organizations and projects federal funded in excess of  $12.7mil to provide the required information needed to assist in solving the community's  homeless inflow and outflow.  • Created policies and procedures statewide, produce memoranda of agreement partnering  organization and end user for the system.  • Negotiated contracts with software/hardware vendors, managed provider relations, system  administration, and technical support.  • Train, certify, and oversee technical support and help desk system for 225 end users, directors,  and project management staff for 75 projects.  • Hire and manage staff to support the mission of ending homelessness.  • Complete budget and contract compliance (telecommunications, management information  system, help compliance site, website).  • Ensure city-wide data quality integration, reporting (federal, state, & local), and evaluation of current and new modules within HMIS.  • Managed Community Voice Mail for the Homeless (CVMH) system and increased participation  in the overall mission to connect people experiencing homelessness too much need support  networks and family by adding 150 users, and 25 software modules needed to grow metrics and funding.  • Provide nationwide HMIS guidance to outside Continuum of Care entities, participating in national conferences, regional and local calls, and reporting maintenance for aggregate data for  initiatives within the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness.  Apply for yearly funding opportunities, writing grants necessary for continued operations.    1  (901) 634-1744  Tanyce@bellsouth.net  6770 Seven Valley Dr.  Memphis, Tennessee, 38141 MIS Site Manager Bally's Saloon & Gambling Hall - Robinsonville, MS May 1995 to July 1999 Major Functions: Monitored all operations of Information Systems, Planning, Purchasing,  troubleshooting, Y2K Project Team Leader, and setups of new installations.  • Supervised 12 Computer Operators, scheduling, tracking attendance, and training of hardware and software.  • Oversaw system maintenance, including monitoring system status of hardware on property.  • Tracked and prepared a periodic inventory of all hardware and software.  • Prepared marketing extract as approved by the MIS Manager.  • Loaded and monitored all PTF's and Versions on the computer system.  • Trained and aided users on computer system.  • Maintained job logs and problem logs.  • Prepared and maintained documentation and ensured distributions of information as required for upgrades.  • Ensured timely distribution of reports.  • Performed preventive maintenance and inventory functions. Education Certification Memphis School for the Deaf Computer Science in Business Southeast College of Technology Skills Oracle Dba, Sql Dba