Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Atlanta, GA • 5+ years of experience in SQL Server database administration with an in-depth  understanding of design, development and implementation.  • Perform Full, Differential and Transactional Log backups of data and file  systems as routine operations.  • Provide expertise and guidance in day-to-day database operations, security and  maintenance.  • Tune, administer, and maintain SQL server instances.  • Perform daily maintenance including monitoring backups, managing disk  spaces, and maintaining database objects.  • Maintain client documentation for database topology, connection procedures  and instructions for backup, recovery and security of SQL Server database  environments.  • Actively monitor, optimize, and support production database, and resolve any  issues.  • Excellent interpersonal skills working in teams with people from different  cultures and backgrounds.  • Good theoretical background and proven practical knowledge.    Overall Technical • Databases: SQL Server 2016/14/12. Work Experience Database Administrator Law Offices of Abebe Reta, LLC 2016 to Present Administered the Firm's Databases and maintained client's sensitive information,  documents and financial data.  • Worked with Litigation and Practice Support department in assisting with all  aspects of database; client inception/close, matter transfers, and daily reporting.  • Applied Patches and Service Packs (SPs) on all SQL servers.  • Created and implemented database designs and data models.  • Performed and coordinated testing, analysis, investigation and identification of errors and failure  • Managed server-level and database-level securities.  • Ensured database integrity through constraints and improved performance  through maintaining indexes.  • Optimized performance with migration from SQL server 2008/R2 SQL servers to SQL server 2012, successfully integrating new features and improving database  stability.  • Performed troubleshooting, administration, monitoring, tuning, and operational  functions on SQL databases for multiple projects.  • Wrote database procedures, functions and triggers to optimize results obtained  from company's financial and administration software.  • Proactively responded to database alerts by installing, upgrading, migrating and configuring SQL servers to resolve issues.  • Created SQL Reports, documented IT systems and processes, and updated existing  documentations as changes were made. Database Administrator Awash International Bank 2014 to 2016 Administrative maintenance of relational databases including backup/recovery,  schedule jobs, problem diagnosis and performance tuning.  • Worked on analyzing technical requirements; designing new or updating existing  data models.  • Resolved any issues with database capacity, replication, or other distributed data.  • Managed server-level and database-level securities.  • Upgraded previous versions of SQL Server to V2012, migrated production  databases and all configuration settings.  • Monitored databases with Dynamic Management Views and Functions.  • Designed and implemented tables and views.  • Implemented DML triggers and worked with XML data.  • Coded stored procedures of high complexity to meet product requirements.  • Heavily focused on data conversion and integration; supported back-end  processes  • Developed BI projects - Integration and reporting services. Education BA in Business Administration & Information Systems Addis Ababa University, College of Commerce 2005 to 2007 Skills backups (5 years), Capacity Planning (4 years), Data Modeling (5 years), Database (5 years), Disaster Recovery (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), operations. (5 years), performance tuning. (4 years), R2 (3 years), replication (4 years), SAP (3 years), shipping (4 years), solutions (4 years), SQL (5 years), SQL server (5 years), SWITCH CAPACITY (3 years), Windows Server 2012 (4 years), DBA, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses MCSA: Administering Microsoft SQL Server Present