Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - EXPERIS Would like to be part of a dynamic environment and where my technical and analytical abilities can be used with a company that recognizes outstanding performance and offer the potential for career growth Work Experience Database Administrator EXPERIS March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Oracle 11g logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance in production and non production environment.  • Created new databases and users: set up backups, export, and other monitoring scripts  • Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.  • Managing database security. Design, develop, and implement automated data backup and restoration procedures. Provide technical support for database maintenance and disaster recovery  • Reorganized databases and sized database objects to meet standards and improve performance.  • Handled database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, capacity planning and database security  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures of databases in Sun Solaris and Red Hat Linux environment: implemented backup and recovery procedures and IT department manual.  • Supported Oracle developers. Performed database tuning, created database reorganization procedures, scripted database alerts, and monitored scripts  • Troubleshoot database and application issues. Database Administrator WIPRO August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, conducted and implemented physical database designs.  • Documented and maintained current database patches.  • Worked to ensure all data are recovered, systems and data integrity are maintained.  • Conducted audits on the environment and provided capacity planning, best practices guide for future production, development and tests on database administration.  • Carried out performance assessment test and tuning on the database system.  • Ensured that all production databases are running efficiently 24/7.  • Implemented appropriate backup and restore strategies to protect all data assets.  • Monitored database performance, tracked and stored procedures and queries' execution times and implemented improvements on efficiency.  • Responded to and resolved all database access and performance issues.  • Configured SQL Server for optimum performance.  • Oriented other database administrators on SQL Server management including upgrades and migration. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Lagos - Lagos, NG