Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Gati-KWE ? Having 6+ years of experience in Database Administration.  ? Installing, configuring MySQL servers on Linux and Windows environment by using RPM and TAR ball installation.  ? Worked with various types of storage engines like InnoDB, MyISAM, Federated, Memory, Blackhole engines.  ? Having good experience in tuning buffer parameters and calculating the hit rate for optimal performance.  ? Worked with Data Modeling tools such as MySQL Workbench.  ? Experience with Partitioning tables.  ? Experience in the version upgradations.  ? Good experience in configuring MySQL multi-instances and maintenance.  ? Configuring and managing Mater-Slave replication.  ? Experience in setting up Master-Master (Active/Active and Active/Passive) replication.  ? Writing scripts for backup methods and scheduling jobs.  ? Auditing the database servers for various purposes.  ? Installed plugins for semi-synchronous replications.  ? Query optimization using slow query log and explain statement.  ? Having experience in setting up the galera cluster set up with 3-nodes.  ? Having experience in setting up the AWS RDS services, and setting up the replication from RDS to EC2 instances and to the local IDC.  ? Having good understanding in the mongodb internals and CAP theorem.  ? Creating users in mongodb and enabling security by setting up the user authentication with auth and keyFile  ? Having good experience in setting up the 3-Node and 5-Node replica set in MongoDB.  ? Performing Rolling/Maintenance of the replica set nodes.  ? Having good experience in setting up the Sharding cluster in MongoDB.  ? Good understanding in mongodb performance monitoring tools like mongostat, mongotop mongoreplay, mongopref  ? Analyzing the query performance by enabling the database profiling and creating necessary indexes in mongodb.  ? Experience in Mongodb backup and restoration tools like mongodump, mongorestore.  ? Working 24x7 production support, implementation and solving tickets in time.  ? Having experience ELK Stack. Work Experience Database Administrator Gati-KWE October 2017 to Present Database Administrator Wipro Infotech May 2016 to October 2017 Education Manipal University M.C.A Kakatiya University B.Sc Kakatiya University Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows, CentOS, Redhat Linux, Ubuntu  Databases SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB  Scripting Language Shell scripting, Python  Knowledge in Core Java, JSON, XSLT, XML, MEAN STACK, Talend, AWS  Monitoring tools Nagios, MySQL workbench, MONyog  Maintenance tools Percona tool kit, Xtrabackup