Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Chaveran Inc Washington, DC Four plus years of experience in Information Technology as a Database Administrator in MySQL, Systems Analysis and Design, Development and Documentation at various levels. Database Administrator (DBA) with experience designing, installing, creating databases and providing support to next-generation database solutions at the enterprise level. Proficient including MySQL and Server Operating Systems, and Linux. A self-motivated results-driven and reliable team player with strong technical skills with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse group of people and adaptability to changing environments. Ability to perform in a fast paced environment and meet stringent deadlines    Administrative skills include:  • Proficient in MySQL Database Administration  • Proficient in Structured query languages (DML, DDL, DCL, TCL Stored Procedures, triggers).  • Experitise in InnoDB and MyISAM storage engines. Comfortable with both storage engines and migration from one to the other as best needed.  • Experience in Database Administration, Development, Design, Maintenance, Production support of relational databases, MySQL Database server installation, upgrade and migration  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using different Utilities.  • Proficient in MySQL Backup and Recovery using tools like Mydumper, MySQL enterprise backup and Percona Xtrabackup, Innobackupex  • Installed, upgrade, optimize, troubleshoot, and perform root cause analysis on MySQL server versions from 5.0 to 5.6 distributions.  • Proficient in Import/Export, Database optimization with the help of explain plan.  • Proficient in Database Migration from MyISAM format to InnoDB.  • Experience in MySQL Master Slave Replication configuration and Slave server configuration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD August 2016 to Present • MySQL database administration, installation, configuration and maintenance on Linux and Windows  • MySQL Database monitoring using standard tool like Nagios, MONyog, etc.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of MySQL database  • Working with development teams for database related changes and requests  • Setup, troubleshoot, fix backups and restore data using tools such as Mydumper, MySQL enterprise backup and Percona Xtrabackup, Innobackupex  • Comfortable with Performance tuning. Ability to identify performace issues, Query optimization, Indexing, Partitioning, Explain plan and rectifying performance issues in the most efficient way to maximum performance. Utilizing Perfomace Schema views, slow-query log, Percona tools - pt query digest etc. Table maintenance - Fragmentation, error, check table, repair table.    • Performed disaster recovery analysis and testing on MySQL databases to comply with business requirements  • Performed 5.5 to 5.6 upgrade and patching of MySQL database software  • Designed database structures, creating indexes, views  • Configured binary logging on MySQL Servers  • Altered database structures and schemas as needed  • Changed password for users, killing sessions and granted privileges  • Resolved deadlock issues mainly on InnoDB tables  • Participate in On-call rotation every few weeks  • Ensure that database is ACID Compliance - Atomic, Consistency, Isolation and Durability  • Replication & Recovery organization's best practices. - Master-Slave, Master-Master. Clone and set up new environments Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Shoreview, MN February 2014 to August 2016 • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of MySQL databases on Linux Operating Systems  • Creation of databases tables, indexes and other database objects  • Documented database structure changes, problems, issues for future reference  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  • MySQL query optimization and performance tuning and troubleshooting  • MySQL administration on production environment - installation, tuning, backups, resource optimization and distribution, InnoDB and MyISAM storage engines, replication in large-scale environments  • Regular Monitoring Error log and Query log files on Day to Day Basis Database Administrator Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN September 2013 to February 2014 • Creation of databases tables, indexes and other database objects  • Documented database structure changes, problems, issues for future reference  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  • MySQL query optimization and performance tuning and troubleshooting  • MySQL administration on production environment - installation, tuning, backups, resource optimization and distribution, Innodb and MyISAM storage engines, replication in large-scale environments  • Performing physical backups using mysqldump  • Backing up database, tablespaces and schemas using xtrabackup/mydumper Education University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN May 2013 Skills DATABASE (3 years), DATABASES (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), LINUX (3 years), BASH (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Databases: MySQL 5.5/5.6    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OSX  Programming Languages: SQL, BASH  Database Tools: Mysqldump/mysqlimport, Percona Xtrabackup, Innobackupex, Mydumper  Telnet Tool: Putty