Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Wells Fargo Euless, TX To obtain a position as a MS SQL Database Administrator. Work Experience Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Bedford, TX January 2012 to Present Involved in installation and configuration of SQL server.  • Applied hot fixes and service packs to keep the database at current patch level.  • Responsible for planning backup-recovery model.  • Created Transactional Replication Across the server for Hi-availability.  • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Defaults, user defined functions for this project.  • Experienced in resolving deadlock and blocking issues for concurrent users  • Worked with developers to tune the SQL queries using advance tuning technique.  • Provided 24/7 Production support for the database and application issues as an on call DBA.  • Developing SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.  • Maintain all the SQL documents include installation and data conversion Procedures documents.  • Solved critical production problems and performed point in time recovery plans.  • Created tasks/packages for database maintenance. Database Administrator SAXON - Irving, TX January 2010 to January 2012 Reviewed, evaluated, designed, implemented and maintained company databases.  • Monitored and tuned database resources and activities for SQL Server databases.  • Designed, developed and maintained relational databases.  • Developed, implemented and maintained enterprise business information systems. Responsible for applying SQL Server service packs. The error log or event log is monitored for database errors.  • Performed Backup and Recovery Duties:  Establishing standards and schedules for database backups.  • Developing recovery procedures for each database.  • Making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements.  • Responsible for assigning users to databases and determining the proper security level for each user. Within each database, also responsible for assigning permissions to the various database objects such as tables, views, and stored procedures.  • Worked closely with development teams to assist in overall database design, such as creating normalized databases, helping developers tune queries, assigning proper indexes, and aiding developers in the creation of triggers and stored procedures.  • Managed and set up replication topologies and maintained replication. Junior Database Administrator ACS - Dallas, TX July 2009 to December 2009 Optimized Query Performance. Configured and Performance Monitoring of Database Application. Designed and implemented several complex reports and administration modules  • Configured and Performance Monitoring of Database Application  • Manage Database Files, Transaction log, Estimate space requirements.  • Designed and implemented several complex reports and administration modules  • Conducted ongoing usability tests and successfully put the system into production. The system modules allow users to perform insert, update and delete functions for operational purpose Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX May 2009 Skills Microsoft Certified: SQL Server 2008 Implementation & Maintenance. Languages: T-SQL, CSS, XML, PHP, ASP.NET. Links http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=252652471&trk=hb_tab_pro_top Additional Information 4 years of professional experience in Database Administration, Development and Production.  • Extensive experience working with MS SQL Server 2008, 2005, and 2000  • Excellent Knowledge in RDBMS concepts.  • Experienced in Implementing Replication.  • Hands on experience in development using T-SQL in constructing triggers, tables, user defined functions, views, indexes, relational database models and data dictionaries.  • Experienced in writing and debugging stored procedures, triggers and Functions.  • Experienced in Migration from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008.  • Experienced in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures.  • Experience in implementing MS SQL server Security and providing permissions to the users based on liability. Worked on configuration, manages & monitor, troubleshoot and document complex database applications.  • Experienced in using tools like Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler and Windows Performance Monitor for Monitoring and Tuning MS SQL Server Performance.  • Good team player, strong interpersonal and communication skills combined with self-motivation, initiative and the ability to think outside the box.    Operating Systems: Windows server 2000/2003/2008-R2 and UNIX.  Software: MS Visual Studio, MS office, SQL Server Management Studio and Enterprise Manager.    Microsoft Certified: SQL Server 2008 Implementation & Maintenance