Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator in Banking/Retail Domain Garland, TX To have a challenging career in the field of Information Technology and be an integral part of a  reputed organization where I can prove my capabilities to build up its strength adding value to  the organization. I want to work sincerely, building a symbolic relationship with the organization where my efforts will be reciprocated by career growth, higher degree of responsibility and to prove myself a valuable asset. Work Experience Database Administrator TCS - Texas September 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Implemented physical database design after sizing tables and indexes and creating table spaces and assigning Buffer pools it taking into account I/O load distribution.  • Performing Database backup and moving it to the tape library in Storage Area Network.  • Performing Statistics and reorganising Db2 data.  • Checking Db2 logs and Archival Logs.  • Configuring a server to server connection for high availability disaster recovery. Setting up environment variables and creating HADR servers.  • Installation of DB2 UDB EE and Fix packs on Windows machines.    Accomplishments  Got multiple appreciation from the Client.  Got On the support Award (TCS Gems).  Completed ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library) Certification    Skills Used  IBM DB2,xSeries Server (346, 3650, 3850 M2), Storage Area Network (SAN), Tape library, AS/400 iSeries,SAP-ABAP, C#, VBA, PL/SQL, COBOL Database Analyst Sears - Texas December 2011 to Present Company is the United States’ fourth largest broad line retailer with full-line and specialty retail stores in the United States and Canada. The project involves supporting the different applications present in the system. These applications take care of various activities related to Supply Chain Management which include Logistics, Transportation, HR/ Finance, Planning, Warehouse Management System, Vendor Management, Inventory Management and other systems.    • Managing team at Project level and documenting and discussing project specifics with the client on call.  • Providing L2/L3 support for application support under various departments of Logistics, HR/Finance, and Transportation and WMS area.  • Serve as primary contact between the application teams and IT support groups (DBA, Middleware, Application Change Control, EWTS etc.)  • Working on application SQL Query tuning, database parameter tuning, operating system tuning, memory tuning along with onsite counterparts. Education Masters in Business PGDIT Symbiosis Center - New Delhi, IL 2009 to 2011 Bachelors in Technology in ECE GGSIPU - New Delhi, IL 2004 to 2008 Bachelor in Electronics The Air Force School - New Delhi, Delhi 2003 to 2004 S.S.C The Air Force School - New Delhi, Delhi 2001 to 2002 Skills IBM DB2 DBA  Unix  SQL  Pl  COBOL  VBA  HTML  CSS  Javascript  Sap  Ms Word  Ms Excel  As400  Asp  Visual Basic Additional Information ITIL® 2011 Foundation Examination Certified.     IBM Certified Database Administrator - DB2 10 for z/OS   IBM Information Management DB2 Technical Professional v2.   IBM Certified Advanced Database Administrator for Linux, UNIX and Windows.   IBM Certified System Administrator - Web Sphere Application Server Network Deployment.   IBM Certified Database Administrator for Linux, UNIX and Windows V9.7.   IBM Certified Database Associate for Linux, UNIX and Windows.     Cyber Law Certification done through Symbiosis India.