Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Washington, DC Focused and driven Database Administrator with proven success designing and implementing database solutions.  Analytical and skilled in understanding business problems and develop systems that improve functionality. Skilled  in working effectively in collaborative and self-motivated environments. Work Experience Database Administrator Omni Shorham - Washington, DC December 2017 to August 2018 Manage SQL database administration assignments for diverse industry clients.  Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups.  Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  Conducted SQL Server production database analysis on a regular basis. Database Administrator Monaco DC - Washington, DC May 2017 to November 2017 Determined business and functional requirements for business needs.  Implemented database designs and data models.  Coordinated with project teams on database development timelines.  Tested programs and databases and made necessary modifications.  Modified existing databases to meet unique needs. Junior Database Administrator Data Group - Alexandria, VA July 2016 to April 2017 Verified data integrity and accuracy.  Copied, logged and scanned supporting documentation.  Responded to customer requests via telephone and email.  Researched and updated all required materials needed for firm and partners. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science University Of District Of Columbia 2018 Database Administrator and Developer Data Group USA - VA January 2014 to August 2015 Associate of Applied Science in Secretery Science Addis Ababa Universty 2004 Skills Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012,2016 (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional July 2014 to Present MCP July 2014 to Present Additional Information Skills  Strongly focused and knowledgeable Database  administrator with extensive experience designing,  coding, testing and supporting next-generation  database solutions in Java and SQL Server  environments. Proficient in an assortment of  technologies, including Access, MS SQL Server 2008,  2012 and 2016, Linux and Unix.