Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - MVM Inc Germantown, MD Results-driven Database Administrator with Cyber Security. Relational databases and development/maintenance of complex and critical systems. Work effectively with clients, team and leaders. Works well under pressure in extremely fast paced environments. Ability to think broadly and consider impacts across systems and within the organization. Strong organizational skills. Coordinates work activities by managing time and resources so that work objectives are accomplished on time. Presents information effectively in formal and informal settings to individuals and groups by encouraging productive communication. Work Experience Database Administrator MVM Inc - Ashburn, VA January 2011 to Present Installing Oracle software  Creating Oracle databases Start up and shut down the Oracle database  Managing the database's storage structures - tablespaces and redo log  Managed and security  Managing schema objects, such as tables, indexes, and views  Making backups, performing restore and recovery when necessary  Proactively monitoring the database's health and taking preventive or corrections when required  Monitoring and performance tuning Performing upgrades of the database and new releases    Served as part of team of database administrator for Oracle and MS SQL running on various    operating systems like windows, Linux and Unix.    Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.    Diagnosed and troubleshoot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions    to increase company efficiency.    Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the    integrity and security of data, reports and access. Database Management Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD April 2009 to December 2010 Bowie  • Created and modified shell scripts to perform daily, weekly, monthly jobs that parsed security logs for violations of internal policies  • Participated in development and deployment of technology-based systems  • Involved with proactive capacity planning in terms of memory and system storage resource allocation  • Installed database software, patched and upgraded development and test servers  • Created tables for developers  • Created Users, roles, and administered passwords, privileges and profiles  • Performed encrypted RMAN backups  • Provided remote database support for Users using SSH and terminal services  • Managed the customer table  • Use RMAN to perform full and incremental backups Education Bachelors of Science University of Maryland University College Largo - Largo, MD Present Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems  • UNIX, Linux, Windows - Redhat, Sun Solaris, Windows 2008/2003 Server  RDBMS  • Oracle 11g, 10g  Apps/Tools  • Oracle Enterprise Manager, SSH/Telnet, Oracle SQL Developer  Networking  • LAN/WAN architecture, TCP/IP, Internet/Intranet, Ethernet, Client/Server, Client/Server/Web