Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Woodbridge, NJ I am seeking opportunities in an organization where I can leverage my technical knowledge and hone my skills that contribute to the technology industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Automatic Data Processing - IN June 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities  • Created databases of different versions (10g and 11g RAC) based on the client's requirement.  • Worked mainly on the Payroll and Time Management services.  • Worked on different RMAN recovery scenarios using hot backup and point in time recoveries.  • Performed clones and migrations from one database to another whenever it was required.  • Worked on several imports/exports of the databases & tables as per the user's request.  • Experienced in working with the upgrade and downgrade of the databases of different versions.  • Performed sanity check of the databases, which includes backup job, alert log, file system monitoring and troubleshooting the issues and performed several system admin tasks.  • On-Call Support - Provided on-call support for P1/P2 (Prioritized) databases and interacting with customers and also providing regular updates to Management on a parallel management bridge.  • Wrote automation scripts for the database monitoring, sanity checks and other routine tasks.  • Raised the Service Requests with Oracle on priority basis and followed up with them to get the issues  resolved in timely manner. Education Master of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems University of Central Missouri August 2016 Masters in Data Communication and Distributed Data Processing Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University March 1982 Skills Oracle (2 years), Databases, HTML 5, Javascript (1 year), PHP, MySQL (1 year), mongoDB Links https://in.linkedin.com/in/srikanthnannapaneni Awards Best Employee of the Month 2014-04 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate January 2015 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages/Frameworks: C, C#, Java, HTML, JSP, PLSQL    Operating Systems: LINUX, Windows  Database/ERP: Oracle, Mongo DB, SQL server, MySql    Software Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio, NetBeans, Dream Weaver, Adobe Photoshop, Matlab