Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Guardian Drug Company Dayton, NJ Work Experience Database Administrator Guardian Drug Company - Dayton, NJ July 2015 to Present 08810  Job Responsibilities:    • Test programs or databases, correct errors, and make necessary modifications.  • Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  • Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers and analysts to make changes.  • Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database.  • Re-engineer company's systems setup by establishing automated server generation routines,  optimizing system performance, installing upgrades/patches, establishing system monitoring and maintaining security protocols.  • Develop standards and guidelines to guide the use and acquisition of software and to protect  vulnerable information.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  • Review procedures in database management system manuals for making changes to database.  • Revise company definition of data as defined in data dictionary.  • Review project requests describing database user needs to estimate time and cost required to accomplish project.  • Review workflow charts developed by programmer analyst to understand tasks computer will  perform, such as updating records.  • Approve, schedule, plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new products and improvements to computer systems, such as the installation of new databases.  • Ensure that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan. Create and implement system security and  backup/restore procedure.  • Provide Support Windows administration, network operating center (NOC) administration,  LAN/WAN/VPN administration and VMware administration. Manage FTP servers, DNS Server,  DHCP Server, NAS, wireless access points, Firewall, Antivirus setup.  • Setup automatic Backup SQL, Oracle and Progress database, Backup physical and virtual  servers for disaster recovery solutions. Create and perform test procedure for disaster  recovery. Migrate physical to virtual VMware or virtual to virtual server.    • Configure MS SQL Server and Maintenance of SQL databases including execution of SQL  commands.  • Lead several upgrade projects related to plan and design of company infrastructure during expansion including but not limited to LAN/wireless network setup, VOIP phone system, analog  paging system, security /access control system to make cGMP compliant.  • Lead major ERP software upgrade from windows to Linux environment and projects related to upgrade different software or new software purchase.  • Manage Sterling b2b integrator for EDI inbound and outbound documents. Creating Maps for EDI  documents. Testing and troubleshooting inbound (850,812,997 etc.) and outbound documents  (856,810,997).  • Manage and Provide Support of Qad ERP software to end user, troubleshoot technical problems  related to software and Manage ERP software database  • Installation, Configuration, administration of Dell/ VMWare Virtual servers at enterprise level.  • Implementation and performance tuning of Windows 2003, 2008 R2, 2012 servers.  • IP addressing and subnetting, Routing concepts. Switches: Basic Configuration, setup VLANs for separate voice and data network on Dell and Cisco Switches.  • Setup and managed, Active Directory (AD) for centralized domain management, group policies throughout the company.  • Maintain and validate Waters Empower3 software, manage HPLC server, laces and clients to setup best performance with HPLC/UPLC instruments. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Shri U.V. Patel college of Engineering July 2005 Database Design Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN