Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Oracle Internet Directory (OID) Lagos, GU Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Internet Directory (OID) June 2016 to Present Operate and configure ORACLE. Some common activities include:  Create primary database storage structures (table spaces) after application developers have designed an application.  Create new database objects (table, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application.  Modify the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers for DB releases. Enroll users and maintaining system security, ensure compliance with ORACLE license agreements, Control and monitor user access to the database, maintain archived data, restore databases, create new ORACLE instances, Modify the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers. Perform database reorganizations, export/imports, and Evaluate, Backup and install ORACLE security patches.  • Maintain ORACLE database software, and related ORACLE products: Oracle Internet Directory (OID), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Install and maintain ORACLE software versions 11g, & 12c, OEM, and OECC  • implementing and administering database documentation, guidelines, policies and procedures  • Testing database systems and upgrades, such as debugging, tracking, reproduction, logging and resolving all identified problems, according to approved quality testing scripts, procedures and processes  • Accepting responsibility for the processes, procedures and operational management associated with system security and disaster recovery planning (RMAN). ACCOUNTANT National youth service corps (NYSC) 2014 to 2015 Fortesoft Systems limited    • Responsible for Accounting analysis of data using the Peachtree accounting software  • Entrusted to manage office in the supervisor's absence. Provided timely, courteous and knowledgeable response to information requests. Education Bachelor of Science in Accounting AMBROSE ALLI UNIVERSITY 2014 HOPE BAY COLLEGE - LAGOS, NG 2008 School Certificate in Research Work NIGERIAN NAVY PRIMARY SCHOOL 2001 certificate Senior secondary Skills DATABASE (2 years), OEM (1 year), ORACLE (1 year), ACCOUNTING (1 year), ARCHITECTURE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information An individual with sound knowledge of Microsoft Software package, Accounting Software, accounting principles, structural query language(SQL) expert, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server database management and architecture. I possess vast skills and the ability to influence and communicate with hands on experience, I am self-driven, open to innovative thinking and allows prompt input in company overall growth.    SKILLS:  • Good proficiency in Microsoft Suite products - Word, Excel, Outlook, Power point and SPSS, and Python application, Oracle SQL, OEM, OECC, MongoDb, and Internet use.  • Install configure and operate Database Management Implementation, and Analytics.  • Excellent knowledge and understanding of generally accepted accounting principles practices and financial Management.  • problem definition, Architecture/Design /Detailing of Processes  • Good understanding of shell scripts.  • Communication and organizational skills