Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - SIFAX SHIPPING Marietta, GA Work Experience Database Administrator SIFAX SHIPPING - Houston, TX March 2010 to Present Migrated databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 using SSIS, Linked Server, and Bulk Insert.  • Participated in the data warehousing of major deployment and Migration projects.  • Coordinated physical changes and performance monitoring of two replicated production servers, one development server and one reporting server, all Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008.  • Helped developers tune queries, assigned proper indexes, and aided developers in the creation of triggers and stored procedures.  • Showed the developers how to use and take advantage of the SQL Server Index Tuning Wizard and the SQL Server Profiler.  • Experience managing multi-terabyte production of both STANDBY and CLUSTERED systems using ACTIVE-PASSIVE Clustering.  • Applied Service Packs to SQL Server 2005 and 2008 for updates and security.  • Established naming conventions and standards for the SQL Server and databases and made sure that everyone stuck to them.  • Established standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. Used the RESTORE VERIFY option when creating backups.  • Developed recovery procedures for each database.  • Performed Administration tasks (Replication, Tuning, Configuration, and troubleshooting on SQL Server 2005/2008  • Established and enforced all database standards.  • Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications.  • Maintained the proper use of storage space requirements and adding new storage space (disk drives) when required.  • Responsible for installing SQL Server and upgrading an existing SQL Server and ensuring the success of the upgrade.  • Responsible for importing and exporting data to and from the SQL Server using BCP, DTS and SSIS.  • Worked as a team member with other DBA's to ensure 24 x 7 production support of all corporate databases.  • Performed backups of all SQL servers 2000/2005 daily, weekly, and monthly  • Ensured security of the database servers by implementing applicable security patches and maintaining appropriate security measures.  • Migrated MySQL databases to SQL server 2005 using SQL SERVER Migration Assistance 4.0.  • Experience in creating, monitoring and backup, recovering and tuning SQL Server databases in a multi- platform environment.  • Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  • Managed and executed maintenance jobs that ensured the stability and performance of the database servers. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Georgia State University Atlanta - Atlanta, GA August 2004 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Experience with SQL SERVER 2005 and 2008R2 Primary and Standby databases  • Experience with implementation of backup and recovery in SQL SERVER.  • Experience using Data Collection, Performance Monitor, Extended Events, to manage CPU/Memory resources in an environment of multiple instances of SQL Server.  • Proficient in copying and migrating SQL SERVER 2005/2008 databases.  • Used Query Analyzer and SQL Server Profiler to tune SQL SERVER 2005/2008 databases.  • Expertise in Production support of 10+ (SQL Server 2005 and 2008) instances running on Windows 2003/2008 Servers.  • Experience in operating 24x7 monitoring, maintenance and troubleshooting  • Experience with SQL Server database automation tasks using SQL Server Agent and visual basic script.  • Extensive knowledge in Microsoft SQL Server databases, as well as SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL, and performance tuning  • Experience with large volume data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) logic and tools.  • Experience with cross-platform database migration and database instance consolidation.  • Experience with database upgrades and applying hotfixes and patches.  • Experience in creating, monitoring, backup, recovery and tuning SQL Server 2005 and 2008 databases in a multi-platform environment.  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES:  SQL, T-SQL, HTML, ASP.NET    RDBMS  MS SQL Server 2005/2008; MS Access    OPERATING SYSTEMS  Windows 2003/2008/XP; Windows 7