Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Atlanta, GA MS in Quantitative Computational Finance candidate with strong basics in Finance, Applied Mathematics and  with the background of working in Data Science to obtain material investment decisions for an Asset  Management firm: Highly motivated professional seeking internship for Summer 2019 Work Experience Database Administrator FIDELITY INVESTMENTS - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2015 to February 2018 Assisted Portfolio Management team to make statistically informed investments decisions by computing and extracting the material information from financial databases using SQL tools. This improved the accuracy of projections which lead to better  investment decisions.  • Using the High-Availability and Always-On features provided by the database vendors, we designed proactive database  framework for secure data availability that is predictive and intelligent.  • Analyzing the features and limitations of different Database vendors, we designed a recommender system that lets  architects decide the RDBMS given the necessity.  • Active member of 'Bits and Blocks' club- conducted a seminar on implementation of Blockchain  CLASS PROJECT  Implementation of Delta Hedging Portfolio: (C++)  Delta-hedging is a hedging strategy that aims to replicate the value of an option written on a traded asset through dynamically  buying (or selling) a proper number of shares of the underlying asset and borrowing from (or lending to) a bank. We used the real market data to test the validity of Black-Scholes model that we built by using the Black-Scholes formula to construct the  delta-hedging portfolio. For given start, end, maturity dates and strike price we generated output file which contains Stock,  Option Prices, implied volatility, Delta and PNL with Hedge.  Equity Valuation:  We took the top down approach to select the companies and calculated the Fundamental Values using the Dividend Discount  Model, Free Cash Flow Model and Relative Valuation. We analyzed the companies' sensitivity to the assumptions made in the process of valuation. In conclusion we made investments recommendation on 4 different companies.  StockTrak Trading:  As a part of curriculum, to learn portfolio management concepts more intuitively, we traded in StockTrak simulation. We  employed Quantitative/Machine Learning, Global Macro, Long/Short strategies in this project. We analyzed each position we  took and considered the risks involved. We hedged our positions using Derivatives and alternative asset classes. Education Master of Science in Quantitative Computational Finance in Quantitative Computational Finance GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Scheller College of Business - Atlanta, GA December 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING - Mysore, Karnataka June 2015 Interdisciplinary School of Mathematics Skills SQL (2 years), C++ (2 years), PYTHON, SAS Additional Information SKILLS  Programming: Python, C++, R, SAS, SQL