Database Administrator/ System Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ System Analyst Database Administrator/ System Analyst Duluth, GA HARDWARE / OPERATING SYSTEMS: IBM PC compatibles, MS Windows Operating Systems,  MS-DOS, UNIX.    DATA BASE: Oracle and MS Access    GUI/TOOLS  Project Management: MS Project, Gantt chart  Business Process Modeling: Action Workflow, Enterprise Architect, VISIO.  Facilitation Techniques: JAD, Customer Focus Groups, Surveys, brainstorming    Analysis and documentation: Textual Templates, Rational, Use Case Diagram and Scenarios.    Business Tools: Microsoft Office Applications: Access, PowerPoint, Word, Excel  OTHER APPLICATIONS:  Hp Openview, TeamTrack, OOD Visual Basic, ASP.Net, SQL, MS FrontPage, HTML, XML, XSD, Test Director and in-house written / proprietary software and applications Work Experience Database Administrator/ System Analyst UBA Trustees Limited - Lagos July 2000 to May 2003 • Prepared business requirements document for projects by conducting one on one  Interviews, surveys and also created business specification for the projects.  • Facilitated JAD sessions for defining business requirements and user acceptance testing.  • Participated in the development of Use Cases and Business Cases for testing, using sequence diagram for use case scenario.  • Facilitated meeting with technical team, subject matter experts (SME) and managers with updates during testing and also documented Change requests for Proposal as needed.  • Created the test plan with the Quality Assurance (QA) team for User Acceptance Testing.  • Liaised between technical team and testers to make sure variances are addressed and rectified test variances as needed.  • Helped in identifying application interdependencies between proposed and existing systems.  • Prepared detailed manual and automated testing script, test plans, test scenarios, and test cases.  • Developed and Administered Database Application Software using Oracle Forms and Oracle9i Database for UNIX.  • Conducted Data Analysis and Reports generation using Oracle report writer.  • Wrote SQL queries in MS Access and Oracle for data manipulations.  • Administered Database Backup and Recovery everyday  • Coordinated help desk activities  • Administered Network printers over a LAN  • Responsible for the stability of the payroll system  • Creation of product documentation, application recovery procedures and employee training manuals.  • Provided end-user training.  • Identified options for potential solutions and assessing them for both technical and business suitability. Education Ms in Information Systems Kennesaw state university December 2007 BSc in Computer Science Obafemi Awolowo University July 2000 Additional Information • 2+ years of experience as a business analyst with skill in business process engineering and software development life cycle, including process analysis, process improvement, design, development, testing and implementation of software applications.  • Strong background working with clients, designers, and programmers to identify requirements, provide cost analysis, assist with creating user interfaces, and develop implementation timelines.  • Knowledge of data modeling and mapping; using UML, Rational Rose, and Visio.  • Familiar with current industry standards, such as HIPAA, SOX, Title 21 CFR Part 11, 21 CFR Part 820, ISO, Six Sigma, and Capability Maturity Model (CMM).  • Adept at reducing development costs and providing traceability of projects.  • Excellent communication, analytical, interpersonal, organization and presentation skills; expert at managing multiple projects simultaneously and documenting business processes.  • Experience working with XML/XSD as a form of transporting data over the web, database development and documentation.  • Proven track record in oracle database warehousing, data warehouse design, business intelligence, query, performance optimization and object oriented analysis.  • Expertise in SQL, pl/sql stored procedures, performance tuning and optimization.    Training   H2K Infosys  BA/QA Training  Aug 2011 - Dec 2011