Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Pishon Technologies, Inc Powder Springs, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pishon Technologies, Inc - Austell, GA January 2013 to Present • Maintaining data integrity also managing profiles, resources and password security.  • Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  • Responsible for Upgrades, Space Management, System maintenance, Cloning, PSU patching and Database security  • Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts, Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Identify and recover the corrupted db blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility.  • Performed export/Import using DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  • Performing database cloning and duplication using RMAN.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases.  • Analyzing the tables and Indexes on performance base regularly.  • Monitoring tablespaces and datafiles utilization.  • Managing Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs.  • Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files.  • Presenting and analyzing database performance reports and improvement recommendations to client company's senior executives.  • Ensuring fast and secure access to business applications round the clock.  • Installing Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network access.  • Ensuring proper configuration and security on all database servers.  • Work with Developers to design, develop, test and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages, triggers, stored procedures and functions to support multiple clients.  • Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases, ensuring fast and secure access to business application.  • Created and tuned various materialized view.  • Tuned various slow running queries.  • Performed series of database refreshes from production to test.  • Performed instance tuning, memory tuning query tuning and complete database tuning.  • Creates and implemented various table partitions for large tables.  • Resolved various complex issues with the database.  • Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases.  • Upgrade Oracle 10g database to 11g.  • Use DBCA to create and DBUA to upgrade Oracle databases.  • Prepare documentation for DBA department.  • Excellent troubleshooting and logical problem solving skills  • Demonstrate ability to meet deadlines and set priorities.  • Strong communication and interpersonal skills.  • Ability and desire to learn new technologies quickly. Education M.S in Systems Engineering Southern Polytechnic State University Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate (OCA) February 2014 Oracle Database 11g: Structured Query Language (SQL) February 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY  Programming languages: SQL, PLSQL, UNIX SHELL SCRIPT  RDBMS: ORACLE 10g/11g, SQL SERVER  Operating systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows  DATABASE TOOLS: RMAN, SQL Developer, Enterprise manager OEM, Toad