Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Planning Specialist Wantagh, NY + Working on City Works, GIS and analyzing data with Excel:  • Use Cityworks (CW) to: Create work orders (WO) & reports – Extract data to assist the management and crew – Create inspections – Support WO with necessary documents.  • Use GIS to search and extract data from different layers using IF statements.  • Use Acrobat DC software to scan, edit and organize PDF files.  • Responsible for developing and implementing data analysis, data collection systems and data quality assurance.  • Responsible for interpreting complex data and analyzing the results using statistical techniques, making data available, digestible, and actionable to crews, supervisors and managers.  • Responsible for developing and implementing data analysis, data collection systems and data quality assurance.  • Responsible for carrying out daily administrative task supporting crews, supervisors and managers.  • Responsible for providing daily support to crews and supervisors in the use of Cityworks.  • Responsible for developing and updating various reports for GIS & Planning department on schedule.  • Assist in the preparation and implementation of sewer planning and development projects.  • Carry out research, compile data and assess project conformity with planning.  • Assist project with compliance with all Corporate and Regulatory requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Care 4 Needy Copts January 2016 to August 2018 A  (Blackbaud). Non-profit Organization - part time job)  • Good Command of Microsoft Office  + Using Raiser's Edge program, responsibilities included but not limited to:  Applications: MS Word, Excel, Power  • Import new records into Raiser's Edge.  Point, Publisher, Internet and Web  • Merge duplicate records.  Surfing.  • Update records with relevant information. Educational Center, 2001 2008 to 2009 • Assist project with compliance with all Corporate and Regulatory  + Visual Basic.Net (2008 - 2009) requirements. Education B.Sc. in Business in Planning SADAT ACADEMY FOR MANAGEMENT - Cairo, EG September 2018 to Present Skills Cobol (Less than 1 year), collection (Less than 1 year), data analysis (Less than 1 year), data collection (Less than 1 year), data quality (Less than 1 year), Marketing analysis (Less than 1 year), quality assurance. (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year) Additional Information systems and data quality assurance.  • Responsible for interpreting complex data and analyzing the results using    Computer Skills: statistical techniques, making data available, digestible, and actionable to  • Good Command of Building Software crews, supervisors and managers.  (Analysis & Design). • Responsible for developing and implementing data analysis, data collection  + Academic Studies in COBOL, Artificial systems and data quality assurance.  Intelligence, UNIX, Networks, • Responsible for carrying out daily administrative task supporting crews,    Operating Systems. supervisors and managers.