Job Seeker An accomplished DBA with around 2 years of hands-on experience as a SQL SERVER DBA in managing large-scale databases in production support environment on windows platform. Primary focusing on DBA support and having good knowledge in supporting different versions of SQL Server like SQL Server 2005, 2008R2 and 2012.    • Around 2 experience in IT industry including the experience in Administration in Microsoft SQL server 2005/2008/2008R2 and 2012.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2.  • Having good Experience in Database Backups and Restores for Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Configured and implemented Log shipping, Mirroring and Transactional Replication.  • Monitoring Database Mirroring and Ensuring High Availability to the databases by testing the failover.  • Creating and Monitoring the Maintenance plans - scheduling tasks to run daily and/or on weekends tasks like rebuilding indexes, defragmenting Databases, Shrink Database.  • Maintained Database Authentication modes, Creation of user, Configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Experience in implemented online indexing and index rebuild, index reorganize for fragmentation issues.  • Performing the Failover and Failback operations in the cluster environment and adding the new Disks and troubleshooting activities.  • Establishing weekly maintenance plans such as Integrity check, Rebuilding indexes, Update statistics and monthly maintenance plans such as clean up history etc. to run the databases efficiently.  • Running of SQL Profiler or querying server to identify Performance problems on severs experiencing high system resource utilization and performance issues report by Users and Application teams  • Ability to upgrade skills continuously and flexibility to accomplish targets successfully.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Work as part of a team member and work independently. Provide 24×7 supports when required.  • Good knowledge on SQL server 2012 Always-ON. Work Experience Capgemini - Indianapolis, IN February 2015 to Present The operating companies of OneAmerica Financial Partners, Inc. are American United Life Insurance Company, The State Life Insurance Company, OneAmerica Retirement Services LLC, McCready and Keene Inc., OneAmerica Securities, Inc., Pioneer Mutual Life Insurance Company and AUL Reinsurance Management Services, LLC    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Supporting various databases and server level support on various database issues like backups, database restore, storage space maintenance and job scheduling and job failures.  • Installation and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005, 2008.  • Working closely with application development and support team to understand their requirements and provide timely solutions, for both current and future projects.  • To reduce threat to the environment identified users having SYSADMIN rights and relegate them to the appropriate rights.  • Planed phased implementation of security patches in coordination with application team to minimize downtime to end users.  • Resolving Tickets which include creating and maintaining databases, monitoring Disk Space, database integrity, identifying missing Indexes, handling blocking  • Troubleshooting issues related to SQL connectivity, app pool configuration, password expiry, network issues, SQL log space, disk space issues, and performance issues like memory, processor usage on web and SQL servers.  • Execution of select, update queries in order to troubleshoot application related issues.  • Creation of Logins, Roles and granting rights, Assigning Permissions and Mapping user databases as per the client's requirements.  • Responsible for proper scheduling, running and monitoring various SQL server jobs using SQL server Agent.  • Updating and maintenance of service account passwords for various SQL services.  • Monitoring the Disk Space on the Microsoft Internal and External Servers based on Windows Server 2003 in production, Staging and Development environments.  • Automating Administrative Tasks using SQL server Agent, SQL services  • Monitoring and maintaining the optimum Disk spaces and log size of Databases, DBSS checks.  • Involved in Migration and Up-gradation of SQL server.  • Having good knowledge in checking application related errors using IIS & event viewer logs  Troubleshooting issues such as High CPU, Slow Queries, Server Slow, blockages etc  Client #2: Safeway Insurance, USA (www.safewayInsurance.com)  Team Size: 8  Role: SQL Database L1 and L2 Administrator  Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008 and 2008R2, windows server 2003/2005 Database Administrator Capgemini - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2014 to Present Capgemini - Westmont, IL June 2014 to January 2015 1] in the United States. Robert J. Parrillo, William's brother, is a key shareholder. Safeway Insurance Group is the largest, privately held, family owned insurance company in the United States.[2][3] In addition to its headquarters, Safeway maintains field offices in most of the states it conducts business in.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installation & Configuration of SQL Server 2005/2008/2008/R2 on Local System and Remote System.  • Applying the service packs in regular intervals.  • Maintenance tasks like index defrag or rebuild on different databases.  • Having experience on database backup and restorations.  • Implementation of Logins, creating Users, assigning responsibilities as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.  • Identifying/resolving fragmentation resulting in improved performance.  • Having experience on rebuilding master database during crash situations  • Monitoring SQL Server alerts at regular intervals  • Monitoring SQL Server agent jobs/maintenance plans  • Provided 7 x 24 Production support for the database and application issues.  • Running the scripts send from development team and troubleshooting any minor issues in the code, solving deadlock issues by discussing with Application team  • Performing the failover and failback activities on cluster.  • Enrolling users, controlling and monitoring User Access to the database, and maintaining system security. Education B.Tech JNT University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2014 Additional Information Operating Systems - Windows 98 / XP / Vista/Seven/Eight, Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2  Programming Languages - T-SQL  Database - SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012  Applications /Tools - MS-Office 2003, 2007, 2010 SQL Server management studio.  SQL Server Tools -SSMS, Profiler, Performance Monitor, DTA and query analyzer.  Other Tools -Remedy, Spotlight