Job Seeker To be groomed as MySQL DBA by working on different functional areas and newer technology platforms in a stimulating environment, which can provide ample opportunity for both teamwork and individual contribution. Work Experience SAP LABS August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  Monitor MySQL Database servers, optimization, upgrade and performance tuning.  Creation of databases and users and assigning necessary privileges to them.  Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL database servers for Production, Development and R&D use.  Installation of Replication topology - Master/Slave and Master/Master.  Managing advanced MySQL Replication for High Availability.  Troubleshooting.  Database security and audits.  Schema/ database refreshes using data backup, mysqlump.  Ability to perform installations, software upgrades and apply patches.  Testing the database backup for data integrity.  Performing backup and recovery using shell scripts.  Work assignment within team to fulfill the customer requirement in proper time manner.    Project 2: Database administrator Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN January 2015 to July 2015 Worked as a Software engineer in Micronox Information Technologies Pvt Ltd in Hyderabad from June 2013 to Jan 2015.    Project 1: Ninestars information technologies pvt ltd - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN January 2015 to June 2015 Digitizing the epaper like hindu, times of india, hindu.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Installation and configuration of MySQL database servers.  Database designing and development  Backup / Restore of databases.  Database security, creating users and managing permissions.  Optimizing database Capacity planning for database server.  Creating and Monitoring Indexes by rebuilding the index.  Database links were created to access the data from remote databases.  Restoring and Recovery Management from Tables are crashed.  Performance Tuning at different stages.  Worked with different MySQL tools like Workbench, migration etc.  Configuring Replication  Monitoring System Performance.  Replicating the Servers.    Project 3  Company: Micronox Information Technologies Pvt Ltd in Hyderabad  Title: Insurance Claim Processing  Role: Database Administrator  Client: Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield    Project Description:  Insurance Claim Processing which was a maintenance project allows workers of industries to insure themselves and make claims in the event of accidents. It also consists of Batch and  Online Systems. Claimant can register his/her claim through online system and depending upon the investigation his/her claim will be settled. The eligibility for each claim is based    on certain criteria. If this is all met, then the investigation on this claim starts. The  investigation module takes care of each claimant's claim request and also recommends the amount to be settled. The report module generates reports for each claimant showing the  number of claims, the status of the claim, the date he/she registered and the date on which the amount was settled. Weekly and monthly reports like the above reports are also  generated.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Installation and configuration of MySQL database servers.  Database designing and development  Backup / Restore of databases.  Database security, creating users and managing permissions.  Optimizing database Capacity planning for database server.  Creating and Monitoring Indexes by rebuilding the index.  Database links were created to access the data from remote databases.  Restoring and Recovery Management from Tables are crashed.  Performance Tuning at different stages.  Worked with different MySQL tools like Sql Yog, migration etc.  Configuring Replication  Checking Completion of Backups.  Monitoring System Performance.  Replicating the Servers.    Date:  Place:    ( Karthik) Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Database: MySQL  • Programming Languages: SQL, C  • Operating System: Linux (Centos 5 and RHEL 5), Windows XP, Windows 7    Ticketing Tools:    Worked on JIRA and SERVICE NOW ticketing tool.