Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Prolacta Bioscience Ontario, CA Hands-on, eager, professional problem-solver with a penchant for developing organizational processes. Core strengths include:business leadership and management, project management, team development, contract negotiations, and business data analysis. All performed with a positive work ethic, excellent time management, and team building mindset. Motivated by being a life-long learner and driven to results, dedicated, ethical and productive in team and solo tasks and projects. Some of my experience includes:  • Application development and systems integration using C#, Java, C++, Ruby, R, Python/Django, Entity Framework 6/Core, and T-SQL.  • Experienced in design and development of SQL databases, BI Reporting and Data Warehouses on the MS SQL platform tools SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS. Work Experience Database Administrator Prolacta Bioscience August 2014 to Present • Administered MSSQL and MySQL databases for the DCMS, MBTS, Syspro and RawMilk applications.  • Tuned RawMilk, DCMS, MBTS and Syspro databases, queries, and applications for improved performance and size constraints.  • Corrected application bugs and defects at the data level.  • Developed and implemented databases and data stores for Prolacta Central, RawMilk, MBTS, and Prolacta Data Warehouse.  • Created a Master Data Management framework for corporate data decision making and information delivery.  • Implemented ETL procedures for input and output of data from and to commercial vendor applications using MS SQL Server from 2008 R2 to 2014.  • Created Agile policy and procedures for database deployments in the Enterprise    Board Member/Vice President - Communication and Branding (Volunteer), 1 year NAAAHR-Greater Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California  • Established the organizational communication structure and Social Media policy.  • Developed online marketing campaigns, newsletters and various communication products for the organization.    Owner - Mimir Data Products 2 years  • Developed lower tier data products and informatics for small and medium business.  • Served and Information System consultant for several small businesses.  • Worked with small and medium-sized business to build information technology departments.  • Assisted board-level personnel in developing charters, bylaws and official policies as required by their articles of incorporation and various government regulatory bodies.    Network/ Database Specialist - Charter Oak Unified School District 10+ years  • Served as the systems administrator and database developer for a 1,200 seat school district.  • Worked with policy and steering committees to create governing policies and direction for the Information Technology department. Developed applications and organizational database for internal District use.  • Served as the departmental liaison for vendor negotiations, contract negotiations, and construction meetings. Education Masters of Business Administration in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jcwitherspoon