Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator San Antonio, TX warehouse construction for multiple data warehouse systems of varying sizes and complexity. Additionally, well versed in Teradata development tools.    Databases Teradata, Aster Work Experience Database Administrator Wal-Mart Inc - Bentonville, AR June 2006 to March 2010 Responsible for assisting in the control, integrity and accessibility of the database structure of multiple data warehouse databases (Teradata, HP Neoview, Netezza) with many concurrent users. Responsible for implementing the physical data structures to support the application development teams. Provide problem determination and resolution with proper escalation. Assist in designing the distribution and configuration of database resources, tuning database applications for optimum performance, and implementing disaster recovery and contingency plans. Run intra-team projects, apply existing technical knowledge to new projects, and provide project review for team projects. Also provides input to management on vendor proposals and ensures vendors are accountable for daily work and participate in the evaluation of tools to address the business needs. Participate in weekly on call pager rotation.  Teradata Teradata Tools • SQL Assistant • Teradata Studio • BTEQ • Teradata Administrator • Alert Facility • Data Mover • Viewpoint • TASM • Aster AMC and ACT    Extensive Experience in the Following Tasks • Create physical table structures from a logical model with the proper index assignments.  • Create User IDs, Batch IDs, Databases, Profiles, and Roles using Teradata  Administrator or SQL Assistant/SQL.  • Manage Access Rights with proper requirements.  • Monitor and manage production activity with Teradata Manager/Viewpoint.  • Multi-Value Compression Analysis and implementation.  • Generate script to create macros, tables, views from data model and implement the scripts in production.  • Create Secondary Indexes, Join Indexes, Partitioned Primary Indexes and Collect Statistics on tables.  • Optimize and fix spool space issues.  • Optimize high CPU consumption jobs.  • Copied data from one system to another using an internal developed program.  • Did various types of system maintenance and cleanup.  • Exposure to workload management practices focused on high concurrency and active data warehousing. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX