Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Dubuque, IA Work Experience Database Administrator IBM - Dubuque, IA May 2011 to September 2013 Job Profile: Managing Oracle Databases. Responsibilities include:  • Provided production support for 24X7 database availability for Oracle Database.    • Installation, configuration and upgrading of Oracle server software and related products, setup and maintain tens of Oracle 9i/10g RAC databases on Linux enterprise server, establishing and maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.    • Installed and configured 11g in non-production environments.    • Worked as part of a global team to provide 24/7 supports.    • Setup and maintained documentation and standards.    • Setup and monitored the data replication and standby databases.    • Helped design and develop tools for Database Services team.    • Created manual log shipping to create standby server in Standard Edition.    • Worked with development team extensively    • Applied quarterly CPU Patches.    • Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g, 10g RAC on RHEL4 U6, AIX, SQL, Windows 2000. Oracle Database Administrator City Bank - Washington, DC November 2010 to April 2011 Job Profile: Managing Oracle Databases. Responsibilities include:  • Supported and advised the development teams on database related issues.    • Assisted developers in tuning SQL statements in the applications.    • Designed and implemented disaster recovery strategies, hot and cold backups.    • Carried out the setting up of RMAN back up schedules of databases.    • Performed Instance tuning using tools like Stats pack etc.  • Created and managed both system level and object level roles and privileges for various users. Killing sessions and revoking user privileges and roles.    • Experience with DBUA/Export and Import to migrate the database.    • Responsible for optimizing data access and performance by tuning indexes.    • Managed the existing databases by applying new required release modification to existing database structure and applied new Oracle patches as required.    • Worked closely with Oracle on different Oracle issues.    • Designing and developing backup and recovery strategies.    • Built and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery strategy.    • Successfully recovered corrupted databases.    • Enhanced overall performance by performing SQL tuning..    • Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g, 10g RAC on RHEL4 U6, AIX, SQL, Windows 2000. Additional Information • Technical Skills    • Relational Databases: Oracle /9i/10g/11g.  • ? Operating Systems: Sun Solaris 10/9, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3, 4, 5, and AIX.    • ? Languages: VB, SQL, Python, basic knowledge.    • ? Tools and Utilities: Oracle Enterprise Manager, RMAN.