Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Williams companies, Inc To associate with an organization where there is ample scope for individual as well as organization's growth and development, where my technical and analytical skills can be utilized and sharpened for the growth of the company and self. Work Experience Database Administrator Williams companies, Inc January 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Conducted knowledge transfer sessions with client.    Generate/analyzing database reports (AWR/ADDM).    Monitoring RAC databases to check services/cluster health using SRVCTL, CRSCTL Utilities.    Monitoring ASM Disk groups.    To check all production databases tablespaces space availability    To check all production/standby databases sync.    Resolving user related issues.    Database cloning using RMAN.    Monitor alerts to find ora600, ora7445 errors.    To check db file system and space availability.    Project  ACMP known as Access midstream Partners was merged to Williams companies and it basically deals in providing oil and gas gathering services to major exploration companies in US.    It holds 120 RAC databases each with 4 node, version is strict to 11.2.0.3 in which 5 databases have active data guard.    Team includes five active members. Williams companies, Inc January 2013 to Present Client Name Williams companies, Inc. OK, US  Role Database Administration  Responsibilities  Patching of databases: Usually done in order to fix the bugs, also called Patch Sets and quarterly SPU patching on databases.    User utility maintenance: Keeping the users intact with the database.    Audit Reports: Monthly Audit report generation for external audit review.    Cloning of Databases: Done in order to avoid problems faced during data loss.    Rman Backups: Maintain and troubleshooting Rman backups.    DR Activities: Disaster Recovery techniques to recover data in case of data loss.    Database Creation: Creation of databases and data files to incorporate more data into the system based on timely requirements.    Database upgrade/migration: Creation of new database and data import from old database using TTS and export/import utility.    Customer Interaction: Live Interaction with the end users in order to determine the actual requirements in case of discrepancy.    TAB & CAB Meetings: Technical Advisory Board and Change Advisory Board meetings conducted by both WIPRO and Customer-End weekly, in order to determine the effects of changes being done on the system and many more.    Project  Williams Companies is premier provider of natural Gas Infrastructure in North America.    Wipro is providing IT infrastructure and Application development support to Williams. In databases prospective, there are 290+ databases which include all development, QA and production environment. A team of 8 people handling databases of various size and highest is of 3.0TB. Team has regressively worked on migration of databases from AIX to Linux environment for better performance.    Project Title ACMP Education Vocational Andhra bhalika Junior College - Warangal, Andhra Pradesh 2007 to 2009 Koutilya High School Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages SQL  Scripting Languages Basic knowledge of shell Script  Database Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c  Platform LINUX (x86-64), AIX (64), SOLARIS (Sparc 64, x86-64)    Professional Trainings    Oracle L1 Database Administration.  RAC11g Database Administration from oracle certified.  Oracle 11g Data Guard.  Basic UNIX Administration.  Management training on how to say NO and maintain customer service.  Management training on conflict management.  Management training on Listening for understanding-Communicating    SOFT SKILLS:    Communicating and interacting effectively with team mates.    Self-directed, self-motivated with strong analytical, troubleshooting and problem solving skills.    Good team player and hard worker.    Self-starter and quick learner with good analytical and interpersonal skills.