Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Houston, TX Over 4 years of hands-on experience working on DBA/Architecture, Production 24*7 support, Implementation, Configuration, Upgrades, Replication, Performance Tuning/ Optimization/ AWR, ADDM, User/Security Administration, Backup/Recovery, Data/Network Administration and Maintenance, Database Migration, ASM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Nordstrom - Houston, TX June 2014 to May 2015 ? Created and maintained various databases for Production, Development and Testing using Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g.  ? Active member of the on-call team to support Clients of different Applications relating to our team 24/7, to keep the High critical systems running.  ? Responsible for Data Guard setup with Primary and Standby Databases and scheduled.  ? Responsible for Oracle 10g RAC EE installation and configuration.  ? Responsible for setup ASM for Configuration of RAC.  ? Involved in configuring and supporting streams replication on oracle 10g.  ? Participate in storage capacity measurement and planning.  ? Created and managed tablespaces monitored the datafiles' space, resizing and adding new datafiles etc.  ? Managing database security, creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activities.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) to Oracle 11g (11.2.0.3)  ? Monitoring Cold, Hot and RMAN backup scripts of the databases supporting different applications.  ? Creation, configuration and setting up of RMAN catalog databases and registering target databases with the catalog.  ? Schedule jobs in crontab including RMAN backup and other memory maintenance, security jobs. Database Administrator First Command - Fort Worth, TX May 2012 to June 2014 ? Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  ? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, implementing portioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes.  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.   ? Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  ? Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports. DBA UNITED HEALTH SERVICES - Syracuse, NY February 2011 to June 2012 Additional Information SKILLS  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook), PeopleSoft, Adobe Professional, 50 WPM