Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - SIBS IT Reynoldsburg, OH Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator. Over four years of experience in  creating Database objects such as Tables, Views, Index, Functions and Stored  Procedures. Experience in Database backup and Restore, Maintenance and Access  control. Good knowledge of High Availability and Replication such as (Clustering,  Mirroring, Always on Availability Group, Log shipping, Snapshot, Transactional,  Peer to Peer and Merge Replications.), Good understanding of Performance Turning,  Joins, T-SQL and Query optimization and Experience in ETL (SSIS)  24/7 internal and external support for critical issues Work Experience Database Administrator SIBS IT - Cumming, GA 2016 to Present Created Database Objects such as Tables, Joins, Views, Stored Procedures,  Triggers and Functions, I also write simple and complex T-SQL Statements.  I Do Performance Turning, Database Backup and Restore, monitoring and Trouble Shooting Databases and servers, Maintenance of servers and  databases.  High Availability such as (mirroring, failover cluster, always on availability  groups, and log shipping)  Replication such as (Snapshot replication, Transaction replication, peer to peer  replication and merge replications.)  Create Database Users,  Perform regular Security configurations and monitoring on Databases  SQL Server Configuration  ETL (Data migration) using SSIS,  * Creating packages and Tasks  Set up alerts and Notifications  24/7 internal and external support for critical issues Associate Database Administrator Euro Oil SA 2013 to 2015 Started as a trainee DBA. Trained on the job and moved up to Associate DBA. My  responsibilities included    Creating and managing high availability objects such as Always on Availability Groups, Failover clustering and Log Shipping.    Setting up database mails and SQL Server Alerts, Replication, Backup,  Indexing, etc.  Backups and Restores Databases on daily, weekly, monthly basis.  Securing business and users sign-off.  Carried out BCP activities for development team.  Created database users, granted permission and managed user logins.  Stored procedures verification for optimal performance.  DTS packages Design and Development.  Index creation and maintenance.  Troubleshoot database related application performance issues.  Continually improve monitoring, performing database capacity and usage  planning. Education DBA Certification Pacific Institute of Technology - Jonesboro, GA 2014 Bachelor's degree in Business Law in Business Law University of Yaoundé July 2010 Skills analyzer (Less than 1 year), Business management (Less than 1 year), Database (6 years), database engine (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Sql (6 years), Time management (Less than 1 year), Visio (Less than 1 year)