Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Frontline Tax Financial Inst Atlanta, GA Proactive IT System with experience in back -end programming, relational databases, and the development and maintenance of complex and critical system to be part of a dynamic environment and where my technical skills and analytical abilities can be used with a progressive company that recognizes outstanding performance and offer the potential for career growth. Customer support with appropriate behavior in social situations and to maintain composure in negative circumstances in order to achieve results and to utilize potential with future - focused company that is known and respected throughout the world.    Highlights    • Experience in a variety of hardware platforms including; MS-Windows 2000, 2003, NT Server, UNIX/Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX & AIX.    • Excellent experience and maintaining database including database security, Capacity monitoring and performance tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc.) Using Statspack, Explain plan, Analyze, ADDM, AWR Report and so on. Gathering and analyzing AWR report for troubleshooting purposes.    • Experience in Real Application Cluster RAC including setting up 10g RAC.    • Good experience in regular Security patching on oracle products and interim patching for various bug fixes on database products.    • Great working experience in writing SQL for creating views, functions, stored procedures, creation of database, securities, granting and revoking roles and privileges to users and database securities etc..    • Expertise in efficient database performance, implement performance optimized recommendations, fix issues and problems. Configuring and creating databases using DBCA.    • Extensive experience implementing backup and recovery strategy for disaster recovery using Hot/Cold Backups and using the Oracle backup utility such as RMAN.    • Excellent knowledge of SQL*Plus, SQL*Net, SQL*Loader, Enterprise Manager & Performance Tuning Pack.    • Great working knowledge installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g t0 11g).    • Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN, Export/Import & Datapump), Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Database Cloning, Refresh, and patch management.    • Documentation of the work assigned in the environment and stored for the future use.    • Strong emphasis on organization and documentations. Excellent interpersonal and strong communication skills (including Presentations). Customer-service oriented attitude and self-motivated, dedicated in any work environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Frontline Tax Financial Inst - Atlanta, GA February 2013 to Present Installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g to 11g) using DBCA; Performance tuning of all Oracle Instance components and assisting the application developers in testing and implementation stages of the application tuning.  • Performing constant and occasional database backup and recovery using RMAN, Data pump Import and Export utility, multiplexing the Control file etc. Using RMAN to clone database.  • Managing and securing the database by using appropriate proper authorization schemes, roles and privileges  • Modifying database structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements, cloning development databases for testing and training.  • Design and implement redundant systems, policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and data archiving. Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems  • Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any hitches and unusual situations.  • Identified, resolved, and provided recommendations to various instances of performance problems which include Database performance problems, I/O hardware performance problems etc.  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.    • Administering and maintaining the company's databases including daily monitoring and performance analysis using Statspack, ADDM, and AWR Report etc. Gathering and analyzing AWR report for troubleshooting purposes.  • Working with other IT professionals for database designs and reviews; troubleshooting database issues, and deploying timely fixes; maintaining regular and proactive database patches, updates and performance enhancement.  • Enhancing SQL statements performance using Explain Plan and Oracle optimizer hints  • Ability to manage high availability solution centers using Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) with several nodes.  • Creating database that meet the constantly changing requirement and need of the company and clients.  • Configuring the Oracle Network environment including Oracle Net Services and Listeners, configuring and managing oracle network.  • Developing SQL scripts to carry out routine checks on databases. This include checking if the Listener is running, optimal running of all databases, UNIX error messages, disk space availability etc. Database Administrator Coin Group - Alpharetta, GA February 2012 to March 2013 Reviewed and integrated application requirements, including functional, security, integration, performance, quality, and operations requirements.    • Manual configuration of Oracle Database using commands    • Worked on single-instance databases running on HP-Unix.    • Implementation, installation, configuration and upgrade on Red Hat Linux advance Server on Development    • Performed Health Checks for database auditing purposes to involve running scripts to gauge security exposures and subsequently implement resolution to violations.    • Performed upgrades to databases while coordinating with Application DBAs.    • Used Explain Plan for performance issues    • Provided production support for single-instance, multiple systems utilizing    • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges    • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database.  • Installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g to 11g) using DBCA; Performance tuning of all Oracle Instance components and assisting the application developers in testing and implementation stages of the application tuning.  • Performing constant and occasional database backup and recovery using RMAN, Data pump Import and Export utility, multiplexing the Control file etc. Using RMAN to clone database.  • Managing and securing the database by using appropriate proper authorization schemes, roles and privileges  • Modifying database structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements, cloning development databases for testing and training.  • Design and implement redundant systems, policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and data archiving. Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems  • Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any hitches and unusual situations. Database Admin Tecon Oil Comp January 2011 to November 2012 Computer hardware and software    IT Personnel    • Support and troubleshoot network and connectivity issues    • Configure and support PC, laptop and peripheral hardware including installing and configuring software programs    • Diagnose and solve hardware problems    • Provide subject matter expertise for projects; Manage projects as appropriate.    • Keep abreast of current software and hardware technology trends and new technology.    • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a wide range of software, hardware and network issues    • Prioritize and escalate issues where required    • Plan and lead training sessions for new and existing users    • Monitor, log and track all phases of help desk support    • Provide responsive and competent end-user support for technology and application questions and problems Additional Information SKILL SET    RDBMS Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g  OPERATING SYSTEMS HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, Linux (Redhat Linux) and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  LANGUAGES SQL, PL/SQL  SOFTWARES, APPLICATIONS & TOOLS  DBCA, DBUA, WinScp, Oracle Data Guard, OEM (GC), RMAN, ASM, VCS, SQL*PLUS, SQL*LOADER, EXP, IMP, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), TOAD, Erwin, TOAD, Data Modeler, SQL TRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM, OEM / Grid Control.