Database Administrator/Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer Alexandria, VA I am skilled Database administrator. I have 6 years of extensive experience general database administration and developer, Managed databases in 24/7 data processing environment. Install, administer, manage and maintenance SQL Server databases through multiple product lifecycle (Test, Dev, Production) environments from development to mission-critical production systems. My experiences include, but are not limited to:  SQL Server RDBMS design, T-SQL, creating queries, stored procedures, views, triggers. Verify maintain & troubleshoot database backups, integrity checks, and scheduled jobs. Configuration and troubleshoot Log Shipping, Replication and Mirroring for high availability. Managing day to day SQL Server operations such as review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status, automating backups using maintenance plans and automated backup scripts. Managing security through logins, users and roles, Resolve authentication and permission issues of database users. I am Self-motivated, good communicable, analytical, organizational and interpersonal skills. Exceptional ability in learning and understanding new technology quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Developer Bridge IT support services LLc - Alexandria, VA March 2015 to Present BITSS is an IT service company providing database design and business intelligence solutions. A small business organization, design and program a whole new custom database application. Enhancing and fix existing database and move the database to the cloud. BITSS provides a custom suite solution. I am working as a Database Administrator including some tasks of developer manages and configures different applications.    Responsibilities;  • Managing day to day SQL Server operations such as review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status and so on.  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Created database objects including tables, indexes, constraints, stored procedures, views, triggers, and maintained relationships between tables.  • Refreshing, deploy and Migrate data through environments when requested by customer.  • Verify, maintain & troubleshoot database backups, integrity checks, and scheduled jobs.  • Tuned queries by following best practices and finding missing indexes, checking fragmentation level and re-index tables as necessary for efficient application access methods.  • Installed and configured, patch, test and upgrade SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014.  • Database Maintenance for Prod Environment by Database Consistency Check, Index Maintenance, Update Statistics, Maintenance Cleanup, Notification and Alerting for Maintenance jobs, Analyze and Produce Report for Database Files Growth Rate.  • I am Experienced in the Agile methodology.  • Creating and Implementing Disaster Recovery and high availability plans such as; log shipping, SQL Server Mirroring and Replication as per the company requirement.  • Data partitioning, Error Handling through TRY-CATCH-THROW statement, Common Table Expression (CTE).  • Involved in database design and modeling and developed E-R Diagram using third party diagram like ERWIN and SQL Server Data Diagram.  • automating backups using maintenance plans and automated backup scripts.   • Performance Tuning Jobs in Prod Server like Setup SQL Server Agent job that tracks slow running queries, Setup SQL Server Agent jobs that tracks locking, blocking and deadlocks, Setup SQL Server Agent jobs to send out reports of Server bottlenecks and Debug Slow running queries. Database Administrator Linus Engineering October 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities;  • creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and scheduling SSIS Packages.  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Experience in Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) data from heterogeneous data Sources flat files, excel and MS Access to MS SQL Server databases using MS SQL Integration Service (SSIS), BCP and Bulk insert.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008, 2012 & 2014.  • Created and troubleshoot linked servers from SQL Server to SQL Server databases.  • review SQL Server Error log, check database consistency, check and verify SQL Server Job status.  • Configured and troubleshoot Log Shipping and Mirroring for high availability.  • Identify bottleneck and solve performance using SQL native tools and EDRA and Ignite third party tools.  • Used DBCC commands to check the database condition and rebuild/reorganize indexes.  • Run profiler for persistent performance issues and review and apply recommended Indexes and statistics using Tuning Advisory.  • Monitored index fragmentation and rebuild and reorganized as necessary Used.    Tools Used  Relational DBMS: Microsoft SQL Server  Operating System: Windows Server 2008, 2012 and 2014.  Third Party Tools: Idera, Erwin, Ignite, Service Manager, ERD and so on  Windows XP/7/8/10 Education Bachelor's in Enguneering Tech-Zone Engineering & Business College - Addis Ababa October 2012 to January 2015 Skills Microsoft SQL Server, Third Party Tools: Idera, Erwin, Ignite, Service Manager, ERD. Windows XP/7/8/10 (5 years)