Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - HM Health Solutions Gibsonia, PA I am a Database Administrator that is experienced with Oracle and SQL Server, as well as, Non-Relational Database Management Systems. I would describe myself as hard working, placing a high value in education (whether it be formal training or independent research), always willing to go the extra mile, having a professional attitude and a close eye for detail. Work Experience Database Administrator HM Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA March 2018 to Present I am responsible for the Production and Non-Production databases that contain all clinical data for Allegheny Health Network (AHN). Responsibilities include performing update/upgrades as necessary, managing refreshes for training, testing and development environments, managing backup and recovery, managing replication among production, reporting and disaster recovery environments, handling end-user troubleshooting, and administering user access. My area of greatest concentration focused on database security with activities including:  • Collaborating with Security team to configure Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).  • Handling user access in accordance with security standards.  • Team representative for project to implement HITRUST Common Security Framework (CSF) and SOC to expand beyond HIPAA requirements. Database Administrator Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, KS November 2016 to February 2018 I was Responsible for 18 production databases. The largest being approximately 30TB in size. All production databases are clustered with the majority being two-node active/passive and one active/active/active RAC cluster. Additionally, I managed numerous real-time apply Data Guard Standby databases. Furthermore, I also assisted in managing mid-tier databases that employ Golden Gate replication. Daily activities include backup and recovery via RMAN, utilizing AWR, ASH, and OEM for tuning queries, storage migrations and management via ASM, troubleshooting any issues that may arise, and ensuring that all databases are configured to meet or exceed expectations. I also created scripts to alert me to issues and email reports. All databases run on RHEL operating system. Other projects I worked on included:  • Worked with the SAN team to migrate databases to new storage arrays. This involved coordinating with infrastructure members to determine the appropriate datacenter, the appropriate LUN type (disc or flash), and executing the migration within RHEL and ASM.  • Worked with Infrastructure team to migrate backup solution from NetBackup to NetApp.  • Gave presentations to DBA community regarding various incidents and incident resolution.  • Volunteered to assist in representing International clients located in Australia, the Middle East and other parts of Asia. I worked with Cerner team members in Bangalore, India and on-site client members to resolve a variety of incidents. Database Specialist Remote Database Experts - Warrendale, PA April 2016 to November 2016 I was responsible for quickly and efficiently resolving issues related to SQL Server and Oracle databases. This includes troubleshooting SQL performance issues related to blocking, high disk utilization, CPU and/or memory, investigating and resolving failed backups, storage management, and resolving issues with High Availability including Mirroring, Log Shipping, Transaction Replication and Snapshot Replication, and Always On. I gained experience working with SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Agent, Cluster Administrator, and SQL Safe. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Indiana University of Pennsylvania 2015 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Oracle Database, Sql Database, Sql Dba, RAC Additional Information SKILLS  • Experience in Oracle11g, as well as experience in Oracle 9i/10g/12c, RAC, ASM, RMAN, Data Guard, CBO, OEM 13c, AWR and ASH Reports, and Flashback technologies.  • SQL performance tuning  • Experience with SQL Server in clustered production environments and resolved issues with High Availability.  • Experience with Non-Relational Database Management Systems.  • Programming experience with SQL, Java, Perl, and Bash.  • Extensive experience in UNIX OS flavors and Windows Server.