Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Work Experience Database Administrator Texas A&M University, Texas February 2018 to May 2018 Spearheaded the utilization of Microsoft SQL Server knowledge for designing, coding, and developing of marketing CRM databases leading to 50 % increase in usability in alignment with clients requirements.  ? Supported in the documentation and structuring of the database and other technical information for the lead marketing CRM and database personnel.  ? Performed SQL Server administration activities (troubleshooting, backup, restore and indexing, ad hoc queries, scripts, Infrastructure Architecture, Disaster Recovery, Integration and macros), utilizing database schema thereby minimizing numerous performance issues.  ? Led in several investigations to evaluate, organizations systems while recommending customized database administration tools to facilitate rapid execution of business processes. Database Administrator Multigrade Products LTD December 2015 to August 2017 Spearheaded designing, coding, and maintenance of databases leading to 50 % decrease in downtime.  ? Evaluate software and hardware suitability and applicability within mainframe data repositories.  ? Execute fast data downloads from mainframe and third party devices to Data Warehouse while Communicating with Data Warehouse Manager to give updates on achievement of project milestones.  ? Setup cost analysis research systems for internal customers and recommended appropriate hardware and software programs for database leading to 40 % increase in ROI. Database Systems Developer Sunway Technology October 2014 to November 2015 Cooperated with the team in designing, developing, and executing ETL packages to convert client data using stored procedures, functions, and SQL scripts in a Microsoft SQL Server environment resulting in 40 % overall systems performance.  ? Documented and modified stored procedures and T-SQL scripts in response to the needs of the Data Warehouse  ? Designed, implemented, and maintained new and existing database objects including tables, indexes, constraints, stored procedures, and user-defined functions in support of data conversion projects.  ? Performed SQL Server administration activities (warehousing, troubleshooting, restore, indexing), thereby preventing data loss.  ? Retrieved and analyzed data related to database applications based clients requirements. Proficiently executed various business processes using SSIS, SSAS, SSRS. Education Master of Information Science Texas A and M University 2018 Skills DATABASE (3 years), SQL (1 year), MICROSOFT SSRS (1 year), SSRS (1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Technical skills: SQL, Design, RDMS, Clustrix, Agile, Database Warehousing, Synchronization, Backups, Physical File Location Standards, Fine Tuning, Database Administration, Clustering Analysis, Indexing, Testing, Change control, AWS, Data security, Optimization, troubleshooting, Usage monitoring, Upgrades, SSIS, SSRS, Data Centre Migration, NOSQL, 24x7 support, Recovery, Space management.    Software: Visual Studio 2008 to 2017, Windows 2007, 2008, 2010, Cassandra, sequel server 2008, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, Alwayson, MongoDB, OLAP, SQL Reporting, Big Fix, Teradata, Microsoft Service Now, Azure.  Languages: SQL, MySQL 5.5/5.6/6.0/7.0, ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML, COBOL, Visual Basic, JCL, PLI, PowerShell, Python