Database administrator-1 <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span>-1 Database administrator-1 - Financial Graphic Services Chicago, IL Seeking a challenging and growth-oriented career in Information Technology, where my technical and leadership skills will be challenged. Work Experience Database administrator-1 Financial Graphic Services April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on installation and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005 /2008 /2012/2014/2016 on standalone and clustered Environments  • Involved in migration (side by side upgrade) of MS SQL Server 2005/2008 to MS SQL Server 2014.  • Handled clustering between two Production Servers and performed daily backups and developed recovery procedures.  • Monitoring and tuning Sql server databases for optimum performance and assistance in capacity planning of Sql server database servers.  • Involved in Configuring Always-on (HADR) in production environment.  • Administered the MS SQL Server by creating User Logins with appropriate Roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the User Accounts, granting and privileges to users.  • Scheduled the Backups for Databases and performed Restoration operations.  • Performing client requested data loads from Excel sheets, CSV files other database tables into the specific databases using Import and export wizard.  • Experience in deploying SQL database to Microsoft Azure portal.  • Created, built and deployed SSRS Reports to web.  • Monitored SSRS subscriptions, adding/updating subscriptions as per request  • Add/Update SSRS Data Source for New Web front end or New clients all together.  • Experience in SSRS and Crystal Reports development and troubleshooting.  • Created SSIS packages to validate, extract, transform and load data from different sources into SQL Server database.  • Implemented and Maintaining Replication.  • Generate every day morning Replication reports from branch SQL Servers and Resolve Issues.  • Created jobs and scheduled jobs as per Requirements.  • Configured Synchronous/Asynchronous Mirroring with or with no failover  • Implemented Transactional Replication between Primary and Secondary Servers.  • Created Databases, Tables, Indexes and Views.  • Created Linked Server between SQL Servers & Oracle Server.  • Configured Mirroring and Transactional Log Shipping between Primary and Secondary Servers depending on the business requirements.  • Performance tuning, optimization and monitoring using DMVs, SQL Server Profiler Trace, Extended Events  • Working in HIPAA regulated environment.  • Worked with SQL Server Profiler to Generate Traces.  • Developed documentation that sufficiently describes technical deliverable as required for internal controls so that the maintenance responsibility can be passed on to production support team.  • Continuous monitoring server health.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 Windows 2003, 2008R2,2012 Server, 2008 R2 Report builder, VM Ware MS Visual Studio 2010, SSIS Packages, SSRS, COMM vault. Jr. Database Administrator Crystal graph Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installation & configuration SQL Server 2008 R2,2012  • Converting DTS packages to SSIS packages.  • Involved in configuring SQL Active-Active and Active-Passive clustering on Windows 2008R2 environment  • Migrate databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2/2012  • Using log shipping for synchronization of database.  • Set up transactional, snapshot replication and maintain the active replication(s).  • Maintaining the database consistency with DBCC at regular intervals. Involved in trouble -shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Complete documentation about the database, to analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  • Performed daily backup and created named backup devices to back up the servers regularly.  • Generated Script files of the databases whenever changes are made to stored procedures or views.  • Optimized queries by running Execution plan, adding Indexes, fragmenting indexes (Rebuild and Reorg)  • Performance tuning and optimization of Query of SQL server.  • Supporting programmers for moving objects to different environments.  • Creating and maintaining user's logins and Roles.  • Tuned the database to perform efficiently by managing databases using the options to grow or shrink database files and monitored the size of the transaction log.  • Involved in Capacity planning of the servers.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 Enterprise and standard editions, T-SQL, Microsoft Reporting Service, VMware, SQL Server Reporting Services and SQL Server Integration Services, RedGate. Education Masters in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Northwest, Missouri, US December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology GITAM University April 2013 Skills MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SSRS (4 years), SSIS (3 years), Crystal Reports (4 years), Java (2 years), HTML (2 years), C# (1 year), SQL (5 years), microsoft office (3 years), Database Management (5 years), DATABASES (3 years), DBA, Sql Dba Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, C#, SQL, PL/SQL, iOS (Swift), Batch scripting, Python  Web Technologies: HTML 5.0, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery  Databases: SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016  Operating Systems: Microsoft, Linux (Ubuntu), MAC-OS  IDE's: Net beans, Eclipse  Version Control System: SVN, GIT  Database Tools:  SQL Server profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Management Studio, Import and Export wizard    Third Party Tools: Red gate, COMM vault backups, Idera, SQL Clone  ETL, Reporting and Visualization Tools: SSRS, SSIS, Tableau, Crystal