Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Software Engineer Wayne, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ January 2016 to May 2018 • Managed a MySQL database on an Ubuntu LAMP server holding information being used for student classwork and deadline-oriented faculty research projects.  • Worked closely with faculty and their student assistants to help facilitate their research by being available around the clock to provide access and troubleshoot problems.  • Facilitated MySQL access for students for in-class use by creating and distributing tutorials on MySQL, PuTTY, and WinSCP and responding to students' problems via e-mail.  • Created and deleted MySQL user accounts; set permissions for professors and student research assistants. System Administrator William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ January 2016 to May 2018 • System Administrator for all Computer Science and Computer Information Technology students and staff on Solaris 10 and on Ubuntu LAMP server.  • Worked with faculty and led a team to improve the current setup of the server and the computer labs.  • Proactively reported server problems to faculty to receive guidance for the best solutions.  • Facilitated server access to faculty and students by being available around the clock to troubleshoot issues such as runaway processes, setting file permissions, expanding data quotas, resetting passwords, and creating and deleting user accounts.  • Led a team to work on a side project to create 30 external hard drives containing Fedora Linux and penetration testing and networking tools for the 300-level course Networking Fundamentals and Security.  • Tested server capability and created documentation on how to compile, interpret, link, and execute source code for Fortran, C, C++, Java, Python, and Perl.  • Created over 70 pages of documentation that detailed the inner workings of the server and UNIX in general so that future administrators would be able to implement the work that I had accomplished in the future. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Technology William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ May 2018 Skills DATABASE (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), C++ (2 years), PYTHON (2 years), LAMP (2 years), Java, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Fluent in Java with applications including socket servers, database access, and threading.  • Fluent in C++ and object-oriented design concepts.  • Experienced in OOP with Python, front-end JavaScript, and back-end PHP.  • SQL, HTML5, and CSS  • MySQL  • Microsoft Office  • Troubleshooting  • Microsoft Windows: XP, 7, 10  • Linux: Ubuntu LAMP, Fedora, Kali  • Unix: Solaris 10  • Database Administration  • System Administration