Job Seeker San Jose, CA Seeking a full-time job in the field of software development and network programming. Work Experience Object Oriented Class with Java September 2017 to December 2017 • Designed and implemented java application for Mancala game.  • Used GUI java development to develop applications.  • Used different programming patterns and use MVC architecture in the development.  Design and create Android App Fall 2017  • Designed and implemented android application to interact with beacon.  • Connect the application with database using Firebase database.  Design and Develop website using ReactJS Fall 2016  • Used UML to design the project and used ReactJS to implements the program.  • Teamwork environment, and work in timed schedule.  Data Structure and Algorithm class in Java: Spring 2015  • Study and understand how to calculate big O and time complexity  • Study and implement search algorithms, Sort algorithms, Linked list, Stack, Queues, and graphs.    Object Oriented Class with Java Fall 2017  ? Designed and implemented java application for Mancala game.  ? Used GUI java development to develop applications.  ? Used different programming patterns and use MVC architecture in the development.  Design and create Android App Fall 2017  ? Designed and implemented android application to interact with beacon.  ? Connect the application with database using Firebase database.  Design and Develop website using ReactJS Fall 2016  ? UML to design the project and used ReactJS to implements the program.  ? Teamwork environment, and work in timed schedule.  Data Structure and Algorithm class in Java: Spring 2015  ? Study and understand how to calculate big O and time complexity  ? Study and implement search algorithms, Sort algorithms, Linked list, Stack, Queues, and graphs. Tutor/Mentor Game Development March 2014 to June 2014 in Qt4: Spring 2014  • Designed successful computer game and defined the classes and function to be used.  • Technologies used: Qt4 and C++  VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE:  Tutor/Mentor: Fall 2014  • Tutored in Math at Fresno City College, for Calculus I, Calculus II, Algebra, and Trigonometry.  • Mentored more than 50 students at Fresno City College, assisting them in their academic success.  Training and Workshops:  HTML, CSS workshop:  • HTML5 and CSS workshop in Fresno City College.  GDG android workshop:  • Attended Android development workshop sponsored by GDG in Fresno City College.  Statement of Qualification Database Administrator Engicon - JO January 2007 to August 2009 • Used Oracle packages to monitor the data entered in the system, providing technical support to ensure data accuracy.  • Troubleshot any problem that was found in the entered data and utilized strong attention to detail skills to maintain high levels of accuracy.  • Made weekly report for supervisor to track data progress that was made.    PROJECTS:    Database Administrator, Engicon, Jordan Jan 2007, Aug 2009  Duties:  • Used Oracle packages to monitor the data entered in the system, providing technical support to ensure data accuracy.  • Troubleshot any problem that was found in the entered data and utilized strong attention to detail skills to maintain high levels of accuracy.  • Made weekly report for supervisor to track data progress that was made.  Projects: Education B.S. in Software Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA May 2019