Oracle Database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle Database administrator - NationGlobe Tech Inc Baltimore, MD Work Experience Oracle Database administrator NationGlobe Tech Inc - Pikesville, MD June 2018 to Present • Launched a review and evaluation program and influenced replacement of four outdated systems.  • Full database, Schema refresh using RMAN, Data pump and Implemented the Backup strategies using RMAN catalog and nocatalog methods.  • Setting up of Oracle and Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security.  • Handled High volume production databases around 25TB size along with physical standby databases.  • Proficient in Oracle High availability features like RAC, DATAGUARD, GRID CONTROL and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF  • Performed data file recovery from logical and physical block corruptions.  • Frequently communicated with technical and non-technical customers.  • Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  • Work with Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) which provided high speed, parallel, bulk and metadata movement of Oracle database contents. Oracle Database Administrator ITC Tech Inc - Parkville, MD June 2017 to June 2018 • Performed Oracle Database software installations, and troubleshooting as need arise.  • Performed Backup and Recovery by using RMAN and end user-managed methods for logical and physical backup and Hot/Cold backup.  • Supported end users and provided training to new users as required.  • Installation and administration of Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Hands on experience in cloning both in the multitenant and non-multitenant container database in 12c environment.  • Apply database patching for security and vulnerability management in the 12c database environment.  • Performed tuning by using AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan to gather statistics.  • Set up over 75 users/ group login accounts and password.  • Assisted over 25 users with login issues, resolved issues and tune up databases.  • Rendered on call support as need arose for multiple database systems.  • Designed and created tables with enforced business rules for security, consistency and availability.  • Designed and created partitions on tables to increase performance and manageability.  • Reviewed and created auditing policies to enforce database security in compliance with business rules. Information Technology Help Desk Olay Designs Plus - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to June 2017 Intern):  • Designed web pages to present forms for download and decreased office wait time by 15%.  • Supervised transition from 50 racks of paper records to electronic medial records under budget.  • Decreased cost of acquiring new hardware from $12,000 to $10,000.  • Launched a review and evaluation program and influenced replacement of outdated systems.  • Trained three office staff on how to use available technology and reduced support request by 60%. Education Mathematics Ogun State University Skills Sql, Fisma, Scripting, Linux, Shell scripting, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Unix/Linux RHEL 5.x, Windows XP, Windows 8, Windows 10.  • TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE: Dataguard, RAC, FISMA, MS office, SQL, Shell Scripting.  • HOBBIES: Soccer, Tennis, Travelled to Connecticut, Reading Science fiction.