Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - NUCLEUS SOFTWARE EXPORTS ? IT Professional with overall 4.10 years of experience as an Senior ORACLE DBA.  ? Expertise in Installation and Configuration of Oracle databases of 10g, 11g, 12c versions on RHEL/Windows/Aix/Solaris/Nutanix operating systems.  ? Expertise in AWS Cloud Instances like Creating, Modifying, Instance class change, Restoring the instance using snapshot available, Creating parameter groups, Editing the Parameters  ? Expertise in using AWS Cloud console, GRAFANA, MFA, Cloud Watch etc.  ? Expertise in MySql Server/Workbench installations and Creating Connections from end user machines, granting privileges to end users as per the requirement.  ? Troubleshooting issues like connectivity from end user machines to AWS Instances.  ? Analyzing and resolving the issues related to table spaces (Non system, Undo &Temporary) in Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c.  ? High Level knowledge on Real Application Clusters (12C RAC).  ? Having experience in User management like Creating users, Allocating Tablespace to users, managing privileges.  ? Expertise in Logical backup (Export& Import, EXPDP & IMPDP) and Physical backup (Hot & Cold).  ? Oracle DataGuard Physical Standby configuration. Setting up and resolving issues with Oracle Data Guard environment.  ? Having experience in Upgradation of oracle Database from Oracle 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  ? Involved in many Database refresh using Export & Import, Datapump.  ? Proficiency with Backup and Recovery's including Usermanaged backups, Logical Backups and RMAN backups.  ? Involved in Migration of databases from different cross platforms.  ? Performed Incremental backup's, Flashback recovery, Datapump backups.  ? Hands on Experience in ASM, like creating and managing Diskgroups with Mirroring and Managing ASM Instance.  ? Experience in analyzing Performance using AWR/ADDM and Statspack reports.  ? Monitoring and optimizing the performance of databases.  ? Monitoring the CPU usage of queries, CPU time to identify any OS level performance killers.  ? Worked in the team of support spans across database, technical, functional, operating system with strict adherence to the predefined service level agreements in providing 24x7 remote supports for our clients.  ? Cloning of databases and refreshing the databases on daily bases.  ? Co-ordination with the Tape Backup Team for regular backing up of the backups of the databases. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator NUCLEUS SOFTWARE EXPORTS August 2016 to Present Worked as a Oracle DBA for IDC TECHNOLOGIES from 16-JUNE-2014 to 03-AUG-2016.  Primary Role    ? Monitoring Space, Alert log and Performance of Databases on daily basis.  ? Creating schemas based on the users requirements.  ? Modifying the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers.  ? Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database.  ? Planning for backup and recovery of database information.  ? Maintaining archived data on appropriate storage devices.  ? Backing up and restoring the database.  ? Controlling and monitoring user access to the database.  ? Troubleshooting of issues Raised by Application developers.  ? Monitoring PT suites to ensure performance.    Activities Involved In  ? Involved in many PT Suites to ensure the max performance for N no of virtual users to reach the performance benchmark of the Application.  ? Involved in many database migrations and Upgradations.  ? Cloning Database from production to development using Datapump.  ? Installation of Oracle10g, 11g & 12c on Windows and Linux servers and also created oracle databases manually and using DBCA.  ? Worked on many more core areas of oracle database like cron job scheduling, Job tasks creation in windows.  ? Backup jobs scheduled on windows and aix servers for many databases.  ? Troubleshooting database issues for many clients.  ? Analyzing Statspack, Addm, Awr reports and sharing result oriented findings.    Project Details  Project #3  Organization: NUCLEUS SOFTWARE EXPORTS LTD  Client: ESSKEY FINANCE  Database/Environment: AWS CLOUD.  Role: SR Oracle DBA.    Responsibilities  • Login into the Cloud Console and Monitoring all the DB Instances on Daily basis.  • Using GRAFANA for Enhanced Monitoring of Database Instance.  • Monitoring the Database Cpu, sessions, read throughput and OS related metrics.  • Checking regular backup status and their movement to cloud storage.  • Regular checking of logs/audit records.  • Regular Checking of database health.  • Analyzing database reports and sharing analysis with the different stakeholders as and when required.  • Creating different Setups like UAT/SIT as per the requirement.  • Session Management like tracing, killing, monitoring etc.  • User and Role management.  • Installing and configuring Oracle Binaries.  • Space management at ORACLE and AWS/OS level.  • Backup management for different backups as per the requirement.  • Monthly Report creation for backups and Infrastructure utilization.  • Capacity planning for the coming requirements.  • Maintenance activity at object level (Index Rebuild, Statistics Gathering, purging, archival etc.).  • Maintenance activity at Database level (Statspack management, Audit Log management, Reviewing Parameter settings etc).    Project #2  Organization: NUCLEUS SOFTWARE EXPORTS LTD  Client: MANAPPURAM FINANCE  Database/Environment: AWS CLOUD  Role: SR Oracle DBA.    Responsibilities  • Login into the Cloud Console and Monitoring all the DB Instances.  • Using GRAFANA for Enhanced Monitoring of Database Instance.  • Monitoring the Database Cpu, sessions, read throughput and OS related metrics.  • Checking regular backup status and their movement to cloud storage.  • Regular checking of logs/audit records.  • Regular Checking of database health.  • Analyzing database reports and sharing analysis with the different stakeholders as and when required.  • Creating different Setups like UAT/SIT as per the requirement.    • Session Management like Tracing, Killing, Monitoring etc.  • User and Role management.  • Installing and configuring Oracle Binaries.  • Space management at ORACLE and AWS/OS level.  • Backup management for different backups as per the requirement.  • Monthly Report creation for backups and Infrastructure utilization.  • Capacity planning for the coming requirements.  • Maintenance activity at object level (Index Rebuild, Statistics Gathering, Purging, archival etc.).  • Maintenance activity at Database level (Statspack management, Audit Log management, Reviewing Parameter settings etc).    Project #1  Organization: IDC TECHNOLOGIES  Client: BAF INDIA  Database/Environment: 11.2.0.4/AIX.  Role: Oracle DBA.    Responsibilities  ? Regular Monitoring Alert log files on day to day basis.  ? Day to day Database Administrative tasks like resolving database issues with archival processes, database free space management and monitoring logs.  ? Maintenance of database instances and pro-active monitoring of the performance.  ? Create, allocate and modify database storage structures  ? Create users, roles and assigning privileges on it, granting the roles to the users, and profiles.  ? Capacity planning and future database growth allocation like Space management, sizing the database objects, monitoring file systems and tablespace growth.  ? Monthly maintenance work like Index rebuilding, Table reorganizing.  ? Generating AWR and StatsPack Reports for study and Tuning the database and Applying the patches as and when required as per the Application team recommendations and also applying CPU patches  ? Handling user-managed backups and datapump backups based on business requirements and company management demand.  ? Database refresh of the Production & Test Databases using Logical (Export & Import) & Physical (Online & Offline) Backups.  ? Plan and configure standby Database and Manage the both Primary and Standby in SYNC.  ? Backing up the databases using RMAN.  (RAJASHEKAR K) Education B.Tech in Computer Science JNT University - Kakinada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN