Prequalification and Database Administrator Prequalification and <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Prequalification and Database Administrator - LMH a CMC Company Work Experience Prequalification and Database Administrator LMH a CMC Company July 2017 to Present Data Modeling and Database Design.  ? Performed and maintained detailed analysis of Request for Qualifications ("RFQ") and Request for Proposal ("RFP") documents to assess requirements.  Major Clients: MBTA, Keolis Commuter Services, Mass Coastal Rail Road, MassDOT, DAS, US Navy (Naval Facilities Engineering Command Atlantic) private clients like AvalonBay, Lee Kennedy, Cranshaw Constructions.    ? Ensured that standard material required for proposals (e.g., company database containing resumes of project-assigned personnel, organizational charts, job descriptions, etc.) are up to date. Assisted in maintaining extensive database on previous projects and clients.  ? Maintained state and federal level prequalification's.  ? Quantifying the Project design build structure.  ? Proficient in Technical and Business Writing, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modeling, Business Analysis and testing various methodologies.  ? Experienced with Confluence and Jira for creating or organizing as well as discussing work with different teams.  ? Planned B2C marketing approaches with data-driven technology.  ? Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database  ? Used several iterations, methodologies like Agile and Scrum analysis techniques that helped daily "sprints" tasks.  ? Expertise in Performance Management, Asset Management, Cash Management, Portfolio Management, Credit Management, Client Reg Reporting and implementing its benefits.  ? Deep understanding and experience of Investment Management, Asset Management, Prime Brokerage Services, Money and Capital Market Instruments  ? In depth knowledge Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodology, Use Cases, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA/D).  ? Assisted project team in preparing Functional Specification Document (FSD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD) developed non-functional requirements, and documented Business Requirements Document (BRD).  ? Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mockups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis.  ? Responsible to Track, Document, Capture, Manage and Communicate the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) which helped in controlling numerous artifacts produced by the teams across the deliverables for a project  ? Used Tableau to produce data reports to reflect the operation conditions and worked on R Language for statics and data mining.  ? Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of a Project are in Compliance Surveillance with the Business Requirements.  ? Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of Test Cases. Expertise in designing and developing Test Plans and Test Scripts  Representing projects: -  ? Green Line Extension (GLX): ($1.08 billion)  ? C-43 Reservoir West Storage Basin: ($523 Million)  ? LMH- Lane Cabot Yard Joint Venture: ($213 Million)  ? Red and Orange Line Systems Signal Upgrade Project: ($190 Million)  ? Bundled Bridges: Major Transit Project: - ($50 Million)  ? Guardian Angel Operation Facility Aviano AFB - US Navy  ? Varberg Tunnel - Swedish Transport Administration  ? P-1804 Hydrant System Sigonella AFB - Naval Facilities Engineering Command Atlantic ("NAVTAC"), CVS Pharmacy 2016 to 2017 Coordinated and processed new patient medication orders and reorders.  ? Communicated and collected copay amounts, obtaining authorizations customer bills.  ? Worked with insurance companies, healthcare providers, internal teams to screen and identify customer bills.  ? Resolved and deferred orders will account receivable or clinical issues.  ? Helped to meet all financial and clinical expectations. Education Masters of Business Administration in Information Technology Cambridge College - Cambridge, MA 2017 Bachelor of Computer Science and Software Engineering in Computer Science and Software Engineering Oxford Brookes University 2013 Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Adobe photoshop. (Less than 1 year), Asp (Less than 1 year), Asp.net (Less than 1 year), Data analysis (Less than 1 year), Dreamweaver (Less than 1 year), Flash (Less than 1 year), Hp-ux (Less than 1 year), Integration (Less than 1 year), Integrator (Less than 1 year), Jbuilder (Less than 1 year), Linux. (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac os (Less than 1 year), Macromedia (Less than 1 year), Macromedia flash (Less than 1 year), Marketing analysis (Less than 1 year), Microsoft access (Less than 1 year), Sql (1 year), testing (1 year), Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL