Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Work Experience Database Administrator Techicom, Vadodara July 2014 to August 2015 • Developed functions, procedures and packages to implement the system's business logic using PL/SQL  • Involved in designed phase of most project development.  • Created and managed the database triggers and subprograms  • Evaluated and implemented user roles and assigned access rights and privileges. Internship Techdefence - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2013 to June 2014 Tested Web Applications in PHP to enlist point of failures of website and recommended security patches to clients.  ? Developed Web application penetration framework to improve efficiency by 85% over manual search and to find the primary vulnerabilities like SQL injection, Race condition, XSS and Privilege escalation  ? Inspected, enforced and updated security feature of client's website which improved client's security risk assessment & management  ? Developed various risk factor model to manage risk on arrival  SEMINARS PRESENTATIONS:  Advance storage technology  Diagnosed logical ways to store and retrieve up to 1TB of data in a disk by writing with laser beam on both side of disk. This method will allow more data storage in less physical space.  Cloud Computing  Achieved more complex computing to use ideal computational power of laboratory computers using Linux (OS). Additional computational power was then used to solve the complex and calculative problem which can be used as a source of income.  Ethical Hacking  Presented ways in which one can keep track of security on electronic system. Demonstrated live hacking of Windows & Whatsapp and ways to patch them. Education M.S Texas A & M University-Kingsville December 2016 B.E. in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University August 2014 M.S Harrisburg University Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), PHP (1 year), SQL (2 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  Languages: C, C++, HTML, CSS, PHP, (X) HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Ajax  Technologies: JAVA, VBA, .NET, Android, ASP.NET, MVC,  Databases: My SQL, SQL Server, Oracle.  Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/7/Vista/8, LINUX  Tools: Content Management System (CMS), Adobe Photo shop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office  CMS: Drupal, Joomla, SilverStrip, WordPress