Sr. Database Administrator Sr.<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> • 12+ Years of IT Experience  • 10 + Years of DB2 UDB DBA Experience  • 2 Years of SQL DBA Experience    • 12+ years of experience in the field of Information Technology Industry with emphasis on RDBMS systems such DB2 UDB LUW and SQL Server. Over seven years relational database management systems experience starting from v 8.1 to 10.1(Stand Alone, Pure Scale) on DB2 LUW.  • Leading a team of 8 members and acts as a POC for Offshore resources.  • Database migration experience from 8.x to 9.x on LUW.  • Involved in DB software installation, instance creation and instance upgrade  • Contact IBM for critical issues with PMR and provide the information they need (db2support, db2service, diag log etc ).  • Installed UDB DB2 ESE V8.2/V9.x and applied fix packs.  • Database Physical implementation using Logical Models.  • Logical and Physical design of Databases using tools like ER Diagrams, Data dictionary and table space.  • Setup and troubleshooting of db2 high availability disaster recovery (HADR).  • By performing DR Tests making sure that DR is in sync with PROD in the presence of AD Teams.  • Experience on Database Partitioning Feature (DPF).  • Knowledge on Replication (Q & SQL).  • Handling Large OLAP (DW) and OLTP databases.  • Knowledge on WLM (Work Load Management) for efficient usage of resources.  • Creation of new databases (analysis of available memory, database size, database & database manager configuration options).  • Database objects creation & alteration (tables, indexes, views, stored procedures, functions etc.).  Federated database server creation in order to allow access of another databases (DB2 or non-DB2) inside a DB2 database.  • Generating security and compliance report as per SOX using tools.  • Managing Database user privileges (granting & revoking permissions after proper analysis & approval).  • Involved in Major Prod releases, Release Activities and acts as a common point to different teams.  • Database performance tuning and troubleshooting & fixing problems faced by application developer.  Query tuning for the problematic queries sent by application developer or identified during database monitoring.  • Exploring the use of Materialized Query table to enhance the system performance if required.  • Stress and performance testing to find the bad sql's.  • Working on Schema changes, Data type changes.  • Database monitoring (free space in tablespaces, event monitor outputs, security audit reports, performance reports etc.).  • Database backup & recovery (offline & online backups, Incremental & Delta). Database cloning using redirected restores.  • Monitoring and error checking of maintenance jobs (Backups, Reorgs, Runstats etc.) from console and from Autosys scheduler.  • Experience in implementing DB2 9 recent features including compression and STMM.  • Troubleshooting of scripts using shell scripts on various database administration jobs.  • Performing database security review (for the databases created & maintained by other DBA).  • Assisting AD Teams by providing performance tuning and optimization tips.  • Set up development, testing, User Acceptance Testing and production databases.  • Provided troubleshooting and problem solving on critical issues.  • Using DB2 monitoring tools like db2pd, db2top, db2mtrk, db2dart etc.  • Using OS tools like topas, vmstat, iostat, ps etc.  • Third Party tolls like Foglight, Foglight PA and DB2 Monitor installed and configured.  • Support to Storage/ UNIX teams for SAN Migrations, UNIX server patches etc.  • Supporting Unix Teams, in building new servers (file systems, space etc.)  • Accept and Resolve Incident tickets as per SLA's.  • Strong knowledge of shell scripting  • Tracking the offshore resources work distribution and utilization.  • Member of Technical panel for UDB recruitments from Offshore and onsite resources  • Provide 24X7 production support, problem resolution and recovery processes during an outage resolution.  • Adapting Third-party applications/packages Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator PROYS December 2012 to Present RDBMS DB2 UDB AESE, ESE, DPF and Non-DPF, DB2 v10.1, DB2v10.1(Pure Scale)DB2 V9.7, DB2 V9.5, DB2 V9.1, DB2 V8.2 & V8.1 ESE, MS-SQL Server 2002/05  Programming Languages COBOL, JCL, SQL, C, Perl, Korn Shell, C++ and Java  GUI/Tools  Toad for DB2 UDB, Quest for DB2 SQL Optimizer, IBM Data Studio, Visual Explain, Health Center, Design Adviser, DDL, DML, DB2 Utilities Education B.COM in Accounts Berhampur University - Orissa, IN 1997 Additional Information Operating Systems UNIX (Solaris (5.8), AIX (3.x, 4.x, 5.x & 6.x), ZLinux (SUSE 9 SP3, Red Hat)  Applications/ Tools  Service Manager (HPSM), Quest Central, Toad for DB2, TSM, Net Backup, Autosys Console, Control center, DB2 Query Patroller, Data Domain    Hardware IBM RS/6000, IBM POWER 6, P5 Series, IBM P4 Series