Junior SQL Architect Junior SQL Architect Junior SQL Architect - Ziegler Elmwood Park, IL Seeking for a challenging role as a SQL Developer where my talent and knowledge can be utilized for the growth of the company. I will be a valued team member through my education and experience in Oracle, SQL Server, SharePoint and my excellent communication skills, flexibility, and work ethic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior SQL Architect Ziegler - Chicago, IL 2014 to Present • Built and maintained SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Supported all production operation activities, with focus on integration and development of new and existing products and services.  • Developed automated database applications.  • Provided and supported the development and on-going support of data warehouse, business analytics, reporting systems and services and tools.  • Involved in the continuous enhancements and fixing of production problems. Database Developer Valence Health - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2013 • Part of application development team and assists in all stages of development from conception to development to testing to optimization.  • Conduct presentation of the work when requested and participates in knowledge sharing sessions with other developers in the team.  • Provides maintenance support to existing applications.  • Develops ETL and workflow components using technologies such as SQL server, SSIS, T-SQL, SQL, Skelta, SAS.  • Troubleshoots and provides necessary bug fixes related to client and User reported issues. Database Administrator American Spirit Data Solutions - Winfield, IL 2012 to 2013 • Utilize SQL and PL/SQL to develop scripts, to fulfill ad-hoc requests for mailing lists, statistics, and review of other constituent data.  • Design, create and modify MySQL database  • Manage and improve upon existing processes  • Primary responsibility for the creation of client files  • Proactively identify opportunities for process improvement and reducing operational complexities  • Assist and support team members and clients with ad hoc query and list production needs  • Created and implemented database design solutions in collaboration with programming team Education MS in Information Technology in management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL May 2011 Technical Systems Management in project management University of Illinois - Champaign, IL May 2009 Skills DATABASE (6 years), SQL SERVER (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), SQL (6 years), INTEGRATION (4 years) Additional Information Skills:    Software: Adobe, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash, MS Office Suite, Visual Basic, Oracle, MS SQL Server 2008 Integration Services (2008)  Operating Systems: AIX/Linux/UNIX/Windows Vista/2000/XP  Microsoft Technologies: ASP.NET, Silverlight, WCF, AJAX  Programming Languages: PL/SQL, JavaScript, VB, PHP, T-SQL (DDL, DML)  Web Technologies: HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript  Database Environments: Oracle 10g and 11g, MS SQL Server, MYSQL