Lead Oracle Database Manager Lead Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Lead Oracle Database Manager - Sole Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Oracle Database Manager Sole June 2018 to Present • Involved in Installing, Configuring and Administration of Oracle 11g and 12c Databases.  • Upgraded databases from 11.1.0.7, 11.2.0.2, 11.2.03. to 11.2.0.4  • Participated in PeopleSoft HCM upgrade to version 9.1  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager 12C Cloud Control to manager entire Oracle environment  • Installation of agent 11g and OEM Grid control 11g.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning for data warehouse and Business intelligence reporting  • Involved in Installing, Configuring and Administration of Oracle 11g and 12c Databases.  • Installed 10g /11g binaries on Windows and Linux servers and configured new production databases for the same.  • Installation of agent 11g and OEM Grid control 11g.  • Proficient in writing UNIX Shell scripts to automate business process and daily backups.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning.  • Exposure to new 12c Features, Container and Pluggable Database, FAR-SYNC Instance, Cascade Redo Transport Destination, Allowed usage of SYNC and NOAFFIRM to extend Data Guard Range, Moving online Data file, etc.  • Implemented scripts to monitor and get information on free space, alert log errors. Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • 1 Year experience using 11g and 12c GoldenGate, Director, including upgrading, setup and support in QA and production ODS.  • Oracle Instance tuning and SQL tuning was done using OEM GC, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQLT, TKPROF, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Tuning Sets, SPM, SQL HC, TRCA and RAT Tool.  • Perform failover failback testing.  • Follow up on SRs for different issues (SCAN behavior, Node eviction, Failover etc.) Oracle Database Administrator NorthWest Mutual 2015 to 2018 • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA) ,CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Responsible for configuring Datagaurd physical and standby database setup for high availability and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Done migration of non ASM database to ASM database.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.    Environment: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (10.2.0.5- 12.2.0.1) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN    • Implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and Cold backups to tape, drives, and disks.  • Tested and performed database recoveries using Microsoft Azure  • Tested and performed server recoveries using Rapid Recovery Data Protection software  • Involved in query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  • Performed database performance tuning, STATSPACK reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues.    Environment: Oracle 10.1.0.4/10.2.0.4/11gR2, RHEL 5 and 6, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, TOAD, Powershell scripting for automated datapulls and backup storage    Technical Skills  Databases:  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Database Tools:  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Remedy Education Associates of Applied Science in Applied Science Community College of Baltimore County Bachelors of Science University of Maryland University College Skills AIX (Less than 1 year), backups. (4 years), Cloning (3 years), Database (4 years), Database Administrator (3 years), Databases. (4 years), Linux (4 years), Loader (3 years), maintenance (4 years), OEM (4 years), Oracle (4 years), PeopleSoft (1 year), performance tuning (3 years), PL/SQL (3 years), RMAN (3 years), Scripting (3 years), Shell Scripting (3 years), SQL (4 years), UNIX (4 years), UNIX Shell (4 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E-5/ Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information Skills Summary    • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Data Migrations.  • Knowledge in Golden Gate installation & Configuration setups in both windows/Linux environments.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and ADDM.  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues. Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Created indexes to facilitate easy user interface implementation and tuning.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production and IST environments.  • Experience in doing upgrades including maintenance & monitoring implementation.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listner, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • Experience as 24x7 productions DBA as well the application (development) database administrator.  • Experienced in working with very large 24x7 Oracle RAC 10g & 11g databases on ASM of nearly 80GB to 1TB.  • Experience in database patching, cloning, upgrade, migration & maintaining standby db server (DR).  • Experience with database backup, recovery, and setting up disaster recovery Database servers.  • Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in resource management like data files with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) (Trouble shooting, Add, Remove Files etc.), online redo log files, control files. Allocating logical storage structures like tablespace, schema and extents as well as configuring Oracle databases on Multi-Threaded Servers Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup & IBM TSM.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.    Operating Systems:  UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008R2,    Hardware:  Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008R2,    Applications:  GFI (Genfare), Oracle HCM, Oracle PeopleSoft Finance, TransitMaster, Spear, HASTUS