Test Engineer, Database engineer Test Engineer, <span class="hl">Database</span> engineer Cleveland, OH • Software Professional with overall 3.4 years of experience in Database Administrator and Software Testing.  • Core expertise on Database Administrator with 2.7 years and Automation, Manual testing with 7 months.  • Plan, Design, Build and Maintain Complex Test Automation Frameworks [Hybrid, Keyword and Data Driven]. Designing and Maintaining Database with Database Driven framework  • Expert on HP QTP Automation using VB Scripting, Descriptive Programming and writing query's in SQL, MYSQL, Oracle.  • Flexible, quick learner, proactive attitude and an amazing team player.  • Working knowledge in Oracle and MySQL Database( writing SQL queries)  • Good knowledge in all phases of SDLC with both Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Good knowledge in Selenium automation using Java.  • Good experience using HP QC, Bugzilla, IBM ClearQuest.  • Adding, Deleting, Updating tables in MYSQL/SQL/Oracle database.  • Expert in Manual web testing.  • Good experience in preparing Requirement traceability matrix, Test case, Test Data.  • Good experience in preparing Test Plan, Defect report documents.  • Good Knowledge in Object Oriented programming languages Java and .NET.  • Hands on experience in testing Client/Server and Web technologies.  • Good Communication & Interpersonal skills Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Test Engineer, Database engineer Igene - MY June 2014 to January 2016 Testing Tools QTP 11.0  Database Oracle  Other Tools Bugzilla    Project Description:  XHUM3D(TM) is a web-based visualization application that helps medical students in their studies in medicine through whole body anatomical approach to basic and clinical science with a customized working area with facilities for social networking, document sharing, wiki, annotations and full semantic search based on known standard ontology in medicine. It is an interactive tool for medical students, practitioners and teachers to explore the human anatomy in relations to various physiological systems either from the medical knowledge-base to 3D digital bodies or vice versa.    Responsibilities:  • Installing and Upgrading database server and application tools  • Evaluating Oracle features and products  • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • Take care of the database design and implementation  • Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system  • Modifying the database structure , as necessary, from information given by application developers  • Strong in SQL to connect to SUT database while testing.  • Implement and maintain database security  • Database tuning and performance monitoring.  • Application tuning and performance monitoring.  • Setup and maintain documentation and standards.  • Plan growth and changes    Automation Suite Details:  Application: XHUM3D  Modules: Admin, Visualization module, Semantic module  Tool: Oracle    Project 2:  Project Title Infopsy  Work Location Malaysia  Role Test Engineer, Database Administrator  Environment Java, Php, MySQL  Server Tomcat, Mirth, PACS  Team Size 23  Testing Tools QTP 11.0  Database MySQL  Other Tools Bugzilla    Project Description:  Infopsy(TM) is a comprehensive custom built 3D visualization application for Forensic Autopsy designed specifically for Forensic Pathologist. The system enables the user to do Volume rendering and real time viewing of the Digital body from the 3000 to 5000 DICOM slices obtained from MSCT after whole body scanning. Forensic Pathologist has the option to do a friendly set-up of slice stack up to at least 2000 images with reconstruction time of not more than 2 minutes. The system has forensic specific 3D, MPR, 2D capabilities of which can be navigated easily using user friendly navigation tools. Forensic Pathologist is able to carry following described functionalities like MIP (Maximum Intensity Projection), SSD (Shaded Surface Display) and reformatting the digital body. The Digital Autopsy software system runs on the high resolution visualization display and high processing graphic computing system, as well as DADS Smart LCD screen. DADS Smart LCD screen allows forensic pathologist to examine digital representations of real bodies in minute detail by manipulating digital bodies using touch and finger gestures similar to procedures in classical autopsy  Responsibilities:  • Plan, Design, Build and Maintain Test Automation Framework (Keyword Driven and Data Driven) for Xhum3D Application.  • HP QTP 11.0 Automation using VBScript and Descriptive Programming.  • Built a detailed, reusable Keyword driven Automation Framework using QTP to cover the test cases for Regression testing  • Assist test lead during test planning  • Writing test scenarios, test case and test data for responsible modules and responsible testing topics by using "Black box techniques".  • Follow IEEE 829 standards while documenting test cases with required test data and test environment.  • Involve in test cases review meeting along with the test lead.  • Involve in smoke testing on initial software build  • Replication of production issues and reporting to Developer for fast track fix  • Execute test cases by using test data on SUT in test environment to detect defects.  • Involve in defect reporting and tracking  • Conduct Retesting, Sanity testing and Regression testing on every modified SUT to close bugs.    Key Role:  • Played unique role to handle Environmental Issues Support Activities for the team of 7 members for about a year.  • Co-ordinating with Various teams to resolve the frequent Environmental issues which is very critical as it holds the entire team's productivity  • Sending Environment Downtime Status Report to Client on Daily Basis with a Downtime Tracker being maintained.  • Publishing Weekly Status Report - Environmental Downtime with Total loss of Productivity and Mitigated Plans.  • Attending Daily Status Call to discuss the issues about Environment and the mitigation plans executed for the day.  • Attended Daily Status Report Call with Client on absence of Leads.  • Worked with Onsite Automation Experts in developing Data Driven Automation Framework for Citi Direct Application to automate the process of reports generation in UI.    Automation Suite Details:  Application: XHUM3D  Modules: Admin, Visualization module, Semantic module  Tool: QTP 11    Plan:  • Create a QTP Script for the above mentioned modules.  • Test Cases and Test Scripts are stored in the excel.  • Error Report to be exported back into Excel , Log File  Design & Build:  • Used Keyword Automation Framework concepts.  • Read Excel Data into Custom QTP Data-Tables using custom scripts.  • Built a complete repository of reusable functions using Descriptive Programming.  • Built QTP Function Library to handle Application Work Flow    Project 3:  Project Title AOU    Work Location India  Role Test Engineer, Database engineer  Environment Java, J2EE, Oracle  Server Web sphere  Data base Oracle  Team Size 16  Testing Tools QTP 11.0  Other Tools Bugzilla    Project Description:  This project is used to online the personal loan process. Online underwriting is a web application developed to online personal loan process to underwriting process and risk based pricing processes which are the prerequisites for loan processing. The application interacts with different systems during the process of which ARP is a system through which loan applications are sent to the AOU system and CDR is the central data repository for the loan application details. Online Underwriting makes use of CDR data in order to perform credit check of the customers.  Responsibilities:  • Assist test lead during test planning.  • Writing test scenarios, test case and test data for responsible modules and responsible testing topics by using "Black box techniques".  • Follow IEEE 829 standards while documenting test cases with required test data and test environment.  • Involve in test cases review meeting along with the test lead.  • Involve in smoke testing on initial software build  • Replication of Production Issues and reporting to Developer for Fast track Fix  • Execute test cases by using test data on SUT in test environment to detect defects.  • Involve in defect reporting and tracking  • Conduct Retesting, Sanity testing and Regression testing on every modified SUT to close bugs.  • Strong in SQL to connect to SUT database while testing.  • Involve in final regression testing on final SUT during test closure  • Join with the developers to do acceptance testing to collect the feed back on software from the real customers / model customers  • Assist test lead in RTM preparation before signoff from the project / product    Key Role:  • Played unique role to handle Environmental Issues Support Activities for the team of 7 members for about a year.  • Co-ordinating with Various teams to resolve the frequent Environmental issues which is very critical as it holds the entire team's productivity  • Sending Environment Downtime Status Report to Client on Daily Basis with a Downtime Tracker being maintained.  • Publishing Weekly Status Report - Environmental Downtime with Total loss of Productivity and Mitigated Plans.  • Attending Daily Status Call to discuss the issues about Environment and the mitigation plans executed for the day.  • Attended Daily Status Report Call with Client on absence of Leads.  • Worked with Onsite Automation Experts in developing Data Driven Automation Framework for CitiDirect Application to automate the process of reports generation in UI.    Automation Suite Details:  Application: AOU  Modules: Admin, Loan Processing, CDR  Tool: Oracle    Project 4:  Project Title Product Profiler  Work Location India Database Administrator IBM pvt ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2012 to March 2014 Worked as a Database Administrator and Test Engineer in iGene global Malaysia from June 2014 to Jan 2016.    Technical Skills  Automation Tools QTP 11.0 , QTP 10.0  Programming Languages VB Scripting , SQL  Database Oracle and MySQL, SQL server 2008  Defect Tracking Tool HP QC , Bugzilla , IBM ClearQuest  Other Languages and web .net, c#, XML, HTML, JavaScript.  Other Tools SVN, Eclipse, JIRA    Project's Information:  Project 1:  Project Title XHUM3D(TM)   Work Location Malaysia Education Masters in Computers And Information Science Cleveland State University May 2018 B-Tech Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada April 2012 Skills SQL (1 year), Testing (1 year), Oracle (1 year), XML, HTML, Bugzilla, IBM clear quest, SVN, Javascript, JIRA