Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - Darigold Sammamish, WA Work Experience Data Analyst Darigold - Seattle, WA December 2016 to Present • Act as first contact for all customer item data attribute requests and requirements.  • Lead the documentation, testing and training efforts for the product information management implementation (PIM) project.  • Support data integrity in the ERP system applications and application interfaces to all other business applications (including outsourced and custom).  • Interact with company users and user organizations to better understand business processes and needs for new item creation, item maintenance and deactivation in the PIM and integrated systems.  • Interact with requester / user during discovery, justification, design, development, testing and the ongoing operation of all new / upgraded integrated systems applications to ensure product quality, efficiency, user satisfaction and ownership.  • Interact with IT Development Team in defining and testing new report requirements using knowledge of application and table structure. Create testing scenarios and document results.  • Maintain up-to-date knowledge of application best practices, methods and techniques in the area of master data management.  • Participate in the development of curriculum, user education and training related to the PIM and data governance. Database Administrator MAJIQ Inc - Redmond, WA May 2016 to October 2016 • Perform application support, and Database (Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle) maintenance tasks.  • Develop procedures and scripts for continuous improvement, repeatable processes and database maintenance.  • Ensure consistency and completeness across customer systems.  • Collaborate with management to develop reports using SSRS  • Research technical problems and assist in identifying solutions.  • Interact with application teams and client personnel on technical issues.  • Provide expertise in SQL tuning, backup and recovery support, installation and configuration of Microsoft SQL Server & Oracle  • Facilitate resolution for production issues in the databases.  • Monitor and maintain database backups, optimization jobs, and integrity checks. Take corrective action as required.  • Identify and initiate process improvements. Database Analyst Reliance Network - Bellevue, WA March 2013 to May 2015 • Developed and automated real estate data and photo imports from 600+ MLS data sources using FTP, DTS, SSMS, PowerShell, and other in-house tools  • Provided maintenance and management of all Microsoft SQL Agent jobs  • Participated in the design, development, testing, and optimization of stored procedures, functions and other related database objects  • Provided support & guidance to the project and service team members with database design, development and testing of solutions  • Collaborated closely with DBAs and the coding team to conduct SQL code reviews and promote best practices for database design, SQL development, optimization, maintenance, monitoring, alerting  • Provided development support and troubleshoot database related issues in production  • Analyzed and filtered large, complex data sets using Excel, SQL tables, views and stored procedures  • Provided maintenance to legacy systems  • Developed and maintained stored procedures needed for reporting using SSRS Education Management Information Systems Washington State University - Pullman, WA December 2012 Certifications/Licenses SQL Server Development January 2017 to August 2017 Additional Information Classes:  Java Programming  University of Washington  10/2017 - 06/2018    Python Programming  University of Washington  01/2018 - 08/2018