Software / Database Developer Software / <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Software / Database Developer - Aurify Gaming Edmond, OK Work Experience Software / Database Developer Aurify Gaming - Edmond, OK 2015 to Present • Responsible for migrating legacy code base to a leaner OOP based framework.  • Built and maintained CMS for multiple online auction sites and various Brick and Mortar games.  • Built and maintained online shopping cart as well as API that interacts with custom POS brick and mortar locations use.  • Helped build and maintain a socket driven gaming system that has generated over a million dollars in revenue in 24 hours. Lead Developer / Database Administrator CSI Compressco - Oklahoma City, OK 2011 to 2015 • Managed a team of 3 developers in creating and maintaining numerous applications.  • Developed and maintained real-time SCADA/Telemetry well monitoring system.  • Managed Microsoft Dynamics 10.0(Great Plains) ERP system which we later replaced with an Oracle ERP system.  • Maintained our GIT/Team Foundation repositories.  • Limited amount of sys admin work on development/production boxes in the Amazon cloud.  • Developed and maintained a CRM for a sales force of approximately 20-30.  • Developed and maintained numerous intranet applications including iPhone app, KPI dashboard, and human resources asset tracking system.  • Developed real-time remote inventory system.  • General database maintenance (SQL SERVER 2000, 2005 & 2012) and custom querying.  • Built offline field work order system using .NET, WAMP stack and cellular communications saving the company approximately $15,000/month in satellite costs.  • Managed 300+ end users at multiple locations.  • Updated all legacy systems from procedural PHP to use the OOP and MVC methodologies.  • Converted legacy Objective-C iPhone application to PhoneGap application and released on all major mobile platforms. Education Computer Science University of Central Oklahoma - Edmond, OK 2009 to 2011 Associate of science Oklahoma City Community College - Oklahoma City, OK 2007 to 2009 Computer Science Seminole State College - Seminole, OK 2007 to 2009