Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Queens, NY • Over 5 years of extensive experience in various versions of MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in providing 24/7 and On-call Support for PRODUCTION environment.  • Expertise in Database Administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup & Recovery, Database Security, Data Transformation Services, Database Designing and Query Optimization.  • Experienced in VMWARE and managing multiple SQL Server Instances on Physical and VMWARE.  • Experienced in building ETL processes utilizing SSIS and DTS, including FTP data from remote location, transforming it, mart it to data warehouse and providing proper error handling and alerting.  • Experienced in creating triggers to keep track of changes to the fields of tables when changes were made.  • Hands on experience in implementing SNAPSHOT, TRANSACTIONAL and MERGE replication.  • Hands on experience in implementing FULL, TRANSACTION and DIFFERENTIAL Backups.  • Experienced in using third party tools like Redgate, SQL LightSpeed and Commvault for Backups.  • Experienced in using SPOTLIGHT and FOGLIGHT for Monitoring and Performance tuning.  • Experienced in Upgrading and Migrating SQL Server Systems.  • Experienced in performance tuning SQL Server using PROFILER, QUERY EXECUTION PLAN and INDEX TUNING WIZARD.  • Extensively experienced in using of SQL Server DMV's for Performance Tuning.  • Experienced in creating basic and troubleshoot heavy-duty SSIS packages and deployed the packages from development to different environments.  • Expertise in MS SQL Installation, Migration, Upgrade, Configuration & Maintenance of multiple SQL server environments.  • Experienced in performing and involvement in Capacity Planning and Logical/Physical database design.  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks and planning and scheduling Recovery Procedures.  • Experienced in developing and managing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views, Data Transformation Services and Locking.  • Experienced in monitoring and tuning SQL Server performance with multiple tools including Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler, Event Viewer, Index Tuning Wizard and Spotlight to achieve better performance, accessibility and efficiency.  • Experienced in resolving Database Performance, Capacity and Distributed data issues.  • Very good communication, conceptual, analytical, writing and documentation skills  • Ability to quickly troubleshoot and conduct root cause analysis. Work Experience Database Administrator Sterling Talent Solutions - Vancouver, WA July 2018 to June 2019 (Relocated to New York City)  • Involved in project of Migration of all database infrastructure from SQL server to AWS platform  • Participating with the developer team to implement releases (Stored Procedure, DDL, DML commands) utilizing T-SQL codes.  • Managing the backup and restore portfolios of all databases using native SQL tools and Redgate  • Monitoring all the alerts pertain to SQL servers and digging/solving solutions collaborating with NOC, App and support teams  • Review and create daily database updates, update user security requests from the application developers  • Database support on release calls on the application updates from the app team and QA teams  • Manage JIRA board for MS SQL platform for daily database and table updates using T-SQL  • Extensively involved in 24/7 Production support of the databases and round-the-clock database operations  • Implement and maintain database security, replication, SQL Clustering, Stand by server, DTS, SSRS, Log shipping, Database Mirroring, SQL Mail, database mail  • Excellent analytical, communication skills, work ethics and ability to work in a team environment with strong determination and commitment to the deliverables  • A hands-on SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) and Web Administrator with a proven track record of team leadership and technical skills  • Monitored & managed data storage capacity of production and test/development SQL Servers to support DB growth; coordinate drive expansions with Operations & Change Management Team Database Administrator - Application Team ACORDA THERAPUTICS - Ardsley, NY May 2016 to July 2018 • Involved on project of Migration and Consolidation from SQL Server 2008 to 20012  • Involved in developing and implementing next generation database systems architecture  • Monitored daily Administration and performance of Database related systems and migration of database related changes  • Backed up databases, Transaction logs and implementing Backup & Restore strategy  • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL  • Performed regular reviews of the database to identify performance problems, inadequate programming, and data duplication problems  • Managing finance systems (NAV, Sage, GP) from end to end support and solve issues in daily basis  • Support validated and qualified system to complement the R&D team from backend  • Create IQ scripts to implement new SQL server system for manufacturing team  • Experienced in providing 24/7 and On-call Support for PRODUCTION environment.  • Expertise in Database Administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup & Recovery, Database Security, Data Transformation Services, Database Designing and Query Optimization.  • Experienced in VMWARE and managing multiple SQL Server Instances on Physical and VMWARE.  • Experienced in creating triggers to keep track of changes to the fields of tables when changes were made.  • Expertise in MS SQL Installation, Migration, Upgrade, Configuration & Maintenance of multiple SQL server environments.  • Experienced in performing and involvement in Capacity Planning and Logical/Physical database design.  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks and planning and scheduling Recovery Procedures.  • Experienced in developing and managing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views, Data Transformation Services and Locking.  • Experienced in resolving Database Performance, Capacity and Distributed data issues.  • Provided guidance, support and system administration of an interoperable solution that enables integration of clinical and business workflows across all system.  • Worked closely with our customers to understand their business model, requirements and translate into requirements documents.  • Utilized my demonstrated knowledge of information management, business processes, technologies and applications, project management experience and superior skill in data research and business/systems analysis.  • Support and enhance existing applications, environments and systems.  • Installed, monitored, and supported various SQL High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions SQL Server Database Administrator BARNES & NOBLES - New York, NY September 2015 to April 2016 • Involved on project of Migration and Consolidation from SQL Server 2008 to 20012  • Involved in developing and implementing next generation database systems architecture  • Monitored daily Administration and performance of Database related systems and migration of database related changes  • Backed up databases, Transaction logs and implementing Backup & Restore strategy  • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL  • Performed regular reviews of the database to identify performance problems, inadequate programming, and data duplication problems  • Understood business requirements and converted it into quality SQL code for Database specific project  • Monitored SQL Server and tuned poor performing SQL scripts  • Worked with MS SQL Server Extraction, Transformation and Loading process.  • Installed, monitored and supported SQL server instances including various SQL components i.e. SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS Education Master's Degree in Information Technology Database System Technology Specialization in Information Technology Database System Technology Specialization UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND - Adelphi, MD Present Bachelors in Business Administration in Analytical Finance CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK - BARUCH COLLEGE - New York, NY Skills DDL, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, DBA, ETL, Ssis, Sql Dba, AlwaysOn, SQL Cluster, log shipping, Mirroring Certifications/Licenses MCSA: SQL Server 2012/2014 (ID: 12611844) Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate – MCSA: SQL Server 2012/2014 (ID: 12611844)