Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - XCESS CORP ? Over 5 years of professional experience in Database Administration, Development of MS SQL Server 2012/2008R2 in Production and Development environments.  ? Experience working as a SQL Administrator and with installation, Configuring, Deploying, Troubleshooting, Administration and Maintenance of IIS 7.0/7.5/8.0.  ? Monitoring Jobs, Alerts and scheduling SSIS Packages using SQL server Agent.  ? Expertise in Managing SQL Always - on environment, High Availability cluster environment (up to 8 nodes) and troubleshooting the availability Groups and other issues.  ? Experience in Developing and Tuning T-SQL, database Queries, Stored Procedures, UDF'S, triggers, cursors, views, and Indexed views.  ? Good knowledge in SQL Server 2008/2012 new concepts like backup compression, Data compression and using new data types.  ? Extensive usage of Power Shell scripts for patching and upgrades.  ? Experience on installing and configuring SSL certificates in web servers and enabled secured (https) transactions.  ? Experience in analyzing the IIS logs and event viewer to collect information about server events, server performance, and user activity.  ? Working experience in setting up cluster environment for load balancing and high availability of Windows servers.  ? Experience in creating documentation of installation and monitoring procedures, security policies, configuration changes, migration procedures and best practices for development teams.  ? Have good experience in Performance Tuning, Indexing and monitoring SQL Server using Database Tuning advisor, SQL Profiler and windows Performance Monitor.  ? Implemented backup policy using Full, Differential, and Transactional Log Backups.  ? Migrating SQL Server databases into SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008R and 2012 by In-place upgrade process and as well as side-by-side upgrade process.  ? Expertise in Data/Table partitioning, online Indexing, rebuild/reorg indexes and Update statistics at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Expertise in using DBCC trace flags, handling blocking and dead lock situations.  ? Monitoring Jobs, Alerts and scheduling.  ? Experience in using tools like Profiler, Perfmon, litespeed and SQLCMD.  ? Excellent experience in configuring servers, databases and IIS and integration.  ? 24/7 Production Database on Call Support Work Experience Senior Consultant XCESS CORP November 2015 to Present • Independent Contractor Database Admin Microsoft Co - Sammamish, WA May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Experienced on High Availability Always-on(AG)issues. Trouble shooting the issues manually and also using Auto fixes and refresh all replica.  ? Worked on day to day Backup issues in different GEO's.  ? Expertise on creating CDU as per the customer's request and troubleshooting the issues upon failures.  ? Trouble shooting day to day issues like sandbox creating issues, backup issues, CDU issues, reporting issues, plugin issues, mobile offline issues, portal issues.  ? Provided documentation on troubleshooting technics on issues related to Backups/job scheduling/AG/disk space issues  ? Authored support documentation on installing & troubleshooting Confio tool.  ? Identifying deadlocks and resolving blocking issues, rebuilding/re-organizing indexes, enabling RCSI.  ? Worked on creating missing indexes and have good expertise on identifying log running queries using profiler and using Confio and worked closely with DEV's to optimize the queries.  ? Postmortem reports for the Major incidents caused in the Prod environment  ? Communicating with client related to incident with proper channel of email updates as per severity levels.  ? Troubleshooting the SQL connectivity, Always ON issues and debug the issues using the SQL tools.  ? Worked on IcM incidents assigned to the CRM SRE queue and resolve them within the SLA  ? Check Jarvis logs and Kusto logs for GEO level issues, SG issues  ? Moving the Orgs to Scalegroups with latest version of the CRM instance's, this is performed as part of the Organization upgrade process.  ? Increase the Storage Floor and the Expire date for the Orgs in the CRM instance across the GEO based on customer's request.  ? Investigating the Node failures in the Failover cluster manager and analyzing the logs.  ? Troubleshoot the SSRS issues where customer isn't able to render their reports from CRM  ? Change the connection settings in CRM Azure subscription  ? Experienced in analyzing the cluster logs and event logs, reporting logs, sql logs for investigating and troubleshooting issues.  ? Created new PowerShell scripts on identifying memory dumps check, sql uptime, sql versions, SQL Agent status and executing in all GEO's.  ? Hands on experience in using CRMLive commands and corresponding issues.  ? Experienced in using troubleshooting tools like Confio, Jarvis, ACIS. Technical Consultant Greenbay Technologies May 2015 to November 2015 Jan'2012 - Dec'2014)    Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Server 2003, Server 2008, 2008 R2 and windows 2012/2012 R2.  Databases: MS SQL Server 2012 R2/2012/2008R2  Database Tools: SQL profiler, SQL Query Analyzer and SQL Server Management Studio  Web Technologies IIS, HTML, XML.  Microsoft Tools Octopus, Log Parser, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Confio, Jarvis, ACIS, Kusto.  Languages: T-SQL, C/C++, Visual Studio2015  Network Topologies TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, FTP. Database Admin Microsoft Co - Sammamish, WA June 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Successfully installed SQL 2008 and SQL 2012 version in Preproduction and Production environment on windows server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014.  ? Installing and configuring IIS 7.0, IIS7.5, IIS 8.0 server.  ? Optimization and Performance tuning using SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor and SQL Server DB Tuning Advisor. Identified slow performing queries, identified missing indexes.  ? Running DBCC consistency checks, and fixing data corruption in application databases  ? Maintain Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules. Monitor connections, locks and deadlocks and performance of SQL server  ? Monitored Disk Capacity, Processor Utilization and Memory usage for Production instances  ? Backup and recovery of production databases and tuning them for better performance.  ? Creating and managing schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, SPs and Functions  ? Migrated SQL server from 2008 to 8008 R2 and 2012 successfully.  ? Creating databases and logins with permissions in SQL server 2008 R2/2012.  ? Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases and rebuild indexes, update statistics and run DB maintenance plans  ? Performed Backup and recovery & Automation of Backups using maintenance plans.  ? Jobs troubleshooting in production environment using INFORMATICA tool.  ? Build and Support deployment tools (Build installer and Octopus).  ? Implemented all major and minor releases (QFE's and hot fixes) into pre-production and production environments, and rebuilt the pre-production system on par with production prior to the all major releases.  ? Good experience on Cosmos releases and running ETL load jobs  ? Build deployment packages and migrate code into different environments pre-production and Production. Troubleshooting of deployment packages when deployment issues arise.  ? Build and Maintain Pre-Production and Production environments.  ? Experienced in using Microsoft's in built tools like SQL Profiler, Windows Perfmon and DTS for Monitoring, Developing and Tuning MS SQL Server applications.  ? Implemented and documented database Backup/Recovery & Maintenance Plans.  ? Created and maintained Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, User-defined Functions, and Triggers as required.  ? Enabling SQL Trace for Deadlock analysis and profiler for analysis of long running queries.  ? Developed disaster recovery plans and contingency systems including evaluating and recommending appropriate backup strategies.  ? Managed and created database schemas for Relational database schemas.  ? Performed On call support and 24x7 escalation call handling for databases on weekends Database Administrator Schneider National - Green Bay, WI January 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed Windows Server 2008 R2 and required applications.  • Installed .NET applications in IIS 7.5 web server.  • Configured authentication for applications deployed on IIS 7.5 web server.  • Configured secure communication by assigning SSLs to the application  • Managed and Administrated the SQL Server 2008R2/2008/05/00 production and Non-production servers.  • Installation of SQL Server 2008/05 on Windows Server Clustered environment.  • Worked on Logical, Physical data modeling and Performance Analysis.  • Performed backup using backup compression and Data compression in SQL Server 2008R2 on clustered environment and SQL Server 2005 security Audit.  • Application support for front end feeds and Resolved Application connectivity issues like connection timeouts, connection pooling issues and memory leaks.  • Configured authentication for applications deployed on IIS 7.5 web server.  • Configured secure communication by assigning SSLs to the application  • Experience in exporting certificates with private key in IIS using PowerShell.  • Applied monthly patching and upgrades to application availability including with windows security patches.  • Deployed management packs to monitor our site URLs, servers, DIP URLs etc  • Monitored WINS and DNS servers  • Taking backup of our applications and restore it whenever required  • Worked with DB and Dev guys to troubleshoot the production issues.  • Configured Load balancers (NLB and F5-BigIP) to provide high availability to our production and test environment.  • Setting up and Monitored transactional replication, Database mirroring on Production, QA and Dev servers.  • Experience in setting up Always-ON in mirroring in pre-prod and UAT environments.  • Configured data partitioning/table partitioning on huge tables containing millions of rows for better performance.  • Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment.  • Extensively worked on Profiler, Perfmon, DMVs, DMFs and DTA to tune the databases, servers and query tuning.  • Created, altered/modified and tuned T-SQL Stored Procedures, Complex Queries, views, tables.  • Reviewed stored procs developed by the developers and given recommendations for the code modifications for production.  • Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users.  • Maintained SQL Script for creation of Database Objects using Visual Source Safe. Education Bachelor in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh