Administrator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator TX • Over 8 years professional IT experience in Analysis, Modelling, Design, Implementation, Support and Administration of Large to Medium scale databases Systems.  • Experience building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, Express, MongoDB..  • ExperiencedinDesign,Analysis, Administration and Development and implementation stages of severalClient/ServerapplicationsusingJava/J2EE,HTML5,JavaScript,Object Oriented Programming, SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle.  • Experienced in implementation of backup and recovery process for various databaseslike MongoDB, Oracle and MySQL.  • Experienced in MongoDB document Schema design.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS and Mongo utilities.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Extensively worked on Mmapv1&Wiredtiger storage engines.  • Experience in handling CRUD operations in MONGODB. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrator MongoDB 2017 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Developed Ruby/Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongorestore.  • Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB/Cassandra clusters. Implementing Ops Manager monitoring and backup solution.  • Implemented the loading of Monthly Statements to MongoDB. Developer and administrative tasks includes Data Modeling and Schema Design development using testing configuration, installation and deployment to Dev, QA and Prod aggregate functions.  • Provided 24x7 productions on call support for SQL Server and MongoDB databases.Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance by creating customized roles at user level.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.Responsible for supporting and maintaining transmission and processing of ratings information coming from the outside vendor to a Linux platform using Java and Python.  • File transmission to mainframe and into Teradata for the consumption of Statements  • Migrated Mongo database systems from No-SSL authentication to SSL authentication using certificates.  • Migrated Mongo database from MMAPV1 storage engine to WiredTiger storage engine as part of MongoDB 3.0 upgrade.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and SPA (Single Page Application)  framework based on Angular JS.  • Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Worked on LVM snapshots to backup Mongo databases.  • faConfigured delayed secondary's to avoid human failures in coding and development  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and Data Import and Export.  • Extensive experience in Deploying, Managing and Developing MongoDB clusters.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL, MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  • Installation of MongoDB on Physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS.  • Performance tuning and stress-testing of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Upgraded Mongo systems and involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Executed unit and system testing for batch and Online Modifications; validated and documented the results.  • Administered multiple environments, automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB.  Environment:NodeJS, MongoDB, MYSQL, Angular JS, JSON, BSON, Bootstrap, Gulp, Cassandra, MMS, Linux/Unix, BackupScheduler, Sharding, Replication, Mongo Shell, Arbiter, Wiredtiger, MMAP v1. Sr. MongoDBA/ Database Administrator AT&T, TXJan 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Load balancing of application request's by configuring multiple mongos instances in sharded cluster.  • Implemented Tag aware sharding depending upon the data requirement and balancing chunks in sharded cluster.  • Migrated Mongo database from MMAPV1 storage engine to WiredTiger storage engine.  • Changing the size of system. Profile collection with required size. Analyzing profiler output and implements workaround to resolve issues.Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Applied patches and upgraded from 2.4 to 2.6 and 3.0. Worked with multiple storage engines in MongoDB.  • Implemented LVM snapshots and MMS backups for large scale MongoDB systems.Administering MongoDB databases using various Mongo utilities.  • Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  • Understanding Aggregation pipeline operations have an optimization phase which attempts to reshape the pipeline for improved performance.  • Familiar with compression techniques in Wiredtiger storage engine. Applied patches and upgraded the replica set in rolling fashion.  • Worked on API server and maintained, written using Python Twisted and my own MongoDBdriver. Handles data synchronization to millions of mobile devices from a single machine.  • Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis. Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Worked on multiple BSON type objects and used based on requirement. Analyzing explain plan result stages and descriptive of the operations.  • Considering limits and thresholds for existing and new Mongo database implementations.  • Configured Role-Based Access Control with custom roles and privileges.  • Running MongoDB with secure configuration options.  • Provided backup solution using MMS/OPS manager.  • Having knowledge on Index properties and suggesting development team to build index on required fields.  • Worked on creating GridFS collections and loading GridFS data using Mongofile utilities.  • Implemented CR Authentication, SHA-1 Authentication across different MongoDB versions.  • Worked on restoring rollbacks when primary node is switching in replica set because of system failures.  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  Environment:MongoDB, Cassandra, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Database Administrator BDM innovative solutions, IndiaJan2012 September 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle RAC for high availability.  • Involved in the change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Worked extensively on monitoring 10G Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  • Maintained 10g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues. Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment  • Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas. Performed Migration of databases 10g on Hp - UNIX to Oracle 11gR2 on Linux.  • Created, monitoring database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links. Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  • Wrote scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  • Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  • Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  • Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  • Worked with DW team on problem resolution and implemented change requests. - Performance tuning on DW such as Data extraction from production to Data warehouse.  • Installing Retail applications (RMS, ReSA, SIM, RIB and CO). Applying patches to all retail applications.  • Upgradation of retail applications.  • Deploying the custom code into all retail applications. Creation of Point of sale (POS) stores and Backoffice (BO) domains under web logic server.  • Involved in 24x7 production database maintenance and on-call support. Conducted time-to-time analysis and monitoring of the software and hardware requirements and act accordingly.  Environment: Oracle 10g, RAC on Sun Solaris, Linux, Data Guard, Toad, Exadata, OEM, ASM, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), WebLogic server, oracle retail application. MySql Dveloper Virtuellhire - IN July 2009 to December 2011 • Recognized and fine-tuned the database for its specific behaviors. Monitored running database server and performed tuning techniques.  • Collaborated with developers, architects, and business stakeholders to create high-performance, cost effective solutions.  • Ensured data integrity with good process and detected errors and misuses of data.  • Administered Mysql database installations and upgrades, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery, space management, capacity planning and resource utilization.  • Researched new database technologies and methodologies.  • Enabled required data extract, transform, and load procedures and packages. Involved in creating customer invoice reports.  • Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  • Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Version control through SVN.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  Environment: MySQL, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, replication, python, shell scripting, Sql, Pearl, Java script. Skills NodeJS, MongoDB, MYSQL, Angular JS, JSON, BSON, Bootstrap, Gulp, Cassandra, MMS,Linux/Unix,BackupScheduler,Sharding,Replication, Mongo Shell, Arbiter, Wiredtiger, MMAP v1. (8 years)