Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Koch Industries, Inc Houston, TX • Over five years of IT experience in development, staging and production environments.  • Solid background in completing project life cycle from planning, analysis, design, development, implementation, testing and documentation of client/server systems.  • Experience using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g R1/R2, Oracle RAC, ASM, RMAN, EM Cloud and Grid Control in highly critical environments.  • Supported Oracle RDBMS on various flavors of AIX, UNIX, LINUX and Windows OS.  • Transitional experience of SQL Server 2005/2008 Administration.  • Planning & handling of database backup and recovery strategies using RMAN.  • Excellent interpersonal skills, confident and poised in interactions with individuals at all professional levels.  • Ability to grasp quickly and adapt to ever changing and challenging needs in the IT industry.  • Provided 24 X 7 dedicated support to all Oracle and MS SQL Server Environments.  • Bachelor's degree in Management Information Systems. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Koch Industries, Inc September 2011 to Present Koch Industries, Inc. is an American multinational corporation based in Wichita, Kansas, United States, with subsidiaries involved in manufacturing, trading and investments. Koch also owns Invista, Georgia-Pacific, Flint Hills Resources, Koch Pipeline, Koch Fertilizer, Koch Minerals and Matador Cattle Company. Koch companies are involved in core industries such as the manufacturing, refining and distribution of petroleum, chemicals, energy, fiber, intermediates and polymers, minerals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, chemical technology equipment, ranching, finance, commodities trading, as well as other ventures and investments.  Responsibilities  • Replicated to a disaster recovery site for increased server manageability and availability.  • Architecting, planning, designing, developing, deploying and supporting RAC/ASM environments.  • Implementation and maintenance of ASM.  • Changes were made dynamically whenever possible to fulfill high-availability requirements.  • Advanced Backup and Recovery using Oracle's RMAN software; used offline/online for recovery in a production environment via Korn shell scripting.  • Perform SAN migration on numerous clustered and non-clustered databases from EMC to 3_par.  • Applied and configured EM 12c Cloud control to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.  • Applied patches and modifications to remain compliant with the security requirements.  • Performed logical backups using Export/Import and DataPump utilities.  • Implemented user and security administration activities, such as enrolling users, granting privileges to users, and maintaining system security.  • Actively working with other teams for server and database consolidation.  • Created and maintained different database entities included tablespaces, data files, redo log files, rollback segments and renaming/relocating of data files on servers.  • Monitored various database activities by developing scripts and using various tools.  • Analyzing schema objects, monitoring of alert logs, analyzed trace files to determine and resolve potential problematic areas.    Environment Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, Oracle Real Application clusters (2-node), Disaster Recover, Automatic Storage Management, Enterprise Manager 12c Cloud Control, Data Warehouse, MS SQL Server 2000/2003/2005/2008/2012, Sybase, RHEL 4/5/6, Sun Solaris, HP-AIX. Oracle Database Administrator / Middleware Administrator Ciber Inc March 2011 to September 2011 CIBER, Inc. is a global information technology consulting, services and outsourcing company applying practical innovation through services and solutions that deliver tangible results for both commercial and government clients.    Responsibilities  • Successfully configured and upgraded oracle 11g on Production and Pre-Production environments.  • Monitored and maintained multiple databases in a Linux clustered (Active/Passive) servers.  • Performed logical backups using Data Pump and Export/Import utilities.  • Successfully applied patches using OPatch utility to avoid bug issues.  • Generating AWR, ADDM reports during performance tests and analyzing areas of improvement.  • Created and Assigned Roles, Privileges and Profiles to users.  • Created & Manage materialized views along with other views for better performance.  • Performed QA database refresh from production DB to ensure data integrity.  • Worked with developers and Linux teams to attain instant and reliable outcome.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of WebLogic Application Server 10.3.2  • Monitoring the performance of Extranet and Intranet applications.  • Responsible for WebLogic Domain and Cluster Creation and Management for High availability.  • Deployment of various application packages including JAR, WAR, and EAR on WebLogic Servers.  • Provided extensive 24/7 support to clients.    Environment Oracle 10gR1/11gR2, Linux 10.4 clustered Active/Passive, SQL Server 2008, Windows Server 2008, WebLogic 11g version 10.3.2, Apache HTTP Server Version 2.3 Oracle Database Administrator Interactive Group (IACGRP) June 2009 to March 2011 Interactive is a distinguished premier solution provider with a deep knowledge base in IT Infrastructure design, implementation, professional services and customer support.    • Installation of Oracle on Linux, Unix and Windows platforms.  • Investigating potential problems and issues raised by business users.  • Creating & Maintaining of Databases through DBCA.  • Maintaining Table space, Storage management, Undo Management.  • Monitoring Alert logs for any errors, problems or processes running.  • Prepare and execute proper backup and disaster recovery procedures.  • Experience in implementing oracle database security and user administration.  • Crucial knowledge of PL/SQL scripting and superior in SQL scripting.  • Knowledge in cloning using cold backup, hot backup and RMAN.  • Experience in loading data, transporting data or metadata from one database to another using Export/Import, DataPump and SQL*Loader.  • Monitoring alert log file and trace file, checking for day-to-day operational information or diagnosing database errors.    Environment Oracle 9i/10gR2, Sun Solaris 9, Enterprise Oracle Linux, Oracle Enterprise manager, EMC Insignia Version 5.0, Windows Server 2008, OPatch, CPU Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Information Systems University of Texas - San Antonio, TX May 2010 Skills Programming Languages: C/C++, Java, VB.net, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Script Operating System: Windows Server 2005/2008, IBM AIX, Red Hat Linux, Solaris, UNIX Database: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MS Access, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 Applications: Remedy, ITSM, Hyperion, GERS, PeopleSoft, EDI, Service Flow, SAP, Trinity Database Tools: EM12c Cloud control, RMAN, DB Artisan, Ignite, CRS, Exadata, ASMCA, DataPump Additional Information Technical Profile    Programming Languages: C/C++, Java, VB.net, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Script    Operating System: Windows Server 2005/2008, IBM AIX, Red Hat Linux, Solaris, UNIX    Database: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MS Access, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008    Applications: Remedy, ITSM, Hyperion, GERS, PeopleSoft, EDI, Service Flow, SAP, Trinity    Database Tools: EM12c Cloud control, RMAN, DB Artisan, Ignite, CRS, Exadata, ASMCA, DataPump