NoSQL Database Administrator NoSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> NoSQL Database Administrator - Lumeris NJ • Having 3+Years of total IT Experience in Managing Cassandra, MongoDB, Oracle Databases and Hadoop filesystem.  • Experience in managing MongoDB (Versions 2.4x, 2.6x, 3.0x, 3.2x and 3.4x) and CassandraDB installation, configuration and administration.  • Consult, make recommendations, and design and provide solutions related to the migration to MongoDB and Cassandra.  • In depth knowledge of MongoDB and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring with OPS manager.  • Good experience on MongoDB scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Migrated Database from SQL Databases (Oracle and SQL Server) to NO SQL Databases (Cassandra/MongoDB).  • Experience in monitoring the performance of database using performance tools such as Statspack, AWR, ADDM and advisors.  • Excellent intepersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills with customer service oriented attitude. A very good team player, self-motivated, dedicated in any work environment.  • Experience in provisioning, operating, and maintaining systems running on AWS.  • Experience in installation, upgrading and migrating various versions of database (9i/10g) on different platforms.  • Experience in installation and configuration of Oracle 9i/10g Data guard, switchover and failover.  • Strong experience in installation and configuration of Oracle 9i/10g/11g.  • Experience in implementation of backup and recovery strategies.  • Experience in database high availability solutions RAC, ASM.  • Experience in database maximum availability Data Guard, Golden Gate. Work Experience NoSQL Database Administrator Lumeris - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Solid MongoDB Admin experience in managing critical 24/7 applications.  • Was involved and responsible for managing more than 75 NoSql Clusters.  • Monitored transaction activity and utilization, with particular strengths in performance tuning highly transactional databases in both the development and production environments including remotely located servers.  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  • Participated in the wider infrastructure DBA ecosystem of Microsoft SQL, Cloudera Hadoop, and associated tools.  • Keys participant in requirement gathering session with business users to understand and document the business requirements of the client as well as the goals of various projects.  • Migrated existing on-premises Database clusters to AWS.  • Hands-on experience with MongoDB Database hosted on Amazon cloud.  • Implemented MongoDB Database in an enterprise, Design and Support data migration.  • MongoDB database administration on a multi-datacenter cluster.  • Experienced in monitoring, performance tuning and managing MongoDB Cluster.  • Solid Understanding of No SQL Database (MongoDB and Cassandra).  • Experience in writing MongoDB Queries and in performance tuning them.  • Expert in data structure design, Data Modeling in MongoDB.  • Knowledge experience with other NoSQL Databases.  • Proven experience with identifying hardware and software related issues.  • knowledge of best practices related to security, performance, and disaster recovery.    Environment:  MongoDB -2.6, 3.0, 3.2, 3.4, 3.6, SQL-server, MMS, Linux/Unix, Ops manager, LVM snapshots, MongoDB Compass, Encryption, Ops Center, AWS, Elasticsearch, NoSQL Database Administrator Hanes Brands Inc - Salem, NC January 2017 to September 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB and cassandra clusters.  • Automated routine tasks via scripts and tools.  • Well-versed with MongoDB Cluster job performance, capacity planning, connectivity and security.  • Design database topologies to support a high-performance environment running in multiple data centers.  • Deep understanding of disaster recovery setup and scenarios in support of an installed and tested disaster recovery environment.  • Encrypting data at rest with the database keys on wired tiger storage engine.  • Provided 24x7 on-call support for production and development systems for both SQL and NoSQL databases.  • Configured and deployed ELK clusters.  • Designed Elasticsearch configuration files, based on number of hosts available, naming the cluster and node accordingly.  • Managed Elasticsearch through Kibana.  • Experienced in using curator API on Elasticsearch to data back up and restoring.  • Experienced in monitoring, back up and scaling Mongo databases using OPS Manager.  • Worked on maintenance of SHARDS, REPLICA-SETS in rolling fashion as a part of high availability service.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS.  • Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  • Estimating AWS usage costs and identifying operational cost control mechanisms.  • Ability in identifying and gathering requirements to define a solution to be built and operated on AWS.  • Secured MongoDB Database using MongoDB_CR and SCRAM-SHA authentications.    Environment:  MongoDB -2.6,3.0,3.2,3.4, SQL-server, MMS, Linux/Unix, Ops Manager, LVM Snapshots, MongoDB Compass, Encryptions, Ops Center, AWS. MongoDB Administrator Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX June 2016 to December 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (oracle, SQL Server) and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) systems.  • Good Experience on MongoDB Scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication and schema design.  • Point in time Backup and recovery in MongoDB using onsite MMS.  • Efficient in scalability: Sharding setup, sharding monitoring, shard key selection, inserting large amounts of data in MongoDB.  • Data modeling for data from RDBMS to Cassandra and MongoDB for Optimal reads and writes.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL, MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in biaries to monitor and analysis the performance of MONGODB.  • Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  • Creation, configuration and monitoring shards sets. Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard key to distribute data evenly.  • Migrated Database from SQL Databases (Oracle and SQL Server) to No SQL Databases (MONGODB).  • Developed scripts for transferring data from production server to testing/development servers.  • Worked extensively on performance tuning of queries by maintaining Aggregates, Commpression, Partition, Stored outlines, Statistics.    Environment:  Hadoop, Cassandra, MongoDB 2.4, 2.6, HBase, Ruby, MMS, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup shceduler, Dataguard, pearl, PyMongo, Java scipt. Oracle DBA CMC LTD August 2015 to May 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of oracle database software, creation and configuration of database development, testing and production purposes.  • Administered all database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Developed control files for SQL * Loader and PL/SQL programs for loading and validating the data into the Database.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL to maintain the timely orders of the customers, audit history and reports errors.  • Created Packages, Stored Procedures and Functions to be called by Java Modules.  • Actively put standards in place to ensure that all application design and code was produced with proper integrity, security and performance. Also, conducted reviews on the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards were being adhered to.  • Enforced and maintained database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  • Effectively enforced a strategy for troubleshooting problems regarding the databases, applications and development tools.  • Actively tuned the SQL Queries by using APEX for reduction in the query time and for better improvement in the performance around 30%.  • Cloned or refreshed the database using the production backups in the development and test environments.  • Effective reduction of glitches in the database by analyzing issues using automated workload repository (AWR) and automatic database diagnostics monitoring (ADDM)  • Performed upgrades in oracle database from oracle 10g to 11g (10.2.0.3 to 11.1.0.6)  • Extensively involved in weekly maintenance, re-organization and health check of databases.  • Help desk and support ticket management using TEAMTRACK.  • Used Export/Import and Data pump utilities for full and partial backup through various environments like dev /test/PS/Prod    Environment:  Oracle 9i/10g/11g RC with Solaris/redhad, Toad, SQL Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM), RMAN, Solaris 9/10, AIX, Shell Scripting, Net Backup, Time Finder Backups, RMAN, Redhat/Suse Linux, EM Cloud Control 12c, expdp, impdp, AWR, ADDM, Statspack, Tkprof. Education MMS Ops Center 2008 to 2012 Skills LINUX (2 years), SQL (2 years), UNIX (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), APACHE CASSANDRA (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  RDBMS Oracle 9i and 10g, 11g  Big Data Hadoop, Map Reduce, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Hbase, Cassandra, MongoDB  Application Retail Aplications(RMS, SIM, ReSA, ReIM, Backoffice, Centraloffice, POS)  Tuning Tools  SQL Auto Tracing, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, Tuning Advisors, ADDM, oradebug, OS Watcher and SQL Plan stability management etc.    Operating System  Solaris 8/9/10, HP-UX, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Enterprise Linux Advance/Enterprise Server 4/5, HP-UX, Windows 9x/XP/2000, IBM AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3/5.5/6.1.