Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Nordstrom Over 4 years of hands-on experience working on DBA/Architecture, Production 24*7  support, Implementation, Configuration, Upgrades, Replication, Performance Tuning/  Optimization/ AWR, ADDM, User/Security Administration, Backup/Recovery,  Data/Network Administration and Maintenance, Database Migration, ASM.    • Configured Repository and clients for GRID Control and also implemented DB Control  for some databases.  • Utilized Oracle streams to Capture, Propagate and apply the transfer of data,  transactions and events within managed Databases.  • Experienced in Data Center migration of databases to prepare the proof of concept,  DB migration procedures and scripts, developed templates that include check list for  migrating the databases.  • Perform Database upgrades, migrations; take logical exports from the QA, DEV etc  instances and importing the data on to the production systems etc.  • Establish Backup policy using RMAN and VNB (Veritas Net Backup). Also managed  Backup, Restore using Data Pump, Traditional Export and Import Utilities.  • Construction of Catalog databases and developed scripts to perform Backups of Large  Databases to fit the backup window using RMAN.  • Expertise in attaining Performance tuning for Oracle database using utilities like  STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan, SQL TRACE, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA,  Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Expert in Space monitoring, Functions, Procedures, Triggers & Packages, and Object  Management.  • Implemented Security at database level, user level and the data level using Auditing  and Database Triggers.  • Experienced in database reorganization regularly for removing row migrations and  fragmentation using export and import utilities. Taking care of tablespace related  issues like increasing the storage parameter values, resizing the datafiles, adding new  datafiles etc.  • Maintained Databases by evaluating high availability options and disaster recovery  plans by implementing 10g Oracle RAC and Data Guard according to business  requirements.  • Experience in installation and configuration of Oracle 9i/10g Data guard, switchover  and failover.  • Installed Data guard standby databases and performed disaster recovery testing.  • Configuring the physical & logical standby databases using sqlplus & RMAN.  • Experienced in configuration of ASM for RAC and NON- RAC environments.  • Plan optimization applying corrective measures including code restructuring,  identifying potential index issues and effective implementation of uniform coding  structure to avoid optimizer re-parsing.  • Result oriented, self-motivated, Team player, ability to work independently and  within a team.  • Experience in Migration Projects. Hands on experience in-migrating from, 10g to 11g  and applied oracle patches.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using security compliance auditing,  expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables  • Good Interpersonal communication skills and Documentation Skills.  • Hands on experience using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL*PLUS, TOAD and  Grid Controlling using OEM.  • Experience in AIX, SUN SOLARIS, RED HAT LINUX and WINDOWS environments. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Nordstrom - Houston, TX June 2014 to Present ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Created and maintained various databases for Production, Development and  Testing using Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g.  • Active member of the on-call team to support Clients of different Applications  relating to our team 24/7, to keep the High critical systems running.  • Responsible for Data Guard setup with Primary and Standby Databases and scheduled.  • Responsible for Oracle 10g RAC EE installation and configuration.  • Responsible for setup ASM for Configuration of RAC.  • Involved in configuring and supporting streams replication on oracle 10g.  • Participate in storage capacity measurement and planning.  • Created and managed tablespaces monitored the datafiles' space, resizing and adding new datafiles etc.  • Managing database security, creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activities.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and  Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise  Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) to Oracle 11g (11.2.0.3)  • Monitoring Cold, Hot and RMAN backup scripts of the databases supporting  different applications.  • Creation, configuration and setting up of RMAN catalog databases and registering  target databases with the catalog.  • Schedule jobs in crontab including RMAN backup and other memory maintenance,  security jobs.  • Supported database platform are Solaris 10 and AIX 5.3.  • Migrated databases from oracle 10g on Solaris 10 to oracle 11g on Linux on development, integration and production environment  • Schedule jobs in crontab including RMAN backup and other memory maintenance,  security jobs.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High  Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster  architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Implemented Partitioning on huge tables to improve the performance and reduce the maintenance to finite window operations.  • Extensive use of Data Pump expdp/impdp to clone/refresh Schema, database from  Production to Test and Development Environment.  • Done Database Reorganization regularly for removing row migrations and fragmentation using export and import utilities Taking care of tablespace related  issues like increasing the storage parameter values, resizing the datafiles, adding  new datafiles etc.  • Generating traces of the user sessions using oradebug/adrci utility to study the performance.  • Used ADRCI Package incident and problem information into a zip file for transmission to Oracle Support.  • Worked on oracle Public and Private Database Link.  • Applied client patches and other patches as required.  • Perform User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database  users, altering passwords of users and granting and revoking system/object  privileges, roles, auditing user actions in the database.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, ASM, Datagaurd, Oracle Streams,  RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, Oracle Database Administrator First Command Bank - Worth Matravers June 2012 to May 2014 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on  AIX platforms.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes,  implementing portioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash  partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and  STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases,  maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor  database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Performed Table Partitioning, created Index Organized tables and Locally Managed  Table spaces.  • Monitored and provided weekly reports on the server's memory, disk and CPU I/O  using tools and UNIX command-line utilities.  • Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 10g to 11g, Cross platform migration from different platforms.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are  done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RAC, ASM, Datagaurd, Oracle  Streams, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Junior Oracle DBA United Health Services - East Syracuse, NY February 2011 to June 2012 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designing system architecture, Sizing the hardware servers, Network  architecture etc. for running Oracle Databases and Applications in Production  environment.  • Creating and dropping users, allocating resources, creating and updating Schemas.  • Proper distribution of data to avoid fragmentation and routinely generate the  Report for database health as manually Defragment data.  • Complete responsibility and control for writing DDL, DML and security of databases.  • Decided and Implemented table and Index Partitioning of major Tables for better  performance, handling and management of data.  • Tuned the System Global Area (SGA) components dynamically according to the requirement after observing different Hit Ratios, caching of small tables in the  Database Buffer Cache, keeping the mostly used and huge packages in the Shared  Pool.  • Implemented Partitioning on huge tables to improve the performance and reduce the maintenance to finite window operation.  • Developed PL/SQL scripts for exception handling.  • Worked on the physical and logical designing of the database, which includes the distribution of data- files on different disks  • Controlled and monitored user access to the database. Optimized the performance of the database. Tuned SGA data dictionary and set database  parameters  • Worked with Oracle Diagnostics tools such as Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF  Used to analyze timing and execution plan for SQL query to tune the SQL  statements  Environment: Oracle 11g RAC, 11gR1, R2 11.2.0.3, Streams Replication, RMAN, Data  Pump, Shell Scripting, Sun Solaris Linux Enterprise, SAN , Grid Control, TOAD,  Putty.