ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE El Paso, TX DBA with experience in implementation, tuning, development, and support of critical systems. Adept at all stages of project lifecycle, from business requirements and technical definitions to testing, documentation, production support, training and completion. Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE - El Paso, TX February 2017 to Present • Possessed Strong knowledge of oracle 12c multitenant architecture  • Pre-Upgrade Planning, study and analysis of Applications and database.  • Database sizing, Capacity Planning, Estimated System/ Database performance  • Created/Configured test and development environments using Oracle export/import.  • Database refresh from production to test and development environments  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g/11g/12c databases  • Performed various Unix Administration tasks and automated with cronjobs.  • Developed SQL scripts and shell scripts  • Configured and implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Performed Export/Import using data pump of Oracle 11g/12c Database  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g/12c in test environment for Oracle Applications  • Applied Oracle Database patches  • Database space management and Reorganization  • Reallocation of tablespaces to accommodate growth in data volume  • DDL modeling and promotion of DDL changes into databases; INDEPENDENT ORACLE DBA CONSULTANT Upper2000 Technologies - Douglasville, GA November 2014 to January 2017 • Set up new databases and provided all database related support for the production environment as well as provided consultancy services as needed to other organizations. Performed application installation, space estimation, performance/memory tuning, 24/7 server/ database monitoring, configuration and troubleshooting. Interacted with system administrator and design team on the best database practices.  • Installing and configuring Oracle Enterprise Red Hat Linux operating system versions and Windows 2008R2 servers for Oracle Relational (RDB) installation and creation, installing Oracle grid infrastructures & Oracle database software to meet the current needs and upgraded as required to meet the expansion needs of the company.  • Creating, migrating and backing up database for various clients.  • Carrying out Oracle Database maintenance; base lining, performance tuning, alert configuration, using snap shots taking by Automated Workload Repository (AWR)/ Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to generate performance reports, monitoring database performance, securing & protecting information/ database with unique secure configurations, data encryption and masking procedures as well as with sophisticated auditing skills.  • Presenting and analyzing database performance reports and improvement recommendations to client company's senior executives.  • Ensuring fast and secure access to business applications round the clock.  • Installing Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network access.  • Ensuring proper configuration and security on all database servers.  • Design, develop, test and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages, triggers, stored procedures and functions to support multiple clients.  • Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases, ensuring fast and secure access to business application for about 60 users in remote location round the clock.  • Implemented Oracle Backup and recovery procedures using RMAN & Import/Export.  • Strong experience administering installing and monitoring WebLogic applications ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Pishon Technologies - Austell, GA November 2012 to August 2014 • Maintain the Oracle 11g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems.  • Upgrading Oracle Databases from 9i to 10g  • Building test strategies, backup & recovery models for Oracle. Refreshing test databases.  • Managing backup & Recovery for Oracle on Linux using RMAN  • Going through the day-to-day user requests and troubleshooting the database related problems.  • Linux shell scripting for monitoring oracle Database status, security & backups.  • Monitored Tablespace size, resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O.  • Created user, allocation of appropriate tablespace quotas with necessary privileges and roles  for Oracle & SQL Server databases.  • Created backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups, Flash copy, Volume copy and RMAN backup technology.  • Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune the application and SQL queries Education Certificate Pacific Institute of Technology - Morrow, GA Bachelor of Science in Computer Cork Institute of Technology - Cork Bachelor of Engineering in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Federal University of Technology Skills DATABASE (4 years), databases (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), RMAN (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information AREAS OF STRENGTH:  Installation and Implementation Disaster Recovery Performance Tuning  Database Security Backup & Restore Replication  Database Mirroring Log Shipping Database Maintenance  Extract Transform Loading (ETL) - SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Data Migration T-SQL/PLSQL    HIGHLIGHTED TECHNICAL SKILLS  Provided 24x7 production support for Oracle 10g/11g/12c databases on Windows / UNIX platforms.  Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patches, Performance Tuning, Backup, Recovery, Cloning, Space management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Database Design,  UNIX Shell Scripting and Documentation.  Real Application Clusters (RAC) Administration and Maintenance  Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  Strong experience administering installing and monitoring WebLogic applications.  Tools: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid Control, SQL Loader, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Data Pump, UNIX Shell Scripting, TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT.