Senior SQL Server Developer Senior SQL Server Developer Senior SQL Server Developer - Qwarks Software Solutions Ltd Dallas, TX PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  • 5+ years of experience in Database Administration and Developer for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, SQL server 2014.  • Experience in configuring and setting up MS SQL server database  • Experience in creating and modifying schemas  • Experience in performing Disaster Recovery, taking Backups and troubleshooting issues  • Experience with performance tuning. Experience with reporting tools  • Knowledge of MySQL and Postgres  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Experience in writing efficient and effective SQL queries.  • Broad knowledge of advance select statements and SQL clause.  • Efficient in using normalization and Denormalization in SQL.  • Experience in various types of join in SQL.  • Broad knowledge of indexes (unique, cluster, and nonclustered indexes).  • Experience in SQL relationship (one to one, one to many, many to one and self referencing relationship)  • Broad knowledge and experience with SQL constrain, and variables (local and global variables)  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications.  • Expertise in T-SQL writing stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Administering SQL Server. High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies.  • Expert in data transformation services and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations.  • Experience in using DMV and dynamic management functions for finding out long running queries.  • Worked extensively on Clustering and server consolidation. Troubleshooting production issues and raising high availability.  • Experience in Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations.  • Proficiency and expertise in SQL Server Replication, Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and planning.  • Worked on configuring SQL Server with minimum privileged access.  • Handled multiple SQL Instances on Cluster environment for Server Consolidation projects built on SAN using RAID levels.  • Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and index Analysis.  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008 / 2005  • Implemented Always-ON (AAG) on SQL Server 2012 SP2 CU5  • Maintained individual service accounts for SQL Server services on cluster with different Security groups to raise security mark.  • Handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2012 on Windows 2012.  • Experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Database Monitoring tools and Application support.  • Working knowledge in Analysis Services(SSAS), Reporting Services(SSRS) and Clustering.  • Experience in supporting Very Large databases (VLDB) and troubleshooting the problems.  • Strong experience in mentoring team members and writing documentation.  • 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support Work Experience Senior SQL Server Developer Qwarks Software Solutions Ltd September 2017 to Present • Created Maintenance Plans for Regular Backups and Rebuilding of Indexes.  • Tuned queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics IO by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications.  • Configured Always ON SQL server 2012/2014/2016.  • Install and configured SQL server 2012 failover cluster  • Successfully implemented the Capacity planning for different servers.  • Migrated DTS packages to SSIS packages.  • Checked Database Health and consistency by using DBCC Commands and DMVS  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Worked in Active passive cluster environment.  • Recovered the System and User databases from suspect mode.  • Sizing of Temp database.  • Used log shipping for synchronization of databases.  • Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan  • Wrote and debugged Stored Procedures and (DDL /DML) Triggers, Functions per requirements  • Extensively worked on trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery  • Worked in Query analyzer & profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  • Daily routine Developer/DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Performed Performance Tuning of the Stored Procedures.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance  • Routine Developer/DBA jobs like Backups and Restores  • Hands on experience in trouble shooting database issues.  • Responsible to Monitor and troubleshooting Log Shipping.  • Performed all basic Database activities like moving databases between servers, copy databases etc.  • Performed Update statistics, database integrity check and Backup operations  • Used SQL server Reporting Services (SSRS) to create reports.  • Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find the performance and dead locks.  • Worked on call 24/7 Support on weekly basis. Junior Database Administrator Texas Department of criminal Justice - Wichita Falls, TX March 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured SQL Server 2012, 2008, 2005 Clustering on Microsoft Clustering services (MSCS) from Hardware inventory to test environment.  • Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2000 test servers to SQL Server 2008, and 2005.  • Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using SQL LiteSpeed.  • Resolved and tweaked memory pressures caused during product release.  • Worked with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Expertise in designing databases and capacity planning.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  • To provide 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.  • Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented and Scheduled Replication process for updating our parallel servers  • Designed and create databases, tables, views, store procedures and triggers. Performed joins of various types and on multiple tables. Perform Database and table scripting for quick creations of table with similar objects and structures.  Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, and SQL Server 2000, Windows 2003/2000 Server, SQL LiteSpeed 4.5, MSE, VSS and Password Updater. SQL Database Administrator Department of Mental Health - Columbus, OH April 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • SQL Database Administrator, Database Programming.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Deploying new code base release to UAT and Production Environments.  • Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  • Working with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations.  • Extensively worked on Enterprise Manager for managing the database.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Involved in Index Analysis and Performance Tuning.  • Converting DTS packages into SQL Server 2005 Integration Services.  • Migrating SQL Server 2000 data bases into SQL Server 2005.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters.  Environment: SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2000, Windows 2003/2000 Server, SQL LiteSpeed 4.5, MSE, ME Change Request, Visio. Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler. Education Bachelor's in computers and information technology Midwestern State University - Wichita Falls, TX 2015 Bachelor's in Business Administration University Of Buea 2008 Skills DATABASE (4 years), DATABASES (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years) Additional Information • Technical Expertise  Databases: MS SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008, MS SQL Server 2005  Programming: Perl  DBA: database administration of MS SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008, 2005  Operating System: Windows 2008/2003 Advanced Server, NT & Windows 9x, Linux  Other Software: Windows 2008/2003 Advanced Server, NT & Windows 9x, Linux  Tools: Backup Utility, SQL LiteSpeed  Network Topologies: TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP, SNMP, SMTP