Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - FedEx • Technical experience as Oracle Database Administrator, Data Analyst, Data Modeling and Data Migration in Oracle 10g/11g on Linux, Solaris, UNIX, & Windows.  • Provided 24/7 on call support for very large databases (VLDB).  • Knowledge in OLTP/DSS database administration, implementing and managing Very Large Oracle Databases (VLDB).  • Implemented High Availability/Disaster recovery using RAC, Physical & Logical standby databases (Oracle Data Guard).  • Experience with Real Application Testing (RAT).  • Implemented Data guard(Physical Standby) on RAC databases.  • Upgraded 10g databases to 11g.  • Performing capacity Planning, Backup/Recovery strategies using RMAN and conventional Oracle Hot and Cold backup and Export/Import.  • Applied patches, performed database upgrades, migrations.  • Creation of IBM DB2 databases in Linux and Unix.  • Strong experience in using tools such as SQL*Plus, TOAD, OEM, RMAN and Export/Import.  • Proficient in Capacity planning and bench marking.  • Experience in performing crash recoveries without data loss.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning. Estimated the size of data files and redo log files considering transactions rate, transaction records size, transaction type, and volatility of the data, recovery time allowed etc. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FedEx - Dallas, TX June 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provided 24x7 production database administration supports.  • Administered several databases including single instance and multi-node RAC instances.  • Performed extensive tuning / troubleshooting of databases for optimal performance. Tuning the application SQL / lock contention / index usage etc., Monitor object growth and modify segment storage for better performance.  • Wrote scripts to automate data loads, performance monitoring, Partitions, Data Refreshs and backup.  • Database physical/logical layout design and procedures for production, development, test servers.  • Guided the Operations team in Creating, Cloning, and troubleshooting Oracle Databases, Database Objects Designs, and Partitioning, capacity planning of disk, table spaces, tables, backups and recovery.  • Helped the Production teams in Applications Performance Tuning and providing 24X7 Production Support.  • Performed capacity planning required creating and maintaining the database environments.  • Provided tuning support for SGA (shared pool, buffer pool and log buffer pool etc).  • Managed archived redo files, DB-links & Partitions, loading data for users by using SQL*loader.  • Replication of materialized views (snapshots) with fast refreshes for transfers of information.  • Set up Cron jobs to monitor file systems usage, archive logs, backup logs and cleaning up of these file systems periodically, and also RMAN Hot Backup Scripts.  • SQL and PL/SQL Performance Tuning and Identifying SQL and PL/SQL bottlenecks using PL/SQL Profiler, Explain Plan, and Auto trace, TKPROF and tuned them to suit SLA.  • Gathered Database Instance Statistics & generated reports using STATSPACK.  • Implemented Oracle New features like SPfile, Shared Severs, Locally managed Temporary Tablespace, UNDO Tablespace and RMAN.  • Created Partitions at O/S level, according to DB requirements.  • User Creations with allocation to appropriate tablespaces and quotas with necessary privileges and roles.    Environment: Oracle Server 9i/10g RAC, SQL, RHEL, AIX 5.2, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server. Oracle DBA PNC Bank - Cleveland, OH May 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on database backup strategy designing and implementation using cold/hot backup techniques.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL functions, procedures, packages and triggers.  • Migrated NON ASM databases to ASM databases.  • Monitoring and managing the Storage Usage by Resizing Older Tablespaces, Creation of New Tablespaces and relocation of data files for better Disk I/O.  • Worked on scheduling cronjob for automatic backup of oracle database in Solaris and Linux.  • Database Memory management (shared pool, db buffer cache and log buffer).  • Upgrading, analysis and testing of the test and production database.  • Monitored alert logs, trace files, partition tables and indexes for better performance of the database.  • Database physical/logical layout design and procedures for production, development, test servers.  • Performed export imports using exp/imp, Data Pump.  • Performed Data loads using SQL Loader.  • Perform capacity planning required to create and maintain the database environments.  • 24x7 Production Database Support.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 10g/11g databases.  • Upgraded databases from 10g to 11g and created roles, profiles, users and assigned privileges to them.  • Created different types of Indexes (B tree, reverse key, IOT and function based).  • Involved in backup/recover strategy designing and implementation using cold backup, hot backup and RMAN methodologies.  • Configuring the databases parameters, creation, reorganization, extending table space, administer database security, create users, grant/revoke roles, privileges, extended databases storage capacity, performance and monitor, reduce DB fragmentation, manage data-files, rollback-segments, extents, rebuilding indexes.  • Provided partitioning of the large tables to reduce the access time.  • Applied patches.  • Optimization and performance tuning of database, SGA and SQL*Net/Net8 related problems.  • Installing Oracle 8i on Win NT Server and Setting up Oracle Clients.  • User Creations with allocation to appropriate tablespaces and quotas with necessary privileges and roles.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, Sun Solaris, RHEL, Windows, SQL*Loader, SQL, PL/SQL. Oracle Database Administrator State Bank of India - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh April 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 9i, 10g databases.  • Upgraded databases from 9i to 10g.  • Performed export imports using exp/imp, Data Pump  • Created roles, profiles, objects, users and assigned privileges to them.  • Created different types of Indexes (B tree, reverse key, IOT and function based etc).  • Involved in backup/recover strategy designing and implementation using cold backup, hot backup and RMAN methodologies.  • Configuring the databases parameters, creation, reorganization, extending table space, administer database security, create users, grant/revoke roles, privileges, extended databases storage capacity, performance and monitor, reduce db fragmentation, manage data-files, rollback-segments, extents, rebuilding indexes.  • Provided partitioning of the large tables to reduce the access time.  • Applied patches.  • Detecting and diagnosing production system performance by analyzing oracle trace, log files, analyzing SQL statement, measuring system and database activity.    Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, LINUX, UNIX. Education Master of Science in Applied Computer Science Herguan University - Sunnyvale, CA December 2011 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2009 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages PL/SQL, SQL, SQL*PLUS, C, Java, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting.  Database Oracle 11g/10G RAC 11g/10g, MS Access, DB2 LUW  Operating System UNIX, Solaris, HP-Unix, Linux, Windows 2005/2003/XP/2000  Tools SQL*PLUS, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL Navigator, OEM, RMAN, SQL* LOADER, Imp/Exp and Data pump,  Tools/Utilities RMAN, ASM, Grid Control, EXP, IMP, Expdp, Impdp.