IT Database and CMR\AMS Administrator IT <span class="hl">Database</span> and CMR\AMS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Database and CMR\AMS Administrator - Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Inc Silver Spring, MD Seeking employment as a Database Administrator as an individual with extensive technical skills and knowledge and over 5 years of experience in the field. Work Experience IT Database and CMR\AMS Administrator Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Inc - Washington, DC July 2018 to Present Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures & guidelines.  ? Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop hardware.  ? Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment.  ? Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  ? Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers ? Provide technical expertise in architecting and developing the AMS or CMR platforms ? and related product suite ? Work with cross-functional teams to define business requirements and deliver AMS or ? CMR solutions ? Develop and support integration solutions of AMS or CMR with business support ? systems ? Develop SQL queries and build reports ? Troubleshoot and resolve production issues (software bugs, data issues, and system ? configuration issues) for the AMS or CMR and related software ? Responsible for the administration and maintenance of the customer relationship ? database, including development of minor customizations through system's development ? functionality ? Function as primary contact to consult with IT consultants and to help resolve and ? identify solutions for the sorority ? Will lead and participate in the development and implementation of selected solutions ? Oversees the end-to-end report development including interaction with staff to gather ? requirements, understand report objectives, design and develop reports as well as deliver ? and be productive tools for all systems users and the membership as needed ? Test customizations, integrations along with AMS or CMR service pack and hot fix ? releases as may be needed ? Ensure all aspects of AMS or CMR integrations are coordinated, tested and functioning ? properly Database Administrator Sholla Cooperation - Silver Spring, MD June 2015 to Present Conducted SQL Server production database analysis on a regular basis.  ? Provided customer assistance and support pertaining to database system queries and complaints.  ? Installed administered and updated database tools and systems.  ? Attending meetings, taking targets and distributing them to the team leaders.  ? Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance using Query Tuning ? Configuring Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication.  ? Mirroring one of our critical database with zero latency/synchronized.  ? Implementation of backup and Recovery strategies.  ? Perform Full, Differential and Transaction Log Backup.  ? Created the Jobs and schedules for daily running.  ? Created Triggers and Stored Procedures.  ? Tested and Deployed new database structures, such as tables, indexes and stores procedures ? Participated in configuring always On with Availability group SQL Server 2012 via nodes on Windows Server Failover Cluster.  ? Participating in SQL Server Engineering to identify the root cause of the disaster.  ? Analyzing and resolving the case for slow performance or deadlock. Education bachelor's degree in Cyber Security UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE 2015 to Present Skills Database (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), Replication. (3 years), Shipping (3 years), SQL (3 years), Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/amanuel-daniel-8b4a7a143 Assessments SQL Development Skills — Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate a basic understanding of SQL data tables, queries, statement clauses, and database issues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vsbbs7wulridpv2y Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  ? Experienceadministering Microsoft AD  ? Excellent attention to detail and organizational skills.  ? Ability to successfully anticipate issues or challenges without being specifically directed.  ? Strong ability to meet target deadlines and manage time effectively.  ? Ability to multi-task.  ? Manage all Windows servers including hardware/software upgrades and patching of OS and  applications  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills  ? Strong knowledge of Windows Server OS  ? Design, build, test, and implement server solutions in both physical and virtual environments  ? Database (RDBMS): SQL Server implementation and Maintenance.  ? Database Tools: SQL Profiler, SQL Agents, SQL Alerts, SQL Jobs  ? SQL Tools: Query Analyzer, profiler, query execution Plan, Counter.  ? High Availability: SQL Clustering, Always on Availability, Mirroring, Log shipping, Replication,  Fail Over Clustering, Availability Group  ? Operating System: Windows Server 2012, Window Server 2008, Window Server 2003, Window  XP, Vista, 7, 8