SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Centene Creve Coeur, MO • Over 4 Years of total IT experience including SQL Server Database Administration for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 in OLTP environment  • Experience in server builds MS SQL SERVER 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 updating with service packs and Cumulative updates  • Successfully lead the SQL Server Migration Projects from 2008/2005 to SQL 2012, 2000/2005 to 2008/R2, 2005-2014  • Successfully lead the Project for HEALTHNET migration to CETNENE environment  • Extensive experience in implementing High availability and Disaster Recovery solutions like Replication (Snapshot and Transactional), Log shipping, Windows Failover clustering and mirroring  • Proficiency and expertise in SQL Server Replication, Backup/Recovery  • Extensive knowledge on Clustering(Active-Active/Active-Passive) and server consolidation  • Conducted risk evaluation of database security for enterprise wide SQL server Databases and managed mitigation of identified areas with diverse teams in a record time  • Experience in regular maintenance activities like Query Tuning, statistics update, Index rebuild, log file monitoring, temp DB monitoring, handling blocking, deadlock resolutions and fragmentation issues  • Monitoring Event Viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors  • Data Import/Export using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) across different database platforms like Oracle, SQL Server and MS access  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities  • Designed the database using Database architecture which explains how the data is stored and the data of the server is stored in databases.  • Using Physical database architecture described how the database and files are organized in a SQL server.  • Have an experience in implementation and maintenance of project plans accordingly with gathering reports for application end users.  • Effective management skills and ability to focus on intermediate as well as long term project goals; excellent organizational skills and believe in TEAM (Together Everyone Achieve More)-Work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Centene - St. Louis, MO January 2016 to Present Project Description:  Centene provides health plans through Medicaid, Medicare and the Health Insurance Marketplace and other Health Solutions through specialty services companies. Also, Centene works with states to create innovative solutions that are unique and address the distinct needs to members. Their resources provide customized solutions to state partners through extensive experience in the Medicaid industry and uninsured market, as well as a portfolio of specialty health solutions. Centene offers specialized health solutions to the complex problems faced by state governments, managed care organizations, employers, unions, patients, healthcare providers and pharmaceutical companies.  Responsibilities:    • Built MS SQLSERVER 2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and recently 2016 with their respective latest service packs and cumulative updates.  • Also built SQL server on the clustered servers (2node) environment, with MSDTC configuration alongside.  • Worked with SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 Always On extensively and Configured AlwaysOn with 3node Cluster in which one is used as Primary replica, other node as secondary replica and 3rd node as Disaster recovery.  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2014 Report Server, Report Manager, and Report Builder. Generated Sub-Reports and granted roles for users to the reports.  • Handled up to 10 TB size databases on both cluster and AlwaysOn environment.  • Have experience in TSM (Tivoli storage manager) which is used for backup tool. Configured and registered TDPSQL for newly built servers.  • Installed and used FOGLIGHT as monitoring tool. Involved in setting up Foglight from the scratch, configured servers and documented well.  • Monitoring SQL server performance using Foglight to find performance, Dead locks, blockings and Capturing long running SQL queries for fine-tuning SQL statements that better result in efficient SQL statements processing.  • Migrated databases in production and did cutover on off business hours. Even did some In-place upgrades from SQL 2014 to SQL 2016 and once involved in DATA CENTER migration.  • Automated weekly and monthly non-production and production database refreshes.  • Involved in meetings with Microsoft PFE for their presentation of new versions for AZURE AlwaysOn Disaster recovery for 2016.  • Performed TDE Encryption on standalone servers and AlwaysOn servers.  • Decommissioned few servers which were not in use for very long period.  • Resolved and tweaked memory pressures caused during product release and expertise in designing databases and capacity planning.  • Worked with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases like Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Automated some maintenance jobs in SQL Server agent and task scheduler: such as shrinking database, backup database, index rebuilding, creating filtered indexes, index reorganizing, cleaning up error logs, and update statistics.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Database consistency checks using DBCC Utilities.  • Solving Tickets on Daily Basis for Production Issues. Supporting production team & developers while being On Call DBA.  • Had experience in configuring SQL server mail to send alerts to the users.  • Had an experience working in 2 Availability Groups for one Replica with 3 nodes as cluster in which 2 different applications were running on each AG group. It was a very rare opportunity handling like these servers on ALWAYSON Servers.  • After Centene took over HEALTHNET (California health insurance), involved in major projects of migrating database to Centene environment, moving data centers and understanding their environment simultaneously. This was also a good experience.    Environment: Windows Server 2007, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016, FOGLIGHT, Tivoli Storage manager, SSRS, CONFIO Ignite. SQL Server Database Administrator Amerigroup - Houston, TX December 2014 to December 2015 Project Description:  Amerigroup strives to meet the customers' needs for health plan products and services. In doing so, Amerigroup work with its members and providers to make health care accessible, affordable and a means by which the members improve their health. I am involved in the SQL server administrative activities for the project designed for their Claims and Provider operations department for enrollment of health care benefits provided by the company.  Responsibilities:    • Worked on installation of MS SQLSERVER 2008 R2, 2012, 2014.  • Implemented Side-by-Side Migration of MS SQL SERVER 2005 to 2008R2 and also worked on migration from SQL Server 2008 to 2012.  • Involved in Data modification records (DMR) INSERTs, UPDATEs, and DELETEs applied to SQL Server tables.  • Performed Back-up and restore of databases manually and also by scheduling jobs and Maintenance plans.  • The data that gets loaded into the data warehouse tables will likely come in large bulk (ETL) operations, so we have used Data warehouses to handle more indexes.  • Handling up to 3 TB size databases with ALWAYSON, clustered and replication environment.  • Worked on administering with very large database with more than 10 billion rows.  • Used Transaction Log Logical Architecture for maintain LSN's.  • Monitoring uptime of SQL Servers using Solarwinds monitoring tool.  • Using the new concepts of SQL server 2014 and also the 2012 DMV's for monitoring the fragmentation of indexes, blocks, memory page splits, Log space of all the databases.  • Configured and maintaining Report Manager and Report Server for SSRS and update passwords for the quarterly password change.  • Configured Transactional replication between primary servers and read only server, with separate Distributor server and experienced in troubleshooting replication problems.  • Worked on configuring Linked Server for SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012 to connect to a non-SQL Server data source using OLEDB Provider.  • Had experience on Performance tuning, trouble shooting and monitoring using Performance Dashboard reports, Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiler.  • Implemented Database replication using the Always On Availability Group the new feature in SQL server 2012.  • Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering and also experienced with Multi-subnet clustering which is an additional feature in SQL Server 2012.  • Worked on setting up replication such as Transactional and Snapshot replication.  • Enhanced the capability of Database Mirroring using the latest feature in 2012 i.e., the Always on Availability Group.  • Extensively worked on some features of SQL Server 2008 like Log compression, transparent data encryption TDE, Performance data collector and Auditing.    Environment: Windows Server 2003/2005, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2012, SolarWinds Monitoring tool, MS-Excel, XML, SSRS. Application Engineer NOA soft solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to April 2014 Worked as a SQL developer/DBA for inventory application which involved design and development of database, stored procedures and SQL queries. Involved in DBA activities like DTS, creating databases and security etc.  Responsibilities    • Experienced in rebuilding and transferring new database  • Created Database Maintenance Plans for the performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity checks, update database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Managed database security and implemented encryption/compression for sensitive data in the database  • Troubleshoot Third party Data migration, DTS, Backups and restore, tune up systems, upgrade  • Performed Database Search and Query Strategy design, implementation, testing, and optimization.  • Performed Stored Procedures development and testing, as well as Database Report design and implementation  • Export data in Excel to SQL Server 2000 via DTS  • Run daily, weekly and monthly reports for management consumption.  • Wrote optimized T-SQL stored procedure to improve performance.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency    Environment: SQL Server 2000, Windows 2000/2003, Enterprise Manager, DTS Import/Export, Profiler, Query Analyzer Education Masters in Computer in Computer University of Houston Clear Lake Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills MICROSOFT SSRS (3 years), MS SQLSERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years), SQL Server 2012 (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2012/ 2008/R2, 2005, 2000  BI Tools SSAS, SSIS, SSRS 2012/2008/2005    Operating Systems Windows 2010 / 2008 / 2007/ XP/ Vista, Linux  Languages HTML Scripting, T-SQL  Virtual Environment VMWare (ESX Servers)  DB Monitoring Tools Quest Performance Analysis, Performance Monitor, SQL Server DMVs, CONFIO Ignite, FOGLIGHT  HA/DR SQL Server 2012/2008 R2 Clustering, Always-On 2104 and 2016, Mirroring and Replication, Log Shipping  Other Tools  Compaq Insight Manager, Idera Diagnostic Manager, Dells Lite Speed, Quest Enterprise Software, SQL Lite speed, ERWIN, SCOM, Quest, Crystal Reports, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS.