Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> OracleDatabase Administrator McKinney, TX A certified Oracle DBA who possesses 6years of solid experience working with Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g versions. Areas of work include,  • production support, installation and configuration, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, cloning, security, upgrades, and patches.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Well-versed in Oracle 11g, and 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Efficient in performing database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database; implemented SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, and database growth.  • Highly experienced in hot/cold backup and recovery and cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting - Oracle database performance tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, and SQL TRACE.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, and 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Configured Manager, Replicated and Extracted processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and created new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Light knowledge on mongo db and mysql.  • Equipped with excellent communication and interpersonal skills; a highly organized. individual and team player who possesses strong analytical and problem solving skills, and is who is committed in delivering quality services Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Northwest Mutual - Milwaukee 2012 to 2015 Analyzed and tuned the Database to identify potential database issues such as response delay, locking contention, even server down time by using tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.  ? Backup and restore using RMAN utilities, Disaster Recovery testing, recovery Catalog and refreshing databases on multiple environment.  ? Oracle performance tuning support pack and Statspack, AWR, ASH, ADDM, RMAN, Oracle Universal Installer, OPatch and Patchset.  ? Supporting data-guard (11g Active dataguard) for customer data service.  ? RMAN backup and recovery strategy using incrementally updated image copy backup.  ? AWR report generation and wait analysis for performance.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support inresolving the SRs.  ? Worked with latest 10g/11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventionalexport/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databasesandDatapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Applied necessary Patches during installation and also in up-gradation of databases on Oracle database versions 10g and 11g.  ? Configured Dataguard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the Dataguard status via DGMGRL and GUI.  ? Implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and Cold backups to tape, drives, and disks.  ? Involved in query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  ? Performed database performance tuning, STATSPACK reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues.    Environment: Oracle 10.1.0.4/10.2.0.4/11gR2, RHEL 5 and 6, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, OEM Database control, Shell Scripting. OracleDatabase Administrator US Foods - Rosemont, IL 2015 Installation and configuration of 10g,11g,12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)and Windows server 2008,2012.  ? Installation and configuration of 12c Container -+-bases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and unix platforms.  ? Upgraded multiple Standalone databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  ? Worked New Features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts  ? Experience in troubleshooting RAC databases and engaging with application team for gaining performance enhancements for application in clustered environment.  ? Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU(Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  ? Supported in Performing GoldenGate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  ? Replication Using GoldenGate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  ? Implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automized scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  ? Duplicating TablespacesAnd Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  ? Involved in datacentre migrating large size database in multiple platform.  ? Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and also used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  ? Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  ? Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  ? Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g,11gRAC& 12C environment for the Production databases.  ? Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  ? Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  ? Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  ? Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  ? Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  ? Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  ? Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  ? Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  ? Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes. Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  ? Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  ? Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  ? Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  ? Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  ? Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  ? Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  ? Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  ? Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  ? Outline standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  ? Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  ? Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  ? Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  ? Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  ? Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor in sciences Environmental science Skills BACKUPS (6 years), CLONING (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), RDBMS (6 years), ORACLE (6 years), Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses OCA Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  ? Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  ? Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  ? Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  ? Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  ? Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  ? Installation and configuration of oracle Golden Gate.  ? Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  ? Proficient in Database administration activities such as user management, space management, Monitoring,Creating Database, Managing Oracle Instance and Database security and Materialized Views.  ? Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, Tuning Contentions) using oracle 11g tools like AWR, ADDM, Advisories, TKPROF, SQL TRACE,EXPLAIN PLAN for the better performance.  ? Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Database using Grid Control & Diagnostic pack (AWR, ASH ADDM)  ? Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  ? Experience in taking backup and performing recovery.  ? Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Linux.  ? Experienced in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  ? Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 2 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  ? Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle Data Guard to perform quick disaster recovery.  ? Experience in applying PSU patch on standalone as well as RAC databases.  ? Configured Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  ? UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  ? Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  ? Installed Oracle 11g withASM and OCFS2 File systems.  ? Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  ? Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  ? Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  ? Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  ? Light knowledge on mongo db and mysql.  ? Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  ? Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS.