SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Carrollton, TX Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Medroc Ethiopia Inc - Addis Ababa, ET August 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installation and upgrade (development, testing and production environments):  ? Installed, configured and managed SQL server 2008 and 2005  ? Upgraded SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008/2005  ? Upgraded SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008    • Backup/Recovery:  ? Performed database backup  ? Setup and managed backup jobs  ? Prepared disaster recovery plans  ? Restored database from backup including point-in-time recovery    • Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning:  ? Carried out database monitoring and performance tuning using SQL profiler  ? Scheduled jobs to automate different database related tasks  ? Monitored server activity, SQL server error logs, space usage and fragmentation and solved problem as needed  ? Created indexes (cluster/non-clustered), constraints, views, etc    • Database High Availability:  ? Configured and maintained database mirroring for both synchronous and asynchronous modes  ? Created mirrored database snapshots for reporting purposes  ? Configured and maintained log shipping  ? Configured and maintained replications SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Ethiopian airlines - Addis Ababa, ET March 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and managed SQL Server 2005/2008 in development, test and production environments  • Upgraded databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2008/2005, and from 2005 to 2008  • Configured and maintained mirroring, replications and log shipping as part of a high availability solution in testing and production environments  • Monitored and tuned performance of databases  • Created and managed tables, indexes (clustered/non-clustered), constraints (unique/check), views, stored procedures and triggers  • Undertook database backup, restore and point-in-time recovery  • Scheduled different database maintenance plans (reorganize and rebuild index, update statistics, shrink database)  • Monitored server activities, error logs, space usage, and resolved related problems as needed