DBA Consultant DBA Consultant DBA Consultant - Securian Financials, Inc Minneapolis, MN • Over 5 Years of IT experience in Oracle products, both production and development environments  • Hands on experience in administration of Production, Test and Development databases.  • Expertise in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, space management, database security, troubleshooting database design, UNIX shell scripting and documentation.  • Experience with Oracle 12c, 11g RAC/10g RAC Installation, Administration, Monitoring, Maintenance, Performance Tuning, Database Backup and Recovery.  • Experience in HP-UX, AIX, SUN SOLARIS, Linux and Windows environments.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases  • Experience in building the RAC Clusters, Disaster Recovery sites using Oracle Data Guard.  • Installed and configured databases using silent install, OMF and via scripts.  • Extensive knowledge in dynamic views and dictionary tables.  • Experience in applying the CPU and PSU patches.  • Extensive experience in OS space and tablespace management.  • Worked on database security and Fine Grain Auditing.  • Extensive work on shell scripting and documentation.  • Excellent Experience as Production DBA with 24X7 supports.  • Managed databases on Exadata and GoldenGate.  • Cloned databases using RMAN duplicate and used Data Pump for object level refreshes.  • Managed databases using Exadata.  • Experience in Migration of databases from standalone to RAC, data migration, data archiving and data access techniques  • Installed and applied patched to oracle database and application.  • Hands on Experience in Performance tuning and optimization of SQLs.  • Analyzed database performance using ASH, AWR and ADDM reports.  • Managed databases on Exadata. Creating and Managing Users, Roles and Privileges with required security implementations  • Database replication using snapshot, materialized views and advance replication methods.  • Implementing backup and recovery using RMAN  • Performance tuning based on reports generated by SQL Trace  • Implementing and maintaining Oracle Data Guard/standby databases for production database  • Building and configuring physical standby Data Guard as a high availability solution  • Administering 2 node RAC cluster. Maintaining and supporting for RAC infrastructure components and database  • Creating and maintaining objects such as sequences, tables, indexes, materialized views and business needs  • Managing database security by creating users and profiles, assigning roles and priveleges  • Implementing ASM as storage management, managed ASM disk groups via ASMCMD  • Working extensively on database cloning and refreshes  APPLICATIONS & TOOLS    RDMBS: Oracle 11g, 12c  Languages: Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Linux Shell Scripting Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DBA Consultant Securian Financials, Inc - Saint Paul, MN January 2016 to Present Securian Financial is one of the nation's largest providers of financial security for individuals and businesses. On this project, the responsibilities include to provide Securian Insurance portfolio with complete Oracle lifecycle experience from concept to design, architecture, hardware selection, installation & patches, configuration, security & space management, performance monitoring & tuning, data integrity, backups & recovery planning and 24 x 7 supports. Project was for implementing Exadata DB.    Responsibilities:  • Installed, Implemented and supported Oracle databases on Exadata.  • Supported DB2 databases for the large SAP application environment.  • Designed and implemented Disaster Recovery using RMAN and Dataguard for RAC databases on Exadata platform.  • Performed preventive maintenance and applied patches to Oracle databases, Exadata databaseservers and Exadata cell servers.  • Migrated single instance databases to 4-node RAC databases.  • Installed and Configured OEM.  • Configuring WebLogic domains to support high availability.  • Database managing and monitoring using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Cloned databases using custom shell script with hot and cold backups of source database.  • Performed User administration, space administration on databases.  • Creating databases, tables, table spaces and data objects, setting privileges, indexes, user and password management, security administration.  • Creating Indexes, rebuilding indexes, analyzing indexes to improve the performance of query.  • Supported Oracle Databases running on SAP systems.  • Performing regular Backups and Recovery as per strategy to support the database and troubleshooting with restoring and recovery.  • Performed capacity planning and reporting, monitoring of storage utilization, reclaiming space and optimizing space allocation.  • Provided on call 24*7 support for production databases. Part of Exadata on call team.  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Linux, windows, OEM, Toad, Oracle Partitioning, Oracle Replication, RMAN, Data Pump, RAC, Exadata. Sr. Database Administrator Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA March 2015 to December 2015 Provided Oracle Database Administration for Investment company. Installed, configured Oracle installations and supported high availability architectures.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Oracle Best Practices in installing and maintaining Oracle Databases.  • Earned good performance evaluations for performing full database administration tasks for as many as 40 Oracle databases.  • Responsible for multiple client-server database applications & company-wide web-based application.  • Successfully completed all DBA tasks in establishing database environments (Prod, DR, Reporting, UAT, Test, and Dev) including binary installation, database creation, data migration, configuring monitoring and backups and performance tuning to compensate application deficiencies.  • Installing, upgrading, implementing and supporting oracle 10g R1/R2 and 11g R1/R2 databases.  • Supported DB2 Installations and Support.  • Experienced in DB2 upgrades. Upgraded DB2 9.1 to 10.5  • Supported project implementation of Oracle 12C.  • Performed all necessary prerequisite checks and operations before upgrading the specified instances to 12C.  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12C using Database upgrade assistant (DBUA) tool.  • Implemented ASM as storage management, manage ASM disk groups via ASMCMD and Grid Control.  • Implemented ADDM recommendations to optimize sizing of Instance memory pools like SGA, db buffers, shared SQL area, log buffer based on requirements.  • Involved in design and creation of different Database Objects like Tables, Views, Synonyms, Sequences and Database Triggers.  • Extensive knowledge of original export/import utility and data pump for schema and databaserefresh.  • Build and configure physical standby Data Guard as a high availability solution.  • Extensively worked on database cloning and refreshes.  • Implemented and maintained full, incremental and cumulative RMAN back up's.  • Restored and recovered production database using RMAN.  • Written RMAN scripts for taking back up and deleting archive log files exceeding the retention.  • Automated several scripts to monitor various processes, sessions and taking back up's using CRON tab.  • Monitoring various scripts and alert log files to ensure that Data Guard, databases are healthy.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting space related issues implementing oracle security as per the standards.  • Administered 2 node RAC cluster. Maintenance and support for RAC infrastructure components and Database.  • Performed Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and troubleshooting.  • Experience in virtualizing the environments.  • Actively involved in Change Management team activities.  • Worked extensively with Oracle support to resolve several show stopper issues.  • 24/7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution for multi-terabyte database issues.  • Documented procedures. Participated in knowledge transfer sessions.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g/12C, Linux, OEM, Toad, Oracle Partitioning, Oracle Replication, RMAN, Data Pump, RAC. Oracle DBA Alliance Health - Eatontown, NJ January 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Supporting Oracle Customers running various versions of Oracle RDBMS.  • Build multi node 11g and 12c RAC  • Set up Active Data Guard  • Worked on various performances related issues.  • Very familiar with RAID configuration.  • Worked with Storage team for ASM and other file system needs.  • Set up uni-directional Golden Gate for replication.  • Setup the materialize views for replication.  • Worked For the support of Oracle Exadata Systems  • Managed SQL Server Databases.  • Provided assistance to Memory Corruption and Dictionary Corruption Errors  • Setup the replication using Oracle GoldenGate.  • Provided assistance to Implement Huge pages /Large Pages in Unix platforms  • Assistance to High memory utilization issues in Unix and Windows Platforms  • Provided assistance to Slowness of Data Pump, expand SQL Loader utilities  • Providing all round DBA support to resolve Application and DB outages on production, development, test and staging Customer environments across the Globe.  • Involved in resolving issues after Installations, Upgrades, Cloning, patching (both DB and Applications), CPU patches, and one-off patches.  • Development Life Cycle (ISDLC), that have high availability and scalability consistent with Customer needs, Mentors and develops Associates  • Applied On-off, CPU, PSU and CRS Bundle patches.  • Performing design testing, implementation, maintenance and administration in a multiple platform SAP environment.  • Provides and supports the implementation of business solutions  • Upgrade databases from 10g to 11g R2 to 12c  • Worked on OEM 12c and 13c  • Installed 12c database  • Worked on Multitenant databases.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Setting up and testing the backup and recovery strategies.  • Database Tuning by generating explain plans for long running queries, creating indexes on columns to improve performance.  • Build physical Standby database  • Completed tasks for snapshot standby.  • Resolved gaps at standby database.  • Remove unnecessary histograms in highly volatile schemas.  • Worked in Tuning OS, Shared Pool, Buffer Cache, and Redo Log Buffer.  • Database dot release upgrades using GUI and via command prompt  • Tested Recovery scenarios.  • Performed Security administration tasks, setup users accounts, passwords, roles  • Monitored data files, logical data storage and data growth activities  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze, DB backup logs etc.  • Planned and Performed Daily, Weekly and Monthly Backups. Tested and implemented restore procedures for complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN.  • Perform capacity planning required to create and maintain database environments.  • Supported 24/7 on-call pager support for mission critical financial databases.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for SQL*NET connectivity.  • Assisted in management and database administration of Oracle database applications on Exadata platforms  • Analyzing database performance and tuning database on Oracle Exadata  • using Real Application Testing (RAT)  • Implementing Best Practices for migration E-Business Suite and regular  • databases to Oracle Exadata  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Enterprise Manager Cloud Control  • to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases  • Provided 24/7 on-call support Oracle Database Administrator Staples Inc - Framingham, MA April 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for administration and supporting oracle 11g, 10g and 9i databases.  • Coordinated system support and performance  • Actively participated in gathering Business Requirements and System Specification from system users.  • Responsible for Analyzing requirements, designing, maintaining and updating data models  • Analyze the current data management procedures in practice and suggest ways for automating the process or improving the existing system.  • Installation of Oracle on Linux and Windows.  • Performed installations of Oracle 10g and 11g and SQL Server databases.  • Created tables, indexes, table spaces, users, integrity constraints and supported all phases of a development cycle.  • Analyzed and suggest improvements to SQL queries and statements written by others.  • Developed stored procedures to pull the data from the distributed systems.  • Maintaining daily batch cycle and providing 24/7 support.  • Developed various form-level and DML triggers to perform validation checks  • Worked Extensively in Menu Modules in forms Builder  • Developed Templates for new forms and generate scripts for database objects using oracle designer 10g  • Developed and implemented complex data models and logical database designs.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing.  • Involved in preparing the User Test plans.  • Extensively used SQL*Loader to load the data from the flat files to the database and validated the data with the PL/SQL procedures.  • Defined database requirements and designed data model.  • Installation of Solaris, Linux and Windows on the servers.  • Monitored of tablespace related issues like increasing the storage parameter values, resizing the data files, adding new data files etc. Education Oracle University Bachelor of Arts University of Northwestern Skills Linux (3 years), Loader (1 year), Red Hat (Less than 1 year), RMAN (4 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux, Windows Server  Software: ASM, Data Pump, DBCA, Putty, RMAN, SQL Developer, SQL Loader, SQL Plus, Toad  Tuning Tools: Explain-Plan, SQL TRACE, tkprof