Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cigna Health Care Troy, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cigna Health Care - Troy, MI May 2014 to Present • Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like, DATA GUARD, GRID CONTROL RAC and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning Advisor, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF.  • Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.  • Installation and creation of 11g databases for Testing & Development on both IBM-AIX and Linux environment in OLTP, Decision Support System Data Warehousing environment.  • SQL tuning - AWR history of sql execution, index recommendations, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Real Time SQL Monitoring, Interpret Execution plans, Re-write more efficient SQLs.  • Data Refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup test, development environments using SAN level storage mirroring: Gold image copy and cloning.  • Tuned the Database and applications using AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, ESTIMATE, ANALYSE, EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, and TKPROF and gathered DBMS statistics.  • Worked on setting up Physical Standby Data Guard environment for Prod & non-prod database  • Handled High volume production databases around 15 TB size along with Physical standby databases  • Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  • Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Implemented Range, List, Hash and various Sub Partitions, Create and schedule refresh for materialized views.  • Work Management of schema objects, partitioning of tables & indexes and performing SQL*Loader jobs for loading data from flat files (ETL) and Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • Monitoring growth of tables and undertaking necessary re-organization of database, capacity planning.  • Designed the logical and physical database structure and involved in Logical, Physical data modeling.  • Provide support to developers to enhance their SQL, PL/SQL code and responsible for setting up new user accounts, schema Deployments and related user administrative tasks.  Environment: Oracle 11g/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Boeing September 2012 to April 2014 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Applied Bug fixes patches, Quarterly Security Patches for RAC and non-RAC servers for issues when upgrading, DR switchover testing.  • Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 9i/10g databases to 11gR2 RAC.  • Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints  • Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/clustered Application tuning using Dictionary views, AWR (Statspack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Migrated VLDB multi terabyte databases around 10TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace monitoring to send notification emails.  • Export/Import, Datapump, Transportable tablepsaces to migrate databases from one database to another.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot, resolve the issues, monitoring alert log, trace files.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0 Education BSC in Computer Sciences The University of Arizona October 2006 to October 2010 Skills AIX (4 years), coding (4 years), Database (4 years), databases (4 years), Linux (4 years), Rman Backup and Recovery (5 years), Performance Tuning (5 years), upgrade (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate June 2014 to Present Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups. '  • Experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager  • knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information  about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like Point-In-Time Recovery PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Recycle bin Technologies  • Database design using Microsft visio and CA/ ERWIN produce ERD and populate tables with SQL Loader.  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using  OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR,  ADDM and ASH reports.  • Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of  large tables and indexes  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc..  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual  method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and Materialized  view for Oracle database.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and  also capacity planning for new applications.  • Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable  tablespace Utility.  • Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning,  Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and  documentation  • Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area  size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pools like Recycle pool, Keep pool.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace  management, maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Scripting.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  RDBMS Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM, Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import