Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - San Diego Museum of Man San Diego, CA ? Salesforce Certified Administrator (ADM 201) and an active learner in Salesforce Trailhead.   ? Around 3 plus years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform with Non Profit Success Pack in both the UIs- Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience.   ? Experience in Salesforce Customization, Profile and User Set up, maintenance and training, Security Access and Data Validation.   ? Experience of handling NPSP Settings of Salesforce.   ? Hands on Experience in creating Custom Objects, Custom fields, Page layouts, Custom Tabs, Record Types and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  ? Experience with various advanced fields like Picklists, Dependent Picklists, Custom Formula Fields, Lookups, Master-Details and Many to Many Relationships, field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, Approval Processes, Process Builder and Lightning Flow for automated alerts, Field updates and Email generation as per organizational requirements.  ? Experience with SFDC Reports and Dashboards.  ? Experience with Data Migration with Data Import Wizard, NPSP Data Imports and Data Loader.  ? Experience with Salesforce sandbox and Production environments.  ? Experience in Installing Salesforce.com AppExchange Apps, configuring and maintaining user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs.  ? Planned and implemented the process of Lightning Migration.  ? Familiarity with Change sets for deployment.  ? Familiarity with Lightning App Builder and other Lightning features.  ? Experience with Lightning Set up menu and other Lightning components.   ? Great Interpersonal skills, focused, self-motivated, quick learner and team oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator San Diego Museum of Man - San Diego, CA August 2016 to Present San Diego Museum of Man, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, is a proud member of the Balboa Park Cultural Partnership, a collaboration of 26 arts, science, and cultural institutions in San Diego's Balboa Park.    Responsibilities:  • Serving as a primary System Administrator /Implementer/ Consultant for the Salesforce.com environment.  • Responsible for ongoing Salesforce best practice training and materials to internal departments and new employee orientation.  • Maintenance of functionalities of both the UIs- Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience as well as support both the interface users.  • Responsible for ongoing system functionality, maintenance, accessibility and updates.  • Resolves technical issues through debugging, research and investigation.  • Work with  • Work with our institutional management team to establish suitable processes to support administrative, development, and change management activities.  • Creating and maintaining Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implementing Record-Level and Field-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Working on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Opportunities, Activities, Dashboards and Reports.  • User management by troubleshoot common user access and visibility on a regular basis as well as Setting up new users and managing their profile as well as user maintenance by creating, deactivating/freezing accounts as per requirements.  • Automating manual processes using declarative tools like Process Builder, Flows, Workflows, Approval processes & formulas thus reducing significant manual effort across all our internal teams.  • Creating Custom Objects, Fields, Page layouts, Lightning Pages, Record Types, Validation rules, Sharing rules, Permission Set, Custom Page Layouts, Custom Fields, Data Maintenance and other standard functionalities.  • Regular maintenance of Non-Profit Success Pack. Working with the Development/Fundraising Team to support them on a regular basis.  • Work with Non- Profit Settings on regular basis and implement and configure different Non-Profit apps of Salesforce like Volunteers, Households Setting and train users accordingly.  • Created various Reports and Dashboards based on users and organization requirements.  • Create Reports and Dashboards as per the customer requirements.  • Perform data migration from databases into Salesforce on a regular basis. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Create and customize both classic and Lightning Apps based on the user needs. Maintain and upgrades apps in both the interfaces.  • Monitor, maintain and support Salesforce Chatter Free internal and external users on a regular basis.  • Train and help users in Lightning migration. Conduct individual as well as group training sessions to help them learn and understand Lightning features.  • Managed multiple sandbox environments.  • Update and train end users whenever a new update from Salesforce have been made or any new change in the Salesforce CRM functionalities has been made within the organization's Salesforce environment.  • Complete regular internal system audits and prepare for upgrades. Database Administrator San Diego Museum of Man - San Diego, CA April 2016 to July 2016 San Diego Museum of Man, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, is a proud member of the Balboa Park Cultural Partnership, a collaboration of 26 arts, science, and cultural institutions in San Diego's Balboa Park.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented and set up the SFDC application with Nonprofit Success Pack and customized the application to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Administrator/ Implementer/ Consultant.  • Managed and set up the Standard objects like Contacts, Accounts and Opportunities as per the Non Profit Setting of Salesforce.  • Managed and set up NPSP objects like Households, Affiliations and others from App Exchange.  • Created new custom objects, assigned fields, custom tabs and other related components.  • Develop and Customize salesforce.com application based on the user needs.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Created Users, Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-Level and Field-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Created Sandbox and used it for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked on data migration from databases to SFDC using Data Loader.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Created Data Migration Approach and preparation of Mapping document before data migration. Education Master's in MBA KALYANI UNIVERSITY INDIA - Kolkata, West Bengal July 2008 to July 2010 Skills DATA INTEGRATION, LOADER, OFFICE SKILLS, MICROSOFT OFFICE, INTEGRATION, DBA Links http://Salesforce.com Certifications/Licenses Salesforce Certified Administrator (ADM 201) Additional Information SKILLS    ? Non-Profit Success Pack (NPSP).  ? Reports, Dashboards, Workflows& Approvals, OWD, Sharing Rules, Permission Sets and Profiles.  ? Microsoft Office skills.  ? Good Interpersonal and Communication skills.  ? Having a good understanding of relational databases and data integration tools like Data Loader.  ? The ability to take the initiative and drive for results.