Job Seeker Work Experience PeopleSoft Admissions - Bowie, MD June 2014 to Present Bowie state university provides high-quality and affordable educational opportunities for students with ambitions to achieve and succeed. As a member institution of the university system of Maryland, Bowie state upholds the system's mission of providing high-caliber, accessible, and affordable educational opportunities. PeopleSoft is integrated ERP software that helps the university to execute their day-to-day operations.  • Implemented Recovery Manager (RMAN)  • Maintains the integrity, security and availability of multiple databases by administering database user accounts, create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights.  • Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data Pump and SQL* Loader.  • Active member of the Production 24/7 on-call support teams to support Databases.  • Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Provided network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  • Created and managed documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases  • Provide database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  • Performed physical backups using RMAN utility to backup the control files, SP files and data files.  • Uploaded and updated the redesigned SAT, ACT scores data files into People Soft for admissions process. Information Technology, junior database administrator PeopleSoft Admissions - Bowie, MD September 2013 to May 2014 Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise manager.  • Support database administrator to troubleshoot and resolve various connectivity problems.  • Performed password reset, ensure database access to user account as well as database consistency and integrity.  • Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other databases objects.  • Provided network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  • Responsible for monitoring alert log, memory and database network connectivity. Assist Database Administrator FinaTrust Microfiance bank May 2011 to August 2013 Responsible for creating users, groups, roles, profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups  • Generate report for bank officers and divisional heads.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and maintenance of the databases.  • Rendered IT support training to other staff.  • Rendered e-business support services such as mobile banking, online transfers and also supporting and diagnosing of the automated teller machine (ATM).  • Created weekly status report for senior team members.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash by using RMAN.  • Run database queries for analysis and decision purposes.  • Performed post-implementation application support and training to clients & end users.  • Created and maintained test case for assigned projects, conducted UAT testing, and validated test results against requirements. Education Masters in Management information system /Bowie state university