Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - IBM TSM Lagos, GU An experienced Information Technology professional with the necessary drive and determination. Possessing excellent team working, strong technical and communication skills gained from work experience and up-to-date IT Knowledge acquired through a postgraduate qualification. I seek to undertake a positive, fruitful and demanding career path, which will help me bring immediate practical benefit to an employer. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator IBM TSM - Lagos, GU June 2015 to Present IBM TSM Administration and daily housekeeping  • Oracle Database Management and daily Administration Oracle Applications Database Administrator Guaranty Trust Bank - Lagos, GU January 2013 to April 2015 Guaranty Trust Bank, Lagos, Nigeria  (March 2008 - September 2011)    Responsibilities:  • Oracle E-business suite Release 11i and Database Monitoring and Performance tuning to ensure peak performance.  • Installation and upgrade of application and security patches for Oracle Applications Release 11 and 12 and Oracle 10g database.  • Backup and maintenance activities for Oracle E-business suite release 11i and the Oracle 10g database.  • Provided a health check of production EBS to address many instability and performance issues and documented findings and implement recommendations.  • Daily Monitoring and measuring of Oracle ERP Server network throughput from all bank branches.  • Daily support for Oracle Sales Force Automation, Oracle Talent management, Oracle self- service, Oracle Learning management, HRMS(Human Resource Management System) and CRM(Customer Relationship Management).  • Identify User Requirements and create, modify or adapt designs accordingly.  • Working with team in the impact analysis and implementation planning of Enterprise resource applications.  • Provide support and advice to the End User and Systems Administration team in relation to system capabilities and processes.  • Ensured regular and meaningful communication is maintained with the customer when dealing with a fault or issue.  • Ensured compliance to business rules and make sure service level agreements are met.  • Documentation of technical implementations and training manuals.    Key Achievements:  • Migration of the bank's Oracle E-business suite from the old system to a new system.  • Implementation of content server for learning management for staffs in the organization.  • Implementation of secure shell layer for oracle applications security.  • Development of customer relationship management application to improve turn-around time for service requests.  • Implementation of a Central grid control systems to administer test, UAT and production environments.  • Supported and managed the implementation of self-service applications for the bank.  • Implementation of Oracle Data Guard for the E-business suite Disaster Recovery site.  • Implementation and support of Oracle Business Intelligence server for report generation and data analysis. IT support engineer Institute for Media and Society - Lagos, GU September 2006 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Installation and support of windows operating systems.  • TCP/IP networking of computers and printers.  • Computer hardware maintenance and repair.  • Cost assessment and coupling of new systems.  • Investigating, diagnosing and resolve all network problems.  • Hardware and software configuration and testing.  • Application of windows operating system patches. Education MSc in Security and e-Commerce Loughborough University September 2011 to December 2012 BSc in Software Engineering Babcock University September 2002 to June 2006 Additional Information KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES    • Programming: C, Java, Python, MATLAB, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Tools and packages: Oracle VM Virtual Box, Wireshack, Mininet, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, Microsoft Office Packages - Word, PowerPoint, Excel, outlook, Visio, Toad for Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle JDeveloper, GitHub.  • Networking: Cisco router and VLAN configuration and troubleshooting skills, Design and implementation of Network topologies, Configuration of Network protocols {ISIS & BGP (iBGP & eBGP)}, Configuration of IPV6 and network policies, Implementation of firewalls, Configuration of Web server and DNS, Network connectivity troubleshooting, ping, trace cert, telnet, Knowledge of LAN and WAN connection and administration, Good knowledge and test lab implementation of networks for QoS(Quality Of Service).  • Database/Server Packages: Oracle 9i, 10g/11g Database, Windows server 2008, HP-Unix (HP-UX 11.23 and HP-UX 11.31), Linux(Red-hat and Ubuntu OS) and Solaris for SPARC Super Cluster.  • Applications: Oracle HRMS (Human Resource Management System) and CRM Techno-Functional Support Skills, I-Recruitment, SFA(Sales Force Automation), Business intelligence.  • Good working knowledge of Oracle Business intelligence and weblogic server administration.  • Oracle ERP Infrastructure Administration.  • Microsoft Operating System Software Installation and maintenance for Windows XP and Windows 7.  • Working knowledge about administering Linux GUI and CLI interfaces.  • Knowledge and usage of shell scripting of Linux, Unix and Solaris Operating Systems.  • Practical Knowledge of Client-Server programming in python and java programming  • Strong knowledge and usage of RMAN, Data Pump, Oracle Enterprise Manager and Data Guard, HP SAN(Storage Area Network), HP Data Protector and Replication Service Manager.    ADDITIONAL SKILLS    • Project management: I also acquired the skills to manage projects from JK Michaels Professional Training Institute, which helped me in the timely delivery of completing tasks on all projects I have been actively involved in.  • Team working: As a member of the Enterprise Application Support team I was involved in planning projects and I introduced the practice of short weekly meetings with my teammates to help the flow of information so that we all understood each other's roles and could share research, support and technical tasks to avoid duplication and improve performance.  • Communication and Presentation Skills: I acquired training from Guaranty Trust Bank training school in effective communication and presentation skills.  • Personality: Analytical, Thorough, Problem Solving, Industrious, Quickly Adaptive, Positive Attitude, good Communicator, Team player and Versatile.