MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator - Moni Smart Security Dallas-Fort Worth, TX • Extensive Experience as MS SQL server (2014/2012/2008r2/2008/2005/2000) database Administrator on Standalone and cluster Server Operating System like i.e.2000/2003/2008.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Database Administration, High Availability, Monitoring, Support and Troubleshooting MS SQL Server 2012/ 2008 R2/2005/2000.  • Created custom-tailored database backup/restore scripts for Full, Differential and Transactional backups and scheduled jobs. Upgraded/migrated databases from lower version of database to higher version.  • Attended Training in SQL Server 2012 and 2014 from CommitPoint, TX.  • Acquired knowledge about the new feature like Always On Availability Group for high availability of multiple databases in place of database mirroring.  • Knowledge in planning, scheduling and administering database maintenance tasks like index defragmentation and index rebuilding & reorganization.  • Experience in designing and developing disaster recovery plan using log shipping and database mirroring.  • Experience in extracting and transforming transactional information with IMPORT/EXPORT wizard.  • Experience in installing monthly patches to the SQL servers  • Experienced in creating Logins, Users and Roles in context of SQL Server security.  • Excellent analytical, interpersonal communication and organizational skills, ability to work both in teams and individually with technical staff and non-technical staff.  • Ability to work beyond regular hours. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator Moni Smart Security - Dallas, TX January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and upgrading the MS SQL Server 2012/2014  • Involved in setting up and installing SQL Server in a Cluster environment.  • Worked on SQL Server Clusters Active/Passive and Active/Active on mission critical production applications  • Monitoring of user accounts, user permissions, table partitions and backup.  • Planning and implementation of database backup/restore and disaster recovery.  • Monitor & tune SQL scripts. Creating, Upgrading of scripts for production Database and supporting it.  • Responsible for Backing up the Databases  • Scheduled the backups for Databases and Transaction log. Performed restoration operations.  • Used third party tool lite speed for database backups and restorations.  • Involved in monthly database refresh from production server to test server.  • Created Jobs and scheduled jobs according to the requirements.  • Monitored Jobs, batch, alert and E-mail notification.  • Worked on tickets related to Data Change(Ticketing tool - Support Works)  • Mocked and Deployed database portion for major projects.  • Configure the Linked Servers within the Production and test servers.  • Actively participated in gathering of User Requirement and System Specification.  • Worked extensively on Database space management, performance monitoring using Spotlight and Performance analysis with foglight (Quest Software) and alert management.  • Perform maintenance tasks on Development, QA and Production Databases. Monitor and optimize the SQL server performance.  • Administered the MS SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Maintained security by creating users and giving appropriate permissions to users.  • Performed Reorganize/Rebuild Indexes.  • Worked with SQL server Profiler to generate traces and identify long running queries.  • Created Stored Procedures used cursors for complex queries.  • Proof of concept using Mongodb for ASAPER (stream data and chart logs)  • Built SQL Queries to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Created Triggers for various transactions.  • Working knowledge of patching the servers with Latest security patches and service packs of SQL Server.  • Documentation of installation procedures and patching procedure.  • Provided on - call 24/7 provide support.  • Dropped and recreated the indexes on tables for performance improvements.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008r2/2012/2014 Enterprise Edition, OLTP & OLAP environment that includes Production (24x7), Database Mirroring, Migration, Microsoft, Windows 2008 R2 server. University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO January 2015 to December 2015 • Associated with professor for building the course and grading exams for students.    • Helped in setting up labs for students and gave them classes regarding DRM (DATA RESOURCE MANAGEMENT). Worked and helped students with activities of Data Resource Management like data modeling, data integration, backup and recovery, monitoring etc.  • Used SQL Databse with JDBC support, the creation of the Tables is made by using query language SQL.  • The application is implemented in Java. JDBC is used to connect to the database and to obtain the associated information. JDBC is also used to call SQL Queries into the Java code. This makes possible to access the database and create, update or view the data stored.    Attendance System Graduate Project-University of Central Missouri  • For every organization related to students and faculty there has to be an attendance system which can help them to record the progress of students.  • Attendance plays a major role in not only showing student's presence in an organization but also helps the faculty to keep a record of all the personal information.  • The main aim of this project is to set up a system which can help the organization in having a better testimony of all the personal information without any major problems occurring during the process.  • Various organization have problems in maintaining student's records in spreadsheets which requires manual entries and corrections.  • But once this system comes to place they no longer have to go through such an arduous process.    Environment: Java JDK, Apache Tomcat version (open source), SQL DB (open source), JDBC (Java Data Base Connectivity), Java Script, JSTL (JSP Standard Tag Library), Eclipse IDE, Java I/O, iText API (generating PDF reports) SQL Database Administrator Ecentric Solutions - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN December 2012 to July 2014 • Installed SQL server 2008 on windows advanced servers, applied security fixes. Involved in Migrating SQL Server 2005 Servers to SQL server 2008.  • Involved in implementing database recovery models, backup strategies, restore jobs  • Gained knowledge about Database Mirroring, Log Shipping on SQL Server.  • Developing SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.  • Creating jobs/maintenance plans for Database.  • Expertise in Security Issues such as creation and granting permissions on various Objects.  • Ensuring compliance with company security procedures  • Worked on tickets related to Data Change.  • Involved in database design, database standards, and T-SQL code reviews.  • Moved/Copied of Databases from one server to another server using Backup-restore, Attach and detach methods and refreshing databases in development, QA and stage environments using production backup.  • Experience In creating Databases and objects.  • Experience in creating changes to Database Objects such as stored Procedures, views, triggers, function, table, indexes.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008r2 Enterprise Edition, OLTP & OLAP environment that includes Production (24x7), Database Mirroring, Migration, Microsoft, Windows 2008 R2 server. JNTU-Hyderabad July 2012 to May 2013 Enterprise Information System Migratory or Data Transformation Services (DTS) Undergraduate Project-JNTU- Final year  Enterprise Information System Migratory or Data Transformation Services (DTS) is a very powerful yet easy to use data movement facility that can transfer data. It enables data movement between data sources, (Access, Oracle, SQL server, MySQL)  Environment: JSP, SERVLETS, Oracle 9i, SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL    • Catching Packet Droppers and Modifiers In Wireless Sensor Networks (Undergraduate Project-JNTU- Final year)  Packet dropping and modification are common attacks that can be launched by an adversary to disrupt communication in wireless multi hop sensor networks. Many schemes have been proposed to mitigate or tolerate such attacks, but very few can effectively and efficiently identify the intruders. To address this problem, we propose a simple yet effective scheme, which can identify misbehaving forwarders that drop or modify packets.  Environment: Dot net, C# and SQL Education Masters in Computer Information Systems and Information Technology in Computer Information Systems and Information Technology University Of Central Missouri Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills Database (5 years), maintenance (5 years), MS SQL Server (5 years), SQL (5 years), SQL Server (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  RDBMS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008r2/2008/2005/2000  SQL Server Tools  SQL Server Enterprise Manager, T-SQL, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Query Analyzer, Import/Export Tools, SQL Server Agent, SQL Jobs, SQL Server Management Studio, Database Maintenance Plan    ETL Tools Business Intelligence Development Studio (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS), Data Transformation Services (DTS), DBCC.    Operating Systems  Windows NT, Windows 2000 Server, Windows 2000 Advanced Server, Windows 2008 R2 server, Windows 2003 Server, Windows XP Professional/Standard, windows server 2012    Languages C/C++, JAVA, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.NET, UML