Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Howard Systems International Stamford, CT 7 years of working experience in the daily administration of production Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c databases. Duties include installation and configuration of both standalone and Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases, backup and recovery using Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), database migration and refresh using Oracle Data Pump, Oracle database replication using Oracle Data Guard, and Oracle 12c Cloud Control for configuration and monitoring. Also responsible for patching, upgrade and database performance troubleshooting. Support development effort with regard to production deployment releases, database schema, role, user, and objects. Maintain database security.    • Configure Data Guard on both standby and primary for production databases.  • Fail over and switch over between standby and primary databases.  • Refresh schema using export/import, Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Experience in multi-node and RAC environments including configuration of PCP.  • Highly experienced in Cloning of Oracle databases from multi-node to single-node and single node to multimode  • Troubleshoot Database performance issues.  • Import/Export and Expdp/ Impdp utilities. Excellent experience in Installation, configuration, Maintenance of Oracle 12C, 11g, 10g on Operating Systems Solaris, Linux, AIX and Windows platforms.  • Expert in Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  • Upgraded the Databases from Oracle 10g/11g to 11g and 12c and applied patches according to the client requirement in RAC and NON RAC environments with ASM and Non ASM storage  • Experience in Auditing and Capacity Planning, Configuring & Managing Hot Standby Databases (Data Guard)  • Setup and configured Oracle 10g/11g Physical Standby database (Data Guard) to ensure high availability  • Experience with Oracle Streams which enable the propagation and management of data, transactions and events in a data stream either within a database, or from one database to another.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 11g RAC  • Handled RAC Node hangs and node eviction issues.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Data Migrations.  • Monitored databases with OEM 12c Grid control.  • Performed database recovery using User-Managed, RMAN-Managed Recovery and performed FLASHBACK features to handle efficient database recovery.  • Experience in automating backup strategy using the UNIX shell scripts and Cron Utility.  • Experience in schema and table designing, stored procedures, Triggers, Views, and Indexes.  • Experience in Relational and Dimensional Data modeling for creating Logical and Physical Design of Database and ER Diagrams using multiple data modeling tools like ERWIN.  • Hands on experience in performance tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, DBMS_STATS, Automatic workload Repository (AWR), ASH and Automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM)  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Implemented various backup strategies for Large / Medium sized databases using RMAN  • Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Howard Systems International - Stamford, CT August 2015 to Present • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Built single node RAC standby database for RAC primary database and using RMAN active duplication method.  • Node addition and deletion during election to serve business needs. Move pluggable databases between the container databases and created pluggable database from seed database.  • Cloned pluggable database in existing container database. Install apex in oracle 12c pluggable databases. Clone UAT RAC databases using RMAN active duplication method.  • Troubleshoot memory leaks related to Oracle 12c database instance, ASM instance and tuning applications related issues, queries associated with pluggable databases. Troubleshoot complex problems with root cause analysis during product deployment/release.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively us3ed AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used SQL Loader extensively to extract data from flat yrtafiles and loading into the new application.  • Performed database analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation of database structures.  • Maintaining UNIX scripts for monitoring and backup.  • Provided real time, capture, transformation, routing and delivery of database transactions across the systems with the help of Golden Gate 12c  • Monitored Oracle ZFS Cache sizes with the command and readjusted the parameters whenever needed.  • Worked on Golden Gate, leading tool for data replication.  • Installed and Configured GOLDEN GATE Extracts/replicate for multiple databases  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g and to Oracle 12c RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new datacenter and Migrated and upgraded single instance database to multiple instance databases using export/import, data pump.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQLPlus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Dynamics Resources - Chicago, IL July 2015 to July 2015 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Dschang Skills Database (2 years), databases (2 years), Loader (2 years), OEM (2 years), Oracle (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases  Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g    Oracle Database Tools  SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, Toad,  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN,STATSPACK, AWR,  ADDM, ASH, SQL, Developer, Grid Control    Operating Systems  Solaris 10/9/8, Sun Sparc, RHEL 5.X/4.X,  OEL, HP UX 11i, Windows 2000/2003 server