Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Boise, ID I have worked in customer service for over ten years and the non-profit world for over 6. I took a retail store in a science museum from below 6% of admission to 20% in one year. As database administrator at the Girl Scouts as well as at the Discovery Center, I learned how to design programs, run queries, and balance many projects at once. I have had a hand in managing many high-profile accounts and sensitive situations. Throughout my education I put an emphasis on land management practices and policies surrounding environmental regulations. I have a passion for learning and love seeing that passion ignite in people. Over the years, I have been able to provide a constant and unprecedented level of customer service all while bringing veracity for improvement to any team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Girl Scouts of Silver Sage - Boise, ID Present At the Girl Scouts I was hired to move the entire staff from one database to another. To facilitate this I built and implemented training for staff and was on the team to make new operating procedures. In the last two years I have moved into more of a data quality position, making sure our data is all correct and employees are not confused on how our system works. I manage background checks and registration assistance as well.   Building/Analyzing Salesforce Reports  Develop and provide training for staff  Updating SOPM  Providing Support to Membership Team  Background Check review  Fixing Broken Records/registrations  Executive Admin Duties as assigned  Internship Bogus Basin Mountain Discovery Camp - Boise, ID June 2017 to August 2017 Bogus Basin Discovery school is a Summer Camp for children from age 9 to 16. I worked with the team facilitating hikes and outdoor curriculum. Identifying native plants and making use of the land was a main focus.   Land management education  Hiking native lands   Plant identification  Connecting people to nature  Encouraging an active lifestyle  Maintain Hiking Trails Registrar/Store Manager/ Database Administrator Discovery Center of Idaho - Boise, ID March 2012 to April 2016 I started work at the Discovery Center as a work study student then continued to move my way up to lobby/floor manager and then the registrar and database administrator. I spoke with schools setting up field trips, managed the education lead's calendar for educational outreach opportunities and registered all children for camps. I also managed all the volunteers and staff that worked in the science store and lobby.   Ordering/Receiving   Inventory Control  Customer Service  Master Scheduler  Marketing Events   Budgeting   Pre-School/School age Program Educator  Floor/Lobby Coordinator  Curriculum Development  Grounds management  Budget Reconciliation Education Bachelor's in Environmental Studies Boise State University - Boise, ID August 2013 to May 2018 Skills Microsoft Office