Consultant Consultant ORACLE DBA Atlanta, GA I have experience in development/management of various Oracle systems such as Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle RAC and Oracle Grid Control. I have been involved in the direction of the US Army and US Marines in Oracle/Application designs and technologies for more than 13 years. In the past I was responsible for the classified database servers at both FORSCOM and MCLB Albany Ga. My clearance was Secret but now is most likely archived. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Crunk Technical Services - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to December 2015 My duties included: developing organization's strategies for effectiveness and efficiency by defining, delivering, and supporting strategic plans for implementing information technologies requirements. Also, the recommending for information technology strategies, policies, and procedures through evaluating organization processes; identifying problems; anticipating future requirements. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Organizational Strategies Inc - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to August 2014 Hired to provide corporate documentation for database department database design, implementation, security and migration standards and practises. Provided Oracle database administration, implementation, data migration and database architecture. Interaction between developers and management for all exisitng and future database design for application development and research. All within a LINUX environment. All implementation and documentation provided to meet or exceed Oracle standards (for private sector) and DoD requirements. Provided guidance and direction for other department members for Database Management, Grid Control and Oracle Applications Administration while providing reports and daily status's for our group. Selected as laissan for customers on base and IT department. Senior Oracle Database Administrator SMARTRONIX/CTC, Albany Marine Logistics Base November 2007 to December 2010 US MARINES - Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Decatur, GA 2008 Certificate in Business Management UCLA - Los Angeles, CA 1986 Associates in Telecommunication Western Technical College - Van Nuys, CA 1983