Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Technical Consultant/DBA - Academic Technology, Marist College Poughkeepsie, NY I am a person with experience in the latest technologies, coupled with multicultural experience and strong verbal and personal communication skills.  A highly-motivated, productive and customer-focused team player with strong communication,   interpersonal,organizational, time management, analytical and problem solving skills. Reliable and dedicated with the ability to grasp and apply new procedures quickly; organize and prioritize tasks to meet deadlines and adapt readily to new challenges.  Skilled in building excellent rapport with clients and team members. Able to see the big picture, delegate effectively and motivate team members to achieve on-time project completion.  Analytical problem-solver, able to anticipate issues and create new systems that streamline   operations, resolve concerns and improve efficiency.    Areas of Expertise    Database Administration  PostgreSQL  Oracle 9i/10g  Database management  Teamwork/Team Management  Analytical Processing   Computer Networking  Leadership  ETL Process  Java  Operating Systems: Unix/Windows  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL server, MSAccess    Acquired an excellent set of inter-disciplinary skills related to computer applications in business and production environments, including databases, information systems and management. Work Experience Technical Consultant Academic Technology, Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY October 2013 to Present Description: working on OPEN ACADEMIC ANALYTICS INITIATIVE project and administration of database associated with it. An open source tool for colleges, universities to analyse student performance etc. Working on helpdesk ticketing system to support faculty, students and management for online education portal iLearn (SAKAI based tool)    Responsibilities:  • Leading team of 5 people.  • Administrating databases.  • Installed database and migrated database including structure and scripts.  • Cleaned large student datasets and prepared data using Pentaho Kettle ETL tool to feed it to Weka, Data Mining Tool.  • Deployed tool in oracle 11g, PostgreSQL 9.0 or 9.3 later, Sqlserver 2008/2012, MySQL according to the requirement of client.  • Performed testing and auditing activities on the Sakai iLearn application    Environment: Oracle Server 10g/11g, SQL Server 2008/2012, MySQL workbench, PostgreSQL 9.0 or later, Pentaho kettle, Trello board, Prezi. Executive Database Administrator Thomson Digital - Noida, Uttar Pradesh September 2011 to August 2013 Description: Maintained and supported live production databases servers.    Responsibilities:  • Installed Oracle, MySQL and Sqlserver 2008/2012 database servers and clients.  • Worked on Oracle 9i/10g/11g and MySQL logical and physical databases design, implementation, and maintenance. Performed Scheduling of backup and recovery of all servers.  • Maintained production database and developed database which includes tablespace space management, user creation, privileges, roles etc.  • Designed, tested and implemented a number of different backup and recovery strategies for all transaction databases on Windows and Redhat Linux platform.  • Handled database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, and capacity planning and database security.  • Coordinating with team members, trained newly recruited.  • On call support 24x7.    Environment: Oracle Server 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, MySQL, DBCA, RMAN, RAC, WINDOW SERVER 2008/2012, REDHAT LINUX AS 4.0/5.0, EXPORT-IMPORT, TOAD, HEIDISQL, SQL*PLUS. Education Masters of Science in Information Systems Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY 2014 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Gautam Buddh Technical University ( Uttar Pradesh Technical University), INDIA 2006 to 2010 Skills Database technologies: Oracle9i/10g/11g, SQL/Pl-SQL, Basic RAC 11g, PostgreSQL 9.0 or later, MySQL, Sqlserver2008/2012. Languages: SQL, PL-SQL, JAVA, J2EE Business Productivity tools: Microsoft Office, Excel, PowerPoint, visual paradigm, Microsoft Visio, Pentaho Business analytics and data integration, Servoy Developer. Operating Systems: Window– 2000/2008/2012 Server, Window XP/Vista/7/8/8.1 and Linux Red Hat 4.0/5.0 Software Tools: Toad, Sql*plus, Oracle EM, DBCA, RMAN, JDK 7/8, Eclipse IDE, VMware Workstation 6.5, SAKAI (iLearn), Jdk 7/8, eclipse, Ticketing tool –HDP, Trello, SQL developer, SQL data modeler. Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional 10g (OCP) Present Oracle Certified Associate 10g (OCA) Additional Information Certifications and Training:    Oracle Certified Professional 10g (OCP)  Oracle Certified Associate 10g (OCA):  Oracle Testing Id: OC0959841 1ZO-007 introduction to Sql with score of 98%.  Oracle Testing Id: OC0959841 1ZO-042 oracle 10g: Workshop-I with score of 94%.  Oracle Testing Id: OC0959841 1ZO-043 oracle 10g: Workshop-II with score of 83%  Trained in Oracle database 10g: PL/SQL Fundamentals under Oracle's work force development program from Oracle University.  Trained in Oracle database 10g: Administration Workshop - I under Oracle's work force development program from Oracle University.  Trained in Oracle database 10g: Administration Workshop - II under Oracle's work force development program from Oracle University.    P R O J E C T W O R K S  Academic Project Works, Marist College – Poughkeepsie, NY    Designed and developed back end “Marist football club”, a relational database that maintains   the users and books rented by the users.  Technology and tools included: MySQL, pgAdminIII, Servoy Developer, Visual Paradigm.  Designed system “Online job portal”, a system using which job applicants and recruiters can   communicate with each other.  Technology and tools included: Visual Paradigm, pgAdminIII, Prezi, structural and behavioral   modelling  Undertaking system design, Information system policy, Information analysis, and Systems &   Information Concepts in Organizations courses.