SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SR. <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Milton, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Vertex Aerospace, US Marine/Navy - Pensacola, FL July 2017 to January 2019 Strategizing technological methods to increase operational efficiency and improve customer relations.  Devised an auditing method comprising elements from multiple databases pinpointing erroneous input.  Performed dual roles to satisfy the vacant Logs and Records Supervisor position developing and implementing a data archiving process. Contributing to being awarded the 2018 Mission of Excellence  Award for mission readiness and reporting.    • Evaluating asset management constraints, maintenance information data flow, and the database  structure. Participating in meetings determining objectives of assignments, present resolution  recommendations, and proposals.  • Performing audits on automated aviation maintenance and supply records management  database and system to execute safe for flight.  • Collaborating with other database administrators, server teams, staff, fleet customers, and vendors as a technical adviser.  • Preparing briefs and reports from mishaps to prove or disapprove proper operational risk  management.  • Communicating thoroughly with co-workers, client representatives, and customers to expound  upon the database functions and its subsystems relationship entities that enhances customer  relations and data integrity enabling effective information exchange and efficient process  management.  • Coordinating implementations, integrations, and migration projects.  • Creating online training aids interfacing users with database functions, baseline changes, and its  subsystem levels operations to streamline timely maintenance improving data accuracy and reporting.  • Ordering and coordinating maintenance repairs and/or replacement components. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR/ANALYST CACI Inc., US Navy - Pensacola, FL November 2015 to May 2017 Provided technical and system administrator training and support to fleet customers in a VMware  Infrastructure and conjointly managed the LAN and SAN effectively maintaining navy tactical command  support systems, databases, network devices, storage devices, and servers in a Linux and Windows  environment ensuring a positive end-user experience.    • Installed, configured, and maintained HP servers, iSCSI SAN, ESXi vSphere Clients, VMware  vCenter Server, VLAN, and VMs (deployed).  • Acquired, uploaded, and maintained licensing keys and SSL Certificates.  • Responded to helpdesk tickets (i.e. gathering data, troubleshooting, diagnose) and managed  escalated tickets for customers.  • Repaired, installed, adjusted, modified, and tested all network printers, software and hardware  systems and other devices throughout the company area.  • Performed security validations, hardening protocols, vulnerability scans, and other technical  tasks. (i.e., ACAS, STIGs, IAVA, InfoSec, McAfee, and HBSS)  • Completed server system checks, reviewed system logs, monitored system performance and allocated storage space.  • Administered backups, performed disaster recoveries, and system restore. Education BA in Research and Technology Troy University Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-willis-veteran Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-6