Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Looking For Employment Fair Oaks, CA Seeking to work in fields related to computer design and computer support.   Also willing to work in other fields.  Can potentially relocate as long as staying within Sacramento area.   Can work remote with stable internet connection. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Verizon Wireless - Folsom, CA April 2008 to February 2010 I worked with a team of five members to maintain a call center's database, maintain statistics, transfer large data files and generate reports for upper management. This involved accessing database numbers using SQL queries and then transferring them into office documents, reports and statistical findings. These tools allowed the supervisors to find sales trends, track productivity and make critical decisions. Customer Sales Representative Verizon Wireless - Cellular & More - Folsom, CA December 2006 to April 2008 Received high volume sales calls to sell cell phones at large call center. Received on average thirty calls a day and needed to maintain high close ratio, good accessory sales and good volume. Required professional attitude and the ability to maintain good customer relationships. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Sacramento State - Sacramento, CA August 2015 to December 2018 Associate in General Studies American River College - Sacramento, CA January 2011 to December 2014 Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server (1 year), MYSQL, Javascript (Less than 1 year), Visual Basic (1 year), Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, Excel, Word (7 years), DBA, C++ (1 year), Microsoft Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), Sql Database Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Cpl October 2002 to October 2006 Military Occupational Specialty - 6046  Aviation Administrator and Database Administrator for HMH-361 Flying Tigers (3 years)  Military Housing Administrator (1 year) Commendations: Good Conduct Ribbon  Overseas Service  Honorable Discharge Additional Information I spent time developing for Alderac Entertainment Group.  I spent some time working with rescue dogs at Bradshaw Animal Shelter.