Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Rockville, MD • 5 years' of experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing and implementing Databases.  • Experienced in Oracle installations, upgrades, migration, configuring logical/physical architecture, SQL, Tuning, database access and Security and auditing  • Oracle Database Administration experience in variety of different environments like HP-UX, SUN SOLARIS, AIX, RedHat Linux and Windows.  • Cloning, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, capacity planning, script development and Documentation.  • Migrating and Upgrading the Databases between different environments and versions.  • Good Experience in Database Backups and Recovery Strategies Using RMAN and Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup of databases.  • Good knowledge in creating RMAN Duplicate Databases and FLASHBACK recovery features.  • BACKUP, configure RMAN centralized backup for all database. Create standby database from Active database using RMAN. Cloning of RAC to Non-RAC database using RMAN. Test & validate restore and recovery for SLA.  • Responsible for all database activities such as User management, space management, database security management.  • Design, document, implement, and maintain all backup, recovery including disaster recovery.  • DBA activities which include Creating Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security of databases, tablespaces, indexing, data maintenance, user management, and maintenance and solving critical errors like ORA-600, ORA 7445.  • Prepared backup strategy and disaster recovery management of the databases by using in-house tools written using UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Setting up Oracle read only replication with materialized views and developed scripts for automating the rebuilt process of replication.  • Regular DBA activities like Undo segments, Rollback segments, database auditing, space management, database issues, locking, creating database links, managing user groups and tuning.  • Applied CPU patches.  • Experience with Oracle Streams which enable the propagation and management of data, transactions and events in a data stream either within a database, or from one database to another.  • Maintained Very Large Multi-Terabyte (VLDB) in Data Warehouse Environment for DSS. Strong Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby), Database Cloning, and Oracle Streams.  • Good experience in applying Critical Patch Update (CPU Patches) on Databases.  • Good experience in Oracle Clustering services (CRS), VERITAS Cluster Services (Quick I/O file systems) and High Availability features. Extensive Knowledge of 10g and 11g ASM.  • Planned and implemented Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c Standby Databases (Data Guard) for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR).  • Patching the databases with CPU/PSU on quarterly cycles or ad-hoc needs.  • Creating database objects like tables, views, indexes, constraints.  • Installed and configured Oracle Cloud Control and deployed agents on managed targets.  • Experience with Oracle Cloud Control, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), ASM, AWR, ADDM, Flashback Technology, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, and SQL server undo advisor.  • Proactive monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, AWR, ADDM, and 10g OEM Grid Monitoring.  • Experienced in setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R1 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including: Backups, exports and imports, archiving old records and verification of such processes.  • Expertise in Oracle Architecture, I/O tuning, Capacity planning, space management, Memory Tuning, Performance tuning, Backups, Recoveries, RMAN backups, Optimization, Networking, Troubleshooting.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA CIGNA -Health Insurance - Wilmington, DE January 2016 to March 2019 Environment: Windows, RHEL, Oracle 11g, Oracle RAC (11g), Data Guard, Oracle Grid Control, RMAN, ASM, STATSPACK, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL*Plus.    Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Worked on proof of concept to switchover to standby database and switchback to production database using DG Broker utility.  • Worked on a project to migrate a 17TB data warehouse to Exadata from 5-Node Oracle RAC Cluster using Golden gate and successfully cutover 11g database to 12c Version in a down time of 30minutes.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and also using silent method.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 11g database.  • Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views & Query Re-Write.  • Supported functional data warehouse projects.  ? Applied January and April 2015 PSU & CPU patches for Oracle database servers in rolling fashion on RAC databases.  • Worked with database export & import scripts to backup database structures and automation procedures.  • Installation, Configuration, Upgrade, patching of Oracle RDBMS and applications Work on different versions of Databases with OEM Grid control to maintain the database effectively.  • SQL tuning and Database Performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database Performance on daily basis.  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performed policies on data confidentiality, integrity, and availability Based on Access Controls for Access to Data at the database level.  • Automated the nightly RMAN backups for the Production, Test, Development Databases in crontab.  • Creating and Scheduling Oracle Backend Process Jobs using UNIX crontab.  • Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Built 4 node RAC 10gr2 Standby database and set up DG BrokePerformed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).  • Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using  • CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Involved in I/O tuning by moving data files and redo log files to faster disks.  • Perform user and Security Administration activities such as enrolling users, Granting Privileges to users and maintaining system security.  • Translating the logical data models to physical design and validate the SQLs (Adding PK's, triggers synonyms.  • Monitoring instance performance, tablespace utilization, database objects, connectivity and database availability, verification / validation of database backups, and server space availability and maintenance. Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints. Oracle Database Administrator Fannie Mae - Mae, WA June 2014 to December 2015 Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQLPlus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0.    Responsibilities:  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year-old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Monitoring of tablespaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using OEM, ASH/AWR/ADDM, EXPLAINPLAN and TKPROF tools.  • Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Secure files, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  • Worked on Standardization of 12c/11g Clusterware build and DB build by preparation response files.  • Implemented Oracle Physical Standby DataGuard on multiple oracle 11g / 12c databases.  • Configured DG Broker for easy Failover/Switchover during outages and Convert to Snapshot standby during DR test every 6 months.  • Troubleshooting and fixing DG Broker configuration.  • Troubleshooting and Fixing out of sync Oracle Physical Standby DataGuard using RMAN incremental backup.  • Upgrading Oracle databases from 11.2.0.x to 11.2.0.4 and from 11.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.4.5 and from 11.2.0.X to 12.1.0.1.  • Quarterly PSU patching on AIX/RHEL for 11g/12C databases on Standalone and RAC DB's using rolling patching.  • Applying/Rolling back one-off patches to/from Standalone or RAC DB's.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  • Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Ux, Rman, Rdbms, Hp-ux, Vpn, Cisco, Loader