IS Director IS Director PeopleSoft Certified Technical Consultant White Hall, MD Mr. Ryan has twenty five years of technical computer experience including: sixteen years of direct PeopleSoft experience, thirty years of customer service experience, fifteen years of training experience, six years of technical managerial experience and five years of commercial budgeting/purchasing experience. Mr. Ryan has worked in the commercial and public sectors as a consultant, engineer, Unix systems and Database administrator, and information technology manager, and is Certified in PeopleSoft Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IS Director U.S. District Court Middle Florida March 1997 to March 1998 Responsible for the automation and telecommunication operations in five locations including Ft Myers, Jacksonville, Ocala, Orlando, and Tampa and directing a departmental staff of eight professionals. Unix - Database Administrator U.S. Bankruptcy Court of Maryland June 1994 to March 1997 Unix: Administrating three System V Unix host computers with over 100 users.  Novell Network: Installing hardware, and software applications on the server, and user workstations    PeopleSoft Training Courses  • eProcurment v8 • PeopleTools v8.12 • Purchasing v7.5  • EPM Overview v8 • Purchasing v8 • Payables v7.5  • General Ledger v8 • PeopleCode 7.5 • Payables v8  • Receivables v7.5 • Internet Workflow v8.4 • Security v8.x  • Object-Based PeopleCode v8.4 • Advanced XML • Indexes-Coding for Performance  • Human Resources v9.2 • Time & Labor v9.2 • Time & Labor v9.2 Technical Rules  • Business Units and Setids • Base Benefits v9.2 • Payroll v9.2  • High Performance SQL Tuning • HCM Row Level Security Admin • Top 10 Performance Tips  • Integration Tools v8.1 & v8.4 • Enterprise Warehouse Overview for EPM v8.3 • The Next Generation of PS Financials v8.4  • Server Installation & Administration v8.4 • Enterprise Portal Administration v8.8 • Enterprise Portal Installation v8.4 Education Bachelors of Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering The Johns Hopkins University 1993 Certifications/Licenses PeopleSoft Technical Certification Additional Information Skills Summary  PeopleSoft  • Billing • Asset Management • Human Resources  • Time And Labor • Product Configurator • E & G Budgets  • Purchasing • E & G General Ledger • E & G Purchasing  • E & G Payables • eProcurement • E & G Receivables  • Expenses • General Ledger • Payables  • Projects • Receivables • Base Benefits  • Benefits Admin. • Treasury • ePay  • Payroll • eBenefits • Payroll Interface    Databases  • Oracle • SQL Server • DB2  • Informix • Sybase    Operating Systems  • Windows NT • Windows 2000 • UNIX    Programming Languages  • SQL • Cobol • SQR  • PeopleCode • UNIX Shell • XML    Additional Skills  • PeopleTools • Crystal • Query  • Interfaces • Application Server • NVision  • Application Engine • Workflow • Process Monitor  • Process Scheduler • Patch/Fix Installation • Integration Tools  • Application Installation • EDI • Import Manager  • PeopleSoft Security • Configuration Management • Change Management  • Documentation • Fit/Gap Analysis • Project Auditing    PeopleSoft Consulting Experience  PeopleSoft HCM v9.0, TAM/CG 9.1, Enterprise Portal 9.1 - Human Resources Line of Business Enterprise Architect    U.S. Department of Agriculture - National Finance Center (NFC)  01/2010 - Present    As the HRLOB Enterprise Architect, Mr. Ryan is serving as the key member of the NFC HRLOB project management office. His duties/responsibilities include:  • Serving as the functional and analytical expert on all matters related to the development, deployment, implementation, integration, and maintenance of the National Finance Center's HRLOB.  • Advising, monitoring, planning, and recommending corrective action on all Office of the Chief Financial Officer, National Finance Center, HRLOB application systems, services, and infrastructure.  • Planning, operating, testing and evaluating, coordinating, and participating as a key team member on all PeopleSoft EmpowHR efforts to ensure technical competency, current fit and function, and concurrent strategic direction with internal NFC Divisions and third parties (Oracle, OPM, etc).  • Preparing EA documentation/blueprint of the organization's strategy, processes, information, and information technology assets specifically focused on HRLOB/HRIS/EmpowHR that link the business mission, strategy, and processes of NFC's HRLOB shared services to its HRIS strategy using standard FEA models that show the current, transitional and future needs of the organization.  • Serving as the Technical & Development Lead supporting the NFC implementation of the PeopleSoft v9.1 Enterprise Portal and its integration with PeopleSoft HR v9.0.  • Serving as the Technical & Development Lead supporting the NFC implementation/upgrade of PeopleSoft v9.1 TAM/CG for the Drug Enforcement Administration and its integration with USAJOBs.  • Serving as the Technical & Development Lead supporting the NFC integration of PeopleSoft HR v9.0 and the OPM USA Staffing, NGA eRecruit, and HRWorX EOD online applications.  • Serving as the Technical & Development Lead supporting the NFC implementation of PeopleSoft Approval WorkFlow Engine (AWE) technology for their HR v9.0 / PeopleTools v8.53 application.  • Supporting and training the NFC staff, current customers and new customers  with PeopleSoft HCM technological capabilities where necessary.    PeopleSoft HCM v8.8/9.0 - Technical Lead for Application Design, Portal, WorkFlow, Security, and Data Integrity Analyst for PeopleSoft and NFC Applications.    U.S. Department of Homeland Security  06/2005 - 01/2010    Mr. Ryan served as the DHS Technical Lead for the NFC PeopleSoft EmpowHR and PPS applications during the v8.8/9.0 conversion/upgrade and implementation of PeopleSoft HCM for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. His duties included:  • Documenting and designing functional and technical requirements for all DHS PeopleSoft application processing after working with agency process leads to determine desired results.  • Documenting, designing and implementing department-wide security access which included custom security and workflow roles, permission lists and migration plans to fulfill the department requirements.  • Documenting, designing, implementing and distributing department-wide custom HCM reports using the PeopleSoft delivered functionality of PS-Query, PS-Jobs, Portal-Pagelets and Recurrences.  • Assisting with system and user acceptance testing, end user training, and production support of PeopleSoft and NFC EPIC/PMSO/Mainframe systems.  • Designing, implementing, and administering PeopleSoft Enterprise Portal and Security for all available environments.  • Lead DHS technical analyst for DHS/NFC data reconciliation projects. Provided recommendations regarding the research, findings, testing and solutions that were developed for the PeopleSoft and NFC PPS applications in order to remedy data synchronization issues.  • Lead DHS technical analyst for the PeopleSoft v9.0 upgrade. Providing recommendations regarding the new Person Model, Approval Workflow Engine, Application Security and PS Query design and functionality.  • Documenting, designing, and periodically conducting formal PeopleSoft Security Training sessions for DHS personnel.    PeopleSoft v8.0 - v8.8 Treasury Management Payment Gateway Lead Developer    Freddie Mac  05/2004 - 06/2005    Mr. Ryan served as the lead developer during the v8.0 design, test, and implementation phase, and the eventual v8.8 migration and update phase for the Treasury Payment Gateway Project. His duties have included:  • Documenting business process requirements after working with business process leaders.  • Documenting and designing custom Payment Gateway Treasury application using Application Designer, PeopleCode, Application Engine, Workflow and Unix shell scripting in order to fulfill the customers business requirements and follow the corporate design and migration standards.  • Migrating PeopleSoft custom objects using Quest STAT v4.1.8 migration toolset.  • Documenting, designing and implementing security roles, permission lists and migration plans to fulfill the customer requirements.  • Assisting with system and user acceptance testing, end user training, and production support.    PeopleSoft Federal Financials Certification v8.8 Project - Technical Lead    PeopleSoft Internal Project  04/2003 - 10/2003    Mr. Ryan served as the technical lead during the Certification of PeopleSoft 8.8 Financials for the Federal Government. This role included:  • Performing DBA duties on nine MS SQL Server databases across three MS server environments that included backups, restores, replacements, patch/fix installations, and performance tuning.  • Implementing change control for tracking customization, and patch implementation.  • Managing, creating, tuning and updating PS DataMover scripts for setup data migration to higher-level application environments.  • Pre-configuring higher-level application environments to Federal Government accounting specifications prior to permitting user access and transaction entry.  • Troubleshooting all aspects of adhoc application, peopletools, portal, application server, process scheduler, and web server issues that occurred during the project.  • Designing, documenting and creating custom reports applicable to the Federal Financials Certification requirements.  • Managing and assisting the project staff with technical support, guidance and establishing priorities throughout the project.    PeopleSoft 8 Human Resources Management - Interface Technical Lead    Westinghouse Savannah River Site  10/2001 - 09/2002    Mr. Ryan served as the Human Resources/Benefit Administration Interface technical lead during an implementation of PeopleSoft 8 for a large Federal Facility. This role included:  • The design and build of multiple inbound and outbound flat file interfaces using Application Engine, and/or SQR.  • The design and build of multiple data conversion scripts for importing legacy data prior to go-live.  • Leading the clients technical team through the patch/fix review and installation process.  • Regularly assisting the technical staff with interface, and other tools technical issues which included Application Messaging, Application Engine, and Peoplecode.  • Customizing the delivered PeopleSoft ePay process for the clients specific functional requirements.  • Supporting the client administrative staff with their design review and approval process.    PeopleSoft 8 Financials Internet Architecture Development    University of California at Northridge, University of California at Long beach  11/2000 - 07/2001    Mr. Ryan created an intranet accessible public sector requisitioning application, for a major western University system, using the PeopleTools 8. Some of the features designed into this application include:  • The ability to export requisitions preformatted for importing into PeopleSoft Financial Management 7.5.  • The capability to flat file import data directly into PeopleSoft Financial Management 7.5 requisition tables.  • Requisition Header and Line comment functionality.  • Department and Requestor row level security.  • Requisition approval security and workflow.  • Chartfield combination editing.  • Default chartfield entry functionality for limiting data entry redundancy.  • Auto calculation of line, schedule, and distribution line entries.    PeopleSoft 8 Technical Lead for Implementation of PeopleSoft Financial Management    PeopleSoft Internal Project (PSynergy)  07/2001 - 10/2001    Mr. Ryan served as the Order Management/Inventory technical lead during an implementation of PeopleSoft Financial Management for a major corporation. His role included:  • Close coordination with functional leads in order to promote the customization design process, and the elimination of unnecessary modifications.  • Providing complete functional, technical, and test specifications for the requested application changes.  • Building and testing Row-Level-Security, Order Entry, and Inventory customizations prior to go-live.    PeopleSoft FSCM & HRMS 6, 7-7.5, 8-8.4 Implementations and Upgrades    Administrative Office of the US Courts  11/2002 - 02/2003,    American Chemical Society  02/2003 - 04/2003, 11/2003 - 02/2004,    City of Corpus Christi  10/2000,    City of Pittsburgh  05/1998 - 06/1998,    City of San Francisco  06/2001,    Church of Jesus Christ - LDS  11/1998 - 10/1999,    HBO International  10/1999,    King County-Seattle  10/2002,    Library of Congress  06/1998,    Omaha Public Schools  10/2002, 03/2003,    Petco Inc.  12/1999,    Princeton University  06/2000 - 07/2000, 11/2000,    Seminole County Public Schools,  07/1998 - 08/1998, 10/1998 -12/1998    University of Northern Illinois,  09/1998 - 09/1998    University of Syracuse  01/2000 - 06/2000,    University of Virginia  07/1998,    US Bureau of Labor and Statistics  06/2001,    U.S. Treasury  11/2003, 03/2004 - 05/2004    Virginia Community College System  11/1999,    Virginia Department of Transportation  12/1998,    Wake Forrest School of Medicine  09/2000 - 11/2000    Mr. Ryan performed this task as technical lead on several new implementation, and upgrade projects. The clients included a world-wide religious organization, several universities, a public school system, and a municipality. The following, is a list of the various tasks completed:    AP/PO Implementation:  • Functional/Technical lead for client's Accounts Payable and Purchasing implementation for U.S. and European business processing.  • Setup and testing of Accounts Payable and Purchasing from Business Unit entry, through pay cycle processing.    Financials Reporting:  • Created SQR's and Queries enabling the customer to investigate and resolve budgetary discrepancy issues.  • Developed significant enhancements to the Journal Drilldown process. These enhancements provided essential information regarding  • Expended/Encumbered/Pre-Encumbered record data. The customization also enabled the customer to drill down into the Accounts Payable and Purchasing detail transactions that had been posted to the General Ledger.  • Created customized Crystal Reports in PeopleSoft v6.0 and v7.5 for AP, and PO.  • Provided the client with detailed documentation, to use as reference material, for all requests.    Data Conversion:  • Created an SQR to interface PeopleSoft Accounts Payable v6.0 and v7.5 to the customer's existing Legacy Purchasing Card system in order to load vouchers without the use of PeopleSoft's EDI manager.  • Created an SQR to convert the customer's European PeopleSoft Accounts Payable data to a flat file for periodic loading into their Legacy General Ledger system.  • Updated the customer's In-bound, and out-bound Accounts Payable voucher EDI process from v6.0 to v7.5.  • Created Import Manager processes to load Accounts Payable Legacy system chartfield data into PeopleSoft control tables.  • Created a customized SQR to implement the clients three-way matching business process.  • Provided clients with documentation detailing all customization requests.    Updates to customer's existing system:  Upgraded PeopleSoft Accounts Payable v6.0 EFT check processing SQR to PeopleSoft v7.5, enabling generation of PeopleSoft Expense checks as a result.  • Reviewed table set sharing support structure due to malfunctions with various Accounts Payable, Purchasing and General Ledger application processes.  • Created new replacement and/or modified existing client developed WorkFlows, SQRs, AE programs, Menus, Tables, Panels, and PeopleCode in PeopleSoft v6.0, v7.0, and v7.5 applications in order to correct malfunctions due to poor designs.    Security Enhancements:  Responsible for creating and documenting a customized Row Level Security process that limited operator access to specific cost centers. The tables, views, panels, menus and PeopleCode created for this customization enhanced the customer's security, and administrative processes by providing an easy method for adding individual cost center security profiles, or copying existing profiles from one operator to another.    PeopleSoft 6, 7, 7.5, 8.0, 8.3, & 8.4 HRMS & Financials Patches/Fixes:  Mr. Ryan provided HRMS & Financials technical patch/fix assistance for several clients. These included a department of the U.S. government, a community college system, several universities, and two municipalities.  • Installed PeopleTools patches and fixes for v6.0, v7.0 and v7.5 applications.  • Provided the customers with detailed documentation to use as reference material for the patch installation process, and for change control methods and administration.    PeopleSoft 7.5 Consultant for a State Government:  A state government customer was experiencing several problems with the ARUPDATE process within Application Engine. The problems were the result of truncated SQL code throughout the Application Engine. After considerable planning and review, Mr. Ryan made the following corrections:  • Modified a faulty SQR that the customer was using to migrate application engine code to multiple environments.  • Developed and implemented a plan to find all of the truncated code.  • Restored correct SQL code to appropriate tables, and verified the code was fully operational.  • Reviewed with the customer, the correct methodology for customizing/creating Application Engine steps.  • Provided the customer with detailed documentation reviewing the issues that were raised, and the resolutions that were implemented.    PeopleSoft 7.5 Technical Consultant for International Corporation  An International customer was experiencing several problems regarding the incomplete installation of an approved APRD fix for PeopleSoft Accounts Payable payment posting, APPSTPAY. After considerable planning and review, Mr. Ryan performed the following:  • Completed the APRD installation.  • Repaired/restored approximately 5k orphan records caused by the errors in APPSTPAY that were the result of the customer's incomplete fix installation.  • Provided the customer with detailed documentation reviewing the issues that were raised, and the resolutions that were implemented.    PeopleSoft Technical 7.5 Consultant for two Universities  Two university clients were experiencing data problems with multiple posting processes (PeopleSoft Purchasing, PeopleSoft Accounts Payable, Payment, PORECON, RECRECON). After considerable planning and review, Mr. Ryan performed the following:  • SQL tested qualifying data against existing and customized Application Engine statements to ensure valid processing, and verified the code was fully operational.  • Provided the customer with detailed documentation reviewing the issues that were raised, and the resolutions that were implemented.    PeopleSoft 7.5 Client-Owned Upgrade Project Audits  Mr. Ryan provided an independent assessment for a major University, and a southern city government concerning issues they were experiencing with their individual PeopleSoft Financials implementations. This was accomplished by:  • Attending meetings, evaluating technical and functional documentation, reviewing status reports, and interviewing staff members regarding progress and performance.  • Providing detailed reports highlighting the issues discovered, and suggested actions to resolve those issues.