SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server Database Administrator Nashua, NH Database industry professional with experience as SQL Server Database and Cloud Administrator. Designed database and implemented multiple systems with SQL Server On Premises and Cloud datacenters. Primary response for SQL Server installation, configuration, upgrade and maintain database instances on all Production, development, QA servers with high availability and disaster recovery environments for enterprise customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA Apps Associates LLC - Boston, MA June 2017 to Present • Led team in data center migration to AWS which consists of 60 DB servers and 150 application servers. Designed, implemented and configured SQL Server in combination of SSIS, SSRS and SSAS with various technologies and monitoring tools.  • Created and implemented database design solutions in Prod and Non-Prod environments in collaboration with development and testing teams, ran requests and worked with Change Management Request department.   • Configured and supported Log Shipping, Replication and Database Mirroring Strategies to support high availability. Designed and implemented Disaster recovery plan like active – active clustering, active – passive clustering and Always On with synchronous and asynchronous modes.  • Designed and Implemented TDE and Always Encrypted models on SQL Server with key rotation policies and restoration documents.  • Provided DBA support in the areas of technical expertise, migration strategies, building and supporting high availability and disaster recovery methods on SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 environments.  • Improved the levels of performance, security, scalability, reliability and documentation by improving the internal process.  • Involved in ensuring maintenance, data recovery, data consistency and space management for production databases. Create and modify Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers etc. as per the requirements of the client on all database environments.  • Performed various troubleshooting methods to solve database issues to free up log space, update statistics, database upgrades using import/ export, schedule SSIS packages as jobs, database creation and match their data, log patterns with contingency.   • Monitoring database health through automated scripts which includes database growth check, probing alert log files, performance of jobs, CPU activity and high availability.  • Created SQL Server audits and policies to monitor activity on Production environments as per the Service Level requirements of our clients  • Worked with Server administration/ developers team to diagnose issues and implement solutions in jobs, configurations and code optimizations.   • Maintain and optimize performance using SQL Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace and SQL Server Agent.  • Performed data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) between systems using SQL tools such as SSIS, BCP and bulk insert.  • Participated and responded as primary DBA for various potential and critical database issues, upgrades and SQL Server alerts.  • Working knowledge on operating, installing and solving issues involving SSIS, SSRS and SSAS technologies relating to SQL Server.  • Automated infrastructure provisioning using AWS cloud formation and boot strapping of instances.  • Designed Disaster recovery and High Availability on AWS across regions and intra region with zero downtime.  • Configurated Web applications using auto scaling and elastic load balancer to support high availability and fault tolerance architecture.  • Migration and Validation of data from SQL Server to other databases in AWS using DMS tool.  • Capture and analyze crucial performance metrics and dataflow weekly and report the analysis to clients to make further improvements in design and implementation. Database Administrator Apps Associates LLC - Acton, MA December 2012 to December 2015 Apps Associates Private Ltd, India    Designed database and implemented MS SQL Server in multiple environments like Medical, Commercial and Insurance environments. Responsible for MS SQL Server configuration, installation, upgrade, maintain and providing 24x7 dedicated support to all Production, development and clustered servers.    Clients: Security Benefits, Nuance Communications, CREE, Integer    • Led team in data center migration to AWS which consists of 60 DB servers and 150 application servers. Designed, implemented and configured SQL Server in combination of SSIS, SSRS and SSAS with various technologies and monitoring tools.  • Created and implemented database design solutions in Prod and Non-Prod environments in collaboration with development and testing teams, ran requests and worked with Change Management Request department.  • Configured and supported Log Shipping, Replication and Database Mirroring Strategies to support high availability. Designed and implemented Disaster recovery plan like active - active clustering, active - passive clustering and Always On with synchronous and asynchronous modes.  • Designed and Implemented TDE and Always Encrypted models on SQL Server with key rotation policies and restoration documents.  • Provided DBA support in the areas of technical expertise, migration strategies, building and supporting high availability and disaster recovery methods on SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 environments.  • Improved the levels of performance, security, scalability, reliability and documentation by improving the internal process.  • Involved in ensuring maintenance, data recovery, data consistency and space management for production databases. Create and modify Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers etc. as per the requirements of the client on all database environments.  • Performed various troubleshooting methods to solve database issues to free up log space, update statistics, database upgrades using import/ export, schedule SSIS packages as jobs, database creation and match their data, log patterns with contingency.  • Monitoring database health through automated scripts which includes database growth check, probing alert log files, performance of jobs, CPU activity and high availability.  • Created SQL Server audits and policies to monitor activity on Production environments as per the Service Level requirements of our clients  • Worked with Server administration/ developers team to diagnose issues and implement solutions in jobs, configurations and code optimizations.  • Maintain and optimize performance using SQL Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace and SQL Server Agent.  • Performed data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) between systems using SQL tools such as SSIS, BCP and bulk insert.  • Participated and responded as primary DBA for various potential and critical database issues, upgrades and SQL Server alerts.  • Working knowledge on operating, installing and solving issues involving SSIS, SSRS and SSAS technologies relating to SQL Server.  • Automated infrastructure provisioning using AWS cloud formation and boot strapping of instances.  • Designed Disaster recovery and High Availability on AWS across regions and intra region with zero downtime.  • Configurated Web applications using auto scaling and elastic load balancer to support high availability and fault tolerance architecture.  • Migration and Validation of data from SQL Server to other databases in AWS using DMS tool.  • Capture and analyze crucial performance metrics and dataflow weekly and report the analysis to clients to make further improvements in design and implementation.    AWARDS/ Apps Associates Private Ltd Hyderabad, India Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of South Florida - Tampa, FL May 2017 Skills MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), AWS (3 years), DATABASES (3 years), Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses AWS Associate Solution Architect September 2017 to September 2019 Additional Information SKILLS Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 08/08R2/12/14/16, MySQL, Red Shift  AWS: IAM, S3, Glacier, Cloud front, EC2, Route53, VPC, Lambda, Cloud  Formation along with CLI & API, Auto scaling, DMS  Operating Systems: Windows, Windows Server, Linux, VMware Player, Ubuntu  Programming: SQL, T-SQL, Working Knowledge of Java, Python  Methodologies: Agile-Scrum, Waterfall, SDLC  Tools: Visual Studio, TFS, Tableau, GIT, Terraform, Symantec, Datadog, Jira,  Service now