Billing Specialist Billing Specialist Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Billing Specialist Viewpoint Construction Software - Portland, OR January 2018 to December 2018 Supported finance through managing the status of accounts. Primary responsibilities included;  • Processing transactions, managing financial data, and providing customer billing support.  • Identifying and resolving financial discrepancies through analyzing account information.  • Auditing billing data and accruing for future revenue at the end of each posting period.  • Developing scripts for automating processes and detecting inconsistencies within database. Barista Starbucks - Portland, OR October 2016 to August 2017 Database Administrator University of Nevada - Department of Music - Reno, NV January 2014 to July 2016 Managed information systems which supported business objectives. Accomplishments include;  • Improved the successful assignment of student awards by 46% through data analytics.  • Scrubbed inventory data and implemented system for tracking department assets.  • Programmed user-friendly interfaces for easily customizing reports and managing data.  • Automated repeated processes and increased efficiency of administrative functions.  • Implemented RFID door lock system and managed access rights for faculty and students.  • Resolved technical problems in Windows and Macintosh operating systems as needed. Education Master's in Information Technology Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT October 2015 to October 2017 Bachelor's in Business Information Systems University of Nevada-Reno - Reno, NV September 2011 to September 2015 Skills Data Entry (3 years), Data Mining (3 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Financial Analysis (3 years), Financial Management (3 years), Reporting (3 years), Database Development (2 years), Database Management (2 years), Database Administration (2 years), Change Management (2 years), Process Improvement (2 years), Administrative Support (2 years), Technical Support (2 years), Programming (2 years), SQL (2 years), Visual Basic (2 years), Customer Support (1 year), Account Management (1 year), Account Reconciliation (1 year), Microsoft Excel (3 years), Microsoft Access (2 years), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), CSS3 (Less than 1 year) Links http://Linkedin.com/in/robertsbrian1993 Additional Information Relevant Skills  • Experience developing and implementing data systems for managing business information.  • Able to accurately analyze large sets of data and identify relevant conclusions.  • Data management experience within SAP, NetSuite, and Salesforce.  • Able to transcribe information to and from individuals with limited technical backgrounds.  • Advanced Microsoft Office skills, including development of Macros and VBA code.  • Capable of modeling complex data structures that adhere to best design practices.  • Able to use SQL syntaxes to develop and manipulate database objects.  • Capable of reviewing data structures and optimizing for efficiency and security.  • Entry-level web development skills (HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript).