Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Agile Scrum Master Associate Manassas, VA Database administrator (DBA) with extensive experience designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle enterprise and Server environments including Windows, Linux and Unix. Proficient in an assortment of technologies, including Oracle 11g, 12c. Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem-solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  • Over 5 1/2 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including Linux, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g, 11g and recently 12C.  Strong working knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project and VISIO  • Experience as an On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  • Oracle Enterprise Manager-Experience with OEM in performing database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • ORACLE GOLDEN GATE and ORACLE DATAGUARD for data replication and protection.  • Monitored physical I/O and properly sizing rollback segments.  • Performance Tuning-Optimized SQL using Explain plan, SQL tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze execution plans and tune statements.  • Performance Tuning-Tuning of database using SQL Developer and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events using AWR reports, ADDM, ASH.  • Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem-solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  • Data Guard-Configuring data guard for maximum availability, performance and protection by configuring a standby database and frequently checking to prevent or fix Gap Errors.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps.  • RMAN-Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup Recovery tasks and maintaining backup information in recovery catalog to enhance recovery of older backups.  Strong understanding of OS, storage and network related to database.  • Data Pump-Data transferring with export/import utilities, Data Pump and SQL* Loader.  • Recovery-Performing complete and incomplete recovery during disasters, failures and user errors.  • Security-Configuring user creation, their roles and privileges profiles to control access over database objects.  • Upgrades and Patches-Excellent skills in applying CPU (Critical Patch) and PSU (Patch Set Updates) patches, using runInstaller, DBUA, DBCA and OPatch utility 10.2.0.1 - 12.1.0.1  • RAC-Installed and maintained Real Application Clusters  • Autosys Batch Job Scheduler  • SLA-Configuring and safely transmitting backup data to Tape  • Extensive experience in database production support.  • Backup & Recovery- Implementing backup and recovery strategies such as user-managed backup, RMAN backups with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backups, incremental and cumulative backups.  • Deployed Standby databases using Data Guard 11G (Maximum Performance).  Strong understanding of full lifecycle software development Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pether Solutions - Haymarket, VA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation and Maintenance of Oracle 11g and 12c, on IBM-AIX, LINUX and Windows platforms.  • Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment. Load balancing of RAC instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export and Data pump utilities).  • Creating &Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Applied Patches on RAC, Standalone, Standby databases based on the requirements.  • Evaluated mix of backup and recovery methods based on organizational needs. Implemented, tested and documented various backup/recovery scenarios for knowledge base.  • SQL tuning using explain plan, tkprof.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of RAC on Linux and Solaris using ASM and RAW devices and Oracle CRS, Stand by database.  • Upgrading development and production databases to Oracle 11g.  • Migrating from Oracle 11.2.0.3 on Solaris databases to Oracle 12.1.0.2 on Linux.  • Installed and applied various patches which include Critical Patch Update (CPU), Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off patches using OPatch and runinstaller, also involved in upgrade of oracle database 11g to 12c.  • Experience with data movement using Oracle utilities like Export/Import, Data pump and SQL *Loader.  • Involved in Monitoring, Optimizing Oracle database for Performance Tuning & system/modules for Application Tuning using tools like AWR, ADDM, ASH, STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, and UTLBSTAT.  • Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  • Experience on working with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Performed Table Partitioning, created Index Organized tables and Locally Managed Tablespaces.  • Monitored and provided weekly reports on the server's memory, disk and CPU I/O using HP tools and UNIX command-line utilities.  • Planned and configured disk layout, mount points and capacity requirements for servers.  • Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11g to 12c, Cross platform migration from different platforms.  • Administered (11g RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  Environment: Windows, Oracle 11g and 12c, RAC, TOAD, OEM, DATAGUARD, RMAN, Data Pump, Diagnostic and Tuning Advisors.  Reference: Ngu Nyindem -Sys Admin 1 (703)-298-3429  Clients: Verizon Wireless, Laurel, MD January 2015-August 2016  Role: Junior Oracle Database administrator  Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured databases, administered policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines necessary to effectively maintain the database environment of SQL Server Instances in PROD/DR/UAT environments.  • Automation of Maintenance - Backup/Restore, Rebuild Index, DBCC Check DB, Updates Stats, Batch jobs.  • Monitored and troubleshooting database issues with OEM grid control.  • Exported on source database and importing the dump to target database.  • Monitored, troubleshooting the health of Data Guard and the log shipping between Primary and DR.  • Worked creating databases using RMAN duplication in lower environments.  • Wrote Shell scripts for task automation.  Environment: Windows, Oracle 11g and 12c, OEM, DATAGUARD, RMAN, Data Pump.  Reference: Ngopang Nkefor-Manager 1 (703)-986-7090 Junior Oracle Database Administrator Ameri Inc - Dallas, TX August 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Estimating table sizes, table spaces.  • Created database objects like tables, tablespaces, buffer pools, indexes and views.  • Analyzing tables and indexes for performance tuning.  • Creation, maintenance, backups and restoration of databases.  • Analysis and Designing Database.  • Create a PL/SQL function, stored procedure, package to support reports.  • Refreshing and manipulating data in tables using PL/ SQL procedures.  • Creation of logins and user ids and setting up privileges and procedures for protection of data  • Monitored and tuned rollback segment, temporary table space, redo log buffer, sort area size.  • User creation with proper roles and privileges.  • Complete responsibility and control for writing DDL, DML and security of databases.  • Decided and Implemented table and Index Partitioning of major Tables for better performance, handling and management of data.  • Tuned the System Global Area (SGA) components dynamically according to the requirement after observing different Hit Ratios, caching of small tables in the Database Buffer Cache, keeping the mostly used and huge packages in the Shared Pool.  • Implemented Partitioning on huge tables to improve the performance and reduce the maintenance to finite window operation.  • Developed PL/SQL scripts for exception handling.  Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 12.1.0.2.  Reference: NANA SAMUEL KENA - Manager 1 (703) 342-7329 Education Brontech Academy Solutions - Greenbelt, MD Bachelor's degree in Management of IT High Institute of Commerce Associate Degree in Macro and Micro economy analyst UNIVERSITY of ABOMEY Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/feed/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle database administrator January 2014 to Present Sql fundamental certify March 2014 to July 2014 Agile Scrum Master Associate January 2019 to June 2019