Database Administrator, Ultimatix Technical Team <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Ultimatix Technical Team Gainesville, FL • Graduate business student with an academic focus in data modeling, advance SQL and Data Reporting using MS Excel  • 3+ years of experience as a Database Administrator for several enterprise modules including Finance and Billing, HR, Payroll, etc.  • Demonstrated skills to communicate and collaborate effectively with technical and non-technical stakeholders  • Goal oriented team player with outstanding problem solving and customer service skills demonstrated within tight deadlines  • Actively involved in several clubs and held leadership roles with the UF chapter of the Association of Information Systems Work Experience Database Administrator, Ultimatix Technical Team TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES (TCS) - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2013 to August 2016 Mumbai, INDIA)  Provided production support to user base of over 300,000 employees by maintaining more than 200 Databases having a combined size of 400TB on a 24-hour basis.  • Led a 15-person cross-functional team in setting up Big Data HADOOP which captured access point data for more than 300,000 company employees. This project was the first attempt by the company to analyze and supervise its internal workforce efficiency.  • Assisted IT Auditors in sharing data pertaining to ITIL framework including Change Management, Identity and Access Management, Problem/Incident Management and Backup related activities.  • Executed in-depth Sarbanes-Oxley compliance testing for 5 modules within a critical Financial application.  • Subject Matter Expert on Oracle and PostgreSQL database upgradation, installation, data migration, mapping, purging and cloning  • Identified performance shortfalls, created documentations for the solutions and remodeled existing enterprise database system resulting in a 20% increase in scalability with one-sixth of the hardware resources.  • Administered Full Informatica suite for processing large data volumes, data migration and data governance leading to an enhanced ecosystem that reduced maintenance steps from 15 steps to 2 steps and made data analyzing quicker.  • Introduced more efficient PostgreSQL database to solve replication problem with traditional database by configuring master-slave replication to increase efficiency by 40% for replication of data.  • Designed 20+ scripts in both HP-Unix and Linux Platform for monitoring and sending alert mails for checking both database and server threshold value. Automated processes by scheduling cron jobs on servers for batch run executables.  • Tuned queries for better performance of the database, assisted business support operations with in-depth UAT testing and provided code review approval to application teams for deployments in Oracle, Informatica and PostgreSQL.  • Facilitated more than 20 code development projects by drafting High-level and Low-level designs for project specifications. Education Master of Science in Information Systems & Operations Management UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA May 2018 Skills ACCESS (3 years), DATABASES (3 years), Hadoop (3 years), HADOOP (3 years), INFORMATICA (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages and Tools: SQL, Java, C#, Python, C++, Pl/SQL Developer, Informatica, MS Office, Tableau, SPSS, STATA  • Databases and Platforms: Oracle10G/11G/12C, PostgreSQL 9.1/9.2/9.3, SAP HANA, MongoDB, Apache Hadoop. MapReduce, Pig, Hive, Microsoft Access  • Operating Systems: Unix, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2008 & 2012.