Database Administrator / Technical Support <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Technical Support Administrator - ReServe, Inc Astoria, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator / Technical Support ReServe, Inc - New York, NY 2015 to Present Administrate ReServe Salesforce database of clients and candidates, including user support and system architecture upgrades.  ? Manage ReServe website including Salesforce-integrated user web portal / job board.  ? Provide customer support via phone and email, assisting with technical use of web portal and answering questions about ReServe  ? Develop plan for renovating ReServe database system, finding and meeting with potential vendors, and assembling  illustrative materials and diagrams of ReServe systems.  ? Run database reports in Salesforce, with heavy use of Excel to prepare data for other team members to use (including  building charts).  ? Support design and delivery of ReServe email communications through Constant Contact, and numerous surveys designed in Survey Monkey, including an annual survey conducted among all new ReServe customers from the past year. Assemble  mailing lists for nearly all ReServe mass communications.  ? Provide basic technical support to the ReServe team, both in and out of Salesforce, including remote support to ReServe  offices in Boston, DC, and Florida.  ? Act as audio-visual tech support for ReServe events, both in-person and through virtual webinar software. Intern Office of Rep. Peter Barca - Madison, WI 2013 to 2014 Constituent Intern  ? Answered constituent phone calls and wrote letters responding to constituent concerns on issues including healthcare,  environmental protection, voter ID, gun control, job growth, and constituent recognition  ? Developed and implemented system to analyze database of purchased homes, so as to welcome new constituents to the district.  ? Compiled and arranged contact information of district local government officials onto a single-page document to provide to constituents.  ? Managed office duties including assembling and mailing large volumes of constituent letters, researching and compiling  district public events for Rep. Barca to visit, and helping new interns to acclimate to internship duties. Education BS in Political Science University of Wisconsin-Madison - Madison, WI September 2010 to June 2014 Skills Excel (4 years), HTML (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Database (3 years), Photoshop (1 year), Customer Support (3 years), Survey Design (3 years), Statistics (2 years), Word (6 years)