SQL DBA SQL DBA SQL DBA Washington, DC A SQL DBA background with experiences in creating, setting and maintain Database Administration scripts.  Build, Deploy and Debug custom objects. Flexible and versatile to adopt any new environment and work on  any project.    • Experience in Data Modeling, Database Design, Development and implementation of Client-Server  applications and Database systems using MSSQL 2014/2012/2008R2/2008  • Extensive experience with recovery models, backup and restore functions for MS SQL Server  databases.  • Excellent Knowledge of creating, setting up and Scheduling jobs and Alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Excellent experience in setting up and configuring Database Mail, notification and alerts.  • Excellent knowledge in writing Scripts, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views, and SQL joins  using T-SQL.  • Expert in DDL and DML, as well as aggregate functions.  • Hands on Experience in Monitoring and troubleshooting database issues like Memory, CPU, I/O, Disk  utilization, Blocking, Deadlock, Fragmentation and Waits.  • Hands on experience in Query Tuning by using SQL Profiler, Trace Statistics, DBCCs, DMV and  utilizing execution plans  • Experience in using native tools such as Database Engine Tuning Advisor, Index Tuning Wizard,  Windows Performance Monitor for Monitoring and Tuning, SQL profiler for MS SQL Server  Performance  • Experience in Configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting HA/DR solutions.  • Experience in deploying and securing reports and administering and troubleshooting report servers.  • Monitored/Secured, automate and change SSIS workflows and configuration.  • fast load options, buffer sizes, and checkpoints.  • Collaborated with team members on project updates by checking-in and checking-out on TFS.  • Self-motivated and possess ability for critical thinking, analysis, good interpersonal and  communication skills. Team-oriented, technically motivated and creative. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL DBA Karisma LLC - Dubai, AE May 2013 to July 2016 KARISMA LLC: KARISMA is one of the leading companies in gulf area with jewelry market with thirty- three branches and more than 250 thousands jewelry's and customers from all over the world. MS SQL Server  is a solution that the company used to support and maintain core functionality in connection to data specially  mission critical and business transactional data. Moreover, integrated data warehouse used to generate custom  report, standard client report. Moreover, the company used    • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008/2008r/2012 on standalone and cluster servers.  • Involved in the installation and configuration of SQL Server Failover Clustering and Always On  Availability Group (HADR)  • Refreshed database in test and development environments from production servers using backup and restore and SSIS Package.  • Identified, tested and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database  optimization  • Performed database backup and restore; and regularly checked database consistency.  • Migrated/upgraded databases/instances from SQL Server 2005/2008R2.  • Installed, configured, designed, created, managed security and maintained customized database driven  reports using SSRS 2008/2008R2/2012.  • Created SSIS package to fulfill the SQL Server maintenance tasks including rebuilding index,  organizing index and update statistics.  • Created documentation for installation, monitoring procedures, security policies, configuration  changes, migration procedures for maintaining the database for future reference and disaster recovery Database Administrator (SQL) Commercial Bank of Ethiopia January 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:    • Optimized SQL queries to improve performance and availability.  • Monitored server activity, error logs and growth of database objects for capacity planning.  • Worked with the development team on design and creation of database instance, tables, user defined  data types, function, stored procedures, triggers, constraints and indexes as well as tuning existing  SQL scripts.  • Set up user accounts for specified users and user access levels for database and managed security tasks  like granting and revoking permission.  • Designed and implemented Database Backup, maintenance plan and Recovery strategy with HA and DR  • Checked the database consistency using DBCC commands and resolved various performance issues  using SQL tools like SQL Tracer using SQL Profiler  • Designed and put in place standard documentation to major changes to the SQL Server. Education BSC in Computer Science in Computer Science Hawassa University Skills Access 2003 (Less than 1 year), database (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCP April 2017 to Present im a certified MS database adminstrator Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Database Management Systems: MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, Access 2003/2007/2010  • Development Environment: SQL/T-SQL  • Operating systems: Window server 2012R2/2008R2/2008/2003, windows XP/Vista/Windows7/8/ 10  • Languages: C++, C#, VB, HTML, XML, PHP