Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - APEX CONSOLIDATED NETWORK INC Windsor Mill, MD • Installation, Upgrading and Managing Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c Databases  • Oracle Performance Tuning using AWR, ADDM, and ASH  • Shell Scripting Experienced in client SQL optimizations and Oracle memory tuning  • Experience performing backup and recovery using the Oracle RMAN, and Datapump Export utilities  • Experience migrating databases from environment to environment as well as within same environment using datapump Export, Import, RMAN and SQL Loader utilities.  • Experience in database user security design and policies enforcement through roles, resource profiles, usage audits, among others  • Knowledge in Oracle data guard technologies  • Experienced in automating database creation through Oracle response files  • Frequently use Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid for database monitoring and some administration work  • Resolves remedy tickets and customer requests  • Patch management - Quarterly PSU patch  • Frequently use performance tuning techniques like partitioning, indexing tablespace compression techniques  • Experience in managing and monitoring databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator APEX CONSOLIDATED NETWORK INC - Randallstown, MD October 2015 to June 2017 • Installs, creates, upgrades, and manages Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c Databases on all Linux environments.  • Maintains high availability and disaster recovery using Oracle Data Guard and Real Application Clusters (2-Node RAC).  • Member of a team that deployed, and implemented Oracle 11g databases that were supported with the use of Real Application Clusters (RAC)  • Applies Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), one-off patches and Bug fixes when applicable to ensure a stable and robust Oracle environment  • Creates Oracle database instances using DBCA to conform to Oracle's OFA standards  • Creates tablespaces, manage storage allocations by adding datafiles, create redo log files to reduce I/O from frequent checkpoints to achieve optimal performance for transactions, etc.  • Creates and modifies shell scripts to perform daily, weekly, and monthly jobs such as RMAN backups.  • Performs database performance tuning activities using tools like Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM), Active Session History (ASH) and SQL tuning advisors  • Uses Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) as an interface to manage the Oracle databases  • Deploys database scripts on both production and non-production environments  • Ensures that daily cold and hot RMAN backups are successfully made and valid for restore and recovery  • Monitors alert log and trace files for errors  • Creates users, roles, and administers passwords, privileges and profiles  • Refreshes development database from production using datapump export and import.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.    Fuchs North America - Owings Mills, MD  Associate Tech    09/2007 to 08/2011  • Compare data with source documents, or re-enter data in verification format to detect errors.  • Store completed documents in appropriate locations.  • Locate and correct data entry errors, or report them to supervisors.  • Maintain logs of activities and completed work.  • Load machines with required input or output media such as paper, cards, disks, tape or Braille media.  • Run reports ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK NIERMANN WEEKS - Millersville, MD August 2005 to July 2007 • Use computers for various applications, such as database management or word processing.  • Perform payroll functions, such as maintaining timekeeping information and processing and submitting payroll.  • Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  • Set up and manage paper or electronic filing systems, recording information, updating paperwork, or maintaining documents, such as attendance records, correspondence, or other material.  • Operate office equipment, such as fax machines, copiers, or phone systems and arrange for repairs when equipment malfunctions.  • Complete forms in accordance with company procedures.    MINISTRY OF ENERGY - Accra, Ghana  ASSOCIATE PROGRAM OFFICER    • Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  • Use computers for various applications, such as database management, word processing, Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access.  • Operate office equipment, such as fax machines, copiers, or phone systems and arrange for repairs when equipment malfunctions.  • Locate and attach appropriate files to incoming correspondence requiring replies. Material and Cost Estimate for projects  • Material reconciliations at the completion of projects using QuickBooks Education Bachelor of Science in ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology Certifications/Licenses OCP January 2018 to Present Oracle certified Professional OCA November 2017 to Present Oracle certified Associate Additional Information Technical Skills    • Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) • AWR, ADDM & ASH for tuning  • GNU/Linux OS - Red Hat / Solaris • SQL Loader  • Datapump Export/Import • Knowledge of 2-Node RAC  • Knowledge of Dataguard • Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  • SQL Developer • Shell Scripting  • Database Upgrade(manual/DBA) • SSH & Putty