Database Administrator I <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Database Administrator I Vermillion, SD Experienced Oracle Database Administrator with 4.2 years of experience in the Magazine and Digital Industry.  Demonstrated history of being an effective team member with full understanding of the underwriting process and team needs. Areas of expertise includes Oracle Databases (10g/11g/12c), SQL Language, intermediate skill level in  Mysql databases and AWS RDS and an intermediate skill level in R programming. Work Experience Database Administrator I Time Analytic and Shared Services Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2017 to August 2018 India    Ä Planned and created databases and coordinated with infrastructure team for DNS setup.  Ä Applied Latest Patches on the PROD, DEV, UAT, and QA databases.  Ä Responded to customer requests via telephone and email.  Ä Worked directly with clients and management to resolve their problems and issues with databases.  Ä Verified data integrity and accuracy before pushing into the database or doing modifications.  Ä Established excellent customer services skills answering calls and emails on a weekly and weekend basis addressing customer inquiries and solving problems.  Ä Scheduled backups strategy for databases.  Ä Resolved TEMP/UNDO tablespaces full issues.  Ä Created, configured, monitored and managed Standby databases.  Ä Worked on various Production and Non-Production Deployment tasks.  Ä Handled long running sessions, generating explain plan and analyze.  Ä Created and managed wallets in databases.  Ä Created tablespaces, added datafile, and re-sized data files on tablespaces according to requirements.  Ä Supported some Mysql and Amazon RDS databases.  Ä Worked with ORACLE Metalink Support for complicated issues and bug fixings.  Ä Provided 24 X 7 Production Databases and on Call Support. Software Engineer Birlasoft (INDIA) Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to November 2017 India    Ä Planned and created databases and coordinating with infrastructure team for DNS setup.  Ä Database cloning/refresh from PROD database to PROD/UAT/QA/DEV environments using hot or cold backups.  Ä Planned and implemented reorgs for databases using full expdp/impdp, table move and schema/table refresh using expdp/impdp or exp/imp.  Ä Worked on Backup and Recovery of prod database using hot backup and Cold backup.  Ä Recovered Prod schemas, tables from latest hot backup of prod using our ORT (Operational Restore  Technology) environment.  Ä Scheduled backup strategies for databases.  Ä Resolved TEMP/UNDO tablespaces full issues.  Ä Created, configured, monitored and managed Standby databases.  Ä Worked on various Production and Non-Production Deployment tasks.  Ä Handled long running sessions, generating explain plan and analyze.  Ä Created and managed wallets in database.  Ä User maintenance such as creating schema, managing access as per compliance and security.  Ä Raised and worked with change request for major structural changes in the databases.  Ä Created tablespaces, added datafile, and re-sizing data files on tablespaces according to requirements.  Ä Worked with ORACLE Metalink Support for complicated issues and bug fixings.  Ä 24 X 7 Production Database and on Call Support too.  Ä Established excellent interpersonal communications skills assisting customers and working with a wide variety of teams to solve problems. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of South Dakota - Vermillion, SD May 2020 Technology Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2013