Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Bereans Information Technology Ellicott City, MD An accomplished IT professional (DBA) with 5 years of experience in DBMS administration (Oracle) Administered Oracle versions 10g, 11g, 12c. Well versed in development, test and production environments. Exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. Proactive team player who also possesses strong leadership skills. Skilled at picking up new technology and proficiently articulating technical concepts to a variety of technical and non-technical audiences. A solid reputation for development of innovative solutions; results-oriented achiever with excellent track record for identifying opportunities for accelerated growth; skilled professional who listens, thrives on collaborating with diversely talented team members, and integrates their divergent thoughts, opinions, and perspectives into meaningful action; energetic, competitive achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Bereans Information Technology - Washington, DC August 2015 to Present ·     Collaboration with the system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database. Capacity Planning with developers on development and test for production for growth potential  ·     Proactive Monitoring and tuning strategies to satisfy clients SLA for databases ranging from 5gb to 5tb.  ·     Applying database patches such as SPU and PSU while incorporating Oracle's best Practices with quarterly patches.  ·     Creating and implementing recovery and hot/cold backup procedures for RDBMS by using RMAN.  ·     Providing support in Massive Data Uploading ETL using the SQL*Loader utility and DataPump.  ·      Database Security - Transparent Data Encryption, Datapump and RMAN Encryption and User Account Management  ·     Performance Tuning of Database and SQL queries. SQL Trace, TKprof, ADRCI and SQL Tuning Advisors.  ·      Database design with developers from scratch. Creating ERD’s, for forward and reverse engineering.  ·     I/O balancing and performance enhancement, utilized table partitioning. Purge for space management.  ·     Monitoring objects and usage in order to determine if objects needed to be cached.  ·     Performed Upgrades of Oracle 11g to 12c including migrations for Databases and Schemas using Datapump.  ·      Database conversion to a pluggable database on 12c.  ·     Configuration and management of ASM - Grid Control instances. Configured Oracle Restart.  ·     Configured, Managed and Monitored Dataguard.  ·      Database cloning using RMAN, or manually using Datapump.  ·     Utilized Dataguard Broker to configure primary and standby databases to perform fail-over and switchover. Education BSc in Banking And Finance in Banking And Finance CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF CAMEROON Skills Oracle (5 years), Linux (5 years), Communications, SQL