Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Hyattsville, MD To have a challenging place in the area of Oracle Database Administrator for taking care of critical databases and achieve organization's requirement. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Top Group Technologies - wadorf, MD December 2012 to Present Technical Achievements:  • Oracle 11g DBA from Top Group Technology MD, USA    • Oracle SQL Expert from Top Group Technology MD, USA.    • Microsoft-Office, Excel. Access, PowerPoint from Osun State Polytechnic Iree, Nigeria.  . Data entry Systems Analyst Neo- Matrix Expert LTD - Lagos November 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities  installation and repair.  solving hardware problem as well as ensuring perfect working of the organization network.  providing client internet network in other for easy communication. Education National Diploma in Computer Science Osun State Polytechnic Iree Nigeria Technology Maryland Prince Georges Community College Largo - Largo, MD Additional Information I am Oracle Certified Professional DBA in Oracle 10G, 11G, with a solid proficient hands-on with Oracle administrator basics.    Highly proficient education on DOS commands, SQL including scripting using vi editor.    I am well sound and proficient in Backup-Recovery, Administration and Performance Tuning of Oracle 11g in large and live production environment.    Knowledgeable skill about general database Administrator of Oracle 11g Server an example:  • Creating and managing databases using SQLPLUS.  • PL/SQL Scripting, oracle DML, DDL and DCL.    • Platforms Microsoft windows XP, windows 7 and windows 8  • PL/SQL Oracle installation and upgrade. OEM Configuration.  • Oracle Backup and Recovery.. Import and export.  • User creation, grant user privileges and roles, user schema and other object creations.  • PL/SQL Scripting, oracle DML, DDL and DCL.  • Data pump export and import and Rman.  • Performance tuning- sub query and joints    I have a good practical hands-on about hot backup and cold backup including logical backup using export/import and Datapump concept.    I have proficient idea about system automation and schedule tasking to improve daily Oracle monitoring tasks.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Hardware Platforms: PCs ranging from Intel based Pentium, dual core, and AMD.    Operating systems: Windows XP, win2k, centOS4.    Software/Tools: Oracle OEM, TOAD, putty, VPN, Xmanager and remote desktop