Database Administrator & System Analyst (contractor) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; System Analyst (contractor) Database Administrator & System Analyst (contractor) - Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Bethesda, MD • An experienced IT professional with database & system administration skills looking for a database administrator/system analyst position in DC area. Having the ability to take the technical lead in projects and supporting technical implementation while working on multiple products. Currently working in a fast-paced hospital environment managing large volumes of health critical data. Team player with strong organizational expertise, attention to detail, and demonstrated ability to succeed in problem solving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator & System Analyst (contractor) Walter Reed National Military Medical Center - Bethesda, MD October 2012 to Present October 2012 to Present  Radiation Oncology Department  Duties: Responsible for the technical and administration aspects of Oracle and Sybase Database infrastructure. System administrator for Radiation Oncology Department medical information systems (ARIA, TOMO, BrainLab, LAP larser, PACS).    Database administration Accomplishments:    • Installing and maintaining databases.  • Administration of the database including performance monitoring and tuning.  • Taking part in the preparation and execution of technical tests.  • Populating a database with new information or transfer existing data into it.  • Creating backup copies of data.  • Daily maintenance of firewall protection and file security.  • Responsible for database security and also preventing data loss.  • Identifying and escalating immediately any risks to the database service.  • Involved in the design of physical database schema, data modeling, and performance.    System Administration Accomplishments:  • Responsible for Radiation Oncology End User Device software, hardware and evaluation, specification and installation, maintenance and servicing End User Device.  • Participating in the planning and delivery of customer support services to the department. Perform file backups and restores, system and peripherals  troubleshooting, component repair, and Microsoft exchange account management.  • Performing system hardening and platform testing by implementing the latest hot fixes, security updates, service packs, and virus protection.  • Performing first-tier tasks related to machine malfunction which might delay patient treatments, thus facilitating the rapid recovery or repair of these systems.  • Facilitating the Radiation Oncology Network connectivity to ensure all devices on the Radiology VLAN network communicate with each other.  • Working closely with customers to identify and analyze new information technology requirements, operational problems, and quantitative and qualitative performance issues.  • Managing operations and maintenance, design, implementation, modification, and upgrade of servers and client systems. Education M.S. in Computer Information System Boston University 2012 B.A. in Microbiology Shandong University Certifications/Licenses OCP, CompTIA network+, A+, Security+ Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • Platform: Windows Operating Environments, Linux, Server  • Network: TCP/IP, LAN, Ethernet, DHCP, DNS, Firewall, Security services, wireless, routes/switches, modems  • Database: Oracle, Oracle Application Express, Microsoft Access 2007  • Applications: Java, SQL, HTML, CSS  • Software: Oracle VM VirtualBox, SQL Server 2008, Adobe Photoshop, SAS