MEMBER BENEFITS COORDINATOR MEMBER BENEFITS COORDINATOR MEMBER BENEFITS COORDINATOR Arizona City, AZ To obtain employment in your Customer Service department utilizing my many years of customer support experience to provide excellence to your customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MEMBER BENEFITS COORDINATOR AGIA, INC April 2009 to May 2012 Fulfilled requests from customers received by mail or by the Customer Service department for name changes, upgrades, downgrades, address changes, cancellation of services, etc. Processed all requests for cash value information on many different types of life insurance, including quotes, surrenders, and loans. Created correspondence templates used by other associates to answer both common and uncommon requests. Trained employees to follow all business and state/federal compliance rules to accomplish necessary tasks. Met or exceeded extremely high standards for both production and quality on a regular basis. Communicated with clients through email and phone to assure all procedures were up to date and compliant with state and federal regulations. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR November 2008 to March 2009 Verified accuracy of information received by customers and made reservations/scheduled meetings for all customers. Entered information received by recruiters into AS400 and accomplished any and all related tasks to assure customers were happy and satisfied with their experience. Assured all proper compensation was distributed to customers upon completion of their required meetings. Education ASSOCIATE'S in Computer Programming UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX 2016 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Java (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Written Communication (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Web Design (5 years), As400 (4 years), Accounting (5 years), Data Entry (10+ years), Supervising (2 years), Training (2 years), Windows (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS  Moderate to advanced computer knowledge; Typing speed of 55 wpm; Well versed with many different computer programs used by industry leaders; Programming Languages: Java & C++ & HTML/CSS; Moderate level experience in web design; Excellent written and spoken communication skills; Ability to learn quickly and put that teaching to use immediately; Excellent problem solving skills; Experience training other associates; Ability to work independently and meet deadlines in a timely manner; Experience working from home; Excellent organizational skills.    DEBBY BYCROFT  CUSTOMER SERVICE | DEBBYBYCROFT@HOTMAIL.COM (520) 280-9896