Test Analyst Test Analyst Test Analyst - Comcast Herndon, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Test Analyst Comcast July 2014 to Present Position: Team Lead    Project Comcast Corporation operates as a media and technology company worldwide. It operates through Cable Communications, Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment, and Theme Parks segments.    Responsibilities:  1. Worked as part of ETL testing (Data warehouse testing).    2. Worked as Teradata Tester for Time Warner Cable (TWC) and Comcast merge.    3. Worked in Migration of DDP biller to CSG biller    4. Performing SOA web services Testing    5. Data grid validation (middleware data) and Analysing Logs    6. Analysis of quality of Data.  7. Used Informatica Powercenter Data Validation Option (DVO) tool to compare data sets together for testing and validation of Source and target data.  8. Understanding the ETL workflows and preparing test cases and test plan accordingly.  9. Creating and executing test cases and verifying test results on application using Informatica ETL tool.  10. Conduct everyday Scrum call.  11. Coordinate with the Customer on Issues / Queries and maintain Issue register up to date.  12. Running through every mapping to check if it meets the business requirement.  13. Tested Source and Target data, Error handling techniques.  14. Developed SQL queries executed and cross verified with the Mapping Queries.  15. Analysis of test results from the entire team on a daily basis.  16. Prepared Metrics based on the test result from the team and shared with the Customer every day.  17. Tested on various environments including QA, INT, SOAK and UAT.  18. Worked on Sprint releases as part of both waterfall and agile environment.  19. Coordinated Onsite, offshore and Nearshore and created good visibility to client.  20. Provided Requirement details, QDB metrix, Capacity planning, Scope commit and sprint/Release documentation and presented the same to the client Managers.    Special Software/Tools:  • Teradata  • Informatica  • Parasoft 9.5  • Putty  • Winscp  • ALM 11.0  • TortoiseSVN  • SQL Developer, JIRA Tester Comcast June 2013 to June 2014 Position: Team Member    Project British Airways is an Airline specific Industry. The Travel Programme (formerly known as 'TPF Futures' / 'DCS Futures') is a major Business and IT transformation programme for British Airways, which will secure the future and safe operation of some of BA's most critical business and operational systems. It will both replace and modernise key infrastructure, and implement new business systems necessary for delivering BA's "Basics" and "Brilliance" business imperatives.    Responsibilities:  1. Creation of stubs.    2. Creation of Automation suite.    3. Understanding functionalities of the various components.    4. Performing SOA Web services Testing, Component level Testing, Functional and Non-functional Testing.    5. Test cases and Test scenarios preparation.    6. Optimizing test cases.    7. Interacting with the developers and troubleshooting the problems and Raising Defects.    8. Monitoring DB.    9. Automation of test cases for future reference and for future executions using SOAP UI.    10. Usage of the below tools at appropriate situation.    • JMS client - a tool for quickly posting test messages onto a JMS queue    • Sonic Systems - used to monitor the runtime state of all components deployed in management containers    • SOAPUI - allows to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance, and load tests.    • Oracle DB - stores and execute stored procedures and functions within itself.    • Jammy - allows to create different typed of bookings.    • Stub - o - Matic - a short article that can be expanded with more information on a subject by any user.    Special Software/Tools: Putty, SOAP UI, JMS Test client, Jammy, Sonic Management Console, Oracle DB, Stub - o - Matic, Quality Centre 11.0, Case Runner tool    Project Location: TCS Chennai Database Administrator General Motors November 2011 to June 2013 Position: Team Member    Project GM Global Service Contract to provide Infrastructure outsourced services for General Motors across the globe and the scope includes data centre management, network, midrange systems, infrastructure application, Middleware Support, Security Services, Virtualized services and Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) product support.    The regions to be supported include USA, Germany in EMEA, LATAM (Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and Mexico) and APAC (Singapore, Australia, Korea, Vietnam, India). The Project also includes transformation initiatives like server consolidation, green data centre, virtualization which General Motors intends to deploy.    Responsibilities:  1. Design, configuration and implementation of Databases both on cluster and non- cluster standalone system.    2. Interacting with the developers and troubleshooting the problems involved with the stored procedures, triggers, data access, table structures, scalable queries, file groups and problems related to the privileges and user access credentials.    3. Performance monitoring and troubleshooting databases using multiple tools including Performance Monitor, OEM etc.    4. Designing, configuring and implementing backups which involve scheduling database backups to disk and recovery of the databases.    5. Evaluates releases of Sql and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate and to ensure that any new product usage or release upgrade takes place with minimal impact.    6. Implements and enforces security for all Sql databases and will check whether desired standards are being maintained.    7. Generating capacity planning and database performance report using various scripts and Disk utilization reports using custom scripts.    8. Performance Tuning and Monitoring on various Database servers.    Special Software/Tools: Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, HP Service Manager, Putty, Winscp  Operating System, Windows server 2003/2008    Project Location: TCS Chennai