Data Integration Specialist Data Integration Specialist Data Integration Specialist - Evergreen Home Loans Puyallup, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Integration Specialist Evergreen Home Loans March 2017 to Present • Took over as administrator for Movation, a Business Intelligence dashboarding and reporting tool specifically designed for the mortgage industry. This included tasks such as adding users, ensuring proper security levels, setting up proper report subscriptions, and responding to general issues.  • Responsible for creating, altering and maintaining monthly reports out of Movation. These reports were crucial for executives, branch managers, and processing managers to assess the productivity of every region and branch in the company.  • Installed and configured SQL Server to replace an unsupported, outdated, and failing reporting server. This included setting up a new data flow from our loan origination system to bring data into our new environment.  • Designed and created 15 plus SSRS reports and deployed them to our reporting environment. Created report design guide documentation to ensure similar look and feel across all reports.  • Used SSIS to automate the process of transferring loans to be serviced from one system to another third party and assigning them new loan numbers along the way. This project included designing SQL tables with specific constraints, stored procedures that created tables and moved data, email notifications on success/failures at specific times, XML creation, reading from an XML file, moving and renaming files, running a python script, as well as multiple SQL jobs to fire off different steps of the SSIS package. Database Administrator Evergreen Home Loans July 2016 to March 2017 • Discovered and documented metadata on all databases throughout the company's domain.  • Removed and archived unused/old databases to clear out unnecessary server and database licenses.  • Created HA/DR plans for critical databases.  • Set up database backups and maintenance plans on all databases using SQL jobs. Education Bachelor's in Data Management and Analytics Western Governors University - Puyallup, WA April 2019 to Present Associate Degree in Database Management and Design Pierce College 2016 Certificate in Application Development Pierce College 2016 Skills SQL, Excel, Business Intelligence, Visio, Powerpoint, MS Office, Microsoft Office, SSIS (3 years), SSRS (3 years), Power BI, TFS, BI, ETL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/derek-eliason Certifications/Licenses Analyzing Data With Python February 2019 to Present Python 101 for Data Science February 2019 to Present Analyzing and Visualizing Data with Power BI March 2018 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  • T-SQL • Microsoft Visual Studio  • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • Excel including Power Pivot, View, and Query  • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) • Python  • Power BI    Functional Skills    • Data warehouse concepts and design    • Database administration    • Business Analysis