Database Administrator/Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Database Administrator/Engineer - Human Capital Management Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Engineer Human Capital Management September 2014 to Present Member of ADP's Enterprise Data Management team responsible for supporting all global applications across the three main lines of business within ADP. Responsible for a global data enterprise comprising of over 55,000 servers hosting 2500 databases which contain a collective of 10 petabytes of data.  • Financial Services: Experience in ingesting financial, sales and payroll data from multiple sources and reporting such data.  • Human Capital Management: Cooperated with business stakeholders and served as the database architect for a W-2, I-9 document cloud service for multiple top 10 client-facing products.  • Retail: Ensured high availability of Point-of-Sales data and security of sensitive PII data. Wore both hats of architect and operator to develop technical solutions to help the business units realize their goals.    My experience in architecting, designing, building and supporting data environments for multiple mission critical products has given me the chance to explore optimized ways to improve performance, security and reliability for products in the sphere of financial services, HCM and other SaaS related industries. I also oversee data analysis and database management for Oracle systems including applications upgrades.  • Develop database structure, implement applications, enhance system and ensure security.  • Design scripts and develop tools to automate periodic task and improve monitoring of system.  • Work on multiple technology enhancement projects, reporting to project Team Lead.  • Coordinated the application teams, including offshore contractors, with their database deployment projects by outlining best practices and strategies on a case by case basis.  • Take on initiatives to enhance information systems and optimize performance tuning in a scalable manner.  (Page Two)    • Performed daily tuning tasks and scheduled jobs for 140 databases of 20 critical internal and client-facing products.  • Interfaced with vendor engineering teams to troubleshoot to resolve product bugs and/or deployment/implementation issues in ADP environment.  • Manage business continuity efforts with oversight for backup and recovery of data.  • Author database documentation and guidelines to help support system operations.  • Provide after hour maintenance, coordinate with consultants and manage vendors for patches and upgrades.  • Research and evaluate innovative technology solutions, collaborating with teams to determine feasibility of deployment.  • Participated in an Oracle training/mentorship program which led to my success in the OCA and OCP certification exams.  • Led design doc creation for product database deployments, migrations and upgrades for reviews to ensure outcomes of high-availability and performance improvements.  • Assisted with building over 500 databases for ADP Enterprise versions 4 and 5 migrations.  • Co-develop a web dashboard to manage project intake and sizing requirements. TechOps Analyst May 2013 to May 2014 Education Bachelor of Science in IT and Informatics Rutgers University 2010 to 2014 Skills Operations. (6 years), Oracle 11g/12c (5 years), Performance Tuning (5 years), Oracle RAC (5 years), HPOO (2 years), Ansible (1 year), Shell (3 years), Backup/Recovery/Migrations/Upgrades (5 years), MySQL (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), MariaDB (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Database Administration Oracle Certified Professional Present Database Administration Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, MySql, Postgres, MariaDB, SQLServer, Oracle RAC, DataGuard, Oracle Grid, ASM, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Commvault, PL/SQL, Bash Shell, Python, Korn Shell, SuSE Linux 12, SuSE Linux 11, Data modeling, RMAN backups, performance tuning, data masking, HP Operations Orchestration (HPOO), Ansible, Agile, Rally, GIT, BitBucket, Delphix, Cyberark, PowerBI, Tableau, Google Motion Charts, VMware, vCenter, Windows, SharePoint, Java, C++, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, MAMP suite-PHP, MySQL & Apache Webserver, Microsoft Office