Program Manager - Honda Program Manager - Honda West Bloomfield Township, MI Program Manager with over two years of experience in Program Management, over 4 years at current employer. Successfully launched, directed and managed several automotive soft trim (leather) programs. Performed functions such as, planning, scheduling, organizing, and tracking processes, ensuring the feasibility of each project as well as interacting with customers throughout the process.    Key Skills and Strengths  • Skilled at leading/managing cross-functional teams that include design, advanced manufacturing, engineering, purchasing, and quoting teams.  • Capable of pushing teams to meet tough deadlines and to meet customer's expectations.  • Strong communication skills (verbal and written) to keep in contact with customers as well as the managing of internal progresses.  • Problem solver who works with teams to help develop solutions.  • Excellent organizational ability and multi-tasking skills to keep up with numerous requests, demands and deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Manager - Honda Lear Corporation - Southfield, MI May 2015 to Present Program Manager with over two years of experience in Program Management, over 4 years at current employer. Successfully launched, directed and managed several automotive soft trim (leather) programs. Performed functions such as, planning, scheduling, organizing, and tracking processes, ensuring the feasibility of each project as well as interacting with customers throughout the process. Database Administrator Lear Corporation 2013 to Present Responsible for maintaining the internal database of item numbers, raw material and chemical information. Process changes to manufacturing processes by working with product development personnel. Create customer quotes by working with both the engineering group and the commercial team. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Baker College - Auburn Hills, MI