Till SQL Database Administrator Till SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Till SQL Database Administrator Schaumburg, IL • SQL Server Database Administrator with 4 and half years of experience using SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016.  • Experience in managing standalone, Replication, clustered and Always-On environments.  • Experienced in upgrading SQL Server Versions.  • Expertise in core DBA tasks like Installation, Maintenance, Configuration Backup & Restore, DR, Database Security and Database designing.  • Extensive experience in managing MS SQL Server on Windows 2008, 2012 and 2016 Servers.  • Implemented Database Mirroring configuration with Witness server to provide automatic failover.  • Experience in set up of SQL Server 2008/2012 Mirroring on production servers.  • Expert in designing and implementing Backup and Recovery Strategies  • Implemented different types of Replication models like Transactional and Snapshot.  • Worked in production support role to provide 24/7 on-call support.  • Hands on Experience in installing and configuring Active/Passive and Active-Active Cluster on SQL 2008/2012.  • Setup weekly and monthly maintenance plan to optimize the database server  • Setup rebuild index and update stats maintenance plans on prod and test dev environments  • Good understanding of change control process.  • Experience with applying service packs and Security patches and troubleshoot patching issues.  • Performed Database Integrity Checks, Database Maintenance plans, updated Database Statistics and performed Re-indexing, Rebuilding the indexes, online indexing at regular intervals for better performance.  • Created and managed schema objects such as tables, views, constraints, indexes, functions, procedures, and triggers and maintained Referential Integrity.  • Experience in installing Service packs, Cumulative Updates Version upgrades.  • Experience in troubleshooting installation issues.  • Experience in migrating on premise databases to Azure.  • Experience in maintaining SQL Servers on Azure.  • Experience in configuring transaction replication from on premise database to Azure.  • Experience in handling Azure Database Permissions.  • Flexible and enthusiastic team player with excellent communication and leadership skills.  • Extensive knowledge in Tuning SQL queries & improving the performance of the Database.  • Knowledge on Always-On.  • Excellent communication/ analytical skills.  • Managed multiple client database environments as a Technical lead.    Microsoft Certification:  MCSA: Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases.  MTA: Microsoft Technology Associate Database Fundamentals. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Till SQL Database Administrator IPSoft Inc - Chicago, IL 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Expertise in Backup and Restoration of Database,  • Experience in resolving all problems with production, test and development SQL Server, Troubleshooting the problem and providing the root cause analysis  • Ensure utmost quality process in both design & development of the entire system & guide the client in achieving their business goals.  • Responsible for creating & maintaining Database files, Transaction log files, Procedures, Daily Maintenance Jobs.  • Troubleshoot database performance issues and tune database objects. Set up traces and profiler to troubleshoot performance issues  • Create and maintain various databases for Production, Development and Testing using SQL Server 2008. Planning the location of data, index, and Transaction log files on the disk.  • Solved issues related to server performance and disk space  • Support Development team in deploying and testing the application.  • Experience in migrating data from Sybase to SQL Server.  • Experience in Deploying SSRS reports from Development to Production.  • Created login accounts and database user accounts and managing database security using groups and roles.  • Experience in working with change request.  • Part for change management group.  • Experience in migrating on premise databases to Azure.  • Experience in maintaining SQL Servers on Azure.  • Experience in configuring transaction replication from on premise database to Azure.  • Experience in handling Azure Database Permissions.  • Experience in installing Service packs, Cumulative Updates Version upgrades.  • Experience in troubleshooting installation issues.  • Experience with third party backup tools (Commvault, Veeam).  • Experience in Installing SQL Server 2016 two node cluster environments. SQL Database Administrator V-Tech Solutions January 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008/2012/2016 in production and development environment.  • Experience in installing and managing multiple 2 node failover cluster set up in active/passive environment as a High Availability mechanism.  • Successfully implemented database mirroring with high availability mode in SQL Server 2008/2012.  • Configured Transactional replication between Primary Server and three Read-Only servers, with separate Distributor server.  • Disaster recovery Management, Maintaining Production Database for client (24*7 support),  • Expertise in Backup and Restoration of Database,  • Assist in resolving all problems with production, test and development SQL Server, Troubleshooting the problem and providing the root cause analysis  • Ensure utmost quality process in both design & development of the entire system & guide the client in achieving their business goals,  • Providing consultation on SQL Server to our development teams, educating development teams to writing optimized queries,  • Responsible for creating & maintaining Database files, Transaction log files, Procedures, Daily Maintenance Jobs.  • Troubleshoot database performance issues and tune database objects. Set up traces and profiler to troubleshoot performance issues.  • Configured transactional Replication from multiple subscribers for reporting purpose.  • Involved in performance tuning, optimization of stored procedures and queries.  • Create and maintain various databases for Production, Development and Testing using SQL Server 2008. Planning the location of data, index, and Transaction log files on the disk.  • Solved issues related to server performance and disk space  • Support Development team in deploying and testing the application. SQL Database Administrator Tech Mahindra - IN March 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed system study and Requirements Analysis, Prepared Data flow diagram, Entity Relationship Diagrams, Data Diagram, Table Structures, with a lot of interaction with the client, Performance tuning on stored procedures.  • Converted various SQL statements into stored procedures there by reducing the number of database accesses.  • Analyzed and developed stored procedures, Complex queries using complex joins, Co-related, sub-queries for the application.  • Linked database tables to get the reports, routinely, in the excel sheets, required by the managers for analysis.  • Have designed, developed and implemented database security in SQL Server 2008 successfully.  • Monitored and scheduled existing/ new jobs on production environment.  • Monitored MSSQL Server performance using performance monitor and profiler.  • Created login accounts and database user accounts and managed database security using groups and roles.  • Created logical and physical data models for SQL Server 2005. Rebuilding Indexes and tables as part of performance tuning exercise.  • Performed successful migration from database SQL Server 2005 to 2008. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA August 2015 to August 2016 information security Management Fanshawe college - London, ON May 2013 to April 2014 Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2008 to February 2012 Skills DATABASE (2 years), MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL (2 years), SSRS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating System Windows server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012.  Database Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 R2,2012, 2016, MS Access  Application Tools  Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Query Analyzer, Export and Import, DTS, Microsoft SQL Server Integration (SSIS), VB Macros, Visual Studio 2008/2010, Team Foundation Server 2008/2010    Languages T-SQL, PL/SQL, .NET, Visual Basic 6.0, HTML, C, C++  Modelling Tools Microsoft Visio 2003/2007/2010, Toad  Reporting Tool Crystal Reports 8/10, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  Development Methodologies Agile Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid  Backup and Monitoring Tools Red Gate, Veeam Avamar  Cloud Technology Azure