Help Desk Analyst Help Desk Analyst West Jefferson, NC To pursue a career in software development with emphasis on optimization in both development time and actual software runtimes while promoting software freedom through open source platforms. Work Experience Help Desk Analyst Appalachian State University August 2017 to December 2018 Troubleshot and organized the Print Zone at Appalachian State's Library, including connecting to the secure internet in order to print documents from a personal computer, repaired printers and student study rooms and instructed other employees through daily tasks through training. Database Administrator Gaming Community - Chicago, IL September 2011 to October 2013 Managed servers for small gaming community. Responsibilities included using SSH/FTP Clients to upload and edit configuration files, using MySQL to store user information about type of player, donations contributed and other users groups, as well as managing a playerbase of nearly 1000 active daily. Education BS of Computer Science in Computer Science Appalachian State University August 2016 to December 2018 AS of Science Central Carolina Community College August 2014 to June 2016 Skills Linux (2 years), Java (2 years), C++ (2 years), Unix Administration (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Golang (1 year), Service Desk, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hryya4eaplrnwjgo Problem Solving — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xp9jt5k3lqcmv0e5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  ? Proficient in C, C++, Java, and Haskell  ? Experience with UNIX / Linux, Bash and Korn Shell  ? Familiar with MySQL, Python, and Golang