Salesforce Database Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce Database Administrator - Stand Together New York, NY Work Experience Salesforce Database Administrator Stand Together - Arlington, VA March 2016 to Present July 2016 - Present  ? Database Administration  ? Enhanced knowledge management between teams by changing reporting structure from 2-3 team based reports to one org-wide report.  ? Primary trainer of Salesforce for all new staff, making them capable of contributing to their team's business processes through the database.  ? Explained Salesforce functions for users with data dictionaries for all custom objects to support data integrity.  ? Decluttered Salesforce database by removing unused automation and related fields.  ? Managed change management process as all users moved to Lightning, providing training and technical documentation to ensure comfortable adoption.  ? Managing Mailchimp Software Integration  ? Managed vendor to reconfigure Mailchimp for Salesforce application, and establish best practices for Mailchimp list management with marketing team.  ? Developed Database to Support Marketing  ? Led working sessions with marketing team to scope requirements.  ? Created several custom objects and fields to track ongoing activities, and source marketing knowledge from colleagues across the organization. Salesforce Consultant Stand Together - Arlington, VA March 2016 to April 2017 Full Database Implementation  ? During implementation, mapped optimized business processes for clients, showing gains in efficiencies by adopting Salesforce for their organization.  ? Built custom objects, fields and page layouts to meet requirements of the project.  ? Participated in data migration with Excel and Data Loader to transfer all relevant records over.  ? Post-Implementation Quality Control and Training  ? Led external working group with client to verify database performance and make changes.  ? Created complex date-based validation rules to ensure data integrity before transfer of information to Netsuite.  ? Served as main POC for new Salesforce administrator, providing training and troubleshooting assistance.  ? Development of Automated Donation Letter Process  ? Created multiple processes on process builder to send emails based on alternate criteria, such as campaigns, field values, etc.  ? Created custom reports, using custom report types and bucket fields, enabling staff to monitor the process.  ? Configured TFA forms for online donations and integrated with Salesforce.  ? Completed both in-person and remote end-user training, so that staff could operate the new process independently.  ? Pipeline for Nonprofit Expansion Process  ? Simplified architecture by consolidating two related objects into one.  ? Created 3 custom objects with workflow rules and process builder automation for management to track expansion activities through pipeline process, and monitor progress on one report.    Platforms: Salesforce Classic and Lightning; FormAssembly; Ninja Forms; Mailchimp; Salesforce for Mailchimp; Data Loader; Visio; Excel