Engineer Engineer Engineer - Ramada Marco polo Beach resort North Miami Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineer Ramada Marco polo Beach resort June 2017 to Present Maintained all facility repairs and work orders and responded to daily service calls  requested from tenants to immediately correct problems or take notice for further  action  ? Conducted all preventive maintenance checks in coordination with chief engineer  ? Monitored fire alarm system operations repairs and upgrading  ? Monitored and replaced electronic locks to utility rooms and hotel rooms  ? Carried out plumbing work orders Replaced toilet bowls, sink faucets, and shower  stems as needed  ? Knowledge of masonry work, commercial and residential carpentry  ? Some knowledge of (HVAC) and plumbing  ? Experience with cutting, painting interior and exterior projects Housemen Margaritaville Hollywood Beach Resort - Hollywood, FL August 2015 to January 2016 Housemen  ? Greeted guest Conducted proper environment in corridors and whole ways for the guest in the resort.  ? Managed inventory on daily basis, worked with shipping and receiving of the supplies and made sure that the supply closet was stocked for daily use.  ? Made sure that all of the linen closets were properly set up, and had all of the of the right necessities for the room attendants to do there job.  ? Responsible for training and pulling in other, and new members of the team so they can  do there job correctly.  ? Worked with various different machines to provide cleanliness of the resort, such as shampooing, waxing, extraction machine.  ? Was responsible for all of the equipment to make sure that they work properly, made  arrangements for repair or replacements of the damage or broken material.  ? Proficient in HOTSOS software. Database Administrator Appraisals Xpress llc - Hollywood, FL January 2015 to August 2015 Reviewed documents to identify incomplete, inconsistent or eligible information.  ? Worked with various spreadsheets and accurately inserted proper information into the database.  ? Operating office equipment such as printers and fax machines, processing billing activity and the. Insuring that prompted billing processing takes place.  ? Handles database server tuning maintaining documentation capacity planning and database security.  ? Looked after the security of company data from external access of threats and monitors  data availability for faster query response by user. Superviser Quality inn & suites - Scranton, PA January 2014 to January 2015 Manage the daily activities of the housekeeping department to include appropriate  cleaning of all offices, concourses, seating areas, washrooms, restaurant concessions  stands, suits and all other places.  ? Recruit, scheduled and train all the new housekeeping staff.  ? Ensure the proper maintenance of all equipment, and make arrangements for repair or replacement of used and damaged equipment.  ? Inventory stock to ensure adequate supplies and advice Manager, desk clerk, or admitting personal of rooms ready for occupancy. Education Kings Borough community college - Brooklyn, NY ABI institute N.Y N.Y - N.Y N.Y, NY, US