Database Marketing Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Marketing <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Marketing Administrator - Penn National Gaming Biloxi, MS Work Experience Database Marketing Administrator Penn National Gaming - Biloxi, MS December 2015 to Present Measures and reports the effectiveness of direct mail and digital mail marketing programs for both Penn  National Gaming, Inc. properties on the Mississippi Gulf Coast.  • Assists with strategic direction by driving segmentation strategy for direct mail and digital mail campaigns that  target ideal reinvestment strategies to maximize profit potential.  • Identifies business trends and assists with developing database marketing programs and promotions based on analysis of player tracking using Aprimo Relationship Manager, Cognos Query and Report Studio, Microsoft  Excel and Microsoft Access.  • Formulates weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual planning documents that influence marketing activities and campaign strategy.  • Recognized for outstanding performance by Boomtown Casino and Hollywood Gulf Coast as December 2016  Employee of the Month, and 2016 Employee of the Quarter for Q4. CRM Analyst MGM Resorts International - Biloxi, MS December 2014 to December 2015 Leveraged the customer relationship management life cycle for an extensive database of over 3 million gaming  patrons in a local, regional, and national market.  • Analyzed revenue data and expenses, distributed recurring casino marketing analysis, and assisted with performance forecasting for gaming promotional events designed to increase customer retention.  • Utilized database management software, including Microsoft SQL Server, Teradata (Aprimo), Microsoft  Access, and Microsoft Excel, to perform data analysis.  • Routinely pulled player data lists, performed data tests, proofed physical mail and email collateral, and managed  communication with property departments and vendors to ensure efficient delivery of marketing materials by direct mail and email. Education M.B.A. in Business Administration University of Southern Mississippi - Long Beach, MS 2012 B.S. in Administration of Justice University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS 2007 Additional Information • Over two years of experience in Database Marketing for multiple properties in the Hospitality and Gaming  industry on the Mississippi Gulf Coast.  • Experienced user of CRM software such as Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Cognos Query and  Report Studio, IBM Showcase, Aprimo Relationship Manager (Teradata), and IGT Player Management.  • Graduated with a Master of Business Administration from the University of Southern Mississippi in May, 2012.  • Graduate of MGM Resorts International's Management Associate Program (MAP) in Las Vegas, NV in June,  2013, focusing on marketing analysis and customer retention.