Sr. PostgreSQL DBA/ Database Administrator Sr. PostgreSQL DBA/<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. PostgreSQL DBA/ Database Administrator - Synchrony Financial ? 6+ years senior DBA having knowledge and ability to perform all of the basic database management skills of data administration, web connectivity, physical structure, SQL and SQL applications, and overall architecture and database analysis.  ? Configuring Postgresql Streaming Replication and Pgpool for load balancing. Managing the monitoring tools for better performance like PgBadger, Kibana, Graphana, and Nagios.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of PostgreSQL database on different platforms.  ? Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading of all of the PostgreSQL databases.  ? Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization.  ? Implement, configure, and troubleshoot database instances, replication, backup, partitions, storage, and access. Set user privileges within and outside the database environment.  ? Managing the servers, Web Servers, Load Balancing, and Keepalived, distcache, Apache Configurations, PHP configurations and deployment of accounts.  ? Extensively worked on Mmapv1&Wiredtiger storage engine. Experience in handling CRUD operations in MONGODB..  ? Extensive experience in developing Map-Reduce programs and aggregation frameworks using JavaScript's.  ? Experience in Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting of Oracle Database on Solaris OS, IBM-AIX, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Windows on highly transactive and Very large databases.  ? Expert level experience in Oracle RAC implementation & administration using Oracle Cluster-ware, Sun Cluster and VERITAS Cluster Server (Oracle Cluster ware setup and configuration, RAC installation, Configuration and Patching, RAC Backup and Recovery) Configured Automatic Storage Management (ASM) to fulfil storage needs. Experience in Implementing, configuring, trouble shooting, switchover, failover of Physical Standby Data Guard on 10g and 11g.  ? Used ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor), AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), and ASH (Active Session History) for analyzing the database performance and tuning.  ? Check the Accuracy of the Data being updated and ensure Perfect Reporting and Verify the Data Accuracy through various SQL Queries.  ? Migration of Data from Reports generated by various vendors into PostgreSQL Databases using PostgreSQL Export/Import Procedures.  ? Manage the Space and Storage of the Databases through various Shell Scripts scheduled in the corncob periodically in regular intervals. Write Complex Shell Scripts that automate the Import of Reports to PostgreSQL and MySQL Databases. Work Experience Sr. PostgreSQL DBA/ Database Administrator Synchrony Financial - Chicago, IL July 2014 to Present Working as Sr. PostgreSQL DBA and handling various duty of postgres DBA part of remote services group providing support to consulting clients for various projects for ongoing issue in Development, Testing and PROD environment including Database upgrade, Application patches and DR activities handling Database size is 30 TB    Responsibilities:  ? Configuring and fixing the Issues with Pgadmin-III client application. Responsible for monitoring environments using monitoring tool viz. Nagios, Check_Postgres.pl, pgOn, custom scripts and other supporting tools like pgBadger and tailnmail.  /Environment: PostgreSQL 10.7/9.6/8.2, Greenplum, SQL, UNIX, PL/SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Nagios, Check_Postgres.pl, pgOnI and Linux. Education Masters of Inforamtion Technology in Inforamtion Technology University of Illinois Skills PostgreSQL 11.x/10.x/9.x/8.x, GreenPlum, MySQL, MongoDB PL/PGSQL, pgfouine, pgbadger, check_postgresql.pl, pgModeler (6 years)