Security Analyst Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst - Mubuxx LLC Lansdowne, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Mubuxx LLC - Severn, MD May 2015 to Present • Put together Authorization Package (SSP, POA&M and SAR) for Information systems for Authorization for the Authorization Officer  • Conduct continuous monitoring after authorization (ATO) to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements.  • Advise Government Service Units and System Owners in the security of their IT infrastructure based on the guideline of the Organization's IT Security Directives and NIST Special Publication 800-53 Revision 4 Standards.  • Conduct Security control assessments for Low, moderate and high system using NIST SP 800-53 rev 4 as a guide and assessment methods like: Interview, Examine and Testing and used ST&E worksheet to input control assessment results on General Support Systems within strong security and posture. MD. Database Administrator Maryland Department of Corrections January 2015 to Present • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 8i, 10g database on Linux and Windows OS  • Update records of Inmates Intakes and Releases in the database  • Installed and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity Education Bs in Cyber security ITT Tech - Hanover, MD January 2012 to January 2014 General Studies Montgomery College 2009 to 2012 BS in computer Science University of Ghana - Accra November 2002 to November 2006 Skills SECURITY (2 years), INFORMATION SECURITY (5 years), SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE (2 years), SECURITY PLAN (2 years), SECURITY POLICIES (2 years) Additional Information An Information Security Analyst with 2 years' experience and in-depth knowledge of Risk Management Framework (RMF) using NIST SP 800 - 18,30, 37, 53, revs 1&4, 53a rev 4, 60 and 137.    Skills  • Analysis and implementation of information security infrastructure framework.  • Develop and update System Security Plan (SSP), Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA), System Security Test Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  • Perform comprehensive assessment and write reviews of management, operational and technical security controls of information systems.  • Maintain effective interpersonal relationships with colleagues to facilitate a productive and friendly team.  • Ability to multi-task, work interpedently and as part of a team.  • Develop and modify Organization's Security Policies, Standards, Processes and Procedures.