Purchasing Manager and Database Administrator Purchasing Manager and <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Purchasing Manager and Database Administrator Baltimore, MD Work Experience Purchasing Manager and Database Administrator Cummins Turbo Technologies August 2007 to September 2010 DEWAS (MP), INDIA  • Purchasing process development, implementation and management for BOF (bought out finish) commodity at Cummins High horse power plant.  • Creation of sample, standard and blanket Purchase Orders for new and regular suppliers in Oracle 11i.  • Successfully administered Insource Database (data of the cost saving projects) for CTT India, CTT US, CTT UK, and CTT China.  • Developed and Implemented Euro3 standards from Euro2.  • Solely managed the project of localizing BOF parts bought from CTT UK and CTT US, to India and China suppliers. This project was intended with a cost saving of 36000 USD.  • Interacting with stakeholders and gathering requirements from various functions in the organization (Suppliers, engineering dept., supply chain management, Quality control).  • Supplier visits, Selection of suppliers, Negotiation and completion of Purchase agreements, non-disclosure agreements and supplier code of conduct.  • Closely monitoring the Supplier delivery performance and closely working with materials and planning team on demand and delivery of parts.  • Thorough experience of working in a process oriented company like Cummins Turbo technologies. Identifying, analyzing and designing processes to improve the overall flow of information within the organization.  • Extensive experience of leading and working with inter functional and global teams intensively.  Projects (academic)  • Detailed knowledge of software development life cycle process (SDLC).  • System analysis and design of the UMBC E-library system for improved system usability.  • Bharti Airtel case study-detailed analysis and presentation on the cause, solution and current position.  • Research paper presentation on Samsung gear S as an emerging technology.  • Completed Research papers on the following topics: 1.Relationship between feasibility analysis and Requirement analysis, 2.User interface should be designed as a part of the system or independent of the system.  • Detailed presentation on Knowledge management methods used in work and personal life.  • Excellent communication and presentation skills.  Academic Coursework  Foundations of Information system, Decision making support systems, Structured system analysis and Design, Systems engineering and project management, Advanced database project, Data mining, Data analytics, Cyber Security, Foundations of Web mining and Web search. Education Master of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD May 2007 Skills Technical Skills:  Operating systems: Windows 2000/2003/XP/Vista/07  MS-Office: MS Word, Excel, Power Point, MS Project.  Languages and Tools: Java, SQL, PL/SQL (Oracle 11g/10g), CAD/CAM Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating systems: Windows 2000/2003/XP/Vista/07  MS-Office: MS Word, Excel, Power Point, MS Project.  Languages and Tools: Java, SQL, PL/SQL (Oracle 11g/10g), CAD/CAM