Jr. Database Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Database Administrator Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator DATANIX TECHNOLOGY 2013 to 2015 • Designed and ensured database met needs of organization.  • Elicited details from departments and identified ways to improve structure base on feedback from staff. Ensured proper implementation of new database system.  • Migrate data using data pump export /import and SQL- loader.  • Restored and secured database.  • Created and amended queries and ran and created reports as needed.  • Reviews and implements security provisions to ensure authorized access and integrity of the RDBMS. Ensures the application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the conduct and oversight of RDBMS, policy, and planning functions.  • Develop and review the administration of file membership roles, file purge roles, file back-up procedures, and audit procedures.  • Provides technical advice and coordinates the monitoring and tuning requirements for RDBMS optimization of performance.  • Analyzes database operations to identify bottlenecks and takes action to resolve problems and ensure consistency.  • Manages the flow of data between the various tiers of the architecture.  • Investigates amount of storage space consumed, access time statistics and frequency of use for a given RDBMS.  • Reviews system documentation, user manuals and training guides.  • Analyzes DBMS inconsistencies with system administrators and devises recovery plans for failure resolution.  • Resolves a wide variety of system problems, which are caused by data errors, operator errors, hardware malfunctions and program errors.  • Traces and isolates causes of problems in hardware and software. Operational Manager MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 2012 to 2015 • In charge of IT operations for experimental approach on MA-MAEC (Metal Assisted- Microwave Accelerated Evaporated Crystallization).  • Provided instruction, training, mentoring and supervision of undergraduate and graduate students, laboratory technicians and trainees.  • Advanced interpersonal skill and proven leadership abilities supported development of hardworking committed lab team.  • Expert project and time management and budget analysis resulted in efficiently run lab and projects.    Key Accomplishments:  • Published and presented paper on MA-MAEC at annual Morgan State University Undergraduate and Graduate symposium. Education BSc. in Information Systems MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY - Baltimore, MD May 2016 Skills Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server (2 years), Enterprise Resource Planning (SAP) (2 years), SDLC (Agile & Waterfall methodology) (2 years), Data Modelling & Analysis (2 years), Database Administration (3 years), Linux/Unix (2 years), Relationship Building, VB.Net, Troubleshooting, Staff Training & Leadership