Procurement & Contracts Specialist Procurement &amp; Contracts Specialist Procurement & Contracts Specialist DPO, Armed Forces Europe, 09213, US Motivated public service professional experienced in administering and supporting contract & grant management for health care programs, within state government, with a stellar reputation of  hard work, dedication, and confidentiality. Work Experience Procurement & Contracts Specialist Georgia Department of Public Health - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to March 2014 Office of Procurement & Contracts Services  • Responsible for the procurement of laboratory, medical, and office supplies, equipment, and services for the Georgia Public Health Laboratory (GPHL), Office of Vital Records, Support  Services-Facilities, Cancer State Aid Program, Cancer Screening & Prevention, Health  Promotion, Immunizations, Tobacco Use Prevention, and Pharmacy programs.  • Works collaboratively with respective program staff to develop clear, non-biased Request for  Quotes (RFQ), Request for Proposals (RFP), and Request for Information (RFI) solicitations.  • Develops technical and financial evaluation documents and facilitates the administrative  review and evaluation processes upon receipt of bidder responses to RFQs and RFPs.  • Works collaboratively with the respective programs to develop contracts to support the assigned programs. Routes contracts for approvals and monitors their progress through the  approval cycle.  • Successfully uses Peoplesoft/Team Georgia Marketplace to support the strategic sourcing and purchasing processes for RFQs and RFPs.  Current Post Assignment | Unit 7900 Box 2933 * DPO, Armed Forces Europe 09213 * US Consulate Frankfurt, Germany  Official Residency | 1440 Helen Lane * Atlanta, GA 30331  +49 1511.427.8230 * +1 678.661.9526 * kandes.tobin@gmail.com Database Administrator Georgia Department of Community Health - Atlanta, GA December 2009 to June 2011 Atlanta, GA  Contracts Compliance Monitor  Division of Public Health  • Performed research, evaluation, and analysis associated with monitoring vendor performance in relation to compliance/non-compliance of vendor contracts and grants.  • Performed on-site performance audits.  • Developed monitoring standards for Public Health contracts by reviewing the contract/grant and establishing what criterion need to be met.  • Developed request for corrective action plan when necessary and submitted to contractor or grantee for response and implementation.  • Provided support to stakeholders (Business Owners, Contracts and Grant Administration,  Vendors, Grantees).  • Represented the Department in meetings with vendors and acted as a liaison between vendors and Department.  • Served as a Database Administrator for the Public Health Vendor Management database that  houses all pertinent contract-related data regarding vendors and their respective  contracts/grants.  • Designed data collection forms for use in analyzing reports.  • Collaborated with Vendor Management staff to assist in developing desk-level and standard  operating procedures for the newly established Vendor Management for the Division of Public  Health. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Sciences & Technology Pennsylvania State University May 2020 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Georgia State University April 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Alabama State University December 2001 Skills PEOPLESOFT (2 years), ACCESS (Less than 1 year), ALGORITHM (Less than 1 year), BASH (Less than 1 year), DETAIL ORIENTED (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skill Set • Strong analytical skills, detail oriented, fast learner, always ready to take on new challenges.  • Extremely proficient in Microsoft Office Suite (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access, MS  PowerPoint, MS FrontPage Editor, MS Outlook), PeopleSoft, Microsoft SQL Server,  Microsoft Visio, Adobe Creative Suite 6: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Dreamweaver.  • Limited proficiency in Java, Python, C, and C+ programming languages.  • Familiar and experienced in navigation of the Unix operating system and its variants,  algorithm development, Bash scripting, and message encryption.  • Able to simultaneously handle large volume of projects.    Work April 2014 - March 2017 Georgia Department of Community Health Atlanta, GA