Oracle/Cassandra Database Administrator Oracle/Cassandra <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle/Cassandra Database Administrator - Kimpton Hotels and Restaurants San Francisco, CA • Over 2 year of experience in IT industry in Designing, Administration, Implementation of Oracle 11g/12c and  Apache Cassandra Database on Unix/Linux/Windows/Ubuntu platform  • Disaster recovery manage using Data Gaurd.  • Created and configured Unidirectional and Bidirectional Golden Gate processes.  • Created and configured Integrated Golden Gate processes.  • Created and configured Golden Gate Hub and oracle client.  • Performed Upgrading of database from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Installed operating system on Oracle VM Server environment.  • Oracle Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, Data Pump tools.  • Data Migration from Red Hat Linux to Oracle Linux 6.7 using Data Pump utility.  • Oracle PSU patch apply.  • Opatch utility for internal oracle errors  • Excellent knowledge of Cassandra Architecture, Cassandra data modeling and Monitoring Cassandra using  Nodetool.  • Installed operating system for Cassandra and created directory structure for Cassandra database.  • Designed Apache Cassandra database deployment, capacity planning, monitoring multi data centers,  performance tuning, and troubleshooting procedure.  • Capable of Bootstrapping, removing, and replicating nodes from Cassandra.  • Experienced in upgrading the existing Cassandra cluster to latest releases.  • Installation, configuration, Upgradation, Migration & Maintenances of the Linux Operating System.  • Administration of Linux/Unix system.  • TCP/IP Ethernet networking configuration and troubleshooting.  • Quick learner with ability to develop proficiency and adapt to new technologies and methods in a short period  of time.  • Authorized to work for any employer in United States Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle/Cassandra Database Administrator Kimpton Hotels and Restaurants - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to Present Database Performance Tuning using dynamic performance views SQL TRACE, ADR, ADRCI and different OEM  utilities.  • Performance tuning of queries consuming Excessive Resources or slow running queries by providing Required  Hints to the Query.  • Migration of databases from 11g to 12c using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed  database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes  • Extensively used Data pump for logical backup (Full backup/ Partial backup) using export and import.  • Backup & Recovery of Database using 12c Recovery Manager (RMAN) on tape and image copies on storage.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Setup and Configured the Data Guard for the standby Database.  • Monitored Data Guard Broker using DGMGRL utility and grid control to identify and fix the issues.  • Installation and configuration Bidirectional of Golden Gate.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Involved and Upgraded Analytical Databases from 11g to 12c.  • Installed, Configured and Tested Datastax Enterprise Cassandra multi-node cluster which has 2 Data centers and  4 nodes each..  • Configured Performance Tuning and Monitoring for Cassandra Read and Write processes for fast I/O operations  and low latency time.  • Designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language (CQL).  • Worked in creating column Family's bootstrapping, decommissioning, removing, replacing, and repairing nodes.  • Provides 24/7 on call support. Oracle/Cassandra Database Administrator Metro Net Limited - Dhaka, BD February 2017 to September 2018 Bangladesh    • Perform daily maintenance tasks on ORACLE databases such as monitoring of Alert log files and resolve issues, daily check on the application of archive logs.  • Worked closely with the developers & Application team for every monthly release structural / DDL changes  activities to the production Databases  • Qualified in working with command-line utilities like Datapump, RMAN in oracle.  • Setup Data Guard standby.  • Monitored Data Guard Broker using dgmgrl utility and grid control to identify and fix the issues.  • Extensively used Data pump for logical backup (Full backup/ Partial backup) using export and import.  • Backup & Recovery of Database using 12c Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Configured Performance Tuning and Monitoring for Cassandra Read and Write processes for fast I/O operations  and low latency time.  • Designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language (CQL).  • Worked in creating column Family's; bootstrapping, decommissioning, removing, replacing, and repairing nodes.  • Installed and configured Cassandra cluster and CQL on the cluster on Ubuntu.  • Developed a disaster recovery and data backup process for Cassandra database system.  • Designed a database deployment, capacity planning, monitoring multi data centers, performance tuning, and troubleshooting procedure.  • Capable of bootstrapping, removing, and replicating nodes from Cassandra.  • Experienced in upgrading the existing Cassandra cluster to latest releases.  • Provided 24/7 on call support. Education Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Pabna University of Science and Technology September 2012 to June 2016 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, SQL, APACHE CASSANDRA, CASSANDRA, APACHE, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, SCRIPTING, OEM, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Dba