Jr. Database Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Database Administrator - Ant Square • Over 3.5 Years of experience in IT industry working extensively on Database Administration.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of MS SQL 2000, 2005, 2008 & 2012.  • Upgradation and Migration of SQL Server 2000 & 2005 to SQL 2008 using any suitable approach.  • Applying latest Service packs on SQL Server based on the client requirements.  • Implementing different backup strategies and experienced in backup and Disaster Recovery and experience in implementing and maintaining SQL Server Failover Clustering.  • Monitoring Servers for Blocking and Deadlock alerts.  • Configuring and maintaining high availability concepts database mirroring, log shipping and replication.  • Improving Query optimization performance using a profiler, execution plan, tuning advisor and DBCC.  • Configuring, scheduling and administering routine jobs, tasks, alerts and maintenance plans for maintaining database consistency and integrity.    Technical Skills    Programming Languages SQL, Linux, Java  Operating System Windows Server 2000, 2005, 2008 & 2012, RHEL 3/4/5/6, Sun Solaris, Fedora  Scripting Languages Shell Scripting and Python  Databases MS SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 & 2012.  SQL Server Tools SSMS, Profiler, DTA, Query Analyzer.  Other Tools Legato backup Tool, SCOM  Application/Web Servers WebSphere3.5/4.0/5.0/6.1, WebLogic5.1/6.x/7.x/8.x/9.1/9.2,  Apache  Networking SNMP, SMTP, TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, BGP, IGRP, EIGRP, PPP, LAN, WAN, ARP/RARP, FTP/TFTP, DHCP  Load Balancers F5 BIG-IP Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator Ant Square - San Jose, CA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • MS SQL Server 2005/2008 Administration: setting up, administering, backing up and restoring SQL server databases, troubleshooting SQL issues, configuring SQL Server for optimal performance.  • Monitoring and Managing day to day operations by providing services in SQL Administration related tasks and ensuring infrastructure are maintained as per the client's requirements by creating customized databases.  • Creating Users and granting appropriate Privileges.  • Creating and Managing of Roles and Privileges.  • Perform day to day Database Maintenance tasks - Database Monitoring, Backups, Space Management, Resource Utilization, responsible for performing object, data migration between all production database Servers.  • Setting up of Disaster Recovery Servers.  • Monitoring and Maintaining SQL jobs running on various servers.  • Configuring Mirroring, replication, clustering setup between database servers/instances.  • Create and Review game plan for all the application and server upgrades.  • Application documentation (updating the Ops guides and creating troubleshooting docs).  • Building new production and pre-production environments as per requirement and onboarding application on it with minimal impact to business and monitoring and maintaining them providing a platform level support.  • Managing High Availability environment.  • Ability to identify the non-standards in the environment and escalate issues to the appropriate team/service owners.  • Preparing deployment plans for builds, Domain Data releases in Preproduction and Production Environments.  • Monitoring SCOM Alerts, troubleshooting issues related to SCOM. Jr. Database Administrator Spark NZ Ltd - Auckland, Auckland April 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Maintaining and managing servers owned by the team. These servers are Windows 2003/2008/2012, SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014.  • Monitoring Clusters and troubleshooting Cluster Issues, Performing Failovers.  • Configuration, Mirroring, Replication, clustering setup between database servers/instances.  • Performance monitoring and Tuning, Server Schedule and Alert Management by using SQL Sentry tool.  • Created jobs to track the CPU Usage, Memory Usage, and Flow of requests between nodes of SQL Server in always on, to keep a track of queries being executed to analyze them to troubleshoot in case of blockings, performance issues etc.  • Running SQL Server profiler to troubleshoot the data issues reported by users.  • Checking the Stored Procedures code, debugging the Stored Procedures to troubleshoot the SQL Server Job issues, application related SQL job issues.  • Identifying issues in the code and reporting to the dev team  • Providing and revoking access to users.  • Scripting, creating and Automating maintenance activities like backup jobs, Monitoring disk spaces etc.  • Troubleshooting Replication, Database Mirroring issues.  • Administer MS SQL server by creating user Logins with appropriate roles, granting and denying login privileges, monitor the user accounts, the creation of groups, granting database and application roles to users and groups.  • Schedule and maintain routine Jobs, Tasks, and Alerts.  • Proficiency and Expertise in SQL Server Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and planning.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Database consistency checks using DBCC Utilities.  • Experience in the automating process by creating jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent.  • Migration of website and server as per requirement.  • Taking Backups using Lite Speed tool.  • Use of SIEBEL's MSE and Microsoft's ITSM ticketing system, process, and procedures Creating and managing the tickets in the ITSM tool. Jr. Database Administrator GreyLogic Technologies - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration, and upgrading of Microsoft SQL Server/MYSQL and related products.  • Evaluate MSSQL/MYSQL features.  • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.  • Take care of the Database design and implementation.  • Implement and maintain database security( create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges).  • Database tuning and performance tuning.  • Application tuning and Performance monitoring.  • Setup and maintain documentation and standards.  • Plan growth and changes (capacity planning).  • Work as part of a team and provide 24/7 supports when required.  • Do general technical trouble shooting and give consultation to development teams.  • Interface with MSSQL/MySQL for Technical support.  • ITIL Skill set requirement( Problem Management/Incident Management/ Chain Management etc.) Education Master's Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA Diploma in Computing New Zealand School of Education - Auckland, Auckland Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh