Sr. Database Administrator/Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer Sr. Database Administrator/Developer - Bank of America Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator with more than 5+ years of invaluable work experience, a thorough understanding of SQL Server. Well experienced in various aspects of Database Administration, Performance Tuning, Security, HA and DR solutions and incident handling. Experienced in SQL Server Configuration, Installation, Management, upgrading system Analysis both in 24 x 7 Production, Development, Test and Cluster environments and provided on call and day- to-day support.    • Experience with design, development, enhancement, automation, tuning, and optimizing databases for high Availability, Disaster Recovery, Performance and Security using SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 systems in OLTP environment.  • Extensive experience with SQL Server and T-SQL in constructing database objects: tables, triggers, user functions, views, indexes, user profiles.  • Extensive knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS).  • Expert in performing and monitoring database growth, health and consistency checks, maintenance plans, planning and scheduling Backup & Recovery.  • Hands on experience in Backups and Restores, Disaster Recovery process.  • Experienced in MS SQL Server installation, configuration, Performance Tuning, client/server connectivity, Query Optimization, Back-Up/Recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC.  • Experience in Administering SQL Server security by Creating Logins and Users with appropriate permissions using server roles, and Database roles.  • Experience with Database Backup Compression, Data Collector, Policy-based Management, Resource Governor and SQL Server Audit.  • Experience in Debugging and Optimizing Triggers, Views, Functions, T- SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Experience in using Dynamic Management Views (DMV) to troubleshoot and improve server performance.  • Proven experience in using SQL Server Agent services to create, automate and schedule jobs.  • Experience in Creating Packages and Sending Alerts using SSIS and SQL Mail/ Database Mail.  • Experience in Data migration between SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2012 from Excel, MS access, Flat file, and other sources to MS SQL Server by using BCP, DTS and SSIS utility.  • Expertise in designing, configuring, monitoring, troubleshooting and quick issue resolutions and solutions to MS-SQL Server High availability /DR methods such as Log shipping, Replication (Snapshot, Transactional, Merge), Mirroring, FOC and Always-on.  • Experience in Providing primary SQL Server support and monitored performance for all databases instances  • Experience in T-SQL Programming in writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Experience in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster recovery procedures  • Experience in Installing service packs and patches on SQL server 2012/20014  • Experience in Data Migration between SQL Server 2012 and 2014 and Experience in migration of Data from Excel, Flat file by using BCP and SSIS.  • Administered SQL Server security by enforcing security policy, creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitoring user accounts, creating groups and granting minimum required privileges to users and roles  • Experience in Performance monitoring using SQL server profiler, performance monitoring, activity monitor, extended events, Database engine tuning advisor (DTA) and Server-side traces  • Experience in Creating Packages, Jobs and Sending Alerts using SQL Mail/ Database Mail.  • Experience in implementing SQL server high availability tools like Log shipping and database mirroring  • Experience working on Data Extraction/Transformation using DTS/SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Experience in configuring SQL server Reporting service (SSRS).  • Familiar with Microsoft Azure and Virtualization  • Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator/Developer Bank of America - Washington, DC May 2018 to Present Responsibility  • Provided 24 X 7 dedicated supports for Development, testing and Production MS SQL Servers.  • Implement Migration and Upgrade from SQL Servers 2008R2 to 2012 and 2016 and applied service packs.  • Design, review, and create primary objects like views, indexes, stored procedures, functions, and triggers based on logical design models, user requirements and physical constraints.  • Regular monitoring of SQL server, analyzing the logs, troubleshooting SQL Server problems such as SQL Server service, Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Agent job execution problems.  • Administer the MS SQL Server security by enforcing security policy, creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Installed SQL Server 2016,2014 and 2012, 64bit enterprise edition instance ( Database engine, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)) on windows server 2012 environment for Development, Testing and Production Environment on both local and virtual machines  • Install service packs and patches on SQL server 2012/2014 boxes  • Designed and normalized relational database models and created different objects like tables, views, triggers, functions and Stored Procedures on MS SQL server  • Applied Transparent data encryption (TDE) to secure databases and backup files  • Worked on Policy based management and SQL server audit  • Performed full, differential and transaction log backups  • Designed, developed and deployed backup and maintenance plan for five (5) databases  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of databases and Rebuild  • Use SQL Agent to setup and automate internal processing tasks and backup tasks as well as setting up alerts to monitor the server and database health  • Provide analysis and recommendations for setting up a comprehensive Backup and Recovery Strategy for SQL Servers  • Recommended performance improvement involving index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases, table partitioning and storage capacity planning  • Created clustered and non-clustered indexes and optimized them using Database engine Tuning Advisor (DTA)  • Worked on configuring and troubleshooting SQL Server with minimum privileged access and Dedicated Administrator Connection (DAC)  • Created and deployed SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for ETL processes  • Developed custom reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Prepared SQL server documentation and data dictionary  • Worked closely with our developers and windows team.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, ReportBuilder, BCP, SQL Profiler, IDERA, Replication, Log shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows 2008/2012 Server. Sr. SQL DBA/Developer NFU Mutual Insurance Company October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibility  Responsibilities:  • Install and configure new SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012 Database Server instances on cloud virtual machines, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for Development, Testing and Production Environment  • Design, review, and create primary objects like views, indexes, stored procedures, functions, and triggers based on logical design models, user requirements and physical constraints  • Use Powershell scripts for backups, getting list of failed jobs, running DBCC CheckDB, and setting default data or log file locations for post installation activities (setting up users and logins, automating jobs)  • Regular monitoring of SQL server, analyzing the logs, troubleshooting SQL Server problems such as SQL Server service, Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Agent job execution problems  • Administer the MS SQL Server security by enforcing security policy, creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups  • Implement a DB maintenance plan for MS SQL Server (DBCC, updating index statistics, monitoring database and disk space) and running, SQL Tracer and SQL Profiler  • Enhance performance by running index tuning wizard for creating, rebuilding and reorganizing indexes on various tables  • Perform replication for updating a critical table to various branches (Subscribers). Used Merge replication to update the publisher from the subscribers in periodically  • Work with the agile team (DBA's, DBD's, SAN Engineers', Infrastructure team members)  • Log shipping database for reporting server within the firms' latency objective  • Mirror one of our critical database with zero latency/synchronized- with witness/for critical Database on SQL 2008  • Part of the team which configured AlwaysOn with availability group for one of our critical servers on SQL 2012 that was installed via nodes on WSFC cluster  • Perform full, differential and transaction log backups  • Create the SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and DTS Packages for executing the required tasks  • Installation of MS SQL enterprise servers on production, test and development boxes.  • Drop and add users, logins, aliases, and groups to the databases and granting/revoking permissions on Database objects.  • Written stored procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions.  • Extensively used SQL Server Management Studio, SQL profiler, SSIS, and SQL mail services.  • Performance tuning by dropping and rebuilding index.  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Data Transfers between various systems using BCP and SSIS.  • Performance tuning on the Production, QA and development Servers.  • Database and log backups and restoration, backup strategies, scheduling backups. Backing up master and system databases and restoring them when necessary  • Regularly maintained database for database consistency check using DBCC  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Create a customized report using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  Environment: MS SQL Server Enterprise 2012, Windows Server 2008, SSRS, SSIS, MS SQL Management Studio, MS Business Intelligence Development. Database Administrator/Developer Ethiopian Airlines - ET September 2014 to August 2016 Responsibility  • Installed new SQL server instances on servers.  • Designed and promoted security "best practices", policies, standards and protocols.  • Applied Principle of Least Privilege (PLP) on each managing access permission.  • Performed database backup and restore as necessary.  • Recovered databases from backup implementing Point-In-Time and Point-in-Failure Recovery solutions  • Worked in Active/Active and Active/Passive Cluster environment as a High availability solution.  • Deployed mirroring and log shipping on various databases based on their RPO and RTO  • Recovered the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  • Used data compression for reporting databases to save storage area  • Involved in development of automated SQL server agent jobs like database backups, integrity checks, indexing Maintenance and update statistics  • Maintained the integrity, availability, and recoverability of all production data systems and Planning for overall data deployment and operational health  • Monitored and troubleshoot server performance and database activities using SQL profiler, Performance Monitor, Activity Monitor, DBCC and DMV  • Monitored SQL server Error logs, Disk Space growth, Clustering Environment  • Planned and applied latest Service Packs to different versions of SQL Server  • Managed Installation, Upgrade, Configuration and Administration of MS SQL Servers  • Performed Backup and Restore operation from Production Server to Testing and Development  • Monitored clients' application and escalating code bugs to development team  Extensive ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) work including SSIS to provide daily data exports  • Created and modified tables, indexes constraints views and maintenance plans for databases    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2012, Windows Server 2008, SSRS, SSIS