ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - WALMART Bowie, MD Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR WALMART - Reston, VA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install client/server Oracle Software  • Created recovery catalog and performed Hot Backups, Cold Backups using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Used Data Pump for export and import and also wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases.  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Use windows task scheduler and Crontab to schedule weekly backup and file clean jobs  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Expdp/Impdp.  • Automated hourly, daily, weekly system health reporting using Crontab, PL/SQL and shell scripts.  • Troubleshooting of windows Oracle database backup related issues  • Worked as team member in installing & configuring, 11gRAC Infrastructure and Data guard components of Oracle.  • Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  • Resolving RAC specific issues such as node evictions  • Performed proactive and reactive tuning/managing database space utilization and growth  • Implementing Oracle ASM and resolving ASM related issues  • Extensive troubleshooting of Databases backup related issues  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  • Managing and creating User accounts, profiles, roles etc  • Perform quarterly home and database PSU patches  • Provided team support and handling of team escalation and E-On-calls  • Performed team mentoring and administrative duties, daily, weekly and monthly reporting  • Managed Oracle Databases on Windows and Linux platforms.  • Performed traditional Cold backup in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as logical exports.  • Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.  • Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage database growth    Environment: RHEL 3.X, 4.X; Oracle 10g/11g, RAC, DATA GUARD, OEM, TOAD, DATA PUMP exp & imp Oracle DBA Xerox Corp - Glen Burnie, MD October 2014 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Wrote scripts to create tables, views, indexes and synonyms required meeting developer needs.  • Resizing and reorganization of database objects: Tables, Indexes, Rollback segments and Redo log files of existing production and development systems. Resizing Tablespaces, Tables, indexes, Rollback segments.  • Backup / Recovery methodology specification for mission critical databases  • Performed hot and cold Backups.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g Enterprise Editions, OEM with Oracle Diagnostic and Tuning packs.  • Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Creating physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback, tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Performed cold and hot backup using Oracle's Data pump.  • Troubleshooting, restructuring and tuning for optimal performance of existing databases.  • Installation, setup and configuration of Data guard  • Cloned databases using scripts as well as RMAN  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Database and Data Migration using Export/Import, Migration Utility.  • Performed bulk data loads using SQL Loader.  • Set up and configured SQL*Net and on servers and client machines.  • Designed, tested and documented Oracle RAC database procedures  • Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  • Detailed analysis of the business and users requirements by doing various information gathering techniques.  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues  • Monitored the alert logs and troubleshot the errors.  • Rebuilt indexes and analyzed tables to ensure good performance of database.  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11g on multiple platforms.  • Performed up-gradation of 10g to 11g.  • Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions, etc.    Environment: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), Oracle OEM, DBMS STATS, DATAPUMP, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor's in Computer Technology and Security Bowie State University - Bowie, MD January 2016 to May 2019 Skills Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Html, Scripting, Xml, Rdbms, Oem, Windows xp Additional Information Oracle Certified Associate and Oracle Certified Professional: Oracle 11g