Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Mrfranklin's Inc January 2018 to Present • Providing 24/7 on call support for all Production and development Databases.  • Administering Oracle 10g/11g/12c test, dev, production environment on UNIX/LINUX.  • Excellent experience in Oracle database installations 9i, 10g and 11g in UNIX/LINUX and  Windows environment with hands-on experience in upgrading the Oracle databases.  • Configured and Upgraded to Oracle 11g from 10g and from 11g to 12c both manually and using DBUA. • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, cloning of databases using  RMAN.  • Experience in code migration, database change management and data management through the various stages of the development life cycle  • Performed production database maintenance and modifications to ensure databases are  operational, as well as diagnosed and corrected any database environment problems;  monitored database usage and reported on database performance and system availability.  • Extensive experience in performance tuning of database, memory & I/O using tools such as  AWR, ADDM and analyzing queries using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE and  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, packages, triggers, forms and report.  • Supported 6 applications at the same time and coordinated with application team for any  changes.  • Maintenance and monitoring of table spaces, data file, control files etc.  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported.  • Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication. Used Oracle  Advanced.  • Replication feature to set up multi-master replication, dealt with conflict resolution and performance issues.  • Monitored lock Escalation, Dead Locks, resources utilization by sessions, capturing long  running SQL queries.  • Performed DBA daily activities including user management (creating users, synonyms,  privileges, roles, quotas, tables, indexes, sequences etc.), space management (tablespace,  rollback segment), and monitoring (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, database network  connectivity). Oracle Database Administrator Mrfranklin's Inc May 2014 to August 2017 • Mainly managing database backup and recovery and Recover databases as needed.  • Manage Oracle 11g to 12c multitenant Container and deleting legacy databases.  • Monitor storage use and work with application team to add more space/datafiles as needed.  • Database monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting and respond to alerts.  • Support Development Teams by implementing database objects in DEV/TEST/PROD and through on call rotation.  • Managing database security and roles. Set up users, roles and assign appropriate privileges to each.  • Manage SCSM Ticket Queue. Manage the queue - Service Requests (SR), Incident Request (IR) and  Change Request (CR).  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and set up  Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification.  • Schedule Physical backups (hot & cold) using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Support Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Profiling Authentication.  • Support & maintain the Production/Development databases on various servers.  • Support, monitor & tune the database instances for Oracle, which includes starting and stopping  instances  • Experience in code migration, database change management and data management through the various stages of the development life cycle  • Provided 24/7 on call support for all Production and development Databases.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Performed DBA daily activities including user management (creating users, synonyms, privileges, roles,  quotas, tables, indexes, sequences etc.), space management (tablespace, rollback segment), and monitoring  (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, database network connectivity).  • Worked on different platforms, load user data to reproduce the problem, apply new Oracle patch,  managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 Oracle Database Administrator UBA BANK June 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in installing the oracle RDBM software, creating and configuring the databases (PROD, DEV, and TEST)  • Worked on all database activities such as User management, space management and database  security management on 10g and 11g databases on SOLARIS, LINUX and WINDOWS servers.  • Worked on administering 10 Production databases and more than 40 non-production databases of size ranging from 100GB to 5 TB on LINUX servers.  • Performed high level Troubleshooting and Tuning, Written Shell Scripts for monitoring  performance and health checks using scripts, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL tuning advisors and OEM.  • Applied Patches including PSU and Bug fixes for database performance issues.  • Involved in writing UNIX shell scripts for backup and recovery, Import and export procedure,  PL/SQL functions, procedures, packages and triggers.  • Hands on experience in creating new redo log groups on ASM and NON-ASM environment to resolve performance issues by extending the existing redo logs.  • Evaluating and performing the Backup and Recovery Procedures periodically using RMAN.  • Restored backups from tapes and disk and validated the backups, performed day to day  administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  • Analyzed the user requirements, designed partitioned tables and created indexes for improving  performance and manageability because many queries can prune partitions.  • Performance tuning and testing stored procedures, indexes and triggers using SQL server profiler,  execution plans and SQL Tuning advisor.  • Hands on experience in enabling auditing and finding the schemas failed login attempts, created and dropped users, granting and revoking rights as and when required. • Assisted IT Analysts on technical database issues and features.  • Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once. Able to thrive in a fast-paced, time  compressed and dynamic environment. Solid skills and discipline for Change Management practices  processes.  • Performed timely database refreshes at schema and table level based on the requirement.  • Supported multiple services and multiple databases of medium complexity with multiple  concurrent users, ensuring control, integrity and accessibility of data.  • Written Stored Procedures and Triggers for database maintenance and management using  PL/SQL.  • Installed Oracle 12c database in the test environment and tested the upgrade from Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Tested database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Proactively managed the databases, set up notifications, alarms using shell scripts for managing  any exceptions in day-to-day management of the databases.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11gR1,11gR2, 12c, RHEL 5/6/7, OEM, RMAN, Grid, RAC, ASM, Data- guard, DATAPUMP, RMAN, TOAD, TDE, Shell Scripting Education Bsc Computer Science University of Benin 2000 Skills ORACLE (4 years), RMAN (4 years), OEM (3 years), LINUX (4 years), SQL (4 years), Oracle Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES  Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x ? Windows XP? Oracle 12c/11g/10g ? SQL? Data Pump? DBCA ? RMAN  ? OEM ? RAC ? TOAD ? MobaXterm ? REMEDY? SCSM Ticketing Tool ? VMware Horizon Client  ? Skype For Business ? Microsoft Outlook ? Notepad ++    SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  • 5 years of experience as an Oracle Certified Database Administrator, providing 24X7 production and  development support 12c/11g databases on different platforms like Windows and RedHat Linux.  • Proficient in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, performance  tuning, backup and recovery, space management and database security.  • Experience with databases running on Windows and Linux (RedHat).  • Performed backups and recoveries using conventional hot & cold backups and RMAN.  • Experience in installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Databases.  • Awareness on Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Meta link.  • Expertise in RDBMS Tools like Toad, Import/Export, Data Pump, RMAN, OEM Grid Control.  • Experience working in a highly available, mission critical 24X7 production database environment.  • Worked on Oracle 12c and 11g versions handling support, installation, backup and recovery,  performance tuning, schema cloning and security.  • Adapt at routine Database Administration tasks including management of tablespaces, grants, roles,  users and security.  • Extensive experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • A Self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of  challenges.  • Excellent interpersonal skills and analytical skills.  • Working Knowledge of High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Physical and Logical  Standby Databases (Data Guard).