Pharmacy Technician Pharmacy Technician material handler- Pfizer Kalamazoo, MI To obtain a career that will enable me to use my strong organizational skills and attention to detail. I possess the positive demeaner and audacity needed to put forth advancement and innovative ideas that will benefit the company, its consumers and its associates. Work Experience Pharmacy Technician Walmart - Plainwell, MI December 2017 to Present • Strong organizational skills and responsiveness, must have the ability to balance job duties efficiently, filling up to 1000's of scripts a week.  • Must have strong communication skills to collaborate with the pharmacists to ensure safety and meet the standards of patients. Course Tech Comprises - Vicksburg, MI September 2016 to June 2018 of precision detail to heighten the quality of the course.  • Requires excellent time management skills to work with limited hours throughout the day. Must maintain consistent results within specific time frames. Database Administrator Comprises - Kalamazoo, MI July 2017 to September 2017 • Gained functional experience with Excel and sustaining websites.  • Prepared strategy sheets for over 100 members to notify them of potential rebates.  • Uploaded weekly content through web portals to advertise price changes and promotions.  • Reconciled inaccurate invoices that had millions of dollars of merchandise to ensure accuracy for potential rebates. Farm Hand M&N Doster Farms - Plainwell, MI December 2014 to August 2016 • Required initiative and a cross-functional work ethic, must have the capability to keep track of multiple responsibilities that ensured the health of livestock.  • Many projects required ingenuity and effective communication skills to maintain a safe environment. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Western Michigan University - Kalamazoo, MI May 2019 Associates Degree in Arts Kalamazoo Valley Community College August 2017 Skills Time Management, Microsoft Office, Pharmacy, inventory, Customer Service, Microsoft Word, Outlook, Typing, Data Entry, Cash Handling, Billing, Word Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-britton Certifications/Licenses National Pharmacy Technician Certification (PTCB)