Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Knowledgeable professional in IT education and results-driven Database Administrator in  Oracle with exceptional communication and problem-solving skills. Dependable and  trustworthy and ready to be challenged.Resourceful team player and fast learner  seeking to be a part of a progressive organization. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions, India ? Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu June 2015 to June 2017 Oracle Data Base Administrator-L1 level Client -The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc June 2015 to June 2017 Technology- Oracle, SQL  Tools- TOAD, Putty, BMC, MyTechExpress.  Team Size- 30  Role- Oracle Data Base Administrator-L1 level  Period- JUNE 2015 -JUNE 2017  Roles and Responsibilities:  Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.  Assessed customer needs and goals through communication and system evaluations to modify existing databases for personalized customization.  Requirement Gathering for the New / Enhancement insurance product.  Configure the Database and deliver the Dev/TEST/Pre-production and production  database.  Ran tests on databases and made modifications to determine and correct issues.  Oracle Database Administration.  • Table space management.  • User Management  • Schema creation, DB link creation, Session monitoring, Gathering Stats.  • Database health check, Server check.  • Server and Database alert monitoring through OEM  . Analyzed and developed technical and functional specifications for databases serving  up to 30 employees. Education MBA in Information Systems and General Administration University of Toledo And P.SG. Institute of Management 2019 B.E in Electronics and Communication Engineering K.C.G College of Technology - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2014 Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, DATA VISUALIZATION Additional Information Skills  Technical Skills: Other Skills:  Programming Languages - C, C++, Python Key Performance Indicator metrics analysis  Database-SQL Server, Oracle 11g, Oracle Recruitment  12c Client Management  Analytical Tools-Power BI, Tableau, MS Excel Data Visualization