Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cedar Care New Carrollton, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cedar Care 2019 to Present • Install and Set up of Oracle 12C on Linux  • Perform day-to-day routine activities: Such as daily alert log checks, database diagnostics, monitoring of physical resources (disk space, memory, CPU, etc.). Performance parameters adjusted as needed.  • Performance tuning via AWR to improve system performance Implementation of Oracle Security Standards Audit Checklist  • Quarterly refresh Activities like rebuilding indexes and tables and resolving Fragmentation issues on Database.  • Use grid control and database control to manage database.  • Configure database network such as the username and listener.  • Resolve various oracle problems such as connection, performance and backup problems.  • Tune the database for faster performance with partitions, index etc.  • Set up database auditing.  • Implement database security ensuring that all that is done in the primary database is also being archived in the standby database.  • Manage database objects such as procedure and functions.  • Administer database user account and required privilege for new employees  • Create an archival backup for long-term retention.  • Create duplicate database from active database.  • Perform disaster recovery when needed. Computer Operator , Compliance & Enforcement Officer Lagos Signage And Advertisement Agency - Lagos, NG February 2011 to November 2013 • Ensure that outdoor structures are compatible with surrounding land uses and environment  • Ensure adequate reminder or notice are served to violating client.  • Recommend enforcement, where no positive response has been received from violating client. More so, control the pasting and display of posters on public structures and highways.  • Monitor and inspect any outdoor structure and verify its compliance with the Law.  • Advising client on appropriate outdoor signage according to their budget Education Certificate Of Attendance in Oracle Database Admin And PL/SQL Boltos Solutions Institute - Laurel, MD March 2018 to November 2018 National Diploma in Computer Science Yaba College Technology - Lagos, NG Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, SQL, LINUX, UNIX, RMAN, NETWORKING, TCP/IP, TCP, ETHERNET, PERFORMANCE TUNING, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, POWERPOINT, WORD, LOADER, OFFICE SKILLS, Oracle Dba, DBA, DATA MIGRATION, RAC Additional Information Oracle Database 12c: PL/SQL certified   OCA  Oracle 12c Database Administrator Certified Associate