PL/SQL and BI Developer PL/SQL and BI Developer PL/SQL and BI Developer Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience PL/SQL and BI Developer In2IT Technologies - Johannesburg, Gauteng September 2016 to November 2017 South Africa  Responsibilities  Worked with Database configuration, Data Modeling, Identification of trusted Data Sources, Database Creation, ETL  process and Reporting.  Developed ETL packages to migrate data from an existing data warehouse to an integrated enterprise level data  warehouse by applying data cleansing rules.  Deployed various types of SSIS transformations in packages including slowly changing dimension, aggregate, fuzzy  lookup, conditional split, row count, derived columns etc.  Configured checkpoints, package logging, error logging and event handling to redirect error rows and fix the errors in SSIS.  Optimised the performance of slow executing SSIS Packages by making changes as Control Flow and Data Flow like avoiding blocking flow transformations, increasing buffer size.  Served as the data expert and created views to complete reporting requirements. •  Created Drill Down, Drill through, Sub and Linked Reports using SSRS as well as managed the subscription and authentication of these reports.  Managed very large reports that return a huge volume of records and optimised their performance using techniques like Cascading parameters and filters.  Scheduled the delivery of reports in different formats such as PDF, Excel using standard and data driven subscriptions in SSRS to generate all daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly reports.  Worked on most optimized stored procedure results which contains the complex code of Joins, various kinds of user  defined functions, views, synonyms, Sub-queries etc.  Maintained SQL scripts and complex queries for analysis and extraction. •  Implemented security to restrict the access to users and to allow them to use only certain reports. •  Involved in business analysis and technical design sessions with business and technical staff to develop requirements  document and ETL design specifications.  Prioritized and handled multiple tasks in high-pressure environment. • Database Administrator IPSOS - Johannesburg, Gauteng January 2013 to October 2014 South Africa  Responsibilities  Worked for Market Research Company, by gathering Business requirements and Raw Data from Dealers of clients like  (Toyota, VWSA, Audi and Standard Bank) and converted into Usable data by creating complex SQL scripts, stored    procedures and functions.  Designed Packages for data transformation, conversion and to import data from different file systems into Database. •  Performed unit testing on all scripts and packages. •  Designed Entity Relationship Diagrams for every project based on the Business requirements. •  Converted SQL reports into Excel and formatted the report through Pivot Table. •  Designed data visualization reports in various file formats and Enabling dealers to prioritize areas that require  improvement or attention.  Created Annual reports to keep track of Client Increase Rate. •  Created and scheduled SQL Agent jobs and maintenance plans. •  Experienced in the Database Replication of the Production database to the Development database. •  Used SQL Jobs to schedule the backup files and the replication process of various databases. •  Created various types of full, differential, log backup files for the listed databases. • Assistant Systems Engineer TATA Consultancy Services - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to July 2012 India  Responsibilities  Designed and developed an LIC Application, using Team Foundation Server. •  Assisted in modifying the UI page with some basic changes using the C#. •  Written Stored Procedures and cursors for Business Logic layer to fetch Data from Database to UI. •  Written triggers for sending Emails after to clients after any kind of modification has been made. •  Extensively used Grid views, sorting and paging. •  Worked on exporting reports to excel from the Grid View. •  Handled many production issues and enhancement to the existing live portals. •  Adopted and implemented agile and delivered successfully. •  Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. • Education Bachelors Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Bapatla Engineering College March 2007 to March 2011 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Sql, Power bi Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/swetha-veluguri-074116184