Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Capital One Bank Laurel, MD I am an accomplished Oracle Database Administrator with over 7 years of experience with in-depth knowledge and Database Design, proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. I am an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Capital One Bank - Washington, DC June 2018 to Present Support databases ranging from 300 gigabytes to 27 terabytes. Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries. Focus on databases security through Transparent Data Encryption. Perform frequent backups and implements recovery protocols as needed.  • Handle back end database configuration and provide the full database tier support.  • Assist with managing database size and scalability.  • Provide information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing database performance and trends.  • Assist in the testing of database hardware and software upgrades.  • Import/export of database, schema, objects, DDL.  • Apply Oracle Advanced Security using Oracle Wallet for data encryption.  • Oracle patch management, install and upgrade.  • Physical backup using RMAN, logical backup using Data Pump.  • Use OEM to manage multiple instances.  • Database migration of schemas, data, and structure from one platform to another.  • Daily and weekly system and database server maintenance such as cleaning old archives, monitoring alert logs, trace file and application logs.  • Granting privileges to users to access systems and databases.  • Project management    Citibank Baltimore  Database Administrator    Managed Oracle database administration assignments for diverse clients, enhanced database performance, performed database tuning and frequent system backups, implemented and updated recovery procedures as needed.  • Monitored and tuned databases to provide optimal performance and recovery.  • Performed identity and access management functions such as setup users, roles, and privileges.  • Performed databases migration/upgrades and patch management.  • Created architecture documents for accreditation, defined hardware, software and storage requirements, and provide input for project plans.  • Evaluated, configured DBMS products to match user requirements with system capabilities.  Deployed database objects/changes to different environments.    July 2014 - June 2018 Junior Database Administrator Bank Of America - Baltimore, MD June 2011 to July 2014 Worked under the direction of a senior database administrator in order to identify and resolve issues occurring in database software and to programs using database query languages. Provided day-to-day database administration support to the production teams.    • Maintained database integrity by conducting routine audits and mass updates of staff data and statuses.  • Ensured timely and accurate troubleshooting and remediation in case of website errors or malfunctions.  • Installed and tested Oracle database releases, upgrades, fixes and quarterly security patches as required.  • Provided support for the migration of Oracle instances to later database releases as they occur.  • Kept database versions up to developed standards and correct any known security vulnerabilities. Education Bachelor degree in science University of Buea Skills Ab initio (Less than 1 year), Bash (Less than 1 year), Data replication (6 years), Database (7 years), Disaster recovery (7 years), Etl (Less than 1 year), Extract, transform, and load (Less than 1 year), Informatica (Less than 1 year), Linux (7 years), Loader (7 years), Ms sql server. (5 years), Oem (7 years), Oracle (7 years), performance tuning (7 years), Pl/sql (5 years), Project management (6 years), Red hat (6 years), Replication. (6 years), Rman (7 years), security (7 years), DBA (7 years), MYSQL (5 years), Oracle Dba (7 years), Sql Dba (7 years), Sql Server Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  • Upgrades & Migration  • Database Security & Patching  • Oracle Data Guard & Data Pump  • Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation  • Red Hat Linux    • Backup & Recovery  • OEM  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning  • Grid Control  • Project Management    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Database security (TDE)  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, & DRA  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader    • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos). Mongo DB.  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA