Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Presto Technologies San Francisco, CA • Started my carrier as Oracle Database administrator (DBA) with 4yrs of experience in designing, coding, testing  and supporting various next-generation database solutions in Oracle 12c database and extended my experience  to Apache Cassandra Database.  • Solid experience in managing Oracle in High Availability environments using Oracle Golden Gate,  and Cloning technologies.  • Disaster recovery manage using DataGaurd.  • Created and configured unidirectional and bidirectional Golden Gate processes.  • Created and configured Integrated Golden Gate processes.  • Created and configured Golden Gate Hub and oracle client.  • Golden gate Multi Master configuration.  • Performed Upgrading of database from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Installed operating system on Oracle VM Server environment.  • Oracle Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, Data Pump tools.  • Oracle PSU patch apply.  • Opatch utility for internal oracle errors  • Excellent knowledge of Cassandra Architecture, Cassandra data modeling and Monitoring Cassandra using  Nodetool.  • Designed Apache Cassandra database deployment, capacity planning, monitoring multi data centers,  performance tuning, and troubleshooting procedure.  • Capable of bootstrapping, removing, and replicating nodes from Cassandra.  • Experienced in upgrading the existing Cassandra cluster to latest releases.  • Quick learner with ability to develop proficiency and adapt to new technologies and methods in a short period  of time.  • Authorized to work for any employer in United States. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Presto Technologies - San Francisco, CA December 2017 to Present • Shell script automation for code deployment, integration, monitoring and system maintenance.  • Database Performance Tuning using dynamic performance views SQL TRACE, ADR, ADRCI and different OEM  utilities.  • Performance tuning of queries consuming Excessive Resources or slow running queries by providing Required  Hints to the Query.  • Migration of databases from 11g to 12c using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed  database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes  • Extensively used Data pump for logical backup (Full backup/ Partial backup) using export and import.  • Backup & Recovery of Database using 12c Recovery Manager (RMAN) on tape and image copies on storage.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Setup and Configured the Data Guard for the standby Database.  • Monitored Data Guard Broker using dgmgrl utility and grid control to identify and fix the issues.  • Installation and configuration Bidirectional of Golden Gate.  • Resolving the issues in conflicts between the target and source database in Goldengate  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Involved and Upgraded Analytical Databases from 11g to 12c. Oracle/Cassandra Database Administrator GAP Inc - San Francisco, CA December 2015 to November 2017 Migration of databases from 11g to 12c using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed  database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes  • Extensively used Data pump for logical backup (Full backup/ Partial backup) using export and import.  • Backup & Recovery of Database using 12c Recovery Manager (RMAN) on tape and image copies on storage.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Setup and Configured the Data Guard for the standby Database.  • Monitored Data Guard Broker using dgmgrl utility and grid control to identify and fix the issues.  • Installation and configuration Bidirectional of Golden Gate.  • Resolving the issues in conflicts between the target and source database in Goldengate.  • Experienced in managing Daily Online backups (Level-0 and Level-1) and Archive Backups using RMAN.  • Excellent knowledge of Cassandra Architecture, Cassandra data modeling and Monitoring Cassandra using  nodetool and Opscenter.  • Extensive knowledge of Design, Development, Performance Tuning, and Disaster Recovery. Providing 24/7  Production Support.  • Experienced in NoSQL Database systems.  • Qualified in working with command-line utilities like node tool, cqlsh in Cassandra.  • Worked on a capacity planning and requirements gathering for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Installed, Configured and Tested Datastax Enterprise Cassandra multi-node cluster which has 4 Data centers and  10 nodes each.  • Configured Performance Tuning and Monitoring for Cassandra Read and Write processes for fast I/O operations  and low latency time.  • Designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language (CQL).  • Worked in creating column Family's; bootstrapping, decommissioning, removing, replacing, and repairing nodes.  • Installed and configured Cassandra cluster and CQL on the cluster on Ubuntu.  • Developed a disaster recovery and data backup process for Cassandra database system.  • Knowledge on set up Cassandra wide monitoring scripts and alerting system.  • Designed a database deployment, capacity planning, monitoring multi data centers, performance tuning, and troubleshooting procedure.  • Capable of bootstrapping, removing, and replicating nodes from Cassandra.  • Experienced in upgrading the existing Cassandra cluster to latest releases. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Intern General Motors - Financials - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to October 2015 • Perform daily maintenance tasks on ORACLE databases such as monitoring of Alert log files and resolve issues, daily check on the application of archive logs.  • Worked closely with the developers & Application team for every monthly release structural / DDL changes  activities to the production Databases  • Qualified in working with command-line utilities like Datapump, RMAN in oracle.  • Setup Data Guard standby.  • Monitored Data Guard Broker using dgmgrl utility and grid control to identify and fix the issues.  • Extensively used Data pump for logical backup (Full backup/ Partial backup) using export and import.  • Backup & Recovery of Database using 12c Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Created new user accounts, roles, profiles.  • Writing UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment and application processes Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Arizona State University August 2011 to May 2015 Skills ORACLE, SQL, APACHE CASSANDRA, CASSANDRA, DATASTAX ENTERPRISE, Oracle Dba, DBA Additional Information Willing to learn new technologies like AWS, Machine learning.