Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cloud Card Technology- Georgia, GA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cloud Card Technology- Georgia, GA March 2018 to Present Worked with customer for different RAC related issue: [hangcheck timer, split brain,  hugepages setup etc]; Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances (GC  events)  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction issues.  • Implemented Oracle database 12C RAC databases using Oracle Clusterware for achieving high Availability.  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query  optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full  database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable  database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB  Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical  standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases  using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby  databases in 10g,11gRAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.    2  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes  ranging from 5GB to 50TB.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management  agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes.  Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support  submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL  wallet to secure the connections.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes,  Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different  tablespace  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then  archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Implemented 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables..  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production  environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for  migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS,  DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash  Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance  issues.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues  like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC  cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed  the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth,  database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning  recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF,  EXPLAIN PLAN Junior DBA Duke Energy Inc - Charlotte, NC January 2013 to May 2015 24x7 Database administrations, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive  problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Migration of Oracle databases from windows to Linux.  • Applied patches to Oracle Databases and Oracle Applications.  • Upgrading development and production databases to Oracle 10g.  • Proactive database monitoring using 10g grid monitoring tool.  • Database tuning using SQL-Trace, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN and TKPROF.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, net backup, EMC (Time  finder and SRDF), RAID, RAW Devices.  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development databases.  • Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  • Performed SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL.  • Provided support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed Hot, Cold and Logical backups. And performed  backup validations using RMAN.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using Korn shell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, and granting required privileges to users.  • Performed other DBA activities like including space management and performance monitoring.  • Experienced in Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshooting and resolve the issues.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 11g ,RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN  PLAN Skills DATABASES (4 years), DATABASE (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), SQL (4 years), RMAN (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB  Database Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader,  Tools Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA,  DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy  Operating  MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Systems  Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers  Hardware 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers,  Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2