Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Centerstate Bank Around 5 Years of experience in the IT industry as an Oracle Database Administrator. Would like to be part of a  challenging environment where my technical skills and analytical abilities can be used towards achieving the objectives  and goals of your organization.  Key Competence  * 5-year experience in Real Application Cluster RAC including setting up 10g and 11g RAC.  * Great working experience in writing SQL for creating views, functions, creation of database etc.  * Extensive experience implementing backup and recovery strategy for disaster recovery using Hot/Cold Backups and  using the Oracle backup utility such as RMAN.  * Experience in a variety of hardware platforms including; UNIX/Linux and Windows.  * Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN, Export/Import & Data pump), Capacity  Planning.  * Documentation of the work assigned in the environment and stored for the future use.  * Strong emphasis on organization and documentations. Excellent interpersonal and strong communication skills  (including Presentations). Customer-service oriented attitude and self-motivated, dedicated in any work  environment.  * Experience in backup/recovery, user and security management, auditing, general troubleshooting, coding, and  configuring servers.  * Worked on Creation of table spaces, data files, roles, redo logs, rollback segments, stored procedures and Triggers.  * Experience in Implementing FLASHBACK technology and its various features in Oracle 10g/11g.  * Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently.  * Duties included database creation, backup/recovery using RMAN, tuning/reorganization, user and security  management, auditing, general troubleshooting, and configuring servers.  * Experience in Logical backup using and full/ partial export/import and Data Pump.  * On call technical support for 24x7 mission critical production databases. Willing to work beyond regular hours. Work Experience Oracle DBA Centerstate Bank - Davenport, FL October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Oracle 12c on a variety of operating systems including UNIX/LINUX, AIX, HP-UX and Solaris environments.  • Organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on business requirements  • Configured and Maintained Oracle Data Guard to control Primary and Standby Databases and also to ensure disaster  recovery using various data protection modes.  • Performed day to day DBA activities on Oracle 12c database.  • Oracle RAC Database Administration including Installation, configuration, Analysis, Design, Backup and Recovery  (RMAN).  • Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP, DSS and Data  Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.  • Provided estimation for new environment database storage with UNIX administrators for space managements on various servers.  • Implemented Data guard, Golden Gate, Streams for faster Disaster Recovery.  • Performed backup and recovery of GoldenGate replication and administrated GoldenGate replication security.  • Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN utility.  • Database maintaining including backups, recovery, imports/exports and Exadata.  • Proficiency in Disk management and problem resolving techniques with a good understanding of Capacity planning  and efficient usage of the disk space.  • Database refreshes/ backs, security, documenting standards and procedures, data migration, data clean-up, copy data  archiving, etc.  • Monitored and managed various database components (logical & physical) like table- spaces, segments and data files.  • Setup and maintained documentation, policies and standards.  • Performed maintenance and improvement of databases including installation, configuration, upgrade, patches and bug fixes.  • Performance tuning activities like Operating System Tuning, SQL Tuning, Database/Instance Tuning.  • Delivered Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, SQL TRACE.  Environment: Oracle 12c, Sun Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM, Grid Control, Golden Gate. Oracle Database Administrator Affinity Bank - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  * Working with database designs and reviews; troubleshooting database issues, and deploying timely fixes;  maintaining regular and proactive database patches, updates and performance enhancement.  * Ability to manage high availability solution centers using Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) with several  nodes.  * Creating database that meet the constantly changing requirement and need of the company and clients.  * Configuring the Oracle Network environment including Oracle Net Services and Listeners, configuring and managing oracle network.  * Installing, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g to 11g, 11g to 12c) using DBCA; Performance tuning of all Oracle Instance components and assisting the application developers in testing and implementation stages of the  application tuning.  * Performing constant and occasional database backup and recovery using RMAN, Data pump Import and Export  utility, multiplexing the Control file etc. Using RMAN to clone database.  * Managing and securing the database by using appropriate proper authorization schemes, roles and privileges.  * Modifying database structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements, development  databases for testing and training.  * Design and implement redundant systems, policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and data archiving.  Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems.  * Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any  hitches and unusual situations.  * Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.  * Wrote shell scripts for purging trace files, alert log and network log files in Linux boxes that are used as standard  script across all the databases.  * Expertise in SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities  and Windows Task Scheduler)  * Installed the Oracle software using silent feature and also created databases.  * Strategic involvement with team for Server virtualization and manageability of infrastructure.  * Currently helping team to use existing infrastructure to achieve Maximum benefit to reduce cost and maximum  performance.  * Writing SHELL SCRIPTS for the system and database for effective functionality and report generation.  * Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers.  * Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported.  * Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  Environment: Oracle 11g, 12C, RMAN,AWR, UNIX. Oracle Database Administrator The RSquare System Company (India) May 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  * Managing and coordinating various DBA projects in 50+ database (Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g) environment.  * Providing 24/7 database administration support to production, staging and QA databases in 4 data centers.  * Responsibilities include supporting The RSquare System company database systems in a large complex LINUX, and Windows environment.  * Responsible for all aspects of the RDBMS schema internals, involved in logical RDBMS configuration and support, tuning at the logical RDBMS level (tablespaces, tables, indices).  * Working with numerous application groups to coordinate dba driven maintenances (upgrades, patching, and migrations) as well as accommodate application owners' requirements and goals.  * Creating the users, granting roles and privileges to users and managing resource management and passwords.  * Planning, coordinating and performing upgrades and patching for more than 200 oracle databases for numerous  applications/projects.  * Planning, coordinating and performing other database supporting activities like database cloning, migration, replication, etc.  * Working with System Administrators to migrate production and non-production environments to a new hardware, coordinating migrations with application groups, choosing the best strategies for database migrations.  * Maintain databases with company's monitoring and reporting scripts, in-house RMAN and EXPDP/ IMPDE  procedures, DB and OS space monitoring, etc.  Environment: Oracle 10g,11g, RMAN, AWR, UNIX. Oracle Database Administrator URO Technology (India) August 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  * Perform work under the direct supervision of project management as well as senior and principle database  administrators  * Perform database backup and recovery duties, establish standards and schedules for database backups, develop and test recovery procedures for each database, and ensure backup schedules meet the recovery requirements  * Install, upgrade, and configure Oracle related tools.  * Maintain the integrity of Project databases and ensure that the security requirements for the database servers are met.  * Experienced in Database creation, modification, and re-org of tablespaces, data-files, and user maintenance.  * Write and debug shell scripts and database programs that enhance the utility of systems and provide an effective user  interface to other systems  * Provide and maintain current documentation of databases, database configurations, administrative tools, and procedures for implementation/adaptation of products and services.  * Perform research and development in anticipation of technological database system innovations  Environment: Oracle 10g,11g, RMAN, UNIX. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Information Technology Gujarat University 2015 Skills Oracle, Sql, Ksh, Linux, Red hat Additional Information Skill Set  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g    OPERATING SYSTEMS Linux (Red hat Linux), Windows.  LANGUAGES SQL,UNIX Shell Scripting, Ksh, bash Scripting.    UTILITIES RMAN, SQL*PLUS, SQL*LOADER, EXP, IMP, Data Pump (EXPDP/ IMPDE)  TOOLS DBCA, WinSCP, AWR, VMware, Putty, Toad, Oracle Enterprise Manager