SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Department of Education Alexandria, VA • 5+ years of experience in Database Administration in a very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2016,2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008 and 2005 in Production, Test and Development Environments.  • Expertise in Configuring and Monitoring Always-On Availability Groups (AAG).  • Expertise in Microsoft SQL Server Installation, configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Strong understanding of RDBMS concepts as well as Data Modeling Concepts.  • Handful experience in using dynamic management views (DMV) and dynamic management functions (DMF) for troubleshooting long running queries.  • Expertise in Client/Server Connectivity and running Database Consistency checks Using DBCC.  • Extensive experience on planning, designing and implementing Backup strategies and Restore with all Recovery Models.  • Handful experience in high availability and disaster recovery solutions such as Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication and Windows Server Failover Clustering.  • Maintained server and database security by managing Logins, user accounts and roles and granting permissions on securable.  • Experience in T-SQL for developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, View, Functions, CTE, Temp Tables, Variables, constraints, Joins and Cursors to perform DDL, DML and DCL activities.  • Experience in creating SSIS packages and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations.  • Designed Database Models, develop, test, and database solutions and Data Warehousing.  • Working knowledge in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Implemented Query, Join and Table hints to control query optimization.  • Handful experience in supporting Very Large databases and troubleshooting the problems.  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008 / 2005.  • Managed SQL Server 2014 migration from SQL Server 2012 SP3 CU1.  • Handful experience on creating Linked Servers between SQL Server 2008 R2 & Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases. Also created DTS package for data transfer between the two environments.  • Experience in automating SQL Jobs and Alerts using SQL DB Mail and and SQL server agent.  • Excellent communication, writing and presentation skills with ability to adapt to a new environments.  • Ability to multi-task, prioritize and work with time constraints while paying attention to details.  • Good problem-solving, judgment, decision-making skill and excellent as a collaborative team player.  • Proven ability to work with all levels of management, willingness to learn and implement new ideas.  • 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Department of Education - Washington, DC March 2015 to Present • Installed and configured SQL Server 2014 SP1 and 2012 SP2 CU5, SQL SERVER 2016 SP1 and managed multiple instances and large scale databases.  • Implemented Always-ON (AAG) on SQL Server 2012 SP2 CU5.  • Effectively monitored database size and disk space in Production, Staging & Development environments and recovered suspect database.  • Undertook upgrading of databases from SQL Server 2005 to 2008 R2 /2012/2014.  • Designed databases by managing Data and Log Files and File Groups, Data Partitioning, data scrubbing, Normalization and transaction logs.  • Managed Database configurations, Integrity Checks, indexes and database Statistics.  • Reviewed and implemented the best practices for SQL Server Database Files and Tempdb.  • Undertook auditing, Table Partitioning, data compression, instant file initialization (IFI) and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Effectively Managed Server and database security by handling principals, Roles & Orphaned users.  • Undertook SQL Server and database auditing and performed bulk imports.  • Created and used tables, views, indexes, Store procedures and triggers.  • Developed Backup strategies, undertook Backup Compression and database restore.  • Worked on all Recovery models and undertook Database Recovery based on Recovery Point Objective (RPO) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO).  • Configured database mail and SQL server agent for automation.  • Managed SQL server 2012 Resource Governor to utilize resources and worked on parametrization.  • Successfully designed and implemented MS SQL Server maintenance plans ,Performance Tuning, troubleshooting and Query Optimization using native tools namely: MSSQL server profiler, activity monitor, performance monitor, event viewer, index tuning advisor, database tuning advisor (DTA), Dynamic Management views (DMV), services and protocols, and configuration manager.  • Worked on Data warehouse and Deployed SSIS packages using various transformations.  • Generated different reports under SSRS and have working knowledge of Analysis Services.  • Configured, Implemented and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using Log-Shipping, mirroring, replication and SQL server active/passive clustering and Always on Availability Groups.  Environment: MS SQL Server2016/2014/2012 SP2 CU5/2008R2/2008/2005, Windows server 2008/2012, SQL Azure, PowerShell,SSIS, SSRS,SQL Profiler, T- SQL, ERWIN, Redgate,Idera, Lite Speed, MS office. SQL Server Database Administrator Dominion Power - Richmond, VA July 2013 to January 2015 • Worked extensively on installation and configuration of SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2012.  • Migrated SQL Server 2008R2 databases to 2012 by using Backup-Restore and Detach-Attach.  • Worked with database tuning advisor, SQL server profiler, Performance counters and activity monitor for Performance tuning.  • Extensively worked on full, differential and transactional log backups, and Verification of the Backups/Recovery to ensure the business' Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO).  • Worked on tables, views and wrote complex Store procedures and triggers.  • Configured Log shipping, mirroring, replication, clustering and Always on Availability Groups.  • Managed point in time recovery of the production databases and SQL server locking and blocking.  • Undertook automation of daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, indexes, cleanup tasks and scheduled jobs.  • Excellent experience in creating Indexes, Indexed Views in observing business rules and creating effective Functions and appropriate Triggers to assist efficient data manipulation and data consistency.  • Maintained Security by managing Logins, Users and Role and the permission for different SQL Server objects under the security principle of Least Privilege (PLP).  • Exported and imported data from text files and excel to SQL Server using bulk copy insert and BCP utility.  • Undertook running DBCC consistency check, and fixing data corruption in different databases.  • Coordinated with the development team concerning tuning the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008/2005 Enterprise Edition, Clustering, SharePoint, OLTP & OLAP, Microsoft Azure, Windows 2003/ 2008R2/2012,Report builder2.0, Spotlight, Erwin, SSIS & SSRS. Junior SQL Database Administrator PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA September 2012 to May 2013 • Managed Schema Objects such as Stored Procedures, Triggers, User Defined Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views, Constraints, SQL joins and other T-SQL code to implement business rules.  • Managed execution plans and tuning advisor to solve performance issues, followed instructions to improve query performance and Involved in Normalization of tables for faster query retrieval.  • Effectively Performed business analysis and standard documentations.  • Installed SQL Server Management tools using SQL Server Setup Program.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008R2, 2008 and 2005 and managed various databases for Production and testing.  • Created linked servers between Oracle 10g and MS SQL SERVER 2008.  • Played key role in Performance tuning and troubleshooting of different production servers.  • Participated in the Planning of the location of data and Transaction log files on the disk.  • Developed backup and restore strategy. Performed Database Integrity Checks, updated Database Statistics and Used BCP and Bulk Insert utilities.  • Managed server and database Principals, Disk speed, Memory, CPU and User connections.  • Experience in using SQL Server agent to schedule and automate tasks.  • Experience in creating and executing SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Successfully Managed High availability and Disaster recovery using Log shipping, Mirroring, replication and SQL Server failover clustering.  Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2008/2005, SQL Profiler, T- SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, ERWIN, MS Office, SQL Lite Speed 4.5, Enterprise Manager, Redgate,Idera, SQL Query Analyzer and SQL Profiler. Education Bachelor Degree Mekelle University Skills Database (4 years), databases. (4 years), ERWIN (4 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise  Operating Systems: Windows server 2012R2/2012/2008/2003R2, UNIX and Linux, Microsoft Azure.  Databases: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/ 2012/ 2008 R2/2008/2005.  Database Tools: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL CMD, SQL Server Business  Intelligence Studio (BIDS), Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer.  Backup Tools: Lite Speed, DB Extract for SQL Server and Red gate SQL Backup and HyperBac.  Monitoring Tools: SQL Sentry, Red gate SQL Monitor, Spotlight, IDERA, PerfMon, SCOM and  Capacity Manager for SQL Server.  ETL Tools: DTS (Data transformation services), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), PowerBI, Tableau, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  Programming: T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, Visual Basic 6 & 5, SharePoint, Power Shell, C++ and Java.  Modeling Tools: SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram), Erwin, MS Visio, Idera and Spotlight.  Development skills: SQL, Transact SQL (T-SQL).  MS Office: MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, Advanced Excel, MS Access, Outlook and PowerPoint.  Hardware: SAN, NAS, RAID.