SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Datavail Westminster, CO To utilize my SQL skills for a challenging position as a Senior Database Administrator in an established organization Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Datavail - Broomfield, CO June 2017 to Present • Onboarded new clients for SQL Server support  • Performed SQL Server installations and configured servers up to best practice  • Troubleshooted and configured Always On, Windows Failover Clustering, Logshipping, Azure, Amazon Web Services for SQL Server  • Backup and restore SQL databases natively and with third-party solution such as CommVault  • Administered and coordinated with clients on SQL Server security and logins  • 24/7/365 on-call rotation  • Performed database refreshes and index strategy tasks  • Supported and assisted clients with SSIS and SSRS issues  • Worked with clients on various projects Database Administrator I OneBlood - Orlando, FL November 2015 to June 2017 Provided insight to future planning and architecture of database storage and environment  ? Designed Business and Quality Applications department standard excel spreadsheet for documentation of SQL Server DBA daily checks  ? Performed testing and quality assurance on created objects such as tables, views, etc.,  ? Created and/or modified SSIS packages for deployment to necessary development and production environments  ? Monitored SQL Server performance issues and escalated critical findings to DBA team  ? Responded to all database inquiries and/or issues from end users, various departments, and vendors  ? Observed occasional vendor script deployments to regulated Production environment  ? Collaborated with Network and Infrastructure team for scheduled server outages  ? Refreshed development/test servers periodically from peers within other departments  ? Updated Spotlight configurations to add and customize alarms for Windows and SQL Servers  ? Unmounted and troubleshooted SnapManager snapshot errors  ? Coordinated with DBA team to complete HDA Tickets within a timely manner  ? Supported SharePoint administrators with user permissions and database restores  ? Executed stored procs and TSQL scripts for developers during code review Junior Associate Database Administrator NGOC - Marietta, GA January 2015 to August 2015 Scheduled ongoing SQL Server jobs for backups and server maintenance  ? Managed database user permissions while ensuring data integrity of servers  ? Enabled SQL Server Logshipping and Mirroring for disaster recovery  ? Contributed to the installation, configuration, and patching of development and production servers  ? Regularly imported data from Access and Excel spreadsheets to SQL Server Education MCSA Certification Colorado Technical University 2021 Bachelors of Science in Biology in Biology Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA 2009 to 2011 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server