IT Database Administrator (SQL) IT <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (SQL) Database Administrator (SQL) - Bettor Technology (Parx Casino) Philadelphia, PA Microsoft Certified Professional with over 6 years in RDBMS that includes database administration, development and support of MS SQL Server across of different versions and editions. I also possess working knowledge of T-SQL, SSIS and SSRS. I have supported more than 3,000 databases, 2,000 applications and 500 servers; developed, configured, monitored and deployed over 100 basic SSIS packages; built, configured and managed hundreds of SSRS reports. I am a committed team player, self-motivated and work well under pressure.    Major Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration and management of SQL Server instances, SSIS, SSRS in development, test and production environments.  • Applied patches, service packs and hotfixes manually and using automation tool  • Planning, implementing and administering Microsoft SQL Server Security and database permissions by following security best practices.  • Performed Performance Monitoring and Tuning using windows and SQL performance monitoring tools (i.e. system monitor, perfmon, task manager, SQL profiler, activity monitor, DBCC, DTA & DMVs) to find bottlenecks in CPU, Disk I/O and memory.  • Hands-on experience with troubleshooting query plans, managing locks and deadlocks.  • Experience in automating maintenance plans using SQL Server Job Agent and Task Scheduler to perform tasks such as creating backups, history clean up, database log shrinking, index and statistics maintenance.  • Experience in SQL Health Checks using SQL Server error logs, Event viewer.  • Set up Disaster Recovery options particularly Database Backup and Restoration jobs up in a way that meets the business's Recovery Point Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO).  • Proficiency in HA (High Availability) strategies including Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and AlwaysOn HA Groups.  • Hands on experience in Database Migration between SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012  • Reviewed DB Scripts from the development team before releasing them into the Production.  • T-SQL writing of DDL and DML statements, stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Created database objects using T-SQL such as Tables, Index, Views and Triggers.  • Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages including data transformation from Oracle, DB2, MySQL and other flat files as well as import-export ETL operations.  • Building SSRS reports, configuration and management.  • Working knowledge of managing Data Warehouse environment using Informatica Power Exchange tools mainly compassing Tera Data, DB2 and SQL Server.  • Some experience in developing reports using SAP.  • Some Experience in QA Testing, MS Access Development/Administration and extensive experience in working with MS Excel.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments. Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project.  • Provided 24x7 production supports for SQL Server databases. Strong time Management skills and excellent team player  • Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Database Administrator (SQL) Bettor Technology - Bensalem, PA February 2016 to Present Achievements as DBA:  • Prepared SQL Database Servers administration document as a sole DBA to standardize practices allowing clear working procedure and environment.  • Implemented best maintenance, high availability and security practices.  • Participated in 24/7 SQL servers support in production, test and development environments in both clustered and standalone servers.  • Configured database mail system for SQL server notifications.  • Responsible for Database support, troubleshooting, planning and migration. Resource planning and coordination for application migrations with project managers, application and web app teams.  • Monitoring of database size and disk space in Production, Staging & Development environments  • Conducted Performance Tuning using both native and external tools such Solar Winds  • Resolved Tickets in compliance with meeting clients SLA.  • Performed Server Installation, Configuration and Upgrade of MS SQL Server  • Automated and enhanced daily administrative tasks, including space management, backup& Recovery and performance monitoring.  • Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  • Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Implemented Server patches and server upgrades.  • Experience on MS SQL Server Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Checked for database consistency, fixed DBCC errors, monitored error logs, database space allocations and transaction log space allocations.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Implemented the disaster recovery models like clustering, mirroring and log shipping.  • SSIS import/export, SSIS package development and deployment from flat file, Excel, Access, etc as well as setting up SSIS jobs and monitoring.  • Designed some data mappings in Informatica power exchange developer tools.  • Monitored Informatica Data Warehouse workflows and solved failures, interruptions and crashes that encompass SQL Servers, TeraData and DB2.  • Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and SAP.  • Set parameter and dataset properties along with conditional formatting  • Develop SSRS projects in Visual studio and prepare framework for report formatting and visualization  • Prepare matrix and chart reports using properties like drill down and drill through functionalities  • Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production environment    Environment: MS SQL server 2012/2008/ R2/2005, Windows Server 2008/R2/20012/R2, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, OLTP, VMware, Informatica, Tera Data, DB2, SolarWinds. SQL Database Administrator and Shift lead Boeing project/TAI December 2014 to December 2016 Achievements as DBA:  • Participated in 24/7 SQL servers support in production, test and development environments in both clustered and standalone servers  • Resolving Tickets in compliance with meeting clients SLA and having effective communication with client customers in resolving all SQL issues.  • Performed Server Installation, Configuration and Upgrade of MS SQL Server  • Installed, Configured and deployed SSIS, SSRS and SSAS.  • Configured and managed multiple SQL server instances.  • Automated and enhanced daily administrative tasks, including space management, backup& Recovery and performance monitoring.  • Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  • Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Implemented Server patches and server upgrades using DMA  • Experience on MS SQL Server Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Checked for database consistency, fixed DBCC errors, monitored error logs, database space allocations and transaction log space allocations.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Developed quires (T-SQL) to perform maintenance activates as needed.  • Experience in Data Migration between SQL Server 2005/2008/2012  • Implemented the disaster recovery models like clustering, database mirroring, log shipping and transactional replication.  • SSIS import/export, SSIS package development and deployment from flat file, Excel, Access, etc as well as setting up SSIS jobs and monitoring.  • Performed data Import/Export from/to other data files, flat files, and CSV data files using Import/Export wizard, DTS, SSIS & BCP.  • Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and configuring the SQL Server Reporting Server  • Implementing new SQL features for SQL 2012, 2014 including AlwaysOn High Availability Groups.  • Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production environment    Environment: MS SQL server 2012/2008/ R2/2005, Windows Server 2008/R2/20012/R2, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, OLTP, VMware and Powershell. Database Administrator Westat/Data Group January 2013 to November 2014 Achievements as DBA:  • Installed, configured, upgraded and managed MSSQL server 2008/2008R2/2012  • Performed daily tasks such as checking database functionality, hardware diagnostics, disk space optimization, inspecting error logs.  • Maintained individual service accounts for SQL Server services, assigned appropriate server roles for users, mapped the roles with specific databases and granted specific permissions.  • Handled database Backup and Restore operations  • Performed Performance tuning in MSSQL 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Handled SQL server Job creation/Automation of DBA tasks using SQL server agent  • Solid experience in performance monitoring with Activity monitor, SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, Database Tuning Advisor, DMVs and DMFs.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Troubleshooting database issues and maintaining database consistency  • Recommended changes for queries which may affect the optimum databases performances  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, views and added/modified tables for data load, transformation and extraction  • Maintaining stored procedures, triggers, views and indexes  • Configured and Implemented database failover techniques in Log-Shipping  • Set up Disaster Recovery Database Backup and Restoration jobs  • Created and implemented SQL server high availability options like Database Mirroring, Replication, Log shipping  • Forecast and plan capacity requirements and future growth needs of specified applications and supporting infrastructure components  • Handled data migration from different sources  • Export or Import data from other data sources like excel and flat files using SSIS.  • Prepared reports using SQL Server 2012 Reporting Services.  • Test New Software, new websites, databases for updating purposes and report on platforms like JIRA, Sharepoint    Environment:  Database: MS SQL server 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014  Operating System: Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, SAN, and RAID, VM and Physical Servers, BI Tools: MS Visual Studio 2008, 2010, 2012    SQL Server Tools:  GUI, SSMS, SSCM, SSIS, SSDTs, SSRS, SSAS, Profiler, DTA, DTC, Replication, Visual Studio, DMVs, DMFs, Extended Events, Activity Monitor, and Data Collector.  Third party tools:  Net backup, Spotlight monitoring tool, Jira, SharePoint, SolarWinds Education M.Sc in Business Wageningen University 2009 to 2012