IT Database Administrator (SQL) IT <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (SQL) IT Database Administrator (SQL) - Bettor Technology Philadelphia, PA Microsoft Certified Professional with over 6 years in RDBMS that includes database administration, development and support of MS SQL Server across of different versions and editions. I also have working knowledge of Data Warehouse development and administration as it pertains to T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, Informatica PowerCenters, SAP Business Objects, Teradata and DB2 i-series environments. I have supported more than 3,000 databases, 2,000 applications and 500 servers; developed, configured, monitored and deployed over 100 Data Warehouse packages and reports. I am a committed team player, self-motivated and work well under pressure.    Major Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration and management of SQL Server instances, SSIS, SSRS in development, test and production environments.  • Applied patches, service packs and hotfixes manually and using automation tool  • Planning, implementing and administering Microsoft SQL Server Security and database permissions by following security best practices.  • Performed Performance Monitoring and Tuning using windows and SQL performance monitoring tools (i.e. system monitor, perfmon, task manager, SQL profiler, activity monitor, DBCC, DTA & DMVs) to find bottlenecks in CPU, Disk I/O and memory.  • Hands-on experience with troubleshooting query plans, managing locks and deadlocks.  • Experience in automating maintenance plans using SQL Server Job Agent and Task Scheduler to perform tasks such as creating backups, history clean up, database log shrinking, index and statistics maintenance.  • Experience in SQL Health Checks using SQL Server error logs, Event viewer.  • Set up Disaster Recovery options particularly Database Backup and Restoration jobs up in a way that meets the business's Recovery Point Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO).  • Proficiency in HA (High Availability) strategies including Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and AlwaysOn HA Groups.  • Hands on experience in Database Migration between SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016.  • Created database objects using T-SQL such as Tables, Index, Views and Triggers.  • Developed, deployed and monitored Data Warehouse Packages (ETL operations) and reports utilizing tools in SSIS, SSRS, Informatica PowerCenters, SAP Business Objects, Teradata and DB2 i-series environments.  • Building SSRS, SAP Business Objects reports, configuration and management.  • Some Experience in QA Testing, MS Access Development/Administration and extensive experience in working with MS Excel.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments. Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project.  • Provided 24x7 production supports for SQL Server databases. Strong time Management skills and excellent team player  • Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Database Administrator (SQL) Bettor Technology - Bensalem, PA January 2016 to Present Achievements as DBA:  • Prepared SQL Database Servers administration document as a sole DBA to standardize practices allowing clear working procedure and environment.  • Implemented best maintenance, high availability and security practices.  • Participated in 24/7 SQL servers support in production, test and development environments in both clustered and standalone servers.  • Responsible for Database support, troubleshooting, planning and migration. Resource planning and coordination for application migrations with project managers, application and web app teams.  • Monitoring of database size and disk space in Production, Staging & Development environments  • Conducted Performance Tuning using both native and external tools such Solar Winds  • Resolved Tickets in compliance with meeting clients SLA.  • Performed Server Installation, Configuration and Upgrade of MS SQL Server  • Automated and enhanced daily administrative tasks, including space management, backup& Recovery and performance monitoring.  • Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  • Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Checked for database consistency, fixed DBCC errors, monitored error logs, database space allocations and transaction log space allocations.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Developed basic mappings and customize its settings in Informiatica Power Center Designer and workflow manager.  • Monitored the status of workflows using Informatica Power Center Monitor and resolve issues or failures that happen as well as administer Informatica services and security by using Informatica Administrator web tool.  • Developed universes in Information Design Tool and customize settings for optimal configurations.  • Worked with the SAP Business Objects Launch pad to create reports.  • Administered services and security using Business Objects Centeral Management Server  • Administered Data Warehouse Teradata environment using Teradata Administrator, Teradata SQL Assistant and ViewPoint tools.  • SSIS import/export, SSIS package development and deployment from flat file, Excel, Access, etc as well as setting up SSIS jobs and monitoring.  • Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production environment    Environment: MS SQL server 2016/2012/2008/ R2/2005, Windows Server 2008/R2/20012/R2, T-SQL, AlwaysOn High Availability, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, OLTP, VMware, Informatica, Tera Data, DB2, SAP Business Objects, SolarWinds. SQL Database Administrator and Shift lead Boeing project/TAI December 2014 to December 2016 Achievements as DBA:  • Participated in 24/7 SQL servers support in production, test and development environments in both clustered and standalone servers  • Resolving Tickets in compliance with meeting clients SLA and having effective communication with client customers in resolving all SQL issues.  • Performed Server Installation, Configuration and Upgrade of MS SQL Server  • Installed, Configured and deployed SSIS, SSRS and SSAS.  • Configured and managed multiple SQL server instances.  • Automated and enhanced daily administrative tasks, including space management, backup& Recovery and performance monitoring.  • Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  • Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Implemented Server patches and server upgrades using DMA  • Experience on MS SQL Server Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Checked for database consistency, fixed DBCC errors, monitored error logs, database space allocations and transaction log space allocations.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Developed quires (T-SQL) to perform maintenance activates as needed.  • Experience in Data Migration between SQL Server 2005/2008/2012  • Implemented the disaster recovery models like clustering, database mirroring, log shipping and transactional replication.  • SSIS import/export, SSIS package development and deployment from flat file, Excel, Access, etc as well as setting up SSIS jobs and monitoring.  • Performed data Import/Export from/to other data files, flat files, and CSV data files using Import/Export wizard, DTS, SSIS & BCP.  • Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS and configuring the SQL Server Reporting Server  • Implementing new SQL features for SQL 2012, 2014 including AlwaysOn High Availability Groups.  • Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production environment    Environment: MS SQL server 2012/2008/ R2/2005, Windows Server 2008/R2/20012/R2, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, OLTP, VMware and Powershell. Database Administrator Westat/Data Group January 2013 to November 2014 Achievements as DBA:  • Installed, configured, upgraded and managed MSSQL server 2008/2008R2/2012  • Performed daily tasks such as checking database functionality, hardware diagnostics, disk space optimization, inspecting error logs.  • Maintained individual service accounts for SQL Server services, assigned appropriate server roles for users, mapped the roles with specific databases and granted specific permissions.  • Handled database Backup and Restore operations  • Performed Performance tuning in MSSQL 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Handled SQL server Job creation/Automation of DBA tasks using SQL server agent  • Solid experience in performance monitoring with Activity monitor, SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, Database Tuning Advisor, DMVs and DMFs.  • Performed maintenance activities like analyzing/rebuilding indexes, update statistics based on business needs.  • Troubleshooting database issues and maintaining database consistency  • Recommended changes for queries which may affect the optimum databases performances  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, views and added/modified tables for data load, transformation and extraction  • Maintaining stored procedures, triggers, views and indexes  • Configured and Implemented database failover techniques in Log-Shipping  • Set up Disaster Recovery Database Backup and Restoration jobs  • Created and implemented SQL server high availability options like Database Mirroring, Replication, Log shipping  • Forecast and plan capacity requirements and future growth needs of specified applications and supporting infrastructure components  • Handled data migration from different sources  • Export or Import data from other data sources like excel and flat files using SSIS.  • Prepared reports using SQL Server 2012 Reporting Services.  • Test New Software, new websites, databases for updating purposes and report on platforms like JIRA, Sharepoint    Environment:  Database: MS SQL server 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014  Operating System: Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, SAN, and RAID, VM and Physical Servers, BI Tools: MS Visual Studio 2008, 2010, 2012    SQL Server Tools:  GUI, SSMS, SSCM, SSIS, SSDTs, SSRS, SSAS, Profiler, DTA, DTC, Replication, Visual Studio, DMVs, DMFs, Extended Events, Activity Monitor, and Data Collector.  Third party tools:  Net backup, Spotlight monitoring tool, Jira, SharePoint, SolarWinds Education M.Sc in Business Wageningen University 2009 to 2012 Bachelor in Business University of Gondar 2003 to 2006 Skills SQL (6 years), informatica (2 years), Business Objects (2 years), Database Administration (6 years), Database Development (4 years), Data Warehouse (3 years), microsoft office (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2014 to Present