Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Charlotte, NC ? Experience in 12c New enhancements related to Oracle RDBMS, ASM, Performance Parameters, Cluster Installation and Patching  ? Good knowledge on 12c databases on its advanced features like online migration of an active data file, Online table partition or sub-partition migration, DDL logging, SQL statement in RMAN, table level recovery in RMAN and restricting PGA size.  ? Oracle Goldengate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG issues.  ? Performs Goldengate replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  ? Configured Oracle Goldengate and parameter files in an active-active architecture.  ? Implementation physical standby Data guard for large databases.  ? Provided physical and logical design and database creation for production & standby databases.  ? Upgraded standalone databases to 10g/11g environments.  ? Experience in table level, schema level replication using Oracle Streams.  ? Configured and monitored Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) grid control 10g/11g/12c for database diagnostics and performance issues.  ? Experience in implementing Flash Recovery Area for Flashback Technology and Flash  ? Experience in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures and proficient in RMAN.  ? Performing backups and recoveries using conventional hot/cold backups and RMAN  ? Worked extensively on RMAN for implementing Tablespace Point in Time recovery (TSPITR), cloning, refreshing of databases.  ? Monitored frees space in tablespaces, Archive log destination, Database/Listener availability, Blocking Locks monitoring etc  ? Experience in working with Oracle support in resolving ORA-600 /7445 internal errors.  ? Supporting development/ 24*7 production systems. Providing on call support for mission critical applications.  ? Leadership skills and Goal Oriented, Good Co-ordination and Co-operation with the Team and Management. Adept at learning and adaptable to complex work environment.  ? Excellent communication skills, good organizational skills, outgoing personality, self-motivated, hardworking, ability to work independently and grasp quickly. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Sivees, Inc July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Part of 16 members DBA team which was involved in the maintenance of the Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c database for the Production as well as the development environments.  ? Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database, RAC and application issues.  ? Administration of database on all the Oracle RAC Servers with in WF DAN environment.  ? Upgrading the Oracle RAC clusterware from 10g/11gR1 to 11gR2 and also databases from 11gR1/11gR2 to 12cR1.  ? Installed/Upgrade and configuring Oracle Grid Control 12cR1/R2/R5.  ? Worded on ASM SAN adds and manage the disk space in the disk groups.  ? Taking care of the change management ticketing process to solve the issues coming in the queue.  ? Applying the database patches and PSU's to fix the database bugs.  ? Analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata server for infrastructure and related projects.  ? Agent removal and installation.  ? Using GUI removing old Listeners on all the nodes of the cluster according to the requirement.  ? NAS inventorying according to the change requests and work orders.  ? Removing Old Oracle Homes and old RDBMS versions on cluster, accounting the savings in work logs.  ? Does On call on a rotation basis.  ? Proficiency with Installation and maintenance of replication tool Golden Gate by creating extract process, extract pump, and replicate.  ? Installing and configuring the Golden Gate Software and Database file system (DBFS).  ? Works on the cluster builds as per the PTP requests.  ? Supporting Business, Post go-live by Cloning/refreshing Production to DEV, UAT, TEST and PREPROD Database instances, for testing at scheduled intervals.  ? Implemented Golden Gate for standby configuration and developed procedures for replication.  ? Logical backups were scheduled for development, QA and UAT databases using export/import and Data Pump.  ? AutoSys and Cronjobs scheduling expert over the DAN environment.  ? Configured DATA GUARD to provide high availability by implementing physical stand-by database and worked with various Oracle 10g features: Steams, 10g Grid Control and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  ? Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE.  ? Implemented Backup and recovery strategies using export/import, RMAN and online backups.  ? Delivered Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 10g OEM Grid Monitoring, for custom scripts troubleshooting using SQL TRACE utilities.  ? Automated several scripts to monitor various processes, sessions and taking backup's using crontab.  ? Monitored database log files, data block corruption, segment fragmentation, performance issues, security threats, contention issues (deadlocks, I/O, memory, CPU, etc.).  ? Administrating all database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, packages and procedure.  ? Experienced with SRVCTL for monitoring and configuring RAC Environment.  ? Working alongside programmers and contributing to the development process; Enabling and analyzing trace files.    Environment: Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, IBM AIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows, OEM (Grid Control), ETL, RMAN, ASM, SQL*Loader, Oracle Data guard, streams, Golden Gate, TOAD, Informatica Powercenter 8.1, Autosys. Oracle Database Administrator Sivees, Inc March 2015 to June 2016 Description: Seagate Technology is a data storage company, and is one of the world's largest manufacturers of hard disk drives. The Main Aim of this project is to maintain integrity and security of the Data ware housing database, which has a constant data loading from different OLTP Databases through Informatica ETL application. The goal is to identify various issues that are impacting the system and troubleshooting them, Additional role includes planning and development newer ideas to improve the performance both the Database and ETL application.    Responsibilities:  ? Administration of Oracle Databases 10g and 11g on IBM AIX Platforms  ? Monitoring Production Database by checking all the system alerts using Ignite, OEM 12C to make sure the Database is performing normally.  ? Installed and Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C on Linux.  ? Implemented Incremental STATS on the Tables that are highly accessed in the Database.  ? Installed and configured Oracle Application Express (APEX) in oracle 11.2.0.3.  ? Data Migration between Oracle Databases using DBLINK and EXP/IMP.  ? Implemented Bulk Load Process by converting existing Triggers to Oracle PL/SQL packages to improve the Data loading process.  ? Partitioning the existing tables using methods like Range, List, and Hash to improve the query performance.  ? Assisting ETL Team to resolve issues related to Informatica ETL Workflows.  ? Tuning long running SQL queries.  ? Recovered Tables which are accidently dropped by users using RMAN.    ? Upgraded Oracle Database from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 applied required patches.  ? Migrated databases from Oracle Versions 9i,10gR1/R2,11gR1/R2 to 11gR1/R2  ? Resolving Database Storage Management Issues.  ? Creation of Databases, Tablespace, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them.  ? Re-organizing of all the objects of a Tablespace to New Tablespace in order to reclaim space.  ? 24x7 production support DBA working on a primary/ secondary pager rotation and also supported on holidays, weekends and beyond regular hours    Environment: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, OEM 12c Cloud Control, Ignite, RMAN, Oracle APEX, Import/Export, Data guard, SQL, PL/SQL, DBLINK, SQL Developer, AIX, Solaris and Linux. Oracle Database Administrator Sivees, Inc - Dallas, TX December 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? AM (application maintenance) teams and maintain and the database environment of Oracle databases spanning version 9i to 11g on Solaris and Linux platforms.  ? Troubleshooting during SEV1 and SEV2 outages  ? Install DBMS software and apply patches  ? create, move (migrate) or remove databases  ? Maintain and configure the DB monitoring tools, such as Oracle Enterprise Manager  ? Maintain Disaster Recovery and High Availability DB architecture, using Oracle Data Guard  ? Respond to monitored database events  ? Setup DB jobs (Statistics gathering, index rebuilds, table archives)  ? Execute database backups and recoveries using hot backups and RMAN  ? Develop and maintain database documentation  ? Perform capacity planning (proactively monitor database usage trends for stroage, Cpu , io, etc.) and report on those trends  ? Perform performance monitoring and tuning (recommend DB configuration changes to maintain or improve performance, supportability and avoid operating issues.    Environments: Oracle 9i/10g,11g, OEM 11g Grid Control, OEM 12c Cloud Control, RMAN, Import/Export, Data Guard, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, AIX, Solaris, Linux, Windows Jr. Oracle DBA/Developer Chinmaya Technologies - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Development and administration of Oracle databases.  ? Developed automated scripts to monitor the size of tablespace extents and space utilization.  ? Defining storage parameters for tables, indexes, clusters, table spaces, rollback segments, redo logs and data files  ? User administration, define roles & profiles and partitioning tables.  ? Involved in the installation of Oracle 9i on Solaris and UNIX platform.  ? Tracking database security and auditing  ? Managing System Global Area  ? Monitoring and troubleshooting auto extension of table spaces  ? Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance  ? Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  ? Design and implementation of backup and recovery strategy using user managed backup and recovery  ? Hot and cold backups, Restore and recovery  ? Exporting & importing of database data and table structure as needed  ? Creation of stored procedures, packages and triggers  ? Loading of Data from flat files into the Database using SQL*Loader  ? Monitor database and system performance  ? Tuning SQL Statements, memory (SGA), I/O operations and contention    Environments: Oracle 9i/8i, Windows XP/NT/2000, Standby Databases, Export/Import, RMAN, SQL*Loader, TOAD. Education Master Of Business Administration in Information Technology in Information Technology Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA April 2013 B.com in Computers Osmania University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN March 2009 Skills Database (4 years), Oracle (4 years), RMAN (4 years), Solaris (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10, AIX 5.1, 5.2, Red Hat Linux RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x and Windows 2000,2003,2008R2  RDBMS Oracle 11g R2/10g/9i/8i  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, C,C++, UNIX Shell Scripting, Bash Scripting  Tools /Utilities NETCA,DBCA,RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, SQL Server, EXP, IMP, expdp, impdp, TOAD,  Tuning Tools ASH,ADDM,AWR,TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK  Database Modeling Erwin 4.0,Toad Data Modeler,Datanamic and start UML  Other EMC, NetApp, Veritas, NetBackup, HP Data Protector,tsm