Database Administrator II <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Database Administrator II - Perimeter Global Logistics Roswell, GA A result-oriented and self-motivated SQL Server Database Administrator with strong analytical and problem solving  skills. I am very experience in SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2012, SSIS, as well as clustering, mirroring, and high  availability solutions in OLTP environments. Also, I am very proficient in database backup, recovery, performance  tuning, maintenance tasks, security, and consolidation. Work Experience Database Administrator II Perimeter Global Logistics - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Provides 24/7 on call support as needed.  Creates and Executes a migration/decommission plan for over 500 databases within a 4 month project window.  Responsible for administering and maintaining over 150 database servers of Production and Test environment  Analyses and migrates data using ETL into SQL Server databases to support customer's implementation.  Coordinates and configures new nodes for production server clusters for high availability.  Responsible for administering and maintaining over 150 database servers of Production and Test environment.  Periodically restores backup files in test environment to check for corruption.  Reviews security, performance, and disk space and recommend corrective actions where needed.  Analyzes the current database environment to determine recommended database maintenance, security, and Microsoft SQL Server best practices.  Creates and maintains documentation for DBA standard operating procedures  Works closely with infrastructure team for patching and hardware upgrades, and ensures that both production and test servers are up to date by applying Windows and SQL Server patches.  Assists application team in the creation of databases, construction of queries, modification of database tables, and troubleshooting data issues SQL Database Administrator -MS SQL Server DHL Express - Houston, TX June 2016 to December 2017 Upgraded databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012.  Engaged in disaster recovery (DR) strategic planning and implementation in SQL Server.  Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases (Production, Development, Test and Staging Env.) for various groups such as Developer, QA and Users.  Checked Database Consistency/health by using DBCC Commands & DMVs at regular intervals.  Implemented MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active), Multi Node Cluster for high availability.  Created jobs, alerts, and SQL Mail Agents.  Rewrote and tuned long-running SQL queries to reduce execution time, ease database load and improve  scalability.  Tested and Implemented procedures to detect poor database performance, collecting required information, and root cause analysis.  Analyzed slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  Performed regular database backup.  Provided authentication and authorizations for databases. Database Administrator II Computer Warehouse Group - Victoria Island - Lagos, NG May 2014 to April 2016 Nigeria  Set up and administered SQL Server database security environments using profiles, database privileges and roles.  Used problem solving skills and root cause analysis to resolve and/or mitigate IT operational issues  Tuned transactional SQL and stored procedures  Ensured definition and development of database documentation and standards.  Monitored and maintained appropriate disk storage requirements for the database.  Oversaw the design and implementation of new applications and changes to existing hardware systems and software packages for customers for high performance.  Setup and configured Database mirroring in High Performance, High availability mode as standard DR strategy  Import and export data (Dev to QA, QA to Prod).  Implemented Log shipping and transactional replication.  Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning; Monitored and maintained  appropriate disk storage requirements for the database  Responsible for the configuration and administration of Microsoft SQL Server 2000 and 2005 for approximately  50 database servers, and 350+ databases  Rebuilt and Reorganized indexes at regular intervals for better performance. Education Bachelor of Science in Psychology Ambrose Alli University Skills DBA, Sql Server, Sql Database, Sql Dba Additional Information Skills  SQL Server Installation and Implementation Disaster Recovery  Database Security Data Migration  High Availability Strategic Planning  Database Upgrade patches T-SQL  Performance Tuning Replication  Replication Performance Tuning  Database Maintenance SSIS  Backup & Restore