Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Work Experience Managing Director Hyperlink Network Systems 2004 to 2004 2004-presant    Oversaw the development and conceptualization of the company's goals and the implementation of IT information services to clients. Manage and create operational strategies for project  management and business development.    Provide substantial cost saving solutions that optimized ROI and that contributed to the expansion of corporate services. Successful, utilized technology to maximize business efficiencies on enterprise wide implementation projects and this consistently delivered desired results  contributing to maximize revenue.    Developed Innovative IT services and business applications that produce fitting solutions for business clients and partners.    Responsible for the development of all administrative processes of the company including the evaluation and application of software and internet-based development tools and relational  database technologies. Ensured, through effective project management, that all development  projects are completed on time and within budget. Also, responsible for the strategic technical  direction of the company  Responsible for supporting entire software network for corporate clients, including LAN  technologies, internet, intranet, and Ethernet systems. Also, Responsible for cross-connecting  multi-plat formed systems and providing website traffic strings for tech support communications Database Administrator Accenture Technologies - Head Office - Reston, VA 2002 to 2004 Use SEIBEL as an HR support tool to administer and manage Transportation Security Agency (TSA)  HR database. Contributed in TSA project, that enhanced the database software to cut distributed  transaction processing time by more than 50% allowing TSA employees to receive critical service  request.    Provided support and troubleshooting assistance to all departmental branch of the company, and coordinated with accounting department to deploy enterprise wide financial and reporting  systems.    Part of a project group that implemented design enhancements for SEIBEL database and enterprise  client management systems that substantially reduced load times and online transaction response. Network Administrator Snyder Communications - Bethesda, MD 1999 to 2002 Provide system administration and ensure high level of reliability and stability along integrated  systems, also, recommended a wide variety of technical solutions in order to improve productivity,  including FTP access for telecommuters and clients, and spam filters.    Administered the migration of network hub room from datacenter with minimal downtime, and developed and installed the LAN layout for the datacenter using fiber optics.    Installed, configured and maintained companies core network and performed security measures on the entire internet and intranet systems.    In charge of daily monitoring and routine maintenance on all corporate workstations, switches  routers and all hardware equipments and administered on call support systems to employees. Education project management University of Maryland University College 2003 Bsc in Project Management/ Information Systems University of Maryland 2002 Montgomery College 1999 to 2000 Information Systems Certification Baltimore City University 2000 Additional Information Acquired Skills    • Windows NT Network Systems Development  • Novel Netware Project Management  • Microsoft SharePoint application Fiber Optic/LAN/WAN Termination  • Microsoft application packages Network Security