Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Whole Foods Market Bowie, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Whole Foods Market February 2013 to Present Established track record of advancement, distinction, and outstanding performance within the company. Communicated with senior dignitaries, colleagues, team leaders, and customers; coordinated planning and delivery of special projects and giving excellent customer services. Career highlights and accomplishments include    ? Systems Administrator (Multiple locations) - Removed viruses from computer workstations and remediated issues; troubleshot LAN problems. Managed the overall administration of Windows System applications.  ? Performed various troubleshooting and maintenance operations in Windows Server environments.  ? Installed of latest versions of Operating Systems on demand.  ? Sorted complex issues pertaining to hardware and network failure - monitored both hardware and software systems for errors and updated them regularly to maintain proper functioning and flow of information.  ? Performed security monitoring tests to identify intrusion.    Oracle jobber Intern - Junior Database Administrator Oracle jobber August 2016 to December 2016 Provided technical and administrative support on IT issues and data base related tasks on windows server 2003 and 2005 operating systems. Career highlights and accomplishments include  ? Participated and supported SQL server installations both upgrades and standalone installations.  ? Worked on various types of system units monitoring and fixing technical problems that might possibly prevent the database instances from their daily run.  ? Defined logical database model using ER diagrams, and specified entity and referential integrity constraints as well as business rules.  ? Created custom database reporting tools by coding stored procedures, triggers, and queries with PL/SQL. Education Masters of Science in Information Systems and Database Management UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD April 2017 Bachelor of Science in Economics Joseph ayo babalola university 2012 Skills ORACLE (4 years), BUDGET (Less than 1 year), BUSINESS ANALYSIS (Less than 1 year), DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (4 years), DATABASE DESIGN (4 years) Additional Information Qualifications Profile  Technically savvy and self-driven professional with outstanding leadership, planning, and engineering strengths; poised to excel in an Analyst / Developer role. Clearable  ? Project & Business Analysis: Excellent project management and analysis skills, able to coordinate planning, scheduling, resources, and tasks for on-time, in-budget delivery. Solid ability to apply the system development life cycle (SDLC) methodologies to project planning and execution.  ? Database & Software Development: Hands-on programming and development skills, including building Access and SQL databases, and Excel spreadsheets. Detail-driven with solid ability to ensure top quality through rigorous testing. Experience in database administration and Database Design.    ? Key Strengths: Articulate communicator, able to build relationships with diverse individuals at all levels of the hierarchy; fluent in English. Deadline - and results-driven with commitment to producing high-quality work in demanding environments.    Core Technologies  Environments: Windows, Linux, Oracle Enterprise Manager, IBM bluemix, Mongo, Rstudio  Tools:  Microsoft Office Suite, MySQL, Oracle Database 11g, SSH, SQL Developer, Data Modeler, HP Open VMS. UNIX Shell, SQL, PL/SQL, TCP/IP, NOSQL DB    Methodologies: System Development Life Cycle