REMOTE SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REMOTE SQL SERVER <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> REMOTE SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Knight & Associates Inc Lawrenceville, GA Proactive Database Administrator with 5 years of experience in database development and production environments. Proven skills in security management, database maintenance and establishing backup and recovery processes to safeguard data. Collectively collaborating with report writers, architects, developers, storage engineers and systems support personnel to develop, support multiple systems including, Windows Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012 and 2012R2, MS SQL 2008 Enterprise, 2008 R2 Enterprise, 2014 Enterprise and 2016 Enterprise. Work Experience REMOTE SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Knight & Associates Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present • Team based DBA responsible for 50 servers with database sizes ranging from 5GB to 1TB  • Installed, configured and maintained 2008, 2008R2, 2014, 2016 SQL Servers instances in all environments test, development, and production. Virtual and standalone environments.  • Collaborated with the windows server administrators to set up failover cluster.  • Experienced using third party tools like Idera SQl diagnostics manager to see health performance and an in-depth overview of running processes on server  • Experienced using system tools like setting counters on performance monitor, looking through windows logs on event viewer and monitoring CPU and Io changes with task manger in a general effort to check the performance of the server  • Using DMVs to check system health and performance  • Ran traces on queries with profiler  • Analyzed Query statements using Estimated Execution plan and Database engine Tuning Advisor.  • Work with VMware virtual machines in Production, Development and test environments  • Highly proficient in the use of T-SQL for developing complex queries, creating Database, Tables, Indexes, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedure, relational database models, data integrity, and SQL joins  • Created Databases and responsible for supporting the SQL Server databases and ensuring their performance, availability and security.  • Pro-actively monitor instances and Manage databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, database security configuration, database continuity all to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Work with the storage engineers to ensure the associated hardware resources were allocated to the databases to ensure high availability and optimum performance.  • Improve and manage maintenance of the databases to include Deployments and upgrades.  • Responsible for implementation and release of database changes.  • Responsible for security and non-security patches based on company approved maintenance schedules.  • Granted the right roles to the users to ensure right level of access  • Configured replication on objects of a database for the reporting team  • Constantly staying up to date with the ticketing system.  • Configured resource governor on instance.  • Explored new technologies and tools that quality assurance team could use for testing purposes.  • Using T-SQL to troubleshoot slow running processes.  • Participating in on-call rotation DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Slalom consulting - Atlanta, GA February 2016 to January 2017 • Monitored multiple databases to keep track of all company inventory.  • Responsible for writing SQL queries, stored procedures, views, triggers, T-SQL.  • Configured Always On with two replicas  • Configured Log shipping  • Specified user access levels for each database segment to protect database integrity and company information.  • Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.  • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect important company data.  • Experienced using Red-Gate SQL monitor  • To analyze poor performing queries and tune the queries to optimize application and system  performance  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning  • Monitoring the CPU usage, IO statistics, Memory Usage to identify any OS level performance  • Partnered with project management teams on development of scope and timelines.  • Developed data models and database designs to plan projects.  • Developed and managed project plans while providing status updates to management.  • Maintained quality-focused performance benchmarks and schedules when directing project teams.  • Performed the complete planning, application development, verification, and risks involved in software projects. JUNIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR InComm - Alpharetta, GA August 2014 to February 2016 • Responsible for installing the SQL Server database instances in all environments including but not limited to development, QA and Production  • Highly proficient in using T-SQL, writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views and Cursors in SQL Server  • Configured failover cluster  • Designed complex interfaces to support third party systems.  • Configured Mirroring  • Experienced using Sentry One SQL sentry  • Developed and managed project plans while providing status updates to management.  • Used pipe and filter model to find bottlenecks and enable measurement of system resource usage and process behavior.  • Explored new technologies and tools that quality assurance team could use for testing purposes.  • Ensured the immediate resolution of issues so that all project deliverables were met key milestones as defined by stakeholders.  • Assisted in the monitoring and reporting on website traffic and performance. Education BSc in Electrical/Electronic Engineering University of Benin 2012 Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, T-SQL, SECURITY, PERFORMANCE TUNING, CAPACITY PLANNING, MAINTENANCE, SHIPPING Additional Information Skills  • SQL Server Installation, Implementation and Migration  • Performance Tuning  • Capacity Planning  • Data Security  • SQL Server Performance Tuning  • Replication, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always ON Availability Groups, Fail-over Cluster    • Database Maintenance  • T-SQL  • Data synchronization  • Conflict resolution  • Backup & Recovery  • SQL Server Monitoring  • Data testing