Database Coordinator <span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator Database Coordinator - Alcoholics Anonymous World Services New York, NY Work Experience Database Coordinator Alcoholics Anonymous World Services - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Test programs or databases, correct errors and make necessary My function as database coordinator for AAWS Inc. included the assessment,  modifications. disposition, and replacement of the organizations several existing databases. In addition  ? Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information to deciding the fate of each database, I was tasked with redevelopment and reimagining in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification, the databases under my care to better serve AAWS' mission of reaching the still suffering or disclosure. alcoholic by streamlining, modernizing, and publicizing data services offered to the  ? Specify users and user access levels for each segment of the database fellowship.  ? Approve, schedule plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new  products and improvements to computer systems and databases. Helpdesk Administrator Maggy London - New York, NY October 2016 to February 2017 Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to Functioning as the sole help desk associate for the firm, I fielded and transferred requests  resolve problems. between myself and the tier 2 team of database, and infrastructure professionals within  ? Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper the firm. I was able to provide a clean image modification tool that could further be  installation of cables, operating systems or appropriate software. scripted into via PowerShell for the purpose of resizing images and compressing the file  ? Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral size for Web use.  equipment, following design or installation specifications.  ? Write scripts to perform automated tasks at regular intervals Helpdesk Administrator Ropers Majeski Kohn and Bentley - New York, NY June 2014 to September 2016 Answer user inquiries of computer software/hardware to resolve problems. Functioning as the sole help desk associate for the firm on the East Coast, I fielded  ? Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper requests from employees in the office, and in other offices. Consistently I was delegated  installation of cables, operating systems or appropriate software. to coach and assist other Helpdesk associates on issues. Often special projects would be  ? Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral required. My special projects included the disposal of old equipment, an email signature  equipment, following design or installation specifications. script in PowerShell, and some light data analysis.  ? Write scripts to perform automated tasks at regular intervals Education MS Western Governors University June 2019 BS in Information Technology Western Governors University June 2017