Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Quorum Business Solutions Houston, TX I am an excited individual that would like to continue my career in the IT field and face any challenges along the way. I brand myself as a team-oriented, proactive, and reliable employee. I intend to pursue opportunities that will nurture my already expanding technical, business, and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Quorum Business Solutions January 2015 to Present Elevated the customer experience by working with end users to resolve issues associated with database system queries.  ? Support the company by complete over forty requests a week in regards to database security, enhancements, patches and builds  ? Lead efforts in performance tuning and optimization needed to maintain customer applications  ? Research, develop, and document guidelines in regards to maintenance tasks policies and procedures IT Intern Chevron Corporation June 2013 to September 2013 Increased data quality assurance by facilitating dry runs in the upgrades before go-live dates and developed roadmaps for future upgrades.  ? Boosted team morale by assisting team members and their tasks with an awesome attitude.  ? Shortened project duration by proactively gathering business requirements from different end user's perspective.  ? Broaden company knowledge by reading and understanding the technical procedures and system environments in Chevron's Midstream and Gas operations.  ? Utilized past experience to provide valuable feedback and recommendations when participating in the revamping of Chevron's Midstream and Gas SharePoint site. SharePoint Administrator ZT Wealth Inc January 2013 to May 2013 Maximized efficiency by restructuring and maintaining the company's Microsoft SharePoint environment.  ? Mitigated risks by performing patch updates and maintenance on all instances of SharePoint.  ? Augmented customer satisfaction by training and supporting all SharePoint end users. Education Bachelor in Business Administration C.T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston - Houston, TX September 2010 to December 2014 Additional Information SKILLS  ? Software: Microsoft Office Suite, MSSQL Server, PL/SQL, Microsoft Azure  ? Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows 7