Database administrator/Devops Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span>/Devops Engineer Database administrator/Devops Engineer - Capgemini/Carnival Cruise Lines Miami, FL Around 2+ years of experience as DevOps Engineer, Database administrator with extensive skill in System Administration, Network Administration, Couchbase, design and implementation strategies for end to end deployments(CI/CD), Automation, Configuration Management and cloud services includes IaaS, SaaS adapting scaled agile-methodologies ensuring high availability and scaled environment. Work Experience Database administrator/Devops Engineer Capgemini/Carnival Cruise Lines - Miami, FL January 2018 to Present Project:  Ocean Medallion: Designed to customize the cruise for each individual passenger    Specifications:  Worked on large scale environment implementing AWS, Docker, Linux and Couchbase  Operating Systems: RHEL, Centos, Windows, Ubuntu  Monitoring tools: CloudWatch, Sysdig, Docker UCP, Portainer, Dynatrace, Pager Duty  Data Base: Couchbase, Oracle, Cassandra and MongoDB  Messaging services: Kafka and RabbitMQ  Version Control Systems: Bitbucket, JIRA, Github  Continuous Integration System: Jenkins  Automation: Ansible  Scripting: Shell, Ansible    Responsibilities:  • Expertise with using CI workflow tools like Repos, Jenkins, Ansible etc. to set staging and production environment..  • Experience writing Shell, Perl, Ruby, Groovy and Python scripts to automate the deployments.  • Have experience on version controls tools and repositories like GIT, SVN, Bitbucket, S3.  • Docker has been core to this experience, along with Kubernetes.  • Extensive knowledge on writing and deploying modules in Puppet.  • Worked with different Bug tracking tools like JIRA, Remedy, HP quality center and IBM clear quest.  • Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and in production support.  • Having good hands-on experience with Apache Kafka and RabbitMQ.  • Have good knowledge of utilizing cloud technology and NoSQL database like Mongo DB and Couchbase.  • Have good knowledge on XDCR replication between two Environments.  • Strong and progressive experience in the server installation and administration of Red Hat Linux, Centos, Oracle Enterprise Linux, VMware ESX&ESXI environment. Expertise in automate post-build integration including Code Coverage &Quality Analysis Tools like JUnit, SONAR, Find bugs and Check style.  • Experience in usage of VPC, Cloud Formation, CloudWatch, Cloud Front, EC2, RDS, S3, ELK, Route53, SNS, SQS, Cloud Trail.  • Build Customized Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) & deployed these customized images based on requirements  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using CloudWatch. Used AWS Cloud Trail web service to record API calls and documented the reports of logs  • Worked on writing Jenkins build pipeline with Gradle, scripted Groovy based DSL (Domain Specific Language) and integrated ANT/MAVEN/ Gradle build scripts for continuous build and Integration.  • Experienced in working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Implemented a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Used Docker, deployed a new running container, worked on the setup of Docker registry and published all the Docker images to that registry.  • Worked on writing Jenkins build pipeline with Gradle, scripted Groovy based DSL (Domain Specific  Language) and integrated ANT/MAVEN/ Gradle build scripts for continuous build and Integration.  • Experienced in deploying applications using configuration tools like Chef, Puppet, and Ansible with writing  cookbooks and recipes for chef, manifest for puppet and plays and playbooks for Ansible.  • Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize end product  configuration, converting production support scripts to Chef Recipes and AWS server provisioning using  Chef Recipes.  Installed Chef-Server Enterprise On-Premise, WorkStation, Bootstrapped the Nodes using Knife..  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to manage system configuration and also for Tomcat, MySQL, Windows  applications and versioned them on GIT repositories and Chef Server. Linux Administrator RIK Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to October 2015 India  RIK Technologies    • Provided 24x7 on-call supports in debugging and fixing issues related to Linux, Solaris, HP-UX Installation/Maintenance of Hardware/Software in Production, Development & Test Environment as an integral part of the Unix/Linux (RHEL/SUSE/SOLARIS/HP-UX/AIX) Support  • Good exposure to Centos and Redhat Linux. Good understanding of various recovery scenarios, refresh techniques and familiarity with HA solutions as well as shell or ruby scripting is highly desirable  • Deep understanding of navigating highly secure enterprise networks and excellent troubleshooting and performance tuning skills  • Experience working in a Cloud environment like Amazon EC2, S3, VPC.  • Production support of Apache, PHP, My SQL, Tomcat including installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting.  • Involved in developing custom scripts using Shell (bash, ksh) to automate jobs.  • Installed and configured the RPM packages using the YUM Software manager. Configured/provisioned storage logical volumes using logical volume manager (LVM).  • Production support of Apache, PHP, My SQL, Tomcat including installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting. Education MS in Computer Science Texas A&M University August 2017 B. Tech in Information Technology Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2014 Skills DOCKER (3 years), GROOVY (Less than 1 year), JENKINS (3 years), SQL (3 years), LINUX (3 years), ansible (3 years), Chef (2 years), Devops, Puppet, Java, AWS, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Computer Skills:    • Languages: Proficient in C, C++, JAVA, JSP, HTML, CSS, SQL, R, Ruby, Python, Groovy;  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux (CENT OS, Ubuntu)  • Database Systems: RDBMS, MySQL, Microsoft SQL management studio, MongoDB, Transact -SQL, Couchbase  • Client Tools: MYSQL Workbench, Navicat and SQL Developer, Docker, AWS, Jenkins, Ansible