Database Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Database Manager - Extendime Software Solutions Iselin, NJ To obtain a Front Desk Receptionist position at Cardio Medical Group. Work Experience Database Manager Extendime Software Solutions - Iselin, NJ January 2015 to Present • Developed and maintained queries and reports for company's events and projects.  • Created procedures in MySQL to get information from the database.  • Worked with help desk to provide technical assistance to users and resolve application and database related problems.  • Worked on fixes/patches to the applications when required.  • Provided support and training to use the applications, helped in the orientation of all new staff.  • Provided specialized training of changing roles in business processes, and database functionality. IT Student Administrator Rutgers Public Safety Building, Rutgers University, New Brunswick September 2013 to July 2014 Maintained accurate and complete documentation of the processing units at the warehouse and their respective system configurations.  • Provided every day administration support including answering calls, transferring calls, data entry, and operating printers, fax and copiers.  • Prepared data spreadsheets, charts, graphs, and other documents as required.  • Provided technical assistance to staff on both Mac and Windows operating systems and assisted in software and hardware upgradation, installation, and configuration.  • Performed routine PC maintenance and updates for performance efficiency.  • Assisted in maintaining Internet service, firewalls, and telephone systems. Student Administrator Rutgers Geology Museum, College Ave Campus September 2012 to August 2013 Rutgers University, New Brunswick.  • Performed various duties such as running the museum tours, conducting activities for visitors of all age groups, managing cash register at the museum store etc.  • Worked as a help desk representative answering phone calls and providing visitors with appropriate information.  • Created a website for the employees to record their sign-in and sign-out timings.  • This website also allowed the director of the museum to access information about the number of hours each employee has worked and his/her appropriate pay rate. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ May 2016 Additional Information Skills: Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, PHP, MATLAB Visual Basic, MySQL, SQL Server, etc.  Management skills: Installing, configuring, monitoring, troubleshooting, and supporting all databases and operating systems.