Technical Lead Database Administrator Technical Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Technical Lead Database Administrator ? 10+ years of experience as Oracle Data Base Administrator, providing 24x7 production support of development and production 12c/11gR2/10g/9i/8i databases on different Platform.  ? 5+ years of experience in SQL Server 2012/2008/2005 database administration activities and troubleshooting in Windows platforms for approximately over 250+ instances.  ? Installed oracle database server on HP-UX, AIX, WINDOWS, REDHAT LINUX and migration of oracle server from9i to 10g, 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c and also applied oracle One-off and bug fix Patches.  ? Proficient in Oracle Database Administration on Production, Development and Test Databases including Disaster Recovery, High Availability Solutions (RAC & Data Guard) and Backup & Recovery (RMAN).  ? Migrated single instance databases to multi-node 12c, 11g R1, R2 RAC environments for high availability and load balancing.  ? Continuous review of Business critical Database to proactively identify space issues, performance tuning issue.  ? Hands on experience in Data guard, Grid control, streams, and replication, monitoring batch performance.  ? Handled entire DBA activity on server move for VERITAS cluster and Data warehouse servers.  ? Configured OEM 11g R2 and Installed agent on all the servers.  ? Creating rules, maintaining blackouts, performing day-to-dayactivities via OEM.  ? Installed and Configured 12c, 11g, 11g R1 3 Node RAC  ? Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN),Import/Export & Data pump, Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Data guard, database cloning, refresh and patch management.  ? Established Disaster Recovery for Oracle 10g RAC database.  ? Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 11g/12c OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  ? Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine-tuning those SQL's for better performance.  ? Experience in using 10g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring.  ? Expertise in creating Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views.  ? Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic.  ? Implemented High availability solution's like Windows Clustering, Failover Clustering that include Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and DR recovery strategies.  ? Installing different versions of SQL server Standalone (2005 to 2014).  ? Installation of SQL Server Reporting Services and Folders creation and assign rights to Users.  ? Ensuring that all databases are backed up on a regular basis, fixing backup failures, address and implement resolutions.  ? Worked on many Unplanned power outage and restored the DB  ? Trained and nurture new Junior DBA to handle Daily Oracle activities. Work Experience Technical Lead Database Administrator Fujitsu September 2009 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design, build, and testing phase of the life cycle for the largest reinsurance project.  ? Handled Entire DBA activates on datacenterenvironment and maintained around 5 TB's production servers.  ? Provided L3 Support for IT infrastructure, twice visited Germany for L2 and L3 support.  ? Involved in the installation of new database 12c on Red hat Linux for Production and development environments.  ? Migrated Database from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2 for both Production and Development environment.  ? Configured flash recovery area, created RMAN scripts and export scripts for regular backups.  ? Cloned/Refreshed Oracle Databases as per schedules and request.  ? Responsible for database backup strategies, database recovery and validation & reporting database statistics.  ? Implemented Disaster Recovery plans.  ? Worked along with Microsoft server and .NET Team to help setup new application within HP.  ? Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  ? Perform SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL.  ? Worked on several shell scripts to maintain the database activities  ? Mentoring the Database Performance using automated scripts.  ? Answerable for setting and managing User Accounts, Granting required privileges to users.  ? Experienced in Security Administration and Space Management  ? Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  ? Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle standby services.  ? Worked onDataguard setup and extensive knowledge with all protection modes such as Maximum performance, Maximum protection, Maximum Availability.  ? Extensive knowledge on physical/active/logical/snapshot standby  ? Maintaining consistency by transmitting all the archives from primary to standby databases and by applying all archives to standby.  ? Knowledge of RTS redo transport service, apply services such as redo apply technology and SQL apply technology using LNS/LTS/RFS services, Role transition services using switchover and failover.  ? Involved in setting up oracle http server 11g for in house HP applications.  ? Having regular interaction with client for regular issues.  ? Working for German client. Which is having more than 200 databases on Linux  ? Day-to-Day Oracle and SQL Server Database administration, Maintenance and support.  ? Installation of SQL server 2008 SP3 and 2012 with SP1_CU2.  ? Failover Cluster Installations in SQL 2008/2012 and Failover resources between nodes in Downtimes.  ? SAN Disk replacement in 4 NODE Cluster environment.  ? Creating and configuring the Databases as per the requirement. Database Administrator CtrlS Datacenters limited 2008 to August 2009 Responsibilities  ? Worked as an DBA for Oracle & SQL server  ? Looking after the Databases of Dinathanthi newspaper, Sirez Info Systems, Cyber Futuristics and Indian Overseas bank.  ? Creating and Managing Users, Managing User Resources with Profiles, Controlling User Privileges through roles  ? Managing Physical structure of Oracle database like Datafiles, Redo log files and Control files.  ? Creating and Managing the Tablespaces  ? Monitoring Alert Log files  ? Verify All Instances are up checking Listener Status  ? Checking Mount Point Status  ? Used different V$ views to study the database activities  ? Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import. This is done so that the latest data is available in the development/test database  ? Moving Data between Database using utilities like Export/Import and Transportable Table spaces.  ? Transported the Table space from production database and plugged-in it in development/ Test database for the usage of developers  ? Performing Logical Backups through Export and Import Utility  ? Creating new databases and users accounts, setup backups, and other monitoring scripts  ? Setting up Log Shipping between servers  ? Creating Jobs and maintenance plans  ? Database backups and recovery.  ? Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance  ? Implemented High availability solution's like Windows Clustering, Failover Clustering that include Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and DR recovery strategies.  ? Installing different versions of SQL server Standalone.    Environment:  ? Datacenter support systems, shared managed software services to end client.  ? Oracle 10g /11g, ASM, Shell Scripting, Linux, Solaris, Tomcat Apache, SQLServer 2000/2005. Oracle Database Administrator Gallon Technologies - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2006 to September 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Worked for the clients APPA (Andhra Pradesh Police Academy), Electricity Holding Company, Ministry of Health  ? Involved in the installation of 10g RAC on LINUX environment.  ? Administered Oracle 10g production, test, and development environment on RHEL, IBM-AIX.  ? Skilled with STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, SAR to check health of database & hardware.  ? Worked on tools such as TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, ORADEBUG and TRACE FILE to tune SQL Queries.  ? Performed database cloning to setup test and development database.  ? Conducted sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  ? Involved in Migration of Database from 9i to 10g and applying patches whenever required.  ? Installed OEM agents on 10g database and setup alerts using OEM.  ? Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g RAC  ? RAC Troubleshooting.  ? Worked on maintaining schemas and partitioning tables.  ? Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using tools such as PL/SQL, Oracle Hints, SQL Trace, Explain plans.  ? Experienced with all kinds (Status, Performance, and Trend Analysis) of DB Monitoring.  ? Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database.  ? Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and stand alone instances.  ? Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Created table spaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  ? Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, and packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area.  ? Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  ? Experienced with precise (DB performance tuning tool)  ? Monitoring batch performance.  ? Have a solid understanding of VTL, EDL, Tape Cloning and EMC SAN storage technologies and helped SAN Engineers in their projects.  ? Experienced with Dataguard Implementation  ? Implemented oracle high availability solution using oracle 10g Physical Standby.  ? Importing data from flat files into database using SQL loader and External Tables.  ? Assisting the ETL team to improve performance by analyzing SQL statements, reorganizing database objects and design indexes to improve response of queries.  ? Involved in the documentation of every task involved in the recovery issues or backups.  ? Setting up and monitoring Cron jobs to schedule database backups with the help of RMAN scripts and daily night exports.  ? Monitoring Growth of tables and undertaking necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  ? Used Explain Plan to monitor the query execution and views to make sure the operations run without roadblocks.  ? Troubleshooting Database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM).  ? Creation of various database objects including materialized views.  ? Troubleshooting errors and using the expdp/impdp utility on a very regular basis for copying data across schemas.  ? Running scripts and monitoring the load process to avoid roadblocks in ETL jobs running for a long duration.  ? Troubleshooting expdp/impdp errors in a RAC environment, configuring storage accordingly.  ? Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion.  ? Upgraded from 9.2.0.x to 10.2.0.x.    Environment:  ? Oracle 9i/10g, RAC, ASM, Shell Scripting, Linux, SQLServer 2000/2005, windows. Performing Security Administration Tasks 2008 to 2008 Applying Service packs and Hot fixes on SQL Server.  ? Performing backups of SQL databases by setting up backup schedules at regular intervals and also restoring databases.  ? Performing Security Administration Tasks like Creating users and Delegating appropriate permissions to the users as required.  ? Creating and Monitoring the Maintenance plans - scheduling tasks to run daily and/or on weekends tasks like rebuilding indexes, defragmenting Databases, Shrink Database.  ? Migrating Database from lower version to higher version SQL Server.  ? Proactive monitoring of all Databases & Backups.  ? Ensuring high availability of the database exploiting the concepts of DB mirroring.  ? Checking the general Health of the servers for identifying SQL Job failures & Bottlenecks.    Environment: Oracle 11g R2 RAC, Oracle 12c/11g, OEM 12C, Shell Scripting, Linux, Solaris, HP-UX, 12000 PCs, 2000 Wintel, 1500 UNIX, 1500 SW products, 70 SAP Systems, 200 Oracle Databases, 250 SQL Server and Web-Applications. Strategic Software partners: Microsoft, SAP, Oracle & HP, Strategic Hardware partners: EMC / Netapp, FSC, HP Education Bachelors in Technology JNTU Additional Information Operating Systems RHEL, HP-UX, AIX,Windows  Data Bases Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Oracle11g/10g Real Application Clusters(RAC), MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005    Software Applications  Srvctl, Crsctl, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Real Applications Cluster (RAC), STATSPACK, ERWIN, Clusters, VERITAS Backup, SQL Loader    Ticketing Tools HP Service Manager, Nagios monitoring tool, Remedy  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, C#, C, C++, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting, Perl  Database Tools Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c OEM, SCOM 2007, Toad.  Tuning Tools TKPROF, Explain Plan, Statspack, AWR, ADDM, Grid Control Tuning Advisors