Computer Support Specialist Computer Support Specialist Database Administrator Carbondale, IL Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Computer Support Specialist SIU Carbondale - Carbondale, IL September 2014 to Present I got a graduate assistance position while doing my Master's degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Duties include Full desktop support for staff in College of Education and human services, installing software application and troubleshooting issue. Backing up all the servers for the college and assist in printing and scanning issues. Administrator - ICSFS Oracle Database And Web - Amman December 2013 to July 2014 Position Description:  I was responsible about installing of the environment (OS, Database, Application server) to implement the BANKS core banking system at the customer side and manage all the production, HA and DR servers in addition to the test and UAT environments. implementation, monitoring, performance tuning and resolve issues and bugs are also part of my duties.    Main Responsibilities:  • Full implementation of new environment, install Linux RedHat on all the servers, prepare the application servers connecting them with the load balancer and installation of the RAC database nodes  • Prepare the DR and HA side using the Oracle Dataguard Technology.  • Prepare UAT and test servers upon customers requests.  • Implement the Banks (ICSFS core banking system) on all environments  • Solve all customers issues related to performance, functionality and bugs.  • Implement any new Oracle technology related to databases requested by customers like Oracle database vault and oracle audit vault.  • Help customers to take backups, easy restore techniques and implementing audit policies  Skills  • OS: Linux RedHat, Unix AIX, Windows server and Sun Solaris.  • Database: Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g, Oracle Dataguard, and Oracle real application clusters (RAC), DB2 9.5+, SQL 2005 and SQL 2008.  • Servers: Production, development, UAT, HA and DR.  • Storage replication technology PPRC, IBM Tivoli storage management.    Projects:  • Full Installation for a new customers contains DB, OS and Application server.  • Implement Oracle Audit Vault 12 and Oracle Database Vault for several customers.    . Database Administrator The Housing Bank for Trade May 2012 to December 2013 Position Description:  I was fully handling the administrative tasks on the servers backed with the big three different databases: Oracle, DB2, and SQL Server in different operating environments like:UNIX, Linux and Windows, doing the administration tasks on the servers.    Main Responsibilities:  • Installing, creating, migrating, opening, and backing up a DB on the server.  • Managing and customizing the different user's privileges on DB.  • Recovering DB failure.  • Monitoring the performance of the DB and evaluating the server hardware.  • Tasks related to the applications that are connected to the database.  • Managing all the HA and DR servers beside the production and the development servers. Education MSc in Computer Engineering Southern Illinois University 2014 BSc in Computer Engineering Yarmouk University 2007 to 2012 Yarmouk University Model School 2006 to 2007 Additional Information Skills  • OS: Windows server, Unix AIX, and Linux scripting.  • Database: DB2 9.5+, SQL 2005 and SQL 2008, Oracle 10g and 11g, Oracle Dataguard, and Oracle real application clusters (RAC)  • Servers: Production, development, HA and DR.  • Storage replication technology PPRC, IBM Tivoli storage management.    Projects:  • Played a primary role in the implementation of the new core banking system with all the new technologies: RAC and Dataguard.  • Implementing the data guard technology on several systems instead of the PPRC technology.  • Preparing the environment for the money laundry system.  • Participation in the implementation of Oracle HRMS system.    Web Developer Intern -Bayt.com  September 2011- March 2012    Position Description:  I have spent my internship as a web developer and I have a good experience in the following:  • HTML, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • JQuery and SQL.  • TCL  • C++  • MySQL, Oracle 10g, and Postgres.    • Special Skills  • High level of integrity and excellent communication skills.  • Ability to Work under Pressure & excellent team pleasure.  • Excellent Human relationships.  • High motivated with team player spirit.  • Presentable with leadership qualities.  • Able to handle multi-tasks - manage multiple assignments.