Job Seeker SQL DBA (8+ Years Experience across the corners and major domain migrations) Tampa, FL A Microsoft Database Administrator on SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014, having eight plus Years of IT experience on Microsoft SQL Server Technology.  Had a responsible involvement in requirements Specifications & Database administration, optimization and deployments.  • Experience on infrastructure engineering like setting up the design of SQL servers effectively meeting the business standards.  • Expertise in resolving the unknown issues with dependent technologies collaborated with SQL.  • Received multiple leadership appreciations on implementing the best practices and analysis on like SQL auditing, SQL vulnerabilities meting the business requirement.  • Experience as a SQL DBA on production Environment with various sql versions supporting 700+ Databases under ITIL flow.  • Global Customer interactions through mails/telephonic etc.  • Adept in analyzing information system needs, evaluating end-user requirements. Troubleshooting for complex information systems management by following ITIL processes.  • Analyzing and meeting SLAs as per the severity.  • Experience on multiple disasters and recovery of databases.  • Experience in multiple Database migration under various process like Backup/Restore; Detach/Attach etc.  • The DBA Support involves working closely with direct customer to ensure that user issues are quickly resolved.  • Played vital role with troubleshooting on SQL domain migrations.  • Installations & configurations of SQL 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012 and SSRS on Cluster/Standalone platform and troubleshooting issues while installing SQL server/SSRS setups.  • Troubleshooting/managing the issues related to SSRS configurations.  • Expertise on providing/maintaining the security/privileges of SSRS from application/ Database Server.  • Applying/Upgrading the latest service packs/Patches based on the requirement and Application testing.  • Performance Tuning like identifying long running queries; Open Transactions; Blockings; Deadlocks etc.  • Running SQL profiler under required parameters for analyzing the performance.  • Installation, configuration and managing the Performance Dash Board on Production under Cluster/Standalone environment.  • Trained on ITIL process at Hewlett Packard.  • Expertise in SQL Server Cluster Implementation and Troubleshooting.  • Expertise in creating Backups & restoring of databases and devising strategies for Backups, recovery & fine-tuning.  • Expertise in creating, implementing and monitoring Maintenance Plans/SQL Jobs.  • Expertise with the role of Transaction logs and action accordingly.  • Log Space Maintenance and Temp database space issues.  • Expertise with AWE Role and configured the values under different parameters.  • Providing Database security by creation of SQL logins/users and granting of roles, providing privileges at all levels on SQL Server including symmetric keys and Certificates at database.  • Creating and managing of multiple Linked Servers with all required accessibility for Data Pull trough SQL Jobs.  • Expertise on creating, configuring, managing and troubleshooting of DB mail with all require security and accessibility.  • Expertise on configuring and managing the Logshipping with maintaining multiple DRs.  • Performing Online/Offline database DR Drills as per the customer requirements.  • Expertise with Database Mirroring and Replication.  • Regular monitoring and workaround on Disk Management and Database File growths and take appropriate action.  • Responsible for planning, development, peer reviews, testing, providing direct client support and involved in all phases of database development and Production lifecycles.  • Responsible for timelines and deliverables of the project with strict adherence to quality.  • Strong personal drive and work ethic. Strong writing skills and ability to communicate effectively and tie data to action.  • Self motivated with natural leadership traits, excellent communication skills, analytical, problem-solving skills and experience of working with multinational and cross-cultural teams.    ? Currently working for Tata Consultancy Services as IT Analyst (SQL DBA) on H1B at onsite.  ? Worked for Hewlett Packard as SQL Server DBA (L2) through NH Sriram info & Adecco.  ? Worked for Aadi Resource as SQL Server DBA.  ? Expertise as a database administrator in production server maintenance and support. Work Experience PricewaterhouseCoopers January 2014 to Present Team size: 01    PricewaterhouseCoopers: Database Administrator Sun Chemical January 2009 to October 2010 Team size: 05    Description:  Sun Chemical is the world's largest producer of printing inks, organic pigments, colorants and coatings. Sun Chemical is having 4 Data centers and more than 800 Servers in US & UK. We have used a standard trouble ticket system(Touch Paper) for logging tickets and for doing change request. We have managed 320 database servers.    Responsibilities:  ? Installing, configuring of Microsoft SQL Server 2005 software and related products.  ? Backup client databases and perform database restore and run consistency checks from SQL Server and application. Performs and monitors daily database operations and set-up backup schedule.  ? Monitor the status of Maintenance jobs - schedule to run daily and on weekends (tasks like rebuilding indexes, Shrink Database, and Database complete backup).  ? Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges).  ? Configuring and Monitoring SQL Server high availability of Log shipping.  ? Monitored and Modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  ? Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Performing the Data Refresh activity in DEV/Test environments from Production.  ? Complete Documentation about the database.  ? Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export of DTS.  ? Recovering the databases from disasters. Kuoni Travel - Zürich, ZH 2010 to 2010 the Kuoni Group was named "World's Leading Tour Operator" at the annual World Travel Awards for eleven years in a row.    VFS GLOBAL:  VFS Global is the world's largest outsourcing and technology services specialist for diplomatic missions and governments worldwide. The company manages visa and passport issuance-related administrative and non-judgemental tasks for its client governments. With 734 Visa Application Centres (VACs) and operations in 83 countries across five continents, VFS Global serves the interests of the diplomatic missions of 39 sovereign governments. The company has successfully processed 50 million applications since its inception in 2001.    Responsibilities:  ? Problem Solving and implementing changes as per the customer requirement.  ? Installations & configurations of SQL 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012 and SSRS on Cluster/Standalone platform and troubleshooting issues while installing SQL server/SSRS setups.  ? Troubleshooting/managing the issues related to SSRS configurations.  ? Expertise on providing/maintaining the security/privileges of SSRS from application/ Database Server.  ? Installation, configuration and managing the Performance Dash Board on Production under Cluster/Standalone environment.  ? Implementing Vulnerability on newly build servers as per the customer standards before moving to production/UAT.  ? Applying/Upgrading the latest service packs/Patches based on the requirement and post Application testing.  ? Global Customer interactions through mails/telephonic etc.  ? Implementation of automation of Backups & restorations of databases and devising strategies for Backups, recovery & fine-tuning.  ? Providing Database security by creation of SQL logins/users and granting of roles, providing privileges at all levels on SQL Server including encryptions symmetric keys and Certificates at database.  ? Worked with orphaned users as a security policy.  ? Creating and managing of multiple Linked Servers with all required accessibility for Data Pull through SQL Jobs.  ? Expertise with analyzing the SQL Server logs.  ? Performance Tuning like identifying server utilization; Processes; long running/highly utilized queries; Open Transactions; Blockings; Deadlocks; Database Fragmentation; Re-indexing etc.  ? Running SQL profiler under required parameters for analyzing the performance.  ? Expertise with the role of Transaction logs and action accordingly.  ? Log Space Maintenance and Temp database space issues.  ? Expertise with AWE Role and configured the values under different parameters.  ? Creating, configuring, managing and troubleshooting of DB mail with all require security and accessibility.  ? Creating and managing the Automated SQL Jobs with configuring the alerts triggered and ensure to run on the unique schedules to vanquish the server performance.  ? Analyzing and meeting SLAs as per the severity.  ? Experience on multiple disasters and recovery of databases.  ? Experience in multiple Database migration with various process like Backup/Restore; Detach/Attach etc.  ? Played vital role on SQL domain migrations with trouble shooting on issue occurrence.  ? Expertise on configuring and managing the Logshipping with maintaining multiple DRs.  ? Performing Online/Offline database DR Drills as per the customer requirements.  ? Regular monitoring and workaround on Disk Management and Database File growths and take appropriate action.  ? Trained on ITIL process at Hewlett Packard.  ? Maintained the detailed reports and share to the customer based on the requirement. Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand merged to create PricewaterhouseCoopers 1998 to 1998 A global perspective along with in-depth knowledge of local, state and US issues. In 1998, Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand merged to create PricewaterhouseCoopers. We have a long history of delivering value-added professional services to our clients. Our accounting practice originated in London during the mid-1800.  PwC focuses on audit and assurance, tax and consulting services. Additionally, in the US, PwC concentrates on 16 key industries and provides targeted services that include - but are not limited to - resources, deals, forensics, and consulting services. We help resolve complex issues and identify opportunities.  Responsibilities:  ? Case study on project engagement proposals and set up the business meeting to understand the project scope and suggesting the best practices implementation.  ? Preparing the statement of understanding (SoU), meeting the project scope and schedules on deliverables.  ? Designing the project requirement (Visio) specific to technologies including SQL.  ? Interacting with different teams followed with standard process on setting up the relevant infrastructure as per the scope.  ? Expertise on identifying the root cause and resolving the unknown issues (SPNs, SIDs, and Corruptions etc.) related to SQL Server and collaborative technologies.  ? Installations & configurations of SQL Server features ( Database Engine, SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS) with 2008 R2/2012 R2/2014 on Cluster/Standalone platform and troubleshooting issues while installing SQL feature setups.  ? Troubleshooting/managing the issues related to SSRS configurations.  ? Expertise on providing/maintaining the security/privileges of SSRS from application/ Database Server.  ? Implementing best practices on vulnerabilities of newly build servers as per the customer standards, before moving to production/UAT.  ? Applying/Upgrading the latest service packs/Patches based on the requirement and post Application testing.  ? Implementation of automation of Backups & restorations of databases and devising strategies for Backups, recovery & fine-tuning.  ? Providing Database security by creation of SQL logins/users and granting of roles, providing privileges at all levels on SQL Server including on encryptions, symmetric keys and Certificates at database level.  ? Creating and managing of multiple Linked Servers with all required accessibility for Data Pull through SQL Jobs.  ? Expertise in analyzing the SQL Server Error logs and Performance Tuning like identifying server utilization; Processes; long running/highly utilized queries; Open Transactions; Blockings; Deadlocks; Database Fragmentation; Re-indexing etc.  ? Analyzing and implementing the best practices on Log Space Maintenance and Temp database space issues based on the application load\operations.  ? Expertise on analyzing the different parameters of SQL profiler to narrow\identify the root cause on SQL related issues.  ? Analyzed and implemented the SQL Audit best practices (Space constraints, identifying the specific parameters etc) meeting to the standards.  ? Creating and managing the Automated SQL Jobs with configuring the alerts triggered and ensure to run on the unique schedules to vanquish the server performance/Locking/Blockings.  ? Analyzing and meeting SLAs as per the severity.  ? Experience on multiple disasters, corruptions and recovery of databases including system databases.  ? Experience in multiple Database migration/upgradation (In-place and swing) with various process like Backup/Restore; Detach/Attach etc.    2. KUONI & VFS Global  Entities: VFS; Kuoni; SOTC; HO and SSC. SQL Database Administrator (L2) KUONI & VFS Environment: Windows 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2008 R2 Server / SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012.  Duration: Nov 2010- Dec 2013  Team size: 05    KUONI Database Administrator National Life Group - VT USA  Environment: Windows 2003 Server / SQL Server 7.0, 2005  Duration: Jun 2008 to Dec 2009  Team Size: 06    Description: National Life is Leading Life Insurance Company in the United States providing different Insurance and annuity products to its customers. Illustrations project plays a key role in the Business process workflow of NLG. This product is used at the beginning of the Policy's lifecycle when the Agent presents an Illustration / Quotation to the customer with various details taken into consideration like Age, Sex, Smoking Status, Riders, rates etc. Illustrations system is also used by Underwriters of NLG who evaluate the policy before issuing the policy. Once the Policy is issued the Details are available on the web for the customers to keep track of it and make any changes to it depending on their needs.    Responsibilities & Tasks:  ? Installing, configuring of Microsoft SQL Server 2005 software and related products.  ? Health checking the Production servers.  ? Automating and monitoring all the Database maintenance activities.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.  ? Maintaining the database consistency with DBCC at regular intervals  ? Monitoring SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and dead locks.  ? Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  ? Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency using Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  ? Complete documentation of database from parent to object level.  ? Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Effective implementation of Point in time recovery procedures.  ? To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance. Education M.Sc Kakatiya University Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows 2000; 2003; 2008; 2008R2; 2012  Enterprise Database Administration: MS SQL Server 2005; 2008; 2008 R2; 2012 and 2014 Databases  Programming knowledge: C, Java, T-SQL.