MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator - Melaleuca, Inc United States Three years of professional IT experience working as a Microsoft SQL Server Database Administrator in the health and wellness, fitness, ecommerce and banking industry. Experienced in working with nuclear as well as large teams in companies with the number of employees ranging from a 100, right up to 24,000+ strong.  Worked with:  ? MS SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014 & 2016 on Windows Servers 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2 & 2016.  ? Physical Servers (Stand-alone & Clusters) and Always On Availability Groups as well as Virtual Servers (VMWare and Amazon Web Servers AWS EC2and RDS) with databases over 2 Terabytes and with tables over 800 Gigabytes.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, 2012 & 2015; TFS (Team Foundation Server) & ETL Data Movement Tools like SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) with focus on Data Extraction and Loading.  Experienced in:  ? Disaster Recovery (Backup and Restore) and Replication (Transactional and Snapshot).  ? Installation of new servers and upgrading servers from existing versions as well as Server patching.  ? RedGate tool suite (SQL ToolBelt) and Deployment tools like TeamCity  ? Database health and integrity checks, T-SQL, Performance Tuning, and Query Optimization.  Methodologies:  ? SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, etc.  ? Creating and maintaining the server and procedural documentation on ITIL standards.  Other Tools:  ? PowerShell, Command Prompt and FTP Tools like FileZilla and gFTP.  ? Data Analytics tools like SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) and SSAS (SQL Server Analysis Services)  ? Spotlight Data Monitoring tools via Dell, Inc., Windows Perfmon, SQL Profiler & Team communications via Slack, Bitrix, and Lync (Skype for Business) & Microsoft Office Suite. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator Melaleuca, Inc - Idaho Falls, ID August 2016 to Present • Currently working with a team of 3 DBA's handling 95 Legacy Production Systems critical for the business with a total of over  250 MS SQL database server instances including development, quality assurance and staging systems. Instances were a mixture  of physical clusters (Active-Passive and Active-Active), virtual servers (VMWare and AWS EC2). We also support a few Always On  AG's clusters on physical disk.  • Day-to-day duties included maintenance, upkeep and fine tuning the existing instances as well as creating new SQL Server  instances in all environments as and when needed to support the business with a rapidly growing revenue of over 1.75 billion  US dollars and geographical reach of over 4 continents; Keeping up to the SLA standards for RPO and RTO; Managing replication,  auditing security policies and access via AD groups and other ad-hoc service requests. Other responsibilities would include ETL  tasks via SSIS and other internal tools, PTO (Performance Tuning and Optimization) of queries, managing the SSRS as well as SSAS servers and providing off-business hours on-call support for 24-by-7 functioning.  • Reduced the licensing cost of the servers by version downgrades by 33%; Merged instances for resource reduction and performance improvement and downtime reduction by 21%. The DBA team successfully reduced system downtimes by a whopping 17% after a period of 7 months. SQL Server Database Administrator Sierra Consulting, Inc - Chicago, IL January 2015 to July 2016 - Worked with a team of 4 DBA’s handling over 20 Production systems and around 70 Dev and Staging instances of SQL Server for three clients concurrently. All of the instances were either virtual (VMWare) or were physical (Active-Passive clusters) with SQL Server versions from 2008R2 to 2012.  - Day-to-day duties included level two support for all the production instances, SQL Server Agent Job maintenance for server health and backups and ticket resolution service for environments other than hot production systems. Tasks also included server commissioning & decommissioning and upgrades per client requirements. Other responsibilities included writing T-SQL queries for ad-hoc reports, client requirement gathering, capacity planning and root cause analysis for historic tickets, automated auditing and reporting, managing SSIS & SSRS. Also, had experience with the Agile environment with running sprints and daily scrums, Documentation on ITIL standards & procedures as well as maintain the constantly changing release documents.  - Provided DBA training to the interns and the client for basic troubleshooting by creating the required documentation and Wiki's to help with the same. Improved client clarity and gained successful support contract extensions. Exceeded client SLA expectations by 3% over the period of 6 months. MS SQL Server DBA SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to January 2016 - Worked with a team of 10 DBA’s handling over 25 Production systems and around 105 Dev, QA, and Staging instances of SQL Server for SunTrust onsite. All of the instances were physical (Active-Passive clusters and Active-Active cluster) with SQL Server versions from 2008R2 to 2014.  - The objective of this project was upgrading the defined existing servers from SQL 2008R2 to 2012 and the SQL 2012 servers to 2014, making sure that the server applications are consistent throughout the upgrade, having fallback options as well as providing hyper-care support for the upgraded servers post the upgrade phase. This also included the capacity planning and requirement gathering phase from the client.  - Completed the project well within the given timelines and cut down on the hyper-care support Database Analyst HDFC Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 to August 2014 - User interactions and requirement analysis, Scope defining and generations of reports, ETL operations on existing data from MS Excel to MS SQL Server 2008R2 & 2012, Database creation, monitoring & maintenance, report generation, working with the Application development team for role assignment and login creation, SQL Server Agent job management, Identify and amend deadlocks and/or blocking and database size estimation & growth forecasting, documenting processes and procedures according to company standards.  - Created PowerShell scripts for database and server metric collection and then built reports on the collected data for forecasting of database consumption and scheduled jobs for automatic alerting for the required thresholds. Education Masters of Information Technology & Management in Information Technology & Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL May 2016 Bachelors of Information Technology in Information Technology Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 Skills MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), SSIS (3 years), SSRS (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/magnus18