Database Consultant <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant Database Consultant - TekMasters LLC Miami Beach, FL Current U.S Citizen as a Senior Database Administrator & Architect managing and administering numerous database systems that include RDBMS, NoSQL, Real-Time streaming, In-memory key-value stores, and in-memory compute clusters. Architectures span across on-premise datacenters, AWS, & Rackspace. Work Experience Database Consultant TekMasters LLC - New York, NY May 2016 to Present • Architect medium-sized database environment consisting of MySQL 5.6 and MongoDB 3.2/3.4. Environments featured MySQL Master-Master replication and MongoDB replica sets within shards.  • Manage Consul for MySQL High-Availability  • Manage backups, DR failover, database performance, and application scalability.  • Database lead on new applications involving MySQL & MongoDB  • Design and architect new environments alongside development and security teams.  • Working with compliance team to ensure security standards are met as well as properly documented. Senior Database Administrator TekMasters LLC July 2014 to Present • Manage and administer small to large database instances ranging from 4GB to +4TB data sets.  • Technologies responsible for: MySQL 5.1 - 5.7, MongoDB, Cassandra, Jasper Server 5.1-6.0 on Tomcat 7, PostgreSQL 9.1+, Ubuntu 10.04 - 12.04 LTS / Centos 6/7  • Responsible for developing and maintaining a scalable reports and analytical platform using Jasper Sever, graylog dashboards, ElasticSearch with a MongoDB/MySQL backend.  • Responsible for data ETL across various applications and departments.  • Properly tune each database instance/node according to load type and internal metrics including various types of memory allocation, balance between performance and durability, and many others.  • Responsible for 99.999% uptime for database and reporting layers.  • Ensuring backup and disaster recover policies are implemented properly to minimize any data loss or downtime.  • Automation Scripting - Bash, PHP, Python Database Administrator TekMasters LLC - Miami, FL June 2016 to March 2017 • Administering 30+ database servers across AWS and multiple data centers across the United States consisting of MySQL 5.1-5.6, MongoDB 3.2, and PostgreSQL 9.4.  • Database size averages around 1TB sustaining 20k+ QPS per instance.  • Managed environments using Chef automation.  • Managed caching layer using Redis.  • Implemented data warehouse using Redshift, PostgreSQL for data persistence, Apache Kafka for streaming, Spark for parallel processing, and Grafana for data visualization. Remote DBA - Contract TekMasters LLC December 2015 to September 2016 • Manage and administer database instances ranging from 1-10 TB data sets.  • Technologies responsible for: MySQL 5.6, MongoDB, MS SQL Server 2012  • Responsible for maintaining and tuning of all database instances.  • Ensuring backup and disaster recover policies are implemented properly to minimize any data loss or downtime.  • Collaborating with development team to tune various aspects of our applications  • Analyzing system architecture of applications and identifying bottlenecks  • Working with Development and Ops teams to ensure SOPs are identified and documented MySQL Systems Consultant Oracle Corporation April 2014 to July 2014 • Subject Matter Expert (SME) for MySQL highly available and performant architectures.  • Responsible for designing new and existing IT infrastructures that use MySQL and Big Data platforms (Hadoop).  • Responsible for acting as a project lead for new and existing customers for redesigning their application(s) IT infrastructure.  • Conduct MySQL training courses and workshops for classes of 15+ attendees on Introductory MySQL to Advanced topics such as MySQL Cluster and Replication.  • Develop and deliver high quality standard Oracle presentations and demonstrations.  • Present and articulate advanced product features and benefits, product future direction and overall Oracle solutions.  • Design, validate, and present Oracle software solutions to include advanced product concepts, future direction, and 3rd party complimentary products. Database Administrator/Jasper Developer Zerion Software - Herndon, VA March 2013 to April 2014 • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Install, configure, and manage multiple MySQL Database Cluster servers using InnoDB storage engine.  • Management of MySQL Master-Slave replication across multiple data centers within a cloud infrastructure.  • Created and maintained over 20 MySQL Percona XtraDB Cluster production instances  • Maintaining appropriate back-up and disaster recovery strategies Responsible for maintaining and testing development and production environments with over 300 Linux-based servers.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining a Jasper Reports platform integrating our dashboards with dynamic reporting.  • Monitor and manage database backups and logs. Restore and recover data as required.  • Perform regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusions.  • Securing and hardening Linux system services such as Apache, MySQL, and iptables configurations.  • Responsible for efficient bash and PHP scripting to automate server maintenance processes.  • Conducting regular system maintenance to include monitoring, tuning, capacity planning, and adjusting configurations as necessary to resolve problems, minimize downtime, and to enhance capabilities.    SECURITY CLEARANCE Education B.S in Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2013 Skills DATABASE (4 years), MONGODB (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PHP (3 years), BASH (2 years) Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  • Database - MySQL 5.1-5.7, MongoDB 3.2+, Hadoop, Redshift, PostgreSQL, HBase  • Cache - Redis, Memcached  • Data Analytics - Apache Spark, Kafka, Nifi, Storm, Hive, Pig, Flume, Sqoop  • Reporting - Jasper Server  • Web - Apache, Tomcat, Nginx, HAProxy  • Automation - Chef, Ansible  • Monitoring - Nagios, Zabbix, Zenoss, Cloudwatch, Xymon, Percona Management & Monitoring, Grafana  • Programming - SQL, Java, Bash, Python, PHP, Scala  • OS - Ubuntu, CentOS, RHEL  • Cloud Environments - AWS, Rackspace