Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Aga Khan Hospital Kisumu Kisumu Work Experience Database Administrator Aga Khan Hospital Kisumu May 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Maintain ORACLE and MS-SQL databases to support applications:  • Ensure database security and performance  • Recommend and document ways of integrating application systems to achieve optimal results  • Implement relevant database upgrades as required.  • Recommend and implement necessary tools that enhance system availability and Disaster recovery.  • Ensure availability of databases backups as per set policies.  • Perform regular database maintenance to ensure optimum performance and data integrity.  • Identify application initiatives, which can be created for better efficiency and process controls within the organization.  • Understand the business requirements and be part of team to implement in house /3rd party software.  • Ensure smooth running of the in-house developed/3rd party software  te SQL queries, PL/SQL blocks as required.  • Develop reports in crystal and SpagoBI.  • Learn the various specialized applications within Hospital environment; with focus on support and troubleshooting Oracle Instructor Institute of software Technologies October 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities  • Conduct training on Oracle Database and core technologies (As an Oracle University Delivery instructor), Linux-Red Hat, Pl/sql, oracle Forms and reports, oracle database administration and other office automation products.  • Ensure proper management of Labs and computers.  • Provides technical support for research and development initiatives and for the implementation of new technologies for IST adoption.  • External support duties to IST clients. Assistance System Administrator May 2010 to August 2010 Responsibilities  • Hardware maintenance  • Trouble shooting Network Problems..  • Sales and marketing research  • Testing and setting up video conference machine (Vega X5) Education Diploma in Database Administration Institute of Software Technologies May 2011 to November 2013 Bachelor of Business Information Technology Africa Nazarene University January 2008 to June 2011 Certificate in Computer Applications ST. Francis 2007 Education Oloolaiser High School 2003 to 2006 Certificate of Primary Education Hekima Primary School 1993 to 2002 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  • Operating systems: Windows, Linux Red hat, Windows server 2008  • Programming: SQL, PLSQL  • RAD Tools: Oracle Developer(Forms and reports), crystal reports  • SpagoBI  • DBMS: Oracle,  • RDBMS: Oracle  • Oracle Database Core Technologies: ASM on grid, Data guard, Performance Tuning.  • Computer Networking and Hardware Support  • Shell Programming for Systems administrators in Linux