Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Manila, AR Having more than (4) four years of Database Administration experiences for various kinds of applications such as Peoplesoft, Hyperion and MarrExpress on both Unix (HP-UX) & Linux (RHEL) platforms and strong experiences with a proven background of database architecture and a self-motivated, responsible, and reliable team player with a set of very strong technical skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Accenture Manila Delivery Center October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Installed Oracle database software and client for Linux RHEL6.5 64-bit platform and managed ASM configuration.  ? Installed Oracle 12c Database for multitenant, single-tenant, non-CDB configuration and establishing connectivity.  ? Upgraded PeopleTools application version from 8.51 to 8.54 and database from v11.2.0.2 to v12.1.0.2.  ? Performed database objects creation for analysis and psbuild migration from DEV/TST/PRD environments.  ? Configured RMAN database backups  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring.  ? Provided on-call support.    Project AHS Build - Billing & Receivables (BAR) Upgrade Database Administrator (DBA) Accenture Manila Delivery Center July 2011 to Present for Marriott  Project: AHS for Marriott  Project Duration: July 2011 - Present  Standard Role: Database Administrator (DBA)    Project & Role Description:  Marriott International is a leading worldwide hospitality company with over 2,800 lodging properties in the United States and 70 other countries and territories. Marriott Lodging operates and franchises hotels under the Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Renaissance, Residence Inn, Courtyard, Towne Place Suites, Fairfield Inn, Spring Hill Suites and Ramada International brand names. The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C. and has approximately 128,000 associates worldwide.    Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i; IBM DB2 (v9.7.0.6) and MS SQL Server 2008  Programming: Unix/Linux Shell Scripting; SQL and PL/SQL  Operating System: Unix (HP-UX); Linux (RHEL5/6) and Windows 2008 Advanced Server, NT    Work Performed:  Provided 24*7 support on the production, test and development environments of database system on the Support Team and handled several Projects to perform the duties as assigned:    ? Supported more than (15) Production Oracle (v11.1.0.7, v11.2.0.2, v11.2.0.3, v11.2.0.4, v12.1.0.2) single instance cluster databases running on Linux RHEL5/6 with more than 1TB in each size.  ? Supported (1) Production IBM DB2 (v9.7.0.6) single instance database running on Linux RHEL5 with more than 1TB in size.  ? Played a leading role for installation, setup, and configuration of databases running on Unix/Linux platform.  ? Configure and manage RMAN backup and recovery.  ? Maintenance of databases which includes tablespace and object management, applying database patches, security and user access management, space estimating and forecasting etc.  ? Monitor database performance and perform SQL tuning.  ? Provided administrative support for various applications.  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring. Database Administrator (DBA) Accenture Manila Delivery Center June 2011 to Present CG1 Pioneer Street, Mandaluyong City Senior Analyst from the Accenture Manila Delivery Center Accenture Manila Delivery Center June 2011 to Present 6, 2011. An accomplished IT professional with a very strong technical skills and well-trained in Database Administration and has been deployed in several projects to provide support last July 12, 2011 to present. Oracle Database Administrator Accenture Manila Delivery Center July 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Installed Oracle database software and client for Linux RHEL6.5 64-bit platform and managed ASM configuration.  ? Installed Oracle 12c Database for multitenant, single-tenant, non-CDB configuration and establishing connectivity.  ? Upgraded PeopleTools application version from 8.50 to 8.54 and database from v11.2.0.2 to v12.1.0.2.  ? Performed database objects creation for analysis and psbuild migration from DEV/TST/PRD environments.  ? Configured RMAN database backups  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring.  ? Provided on-call support. IBM DB2 Database Administrator Accenture Manila Delivery Center January 2015 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Installed Oracle Gateway products for "Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) & Distributed Relational Database Architecture (DRDA)" that allows connection from Oracle to IBM DB2 database.  ? Performed data masking to convert credit card proxy numbers into token.  ? Performed database objects creation for analysis and migration/dcr from DEV/PRD environments.  ? Performed SQL tuning to improve database performance.  ? Refreshing development database from production using export and import/load datapump.  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring.  ? Provided on-call support. Oracle Database Administrator Accenture Manila Delivery Center January 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Performed database objects creation for analysis and psbuild migration/dcr from DEV/TST/PRD environments.  ? Performed SQL tuning to improve database performance.  ? Refreshing development/test database from production using export and import datapump.  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring.  ? Provided on-call support. Database Administrator Accenture Manila Delivery Center November 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Migrated Oracle, IBM DB2 databases and SQL Server from Marriott Infrastructure (MI) to Accenture Hospitality Services (AHS) hosted environments and server re-platform.  ? Installed and configured databases on Linux RHEL5/6 64-bit platform and applied database patches.  ? Created new database objects and configured RMAN database backups  ? Developed Unix shell and SQL scripts for database monitoring.  ? Provided on-call support. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE San Sebastian College-Recoletos De Manila - Manila June 2007 to March 2011 Skills Oracle Database Administrator Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional Oracle Certified Associate ITIL v3 Foundation Certified