MSSQL Database Developer MSSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer MSSQL Database Developer Sofia, NM Work Experience MSSQL Database Developer Naxex Technological Development Ltd March 2015 to September 2015 Optimizing current workflow and databases. Managing indexes and statistics. Tuning queries  execution plans. Optimizing procedures, views and functions. Designing new solutions with SQL Junior Database Developer (MSSQL) ShoogerShack Animation Bulgaria Ltd June 2014 to March 2015 Mainly creating and modifying stored procedures. Writing complex logic and dealing with business requirements. Majority of work was creating designing and implementing the logic behind the SPs. Working with source control and following development process of deployment. MSSQL Database Administrator Hewlett-Packard Global Delivery Bulgaria Center Ltd January 2013 to May 2014 • Dates: January 2013 - May 2014  • Occupation or position held: MSSQL Database Administrator  Main responsibilities involved: Supporting critical SQL server Enterprise editions, High  Availability solutions like Clustering, Replication, Mirroring and AlwaysON Availability Groups.  Daily performing backups and restores. Creating maintenance plans, implementing custom  solutions and patching SQL servers. Managing permissions, roles and working on service calls. Junior Application Administrator Cellum Bulgaria AD June 2012 to January 2013 Maintaining CellumPay Application, troubleshooting, testing and configuring application  services. Supporting and configuring IIS Web Server, working with certificates, windows server  2008 and its roles and features. Occasional SQL support, writing a couple SSIS packages and reports. Creating a communication channel with our partners and designing appropriate  solutions. Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics St. Kliment Ohridski University of Sofia Additional Information Personal skills and competences    Other language(s): English, Proficient user (C1) at reading, listening and writing  according to European self-assessment level.