Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - GE Healthcare New Carrollton, MD • Troubleshooting, reviewing and monitoring database performance.  • Performs general DBA duties (install software, create databases, table spaces, add redo log files, managing storage & work closely with Sr. DBA on capacity planning and performance tuning  • Nightly database backup of development and test environments, use production data to refresh development and test schemas for testing  • Performance tuning and monitoring  • Design, testing, performance tuning, and support in Data warehouse system  • Identify and make recommendations per database performance issues  • Experience in managing Oracle on Windows clusters  • Experience in managing Oracle on Linux  • Proficient in SQL and shell scripting  • Knowledge of database design  • DBCA to create and DBUA to upgrade Oracle databases  • Implements/maintains database security with roles and system privileges as well as creating and managing users  • Excellent troubleshooting and logical problem solving skills.  • Demonstrate ability to meet deadlines and set priorities.  • Strong communication and interpersonal skills.  • Ability and desire to learn new technologies quickly.  • Proficient in JIRA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator GE Healthcare - Richmond, VA October 2016 to Present • Worked closely with application teams in the migration process of the 9i and 10g databases doing performance testing and designing optimal migration process.  • Configuration, maintenance and tuning of 11gr2 3 nodes RAC Cluster.  • Setup, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection  • Applying new database patches and upgrading to new application releases  • Responsible for documenting database changes  • Performing backup and recovery operations  • Perform ETL Testing by validating data  • Planning Backup/ Restoration Strategy, Scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/ Import Data Pump utilities)  • Analysis and management of Oracle problems/defects using SRs and/or MetaLink with Oracle Corporation and installation of patches  • Writing SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions and transactions analysis for performance tuning  • Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication  • Made performance improvements to the database by building Partitioned tables, Inx organized Tables, Materialized Views and Bitmap Indexes Oracle Database Developer/ Administrator Kemtah Group - Vienna, VA December 2014 to September 2016 Write and maintain Oracle packages, Procedures and Triggers  • Troubleshoot/Debug/PL/SQL code  • Perform maintenance on data records  • Construct complex data queries and perform data analysis  • Monitor Oracle Database jobs and backups  • Assist in Database Administration (apply Oracle patches, investigate performance issues, etc.)  • Interact with Oracle Support as necessary  • Proficient in the migration and ETL process  • Experienced in designing the ETL processes for Data Warehouse systems  • Assist and perform in Code Reviews  • Design, testing, performance tuning, deployment, and support in Data warehouse system  • Define ETL development standards and procedures for data warehouse environment  • Develop application code including packages and procedures  • Modify tables to support integration automation and application releases.  • Review application codes and deploy approved scripts to test and production environments.  • Work with customers/users to identify and develop system requirements, taking into account desired results and hardware limitations  • Provide recommendations for solutions and estimates of work.  • Perform data extraction, data cleansing, data transformation and data loading into multi databases.  • Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure. Performed various daily RMAN backups and recovery for numerous oracle 10g and 11g databases using physical back (RMAN) and logical backup (export, import and data pump).  • 24/7 production environment support.  • Install and configure Physical Stand on Windows and Linux environment.  • Troubleshoot and resolved various oracle problems such as connectivity problems, back up and performance issues  • Provided Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties.  • Resolved complex database issues.  • Created and managed documentation on the configuration and support of the oracle databases.  • Applied security features to 10g and 11g databases    • Tuned the database and applications for faster and better performance also performed goal oriented tuning as necessary. Database Administrator Lanham, MD January 2012 to August 2014 Configured new hardware and software releases.  • Created and managed user accounts, profiles and system policies.  • Coordinated hardware and software installation and upgrades to ensure work is performed in accordance with company and client's policy.  • Performed a flashback and point in time recovery.  • Scheduling backups using the crontab utility  • Migrated data using the data pump export (expdp) and import (impdp)  • Created non-default listeners for databases.  • Registering databases and listeners to OEM Cloud Control 12C.  • Provided Oracle database administrative support to various user groups (application developers, data managers etc.)  • Control and monitor user access to the database using roles, and profiles  • 24 hr. on call rotation  • Performed hands-on monitoring, troubleshooting and administration of Local Area Network (LAN) resulting in performance and minimum downtime in the organization.  • Create and Maintain of Databases through DBCA  • Knowledge in Database performance monitoring & tuning  • Investigate potential problems and issues raised by business users  • Create and Assign Roles, Privileges and Profiles to Users  • Monitoring Alert logs for any errors, problems or processes running  • Configuration and working with RMAN (Recovery Manager). Education A.A. in General Studies Prince Georges Community College B.S. in Computer Science Bowie State University Skills DATABASES (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), RMAN (5 years), OEM (5 years), PERFORMANCE TUNING (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE:  Relational Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008  Operating systems: Microsoft, DOS v2.x - 6.x, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, 2003 & 2008 Advanced Server, UNIX (Solaris, Linux)  Networking Topologies / Protocols: Ethernet, TCP/IP & router configuration    Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT and XML  Software Applications/Tools and Utilities:  OEM, RMAN, TOAD, TKPROF, STATSPACK, REPLICATION, DATA MIGRATION-EXPORT-IMPORT, PROCEDURES, PACKAGES & FUNCTIONS-BACKUP &RECOVERY PERFORMANCE TUNING-SQL-LOADER, DATA GUARD, SQL DEVELOPER, MSSQL QUERY ANALYZER.