Graduate Assistant Graduate Assistant Graduate Assistant Dallas, TX • A graduate student with 3+ years of experience in Database Administration, Design and Development as MS SQL  Server Database Administrator / ETL / Warehouse Developer in Windows environment.  • Experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and loading (ETL) between Homogenous and Heterogeneous System  using SQL tools (SSIS, Data Transformation Services (DTS), Bulk Insert, BCP), securing and deploying SSIS  packages.  • Involved in interacting with cubes by linking to reports, adding drill through, using standard actions, creating Sub-  Reports, Drilldown-Reports, Summary reports, and Matrix reports in SSRS.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of application software in Agile and Waterfall methodology  using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) in Python, C++.  • Proven skills in requirement gathering, problem-solving, testing and proficient in communication, organizational skills. Work Experience Graduate Assistant Texas A & M University August 2017 to May 2018 Tutored 30 undergraduate students in Python and Advanced DBMS concepts. Contributed to the development of new  course material and prepared over 50 written/live lessons that increased student's understanding of the curriculum and increased grade average. Database Administrator/Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN July 2013 to June 2015 • Worked closely with Business Owner, Project Manager, Subject Matter Experts and System Architecture to define and create business requirements documents for agreement and signoff.  • Installation, configuration, administration, and management of Microsoft SQL Server, Reporting Services, Integration  services along with SQL Server migration to a higher version for enhanced security.  • Gathered requirements and developed Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) using ER Win.  • Designed and implemented ETL strategies and architecture of the Data Warehouse and created application-specific  Data Marts which enabled users to access personalized dashboards via SharePoint.  • Optimized several stored procedures using SQL profiler for report latency and fast delivery access.  • Executed various views and materialized views that will be accessed by both the end users and the database  administrators.  • Built SSIS packages for populating the data marts, cleaning data and loading data from various sources.  • Scheduled and monitored various jobs using the SQL Server Agent like package execution as well as notification  associated with each process.  • Designed and managed multiple reports such as linked reports, sub, drill through and drill down reports depending upon the client's need and created ad-hoc reports from OLTP and OLAP including its delivery using push and pull  delivery methods.  • Generated Tableau scorecards, dashboards using Stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots, geographical maps, Gantt  charts using show me functionality.  • Developed storytelling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server, which allowed end  users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand, needed information.  • Actively involved in securing the reports created depending upon the level of sensitivity of information that the report  contained and designed the optimization and troubleshooting strategy for reports based on the data rendered as well as the source. Database Developer Intern AppIQ - IN May 2012 to May 2013 • Implemented data model structure for the projects, created schema objects and enforced data integrity.  • TRACKING GROWTH OF DATABASES: Designed and scheduled jobs to monitor the growth of databases in a server and emailing user-defined time interval reports of database statistics. Required best use of Joins, Indexes, and CTE for optimized queries and handling of HTML tags for Email styling.  • INGESTION OF FLAT FILES INTO DATABASE: Converted SSIS packages to an all-native SQL solution and while doing so I mastered various techniques like BulkInsert, XML Format Files to load flat files. Employed Error handling  techniques using Transaction logic and Raiserrors with detailed Error Reports and action items.  • Reviewed the existing stored procedures and improved efficiency by critically evaluating the code.  • Generated on-demand and scheduled reports for business analysis or management decision using SQL Server  Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Thrived in a team environment and enjoyed working as a team member by possessing a strong commitment to team  environment dynamics with the ability to contribute expertise. Education M.S in Computer Science & Information Systems Texas A&M University May 2018 Bachelor of Computer Science in Management Anna University May 2013 Skills SQL (3 years), DATABASE (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), DATA WAREHOUSE (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  RDBMS/DBMS: MS-SQL Server, DB2, Oracle, Toad, MySQL.  Database Technologies/Tools: SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, T-SQL, Data  Transformation Services (DTS), OLTP, BCP, SQL Server Integration Services, OLAP,  H2 Database.  Reporting Tools: Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services, Service Now, IT-360, Tableau.  Programming Languages: HTML, C++, Python.  Big Data Technologies/Tools: Apache Spark, Pyspark, Anaconda (Jupyter), Pycharm.  Design Technologies/Tools: Erwin, MS Visio.  Data Warehouse / Business SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Analysis Services, Business Intelligence  Intelligence Tools Development Studio.