Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator, Bachelor degree in Computer Science. United States Professional Summary:    • 7 years of experience in information technology as Oracle Database Administrator   • Proficient in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c Database Administration  • Proficient in Enterprise Manager  • Proficient in RMAN, Backup and Recovery  • Proficient in Database Migration, Upgrade and Patch Application  • Managing user access, permissions and privileges  • Data import and export  • Performance Tuning  • Real Application Clusters (RAC)  • Data Guard Administration  • A self-motivated, responsible and reliable team player with a set of strong technical skills.  • Strong in solving problems of diverse scope where technical analysis and evaluation is required  • Results-driven IT personnel with skills in team building and problem-solving with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse groups of people and adaptability to changing environments.  • 24x7 on-call Production support for database activities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CSC Baltimore - MD August 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities    • Supporting more than 40 instances.  • Maintenance of production database and development database which includes tablespace space management, user creation, privileges, roles etc.   • Automated hot backups using a combination of incremental, differential and full RMAN backups.   • Maintaining archive data on appropriate storage devices.   • Tracing, troubleshooting with database performance and tuning issues.   • Export/Import of oracle databases.  • Tuning SQL queries.  • Debugging, troubleshooting Oracle PL/SQL packages, stored procedures and functions.   • Analyzing and validating database objects.   • Coordinating with team members.  • On call support 24x7.    Environment: Oracle Server 10g/11g SQL Server, HP-UNIX. Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Inc Bowie - Bowie, MD February 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities  • Responsible for installing Oracle Database, setup Instance Creation, Database Space Management.  • Installed patches and upgrades for various bugs.  • Implemented traditional Hot and Cold Backups & Recovery.  • Distributed the data in different Tablespaces by table partitioning to get the high performance and I/O balancing.  • Performance tuning of Database, SQL queries.  • Performed Export/Import and full database scanning.  • Monitoring and resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O.  • Maintained standby databases for production and staging environments.  • Created roles and users and Managed there privileges.  • Responsible for monitoring & resizing Oracle database objects (Tablespaces, Tables, and Indexes etc.)  • Responsible for managing Redo logs, Archive logs, Data files.  • Troubleshooting of the database.  • Documented the problems and solution in the failures of production databases.  • Responsible for extensive use of SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS  Environment:   Oracle 10g/11g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, SQL*Loader, Import/Export, OEM, RMAN,  HP-Unix, windows. Oracle Database Administrator Professional Experience     ? Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g,11g and 12c databases on Linux and Windows OS   ? Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other database   objects.  ? Installed and manage Oracle Enterprise Manager.  ? Install and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as   database consistency and integrity  ? Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle connectivity problems.   ? Provide network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  ? Installation and management of Oracle database using database control   ? Create and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle   databases   ? Perform bulk load into the database using SQL Loader   ? Perform standard and fine grain database auditing.   ? Documented database structure, changes, problems, issues for future reference   ? Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights   ? Created Testing and Development databases following OFA compliance rules.  ? Provide database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  ? Managing Schema Objects.  ? Regular Monitoring Alert log Files and trace files on Day to Day Basis.  ? Identifying and removing Fragmentation, row migration/chaining of database objects.  ? Analyzing the Tables and Indexes on performance base regularly  ? Monitoring Tablespaces and Datafiles utilization.  ? Managing Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs.   ? Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files  ? Configuring various RMAN parameters as per the requirement.  ? Performing physical backups using RMAN utility.  ? Identify and recover the corrupted db blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility  ? Performing Complete Media Recovery of Database depends on the nature of failure.  ? Configure and implement the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot   backup to the databases  ? Extensively using DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  ? Performing database cloning using RMAN.  ? Monitoring the user sessions and take appropriate action to kill the inactive sessions  ? Creating and rebuilding indexes as necessary.  ? Performed various performance goal oriented database tuning.  ? Use explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  ? Created and tuned various materialized views.  ? Tuned various slow running query  ? Performed instance tuning, memory tuning query tuning and complete database tuning.  ? Creates and implemented various table partitions for large tables  ? Resolved various complex issues with the database.  ? Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases.  ? Upgrade Oracle 10g database to 11g.  ? Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set Education Bachelor in Computer Science University of Lagos - Lagos Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Oracle Certified Professional Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    * SQL and SHELL scripting abilities  * Operating Systems: Windows 2008 Server, Linux, UNIX  * Tools: RMAN, SQL Developer, SQL Loader, AWR, TOAD, ASM and OEM  * Performance tuning with partitioning    Reference upon request.