Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator / Developer Waterbury, CT Innovative database administrator with proven success designing, developing, testing and maintaining database solutions in Oracle 11g R2/12c, SQL Server 2008/2012, FileMaker Pro 12,13, and MySQL 5.6 environments. Effective at implementing and transforming systems into automated, time-saving and robust solutions that significantly decrease costs, increase productivity and performance.     QUALIFICATION HIGHLIGHTS:    • Significant experience working with all aspects of in-house developed systems  • Strong knowledge of dynamic SQL and database analysis and design  • Experience with SLDC, and developing/managing business and technical design and requirements  • Proficient with an assortment of technologies including SQL, PL/SQL, ODBC, JDBC, Access, Visio, Java, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Apache, IIS, FileMaker Server and Windows Servers. Work Experience Database Administrator NEWTOWN PUBLIC SCHOOLS - Newtown, CT October 2010 to Present Ensure data accuracy, consistency, security and reporting for 5000 students, 1000 staff and 7 schools. Implement recovery procedures, performance tuning, database updates, troubleshooting and customization for over 10 production databases. As an in-house developer, create SIS to collect, validate, and automate crucial and time sensitive state and federal reports.    • Saved the district over $40,000 annually in software maintenance fees by designing robust relational databases using and integrating Oracle, FileMaker and JDBC/ODBC. Examples include the automation of attendance letters for students and the collection of state mandated special education data.  • Improved business intelligence by creating complex SQL queries and reports using SQL Developer, used by administrators and the superintendent to make crucial decisions aimed to improve student outcomes and staff leadership.  • Improved the accuracy and timeliness of state and federal reports by 40% by training and providing high-quality technical support to staff and by working as a team-player.  • Saved the district over $15,000 annually in mailing and shipping fees by creating dynamic SQL reports, allowing parents and students to generate reports through the web and through their mobile phones.  • Earned a reputation for the go-to-person for any technical problem in the school district. Database / FileMaker Pro Developer INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT - Waterbury, CT May 2012 to July 2013 Developed custom solutions and provided consulting and training expertise for nonprofits, individuals, and businesses of all sizes. Solutions ranged from medium size student tracking systems for public schools and universities to businesses with presence nationally and internationally.    • Created a back end processing system for an interactive web-based arts and crafts business based in New York City. Performed ETL processing and developed a two-way ODBC data transferal between office databases, live MySQL and Salesforce back-end. Improved data quality and reduced redundancies by 50%.  • Developed a barcode scanning system for storing and processing thousands of daily store transactions.  • Developed a web-enabled SIS to track student achievements for the Graduate Program in Public Administration at the City College of New York/CUNY.  • Designed a SIS for four elementary schools in Connecticut with over 1500 students to track student's grades and attendance.  • Implemented and deployed a medium size database system (400+fields, 100+scripts, 30+layouts) and a mobile application for keeping track of individualized education plans for students with disabilities. Research Analyst SOUTHERN CT UNIV - New Haven, CT May 2010 to October 2010 Successfully collected and analyzed data using SPSS for over 400 faculty members' annual activity reports. Coded online and paper surveys used by students and faculty members to vote on important university matters.    • Wrote over 80 analytical reports regarding the impact of the university's educational and psychological interventions for students.  • Supported the senior research analyst in grant-writing of national and large-scale assessment grants.  • Generated reports for the provost using statistical procedures to measure educational outcomes. Education M.S. in Computer Information Technology Central Connecticut State University - West Hartford, CT 2011 to 2014 B.S. in Computer Science Southern Connecticut State University - New Haven, CT 2006 to 2010 Skills Oracle Database SQL Certified Expert Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/andres-trujillo/7b/108/732/ Additional Information KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES    • Deadline driven and goal oriented.  • Highly adaptable in managing and supporting multiple projects  • Ability to prioritize and manage complex projects from inception to completion  • Excellent problem solving skills and attention to detail  • Self-motivated and quick learner  • Able to work under minimal supervision