Jr. Database Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Database Administrator - Real time Resolutions Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator Real time Resolutions - Dallas, TX May 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • This position involves managing SQL Server Databases, Work with developers to tune the SQL queries using SQL Profiler, Provide Production support for the database and application issues, Deployments, releases and Production support.  • Active participation with customers in understanding their business process and suggesting optimal database structure, practices and tools on specific projects, ensuring high customer satisfaction rates.  • Storage and Capacity planning.  • Plan & Implement Backup & Restore strategies for production databases.  • Automate Backup and other maintenance tasks like index rebuilding.  • Implement Point in time recovery plan in case of physical or logical failure.  • Install & maintain Test and development environments.  • Database Encryption using SQL TDE to meet the security standards of our Clients.  • Monitoring disk space utilization, CPU performance, I/O activities and automation of maintenance jobs using SSIS packages and T-SQL jobs.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting 200+ Overnight Jobs that run SSIS packages.  • Implementation of SQL Roles & Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • High emphasis on database security, permissions, user management and following best industry practices.  • Tuning the performance of the databases applying MS recommendations, using perfmon and SQL Profiler.  • Implemented Mirroring between Production and DR servers.  • Implemented Transactional Replication to capture the changes to reporting databases.  • Refreshing the test databases and schemas using Import/Exports.  • Supporting application end user issues and providing solutions.  • Deploying and troubleshooting SSIS Packages  • Supporting 24*7 Production Environment  Environment: Windows /2008R2/2012Servers. Oracle Database Support Tuple Data Solutions - Garland, TX January 2013 to March 2014 Oracle Database Support    • Oracle install, support, monitoring and regular maintenance.  • Monitoring and maintaining Oracle 11g databases.  • Patching Oracle databases quarterly.  • Upgraded 100+ databases from oracle11g 11.1 to 11.2  • Backup and restore monitoring.  • Log shipping, Cloning, Duplicating and Refreshing test databases regularly  • Troubleshooting hardware and software issues.  • Managed user accounts, creating, disabling, modifying of permissions.  • Upgrading software applications regularly on Windows7.  • Documenting of trouble tickets in detail, by documenting the impact to the customer, and assigned the appropriate priority level.  Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, LINUX Program Developer softyoug solutions - Anand, Gujarat June 2011 to October 2012 Worked with Business Analyst's and Project managers to drive out requirements and implemented an elegant solution to the task at hand.  • Implemented the projects according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designing and developing various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.  • Involved designing & developing a payroll system using VB.NET 2005/SQL Server 2005.  • Involved in developing a Task Management System using VB.NET 2005 Windows forms (front end) and SQL Server 2005 stored procedures (backend).    Projects  Project: Matchmaking website    • Developing custom controls and user controls.  • Creating master pages using asp.net.  • Used Session State, View State, Cookies and Query Strings to persist and transfer data between pages.  • Designed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Transactions using T-SQL in SQL Server for quick processing and easy maintenance of the database.  • Used ASP.NET caching technique for better performance while accessing frequently used data.  • Involved in unit test cases and regression testing. Additional Information Technical Skills Summary:  Languages: C++, .NET, ASP, SQL, HTML, CSS  Database: Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012  Scripting: Powershell  Operating Systems: UNIX, LINUX, Windows 2000/3/7  Software/Applications/Utilities: Photoshop, Flash, Dreamweaver