Data Analyst - Excel/SQL Data Analyst - Excel/SQL Data Analyst - Excel/SQL - AVRA LOGISTICS Dallas, TX Result-driven, industrious, detail-oriented Data Analyst with 4years experience in MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook), SQL, Internet, Office Equipment (Fax, Electronic Fax, Copier, Typewriter, Scanner, Shredder, etc.)  Experienced and meticulous Excel Data Analyst in Automobile, Retail, and Logistics industry with exceptional speed and accuracy.  Adept at assessing and interpreting data for strategic decision making for over 16 location  Strong Object-Oriented Analysis, technical skills, ability to learn new emerging technologies and adapt quickly.  Excellent interpersonal skills and communication skills and ready to take challenges with proven ability, motivated self-starter with an eye for detail, problem-solving abilities and a strong work ethic to make a significant contribution to any organization Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst - Excel/SQL AVRA LOGISTICS - Dallas, TX November 2016 to Present • Process Automation, workbook tasks, pivot table task, user forms and add-ins using VBA macros  • Execute and maintain reports for external clients and internal support  • Improved on-time deliveries from 75% to 95%  • Updated weekly and monthly reports evaluating data metrics on Excel  • Streamlined e-Auction process, created detailed visualization of new process.  • Generated pivot table for the sales in different areas of the business like New Car, Used Car and service department.  • Analyzing and comparing sales data to determine the performance of 16 branches including E-commerce level.  • Works on creating pivot table based on ad-hoc requirements and created charts from the pivot table.  • Ensured category performance of about 40% of monthly sales target across three branches.  • Works on sorting, filtering of data utilizing Excel  • Maintained the data dictionary for the data in the company like parts, vendors, type of payments etc.  • Compiled and analyze sales information from multiple database systems writing SQL queries  • Validated logic of customer address, title and ensures that proper entry standards are followed, correcting records to conform to the standard.  • Experienced using SharePoint to share documents, share sites (with required permissions), create team sites, manage team site, share information with entire organization etc.  • Create and generate reports through MS-Excel, MS-Access, and SQL using Business Objects interface and direct links to core databases (ODS/EDW)  • Update reports based on new requirements and system changes  • Perform ad-hoc analysis and translate results into clear and concise reporting  • Executes multiple projects and timelines effectively and communicate risks and issues to manager  • Imported data to target system using established tools and processes, including ETL tool and manual data conversion templates Database  • Provide process improvements and other important information in daily meetings to increase the accuracy of vendor and product information as well as to increase the efficiency of workflow processes across various departments EXCEL ANALYST BEAVEX INC - Dallas, TX May 2015 to November 2016 • Using excel tools to develop a full allocation plan to ensure the right merchandise mix at the right place at the right time, at the right price  • Collaborate with stores managers to develop inventory and replenishment strategy using pivot table and VLOOKUP  • Promotion Planning (Markdowns, clear out and Bundle offers) through enterprise resource planning.  • Analyzing data from database to support buying decisions and range planning  • Designed and developed a full product assortment plan complete with vendors, merchandise plan, and profitability index.  • Tracked trends in consumer consumption to determine best assortment of products to be sold  • Source for suppliers and negotiate contracts for products fulfillment processing both locally and internationally  • Development of strategies that ensured that an average product shelf life of 4 weeks is maintained to increase sales turnover and cash flow for the business  • Price intelligent survey to avoid overstating or understating of items WAREHOUSE AND LOGISTIC MANAGER GATIMO LIMITED - LAGOS, NG September 2011 to April 2015 • Inventory analysis and management.  • In-bounding and out bounding of new merchandise.  • Sales analysis.  • Warehouse management and supervision.  • Transportation management. Education Colaberry School of Data Science - Dallas, TX 2015 Bachelor's degree in Accounting University of Benin 2013 Skills Sql, Sharepoint, Vba, Visual basic, Visual basic for applications, Microsoft sharepoint, Ms office, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Additional Information SKILLS: MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook), SQL, Microsoft SharePoint, Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)