Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Greer, SC Work Experience Database Administrator Greer, SC September 2018 to Present * Write and troubleshoot SQL code and design stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers, indexes, and constraints.  * Develop, implement, and integrate operational automation.  * Design jobs and SSIS packages.  * Create, maintain and deploy reports in SSRS, deliver on business requests, and support database operations.  * Improve existing and ensure new database code to meet company standards for readability, reliability, and performance. SQL Server Database Administrator Boeing - Greer, SC February 2018 to September 2018 * Primary DBA, supporting 11+ applications in production.  * Day to day management of production environments on multi-node clusters.  * Performance improvements and server consolidation.  * Plan, patch, and test database servers, software upgrades, RDBMS software, and related utilities.  * Perform daily checks to ensure system availability and health to include successful jobs completion, database integrity, existence of backups, and resource availability.  * Analyze and determine informational needs and elements, data relationships and attributes.  * Assist development teams in defining logical attributes and inter-relationships.  * Assist in designing data structures to accommodate database production, storage, maintenance and accessibility to enhance performance.  * Support SQL Server service upgrades, deployments, and outages as they occur, including after-hours and weekends.  * Assist development teams to improve performance of queries or modifying indexes. SQL Database Administrator Infor Global Solutions - Greenville, SC July 2015 to July 2017 Being the primary database administrator of 15 clusters, ensured databases and applications fully operational at all times. Managed SQL servers, server resources, and production Availability Group (AG) clusters in Amazon cloud. Consolidated servers, enhanced performance, installed patches to operating system, and designed and implemented backup strategy. Created, installed, and patched database servers, relational database management systems software, and related utilities. Monitored system health, database integrity, backups, and availability of resources daily. Prepared documentation for support of business processed and trained team members.  Key Achievements:  * Successfully upgraded more than 40 production database servers to SP3/CU3, rolling in new nodes one by one and replaced the old nodes, then failover to the new primary node.  * Reduced the database server instance costs by downgrading instance types based on resource usage, saving thousands of dollars per year.  * Acted as primary database administrator, supporting 700 databases in production and GOV cloud and secondary database administrator for an additional 1,000 databases with all servers operating 24/7 with no down time.  * Migrated and deployed dynamic automated process that supported migration of any number of databases from one Amazon Web Services account to another, reducing the time for each migration by at least 24 hours.  * Implemented dynamic automated process with capability of backing up any number of databases prior to major application upgrades and restoring the databases after the upgrade if needed, making the entire two hour window available for the application team to apply patches, saving one hour during each backup cycle.  * Resolved randomly occurring thumbprint error (known issue with Microsoft) by creating script to decrypt databases during decryption and restoration to different environments, allowing a migration to complete with no errors, saving significant time and effort compared to previous migrations interrupted because of errors. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Clemson University - Clemson, SC 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Professional Development/Society Membership Eastern Mediterranean University 2009 Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Stored procedures, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, Ssrs, T-sql, Amazon web services, Coding, Python, Web services, Deployment, Full life cycle, Life cycle, Server administration, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Word, DBA, Ssis, Sql Dba Links http://linkedin.com/in/alireza-zare Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Exceptionally proficient in SQL Server Administration and server performance tuning.  • Experienced in Transact-SQL, able to create complex stored procedures, functions, and views.  • Competent building and deploying sophisticated applications using Amazon Web Services for flexibility, scalability, and reliability.  • Adept at managing projects through full life cycle, from conception through design, coding, and debugging to deployment.  • Skilled in creation and implementation of backup strategies to ensure business continuity and disaster recovery.  • Solutions-oriented with distinctive problem-solving skills, capable of directing multiple projects and establishing priorities and managing time effectively.  TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Databases: SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008, SSIS, SSRS  Platforms: Windows 10, Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Amazon Web Services  Tools: Microsoft SQL, T-SQL, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  Hardware: AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Idera, Redgate, Logic Monitor, StackDriver, PowerShell, Python