MySQL Database administrator MySQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> MySQL Database administrator - IBM MySQL administration and Linux administration and writing Linux shell scripting.  Linux based server monitoring and preforming administrative task.  Automating the various manual tasks in Linux environment by writing shell script.  Excellent Communication skills, always willing to learn.  Having good Knowledge in HDFS, Map Reduce and Hadoop ecosystem components like Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Oozie.  Experience in writing Hive queries and processing large datasets in Hive ecosystem.  Experience in processing large datasets using Pig scripts.  Experience in running Map Reduce jobs, Hive queries, Pig scripts, data transfer through Sqoop in Cloudera Web UI Hue.    Software Skills  MySQL  Shell scripting  Linux Server administration  Hadoop - HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, flume, Hbase  EC2, RDS, VPC, AWS    Hardware Skills  Linux Server, Hadoop Cluster  Tools Used  MySQL database  Apache Hadoop, Cloudera VM, Hortonworks, Hive, PIG, Hbase, Sqoop, Map Reduce, HDFS    Domain  Worked for Retail Domain  Worked For Hitech Domain  Tax and Accounting Work Experience MySQL Database administrator IBM November 2017 to Present Wolters Kluwer Experience  Project Name  IT operations team  Client  Wolters Kluwer  Period MySQL Database administrator Legal & Regulatory Solutions August 2017 to November 2017 Description  Wolters Kluwer operates under four divisions: Legal & Regulatory Solutions, Tax & Accounting, Health and GRC Solutions. So IT operations team handling databases and deployment related things across all the divisions.  Technical Skills  MySQL  Windows  Responsibilities  For new servers configuring and installing MySQL.  Decide the best backup policies as per the requirement of the current application environment.  Replication setup for high availability of the critical servers.  Handle the various logs and rotate them.  Trouble shooting and monitoring of the database.    TCS Experience  The details of the various assignments that I have handled are listed here  Project Name  Sears holding  Client  Sears  Period MySQL Database administrator The Sears Holdings Corporation May 2016 to August 2017 Description  The Sears Holdings Corporation is an American holding company It is the owner of retail store brands Sears and Kmart, MySQL database team handling more than 2000+ servers.  Technical Skills  MySQL  MySQL enterprise backup  MySQL cluster  Linux shell scripting  Responsibilities  Managing the cluster environment.  Establishing the replication for disaster recovery and for load balancing using master to master replication and master to slave replication.  Establishing the needs of users and monitoring user access and security  Communicating regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and security.  Doing data purging through the Unix scripts and maintaining the details of the same in database for audit purpose on regular basis according to the requirement of business.  For new servers configuring and installing MySQL.  Monitoring Replication is happening correctly and do the necessary if required.  Communicating with development team and support persons for any issue or any query.  Monitoring the load across the servers and in case of high load checking the root cause so that operations could not affect.