Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - United States Postal Service A diverse Certified Senior Oracle Database Administrator with over 8 years of IT experience which includes 7 years as an Oracle Database Administrator, worked on Backup and Recovery using RMAN, Patch Installation, Database Migration, Performance Tuning and Upgrades. Implemented and administered 2 Node RAC, maintain database security using auditing as well as golden gate for real time replication. Proficient in an assortment of technologies like Cloning and Space Management. Extensively worked on Installing and configuring Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c. I have experience on Linux, UNIX and Windows environments. I am also a proactive team player with strong organization, verbal and written communication skills.  SKILLS AND COMPETENCES  Backup and Recovery using RMAN and Maintenance plan Wizard  Designing database using Oracle Software and knowledge of SQL  Monitoring Table space  Networking and connectivity  Database security including TDE  Oracle ASM and RAC  Monitoring and performance tuning using oracle Enterprise Manager Console and SQL Developer  Work with various operating systems including UNIX, LINUX and MS Windows Servers 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator United States Postal Service - Minneapolis, MN April 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in each phase of the lifecycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development, and production support activities.  • Performed Data Guard failover as required for maintenance. This includes coordinating with application owners and sys Admins to when the failover can be performed.  • Planning and implementing the Backup strategy using RMAN, User managed backup and Logical Backups.  • Monitoring and performance tuning using oracle Enterprise Manager console and SQL Developer  • Maintaining the Physical standby by checking MRP and RFS and manually applying archive-log or by taking an incremental roll forward backup.  • Keeping the databases up to date with respect to Latest PSU's and very comfortable in applying patches.  • Monitor and report daily backup with RMAN, configuring and managing backups (full and incremental)  • Successfully implemented and migrated large number of databases from oracle 10g to 11g to 12c in different environment.  • Monitors and resolves Data guard problems.  • maintains flashback capability, troubleshoots database problems including performance issues and resolves them with the AWR, performance views and SQL tuning advisors.  • Administers tablespace (data file) on space management and adjust for future needs.  • Perform data and metadata migration to newly installed servers using Data Pump Expdp/Impdp.  • Create user accounts and assign appropriate privilege.  • Provide production support for oracle NON RAC and RAC databases  • Enable Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for performance diagnosis/tuning.  • Support development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing as well as query performance bottlenecks by using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL TUNING ADVISOR, TOAD and OEM.  • Monitors 3 node cluster RAC with Oracle 11g and 12c database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Constant monitoring of database space and space management.  • Implements basic replication through Materialized Views.  • Improves the performance of the database by tuning SQL and database instance parameters using Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor and SQL Tuning Advisor in Oracle.  • Experience in monitoring oracle instances and maintaining databases performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c). Database Administrator Rich Product Bakery - Eagan, MN November 2011 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Preparing health reports by putting scripts and scheduling it over the mail server by using uuencode and mutt commands.  • Applying Quarterly PSU patches in Standalone, RAC instances and Data guard.  • Perform day to day database administration task like database creation, as well as working on projects such as upgrades from 9i to 10g to 11g.  • Managed users by creating them assigning roles, managing passwords and privileges including other security related tasks.  • Clone production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN.  • Communicate regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and security  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Manage the security and disaster recovery aspects of a database  • Schedule and perform regular server maintenance  • Analyze the database performance and performed database performance tuning  • Installed Oracle software and implemented database and applications on the server  • Ensuring instances are up & running, failed processes, research errors  • Verifying & validating scheduled backups  • Troubleshoot the problems coming in database and system environments.  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the database environment.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques. Education B.A. in LAW Saint Paul College - Saint Paul, MN