Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Weis Market Inc Work Experience Database Administrator Weis Market Inc - Sunbury, PA February 2016 to August 2019 • Administering and setting up of 11g/12c RAC and clusterware and instances.  • Upgraded Oracle GRID, ASM and Database from 11g to 12c.  • Applied patches (Patch sets and CPU patches) on all the databases for security and bug fixe as well to make Application environment up to date.  • Implemented Oracle 12c new features in mission-critical production environments.  • Created and monitored Physical and Active standby databases, running on maximum performance modes for Disaster Recovery and High Availability on 11g and 12c Oracle databases.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts to provide reports.  • Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems  • Experience in system Monitoring, Database Tuning, Memory and SQL Tuning using OEM 12c, Top command, Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC). And Assisted in providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible.  • Done resetting of storage parameters by series of exports and imports of tables, used conventional as well as direct path loads to upload the data into the server using SQL loader.  • Experience of installing, configuring Golden Gate Replication from OLTP databases to Datawarehousing environments.  • Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues in both development and production environments.  • Performed Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication through Golden Gate for zero downtime Database migrations.  • Migrating and upgrading Oracle Database from 10gR1 on Solaris/Windows to 11gR2 on Linux environment using Datapump and Golden Gate replication.  • Cloning of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Maintained Oracle 11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Datapump. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Creation and configuration of new database server and database environments.    • Configuring EDB Postgresql Streaming Replication and Pgpool for load balancing.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Postgresql database on different platforms.  • Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading the Postgresql databases.  • Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production Postgresql databases within the organization.  • Migration of Data from Reports generated by various vendors into Postgresql Databases using Postgresql Export/Import Procedures..  • Experience Migrating data from Oracle to Postgresql using enterprise DB.  • During production hours, resolved lock/latch and resource contention issues  • Created and managed databases across Development and Production instances using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Setting up and configuring Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2012.  • Launching databases via RDS to support web application functionality.  • Configured Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS.  • Configured Oracle secure backup to backup with RMAN tool to S3 Bucket  • Migrated databases to AWS RDS using different tools such as Data pump, AWS Database migration service. Database Administrator City of Keene - Keene, NH April 2012 to January 2016 Installed, configured, maintained, and supported Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, physical and logical standby database for testing, developing, and production of various applications.  ? Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion or necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  ? Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases. Installed Oracle 11g and 12c on multiple platforms.  ? Performed upgrades of 11g and 12c.  ? Performed traditional full and incremental backups in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as logical exports.  ? Automated routine DBA tasks like backup's and stats by using Grid control job's  ? Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications.  ? Provided tuning recommendations to application teams through troubleshooting systems using SPM SQL baselines, SQL profiles, and SQL Tuning Advisor  ? Identified root causes of SQL performance issues by analyzing EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE, and TKPROF trace files  ? Aided troubleshooting of performance issues through analysis of AWR, ASH, and ADDM reports  ? Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  ? Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  ? Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes. Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  ? Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  ? Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  ? Installation, upgradation, troubleshooting and configuring of Golden Gate 12c software  ? Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & UAT.  ? Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  ? Applied various database / applications PSU / CPU patches as required. Also applied monthly vertex updates.  ? Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.  ? Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage database growth.  ? Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability  ? Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  ? Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  ? Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 11g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts.  ? Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions, etc.  ? Configure Golden High Availability using Oracle DBFS and active Data Guard  ? Provided technical assistance for installation and upgrading of existing Oracle databases.  ? Performed database management functions such as maintenance, access issues and security.  ? Monitored and troubleshot Golden Gate replication issues Education Associate