Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator • Six (6) years' experience with Oracle Database Administration (10g, 11g and 12c).  • Six (6) years of performance tuning experience ( Database, Memory and SQL Tuning using the AWR, ADDM, ASH, explain plan, dba views, SQL Profile).  • Six (6) years of experience configuring and administering dataguard for disaster recovery. Configured both physical and logical standby databases. Configured dataguard broker to ease the role transition.  • Six (6) Years of experience with migrating. from similar to different operating system such as Linux Red Hat, AIX, Solaris, Windows using datapump, Goldengate, transportable tablespace, create table as, and many other strategies.  • One (1) years SQL Server: Software installation, databases and user creation, Recovery models.  • One (1) year of experience with Postgresql: Software Installation, managing users, and performance tuning.  • One (1) years working on Windows 2008/2012, Solaris, and Red Hat Linux.  • Two (2) years' experience with migration from on-premises to cloud using different technologies including, Oracle Goldengate, Datapump, and AWS Database Migration Service and Schema Conversion Tool.  • Six (6) years working in OLTP and OLAP Environments.  • Six (6) years of experience monitoring the database with tools such as (TOAD, SQL Developer, OEM 12c & 13c).  • Six (6) Years of experience implementing security (Auditing, TDE, Network Encryption).  • Six (6) Years of experience of patching and upgrading 10g, 11g, and 12c databases.  • Six (6) years of experience implementing database backup strategies using RMAN tool.  • Six (6) Years of experience managing Oracle Goldengate (both 11g and 12c).  • Six (6) years of experience managing, configuring and administering RAC environment (11g and 12c) using ASM, ACFS and OCFS storage.  • Three (3) years of experience working with Data Warehouse environments.  • One (1) years of experience with Exadata.  • One (1) years of experience writing Unix Shell Scripting & PL/SQL Packages. Work Experience Database Administrator GENCO - Pittsburgh, PA May 2016 to August 2019 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementation and administration of disaster recovery strategies for 24/6 operations and deployment of high availability systems on Oracle 11g, using Oracle RAC, Data-Guard, ASM, RMAN.  • Experience in system Monitoring, Database Tuning, Memory and SQL Tuning using OEM 12c, Top command, STATS, IO STATS, Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC). And Assisted in providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible.  • Designed, installed and configured databases in an Oracle Cloud environment.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM.  • Created and monitored Physical and Active standby databases, running on maximum protection, or performance modes for Disaster Recovery and High Availability on 11g and 12c Oracle databases.  • Migration, security, performance tuning and monitoring of databases.  • Assisted Developers with tuning slow running sql statements.  • Managed Amazon Web Services Console, created new users, giving access to bucket to new users.  • Configured Oracle secure backup to backup with RMAN tool to S3 Bucket.  • Upgraded Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11g to 12c manually or using DBUA. Involved in applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases for security and bug fixes.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • General maintenance: hardware, upgrades, backups, troubleshooting, recovery.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts to provide reports.  • Granted privileges on Packages, Procedures, Functions.  • Installed, Configured, Setup, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11g, 12c Standalones and 3 nodes RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database for Test, Development and Production, and staging on Linux, AIX and Windows environments for various home-developed applications like Portfolio Management Systems, vendor applications such SAP Business solutions and so on.  • Scheduled and monitored on Crontab repetitive activities such gathering schema statistics, table space usage report, Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production using Datapump and to monitor blocking sessions.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Configured and monitored Golden Gate. Oracle Database Administrator JOHNSON CONTROLS - Milwaukee, WI February 2013 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used oracle configuration assistants like: DBCA ( database configuration assistant) for creating databases, DBUA ( database upgrade assistant) for upgrading databases, and netca (network configuration assistant) for creating client-server environment using listener, tnsnames etc.  • Used Oracle Flashback Technology for logical recovery purpose with sometimes the need to create a guaranteed restore point right after a recovery or during switchover operations.  • Created, monitored and troubleshoot Physical Standby databases using RMAN and scripts with zero downtime. Performed Failover and Switchover Operations using Data Guard Broker and manually during DR testing and whenever required.  • Automated and monitored databases heath, backup and recovery activities through Cron jobs and also customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed database, schema & table level Refresh from production to test/development environment Using RMAN and Data pump utilities. Also Implemented Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature (Oracle 11g, 12c) to quickly move Tablespaces across Oracle databases servers.  • Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import).  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Involved in a Client-Server environment using tnsnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Handled daily production problems/change requests with Oracle. Skills Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Rman, Hp-ux, Cisco, Oem, Loader Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MS SQL Server 2012/2014 PostgreSQL 9.6  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Azure Monitor, Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, VN, Sql Developer, Sql Server Management Studio, Iginite/DPA, MobaXterm, Cisco Automatic workload Automation, OEM 12c    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Other Skills Oracle, Microsoft Azure, Azure Virtual Machines, SSIS, RAC, GOLDEN GATE, DATA GUARD, AZURE CLOUD