Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Jelani Consulting Washington, DC Successful Database Administrator with over five years of experience in database development and production environments. Areas of expertise include maintenance and security. Proactive in establishing backup and recovery processes and protocols to protect and retain valuable company data. Proficient in Unix and Linux languages. Subject matter expert in collecting, analyzing, interpreting, classifying and summarizing complex data and policies related to various database standard operating procedures, encryption programs and data retrieval procedures to determine and evaluate problems and propose practical solutions. Adept at collaboration and multitasking and working at a fast-pace with strict deadlines.  TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Installation, configuration, capacity planning, Backup & Recovery  • Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Database Cloning  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, OPATCH, DBCA and DBUA  • Database security (including TDE)  • Oracle Data Guard installation/ administration for high availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Monitoring and performance Tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data Pump, and SQL Loader  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN    • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014, 2016), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • ETL tools: SQL  • Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab Initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5  • ASM, Diagnosis, Operating systems, SQL Loader  • Backup, ETL, Developer,  • PL/SQL, Toad  • Microsoft SQL  • GUI and tools Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Jelani Consulting - Greenbelt, MD July 2017 to Present • Specified user access levels for each database segment to protect database integrity and company information  • Administered, supported and strictly monitored databases to quickly resolve problems SQL servers  • Resolve space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Apply Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using OPATCH utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Perform Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  • Install and configure software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008, 2012, and 2016.Maintain database by entering data into historical files Database Administrator Metro Consulting - Lanham, MD May 2013 to 2017 • Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  • Design backup strategies following SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 4hrs down to 25mins.  • Resolve space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Apply Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using OPATCH utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Perform Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  • Install and configure software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008, 2012, and 2016.Maintain database by entering data into historical files  • Manage data and secured files  • Create custom reports and update existing reports from one or more customer data sources in SQL platform  • Maintain client confidence and protect operations by keeping information confidential  • Maintain professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing professional publications; establishing personal networks; participating in professional societies Education Doctor of Psychology in Clinical Psychology American School of Professional Psychology At Argosy University - Arlington, VA 2009 Master of Arts in Clinical Psychology American School of Professional Psychology At Argosy University - Arlington, VA 2006 Bachelor of Science in Psychology University of The District of Columbia - Washington, DC 2001 Skills oracle (5 years), Performance Monitoring & Tuning (5 years), Database security (including TDE) (5 years), Microsoft SQL (5 years), Database Migration (5 years), Backup and Recovery (5 years)