SQL server database administrator SQL server <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> SQL server database administrator - Baltimore county public school Alexandria, VA ? 6 years of experience in Microsoft SQL including 2014/2012/2008/2008 R2, SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS enterprise editions and exposure to 2016.  ? Involvement through the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, testing, and Post-Production Support.  ? Experience in planning, installing, configuring, and managing of SQL 2016/2014/2012 and 2008 R2 server.  ? Working with system and user defined databases, database files, and file groups.  ? Skill in designing, creating, configuring, monitoring, upgrading, and supporting databases.  ? Experience in planning, Implementing, and administering HA/DR solutions like log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Clustering, and Always on Availability group.  ? Proficiency on performance monitoring using SQL server profiler, performance monitor, activity monitor, extended events, Database engine tuning advisor (DTA), and Server side traces.  ? Experience in migrating, copying, detaching and attaching, Backing up, and restoring databases.  ? Knowledge on capacity planning and storage management, expanding, and shrinking databases.  ? Skill on creating database objects like views, indexes, stored procedures, functions, and triggers.  ? Extensive experience creating user and groups' logins, granting necessary permissions, and monitor activities enforcing security policy.  ? Setting up, Scheduling and maintenance plans, jobs, notifications, and alerts.  ? Creating and configuring and managing partially contained databases, and database snapshots.  ? Monitoring, Rebuilding and reorganizing indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Strong understanding in performance tuning, query optimization, and resolving database performance issues including blocking, deadlocking, and index fragmentation.  ? Proficient in Creating, implementing, and deploying SSIS packages.  ? Implementing, managing and troubleshooting SQL server security, and audit.  ? Troubleshooting SQL server by Reading and analyzing event viewer and SQL server error logs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL server database administrator Baltimore county public school - Towson, MD March 2019 to Present Installed SQL server 2016 enterprise edition instance database engine on windows 2016 server for development and training environment.  ? Installed service packs and patches on SQL server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2 and for windows server OS using WSUS.  ? Prepared a checklist to follow for database restore for all production, test, development, training environment.  ? Restored databases to production, test, training and development SQL server 2016/2014/2012.  ? Created databases on SQL server 2016 pre-production, test and training environments.  ? Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases.  ? Monitoring and troubleshooting performance of the servers.  ? Administer SQL server security by creating user logins with appropriate roles, disabling user accounts when the user leave the organization.  ? Performed full backups per user requests using COMMVAULT backup software.  ? Created a job to shrink large tables using ZENA job scheduler.  ? Created SSIS package to copy tables from one server to another.  ? Implemented update statistic job using maintenance plan job and scheduled it.  ? Migrating databases to new environments and fixing the orphan users, compatibility level.  ? Created new SQL authenticated accounts for SQL server 2016 development environment  ? Monitoring the disk space of the server and shrink log files when it's full.  ? Created documentation of servers and databases.  ? Worked closely with in-house developer and our vendor. SQL database administrator Kinsale Insurance - Richmond, VA September 2016 to March 2019 Designed and normalized relational database models.  ? Performed side by side migration from 2008 R2 to 2014 enterprise edition.  ? Created tables, views, triggers, functions, and Stored Procedures SQL Server 2014 and 2008/R2.  ? Implemented Always ON for High availability on SQL Server 2014/2012.  ? Applied transparent data encryption (TDE) to secure databases and backup file.  ? Provide analysis and recommendations for setting up a Backup and Recovery Strategy for SQL Servers.  ? Performed full, differential, and transaction log backups.  ? Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of databases.  ? Used SQL Agent to setup and automate internal processing tasks and backup tasks as well as setting up alerts to monitor the server and database health.  ? Created clustered and non-clustered indexes to improve query performance.  ? Recommended performance improvement involving index creation, index removal, and index modification.  ? Tuned slow running queries using server side traces and SQL server profiler.  ? Performed troubleshooting using activity monitor, dmv, dmf, profiler, and performance monitor.  ? Created and deployed SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) for ETL processes.  ? Created auditing logs user actions at the instance and database level, to monitor elevated privilege users developers, DBA, and connection attempts.  ? Meet the established SLA (system Level Agreement) with the management. SQL database administrator Evergreen Health - Baltimore, MD January 2014 to August 2016 Installed SQL Server 2014/2012 enterprise edition instance Database engine, SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS.  ? Created synchronized mirroring and configured to automatic failover.  ? Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases.  ? Performed database and log backups and restoration, backup strategies, and scheduling backups.  ? Backing up system databases and restoring them when necessary.  ? Performed in routine database maintenance activities i.e. monitoring of jobs, and performance tuning.  ? Created roles and managed user permissions thru adding users, logins, and groups to the databases, and granting/revoking permissions on database objects.  ? Implemented Replication models such as Snapshot, Transactional, and Merge.  ? Configuring and Managing transactional replication in OLTP environments.  ? Managed tables which have frequent inserted, deleted and updated transactions to improve performance.  ? Troubleshooting deadlocks and blocking issues.  ? Audited database for users' transaction, login and database action.  ? Configured memory, monitored disk usage, and memory usage of servers.  ? Created always on for the production databases. Education Bachelor's Skills DBA, ETL, Ssis, Sql Server, Sql Dba