Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - UPS Louisville, KY • Over 9+years of IT experience, mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including 9i,10g 11g & 12.1.0.2 on Exadata running on X6s, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools Talent and Looker  • Experience with GoldenGate  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in and12c HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns  • Master Encription  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and GridControl 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Installation, upgrade and patching on Oracle 11g/12C databases on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • Good knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata., OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator UPS - Louisville, KY June 2018 to Present • Developed many databases running Oracle12.2.0.1 on Exadata environment, running on X6s with the use of Cloud Control 12C & 13C in monitoring.  • Programed DBA applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools Talent and Looker  Experience with GoldenGate  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in and12c HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns  • Master Encription  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and GridControl 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Installation, upgrade and patching on Oracle 11g/12C databases on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • Manage movement of data between Test. UAT and Production.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from pl/sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 12C.  • Manage RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects ncluding new projects; manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI.  • Upgraded of Exadata from X2 &X3 to X6s  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Transparent Data Encryption(TDE) for both 11g Wallet and 12C Keystore for tablespaces, tablespaces & columns  • Upgraded Exadata RAC cluster from Oracle11g (11.2.0.4) to Oracle12c (12.2.0.1)  • Applied Opatch 27626925 to fix optimizer_adaptive issues after upgrade to 12C  • Installed and configured Grid Control 13C  • Oracle Database auditing  • Oracle Transparent Encryption (TDE).  • Encryption Wallet configuration  • Configure RMAN ENCRYPTION_ALGORITHMS Oracle Database Administrator Abbott Laboratories - Chicago, IL December 2016 to May 2018 • Supported many Exadata databases running Oracle12.1.0.2 on X4s, Linux 6.9 & Standalones running Oracle11g, 2.0.4 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using Cloud Control 12C for monitoring.  • Programed Oracle DBA applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Worked with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Constantly refresh from Production to Training, Test and UAT environment.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Monitored Oracle databases using OEM and TOAD  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 on Exadata, running on X6s, Linux 6.9  • Managed RAC databases, instances, ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Handled all the aspects including new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintained backups.  • Supported databases that interface with ODI and SCI applications  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitored the dynamic performance Views (V$) at peak load of the Databases and checking RAC background processes log files & Trace files to troubleshoot performance  • Applied PSU to all the Oracle databases and troubleshooting using Oracle database manager  • Used shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Part of on call of 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Setup and Manage Oracle MiniCluster S7-2 Oracle Database Administrator Salesforce - Indianapolis, IN April 2015 to December 2016 • DBA 8 Node Exadata on X3 & X4s from Development, Test, UAT to Production environments, involving daily configuration, administration, all running on Red Hat Linux 6.5. Database sizes range from 500GB to 7TB (in MANHATTAN, ODS & FIN, OC11, SCI & EDW environments).  • Both tables and schemas refresh using Datapump, expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshed using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and EXPORT/IMPORT data from 9i to 11.2.0.4.  • Created a standby database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planned Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c, oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Managed agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c.  • Configuring administration groups, and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications, in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • PL/SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Worked closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed. Oracle Database Administrator HP Pelzer - Troy, MI June 2013 to April 2015 • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 11gR2 RAC running on Exadata Xs 4  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools Talent and Looker  • Experience with GoldenGate  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in and12c HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns  • Master Encription  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and GridControl 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Installation, upgrade and patching on Oracle 11g/12C databases on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Setup physical Active dataguard on Linux 6.5, running Oracle11.2.0.4.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 4 Node RAC  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.4 database on HP-UX platform.  • Used PL/SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Setup and Manage Oracle MiniCluster S7-2  • Create and Deploy S7-2 Application virtual Machine Groups Oracle Database Administrator BAE Systems Customer Solutions - Arlington, VA March 2010 to June 2013 • Configured. Implemented & Deployed Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) & Oracle 12C, single instances on  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Day to day Performance Monitoring and tuning of database.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 11g(11.2.0.4) on both Solaris and LINUX platforms.  • Creation and maintenance of database.  • Handling day-to-day activities.  • Monitoring of databases for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Creating Databases and all database objects. Database Designing, Designing Tablespaces and Rollback Segments.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Associate of Applied Science in Technology in Technology ITT Technical Institute - Norwood, OH March 2011 BSC in Land & Surveying in Land & Surveying Advance School of Public Works - Yaounde, CM Skills Data modeling, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripts, Solaris, Sparc, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Hp-ux, Encryption, Rman, Active directory, Erwin Additional Information SKILLS    • Hardware: Solaris 8, 10, HP-Unix 11, AIX,Win-NT 4.0, Win 2003 Server, Win 2008 Server, Win 2000  • Pofessional, Sun Sparc/Ultra/Enterprise, Linux Red Hat & Oracle Enterprise Linux, AIX, HPUX, DB Software & Ticketting: Oracle9i/10g/11g/12c, Erwin, Data Modeling SQL, PL/SQL, ODI, SQL*LOADER, Oracle OS Watcher, External tables, Exadata, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Exp/Imp/Datapump, RDBMS Statspack/AWR , Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, SERVICENOW, Active Directory, SRVCTL,CRSTL., SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, Toad & RMAN  • Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX, IBM-AIX), Linux (Suse, Redhat, OEL), and MS Windows (NT/95/98/2000/2003/XP).  • Tuning Tools: OEM,TOAD, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN,AWR/ADDM/ASH  • Other Tools and Applications: Jde, Provia, Si, Gis, Webfocus, Vertex, Ifs, Red Prairie, TMS  • VB5.0, HTML, , PVCS Tracker v7.0, Visual SourceSafe, JDE, Provia, webfocus, GIS, Evavi McKesson (Performance Manager,Care Manager,Lab,Meds Manager,Physician Portal Horizon Outreach, SAP, INET, ISOTRAIN, EDI, ODI, GPRT,T RACKWISE,LIMS,EMPOWER, 'Model-N, BODS, and Chemstore  • Proficiency in SQL and PL/SQL language  • Experience with Oracle RAC technology on Linux and / or Oracle replication  • Experience with Unix shell scripts and other programming languages  Experience with Golden Gate, RAC, CRS, and ASM  • Experience with 24/7 Production Enterprise support a plus  • Familiarity with AWS Cloud Technologies  • Oracle Transparent Encryption (TDE).