database administrator <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> database administrator - Department of Defense An accomplished database administrator with demonstrated success designing and implementing database solutions that improve business functionality. Possess diversified technical background with Peoples Care Inc. Excel at providing comprehensive secure network design, systems analysis, and database security. Work Experience database administrator Department of Defense 2017 to Present Work responsibilities  manage tablespace for all the database I manage  Apply patch at scheduled intervals on new release  Help manage the applications I manage and also perform upgrades when needed on both application servers and database.  Help create new schema accounts, unlock user accounts.  Apply mods sent by developers upon approval by system managers  Troubleshoot production issues using logs from both application server and database and resolve issues.  Work with software vendors on resolving bugs and applying their new security patch on the application servers,    Schedule database patch and apply the newest release on the database.  Run STIGS findings on the databases I manage and retify or document an explanation on each STIG findings.  Run several cronjobs at customers request  Assist developers in reviewing their scripts before applying it on database.  Also apply upgrades on the microsoft windows server 2008 I manage anytime we have a new java upgrade on the application server.  Served as the remedy application POC  Help manage the application config file and make changes as recommended by the software vendors.  Achievements and Recognition  Recogniton for successfully migrating the application I manage from the solaris 10 to solaris 11 servers. Database Administrator Peoples Care Inc 2012 to 2017 Work Responsibilities  Manage and Support 15+ databases  Created and managed oracle 10g and 11g databases.  Performed database upgrade.    Apply CPU critical patch when a new release is out.    Configure database network ( tnsname and listener.).    performed backups using Rman    Create and manage tablespaces    Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) proficiency in gathering stats and performance tuning when needed.    Resolve various oracle problems such as connection, performance and backup problems.    Performed bulk load to database using SQL*loader.    Tuned the database for faster performance.    Set up database auditing.    Implement database security.    Managed database objects such as procedure and functions.    Scheduled all kinds of database jobs using the scheduler.    Administered database user account  Administer ASM disk groups.  Configure, Monitor flashback database and perform flashback database operations.  Create an archival backup for long-term retention.  Create duplicate database.  set database up for disaster recovery.  Perform complete recovery from a critical or noncritical data file loss using RMAN.  Setting database initialization parameters.  Dataguard management and configuration to support both primary and physical standby database for proper data management  Achievements:    • Implemented database program to help organized customer information and accommodations.  • Recognized for outstanding quality of customer service and personal recommendation from clients.  . Succesfully installed and migrated the remedy software and database to the new OS. Education Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology Howard University - Washington, DC 2011 Boltos Institute 2008 Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Solaris, Unix, T-sql, Security, Auditing, Oem, Loader