Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Database Engineer - NEXON AMERICA Los Angeles, CA Database engineer with 5 years of extensive experience in building client/server applications, data processing and analysis, design  and implementation of SQL/NoSQL databases in development, staging and production environments. Highly adept at handling  migration projects, creating and implementing long term backup policies for databases and troubleshooting production issues.  Knowledgeable about software development life cycle in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of high volumes of critical  data with extensive security. Work Experience Database Engineer NEXON AMERICA - El Segundo, CA March 2016 to Present • Analyzed Mongo data and document structures and created scripts for data modeling, data import and export.  • Configured geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers for high availability.  • Performed query optimization by creating single, compound and geospatial indexes across different collections in MongoDB.  • Migrated MongoDB from MMAPV1 storage engine to WiredTiger storage engine.  • Migrated data from SQL Server to MongoDB.  • Troubleshooted replication issues in MongoDB and MySQL databases to avoid data loss and data corruption.  • Implemented data pipelines using Apache Spark to transform and process data in Cassandra.  • Created Scala scripts using the Spark Cassandra connector for handling multiple Spark jobs for extraction and transformation  of data from Cassandra  • Created Python scripts using Boto3 SDK to interact with AWS services such as Elastic Search, RDS and DynamoDB and automate  the database server creation in AWS.  • Generated daily data reports by creating scheduled jobs to extract data from DynamoDB and load into AWS S3 using Boto3  Python SDK.  • Solid hands-on experience working on Dockerized environments for NoSQL databases.  • Successfully performed MySQL, SQL Server and Mongo database version upgrades and data restoration from older versions.  • Worked on architecture and capacity planning for RDBMS and NoSQL Database clusters.  • Analyzed database logs by debugging for slow queries and optimized them for better performance.  • Manual installation of NoSQL and RDBMS databases on physical machines, virtual machines as well as cloud platforms such as AWS, vSphere and Azure.  • Performed backup and recovery, database optimization and security maintenance for both RDBMS and NoSQL databases.  • Tested and implemented the new Monitoring solution 'FOGLIGHT' for NoSQL databases and SQL server databases.  • Assisted other teams by creating Python and JS scripts to extract data as per their requirements.    1 Database Administrator (DBA) COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to July 2014 • Extensively used SQL* loader v8.0.6.3.0 to load data from flat files to the database tables in Oracle.  • Designed and developed a decision tree application using Neo4J graph database to model the nodes and relationships for each  decision.  • Troubleshoot database blocking and deadlock issues.  • Used DTS packages to move logins and jobs from one server to another server.  • Provided guidance and training to junior DBAs on both SQL Server 2014 and MongoDB.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Performed SQL Server service pack upgrades.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using LiteSpeed for SQL Server 2014.  • Troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve technical issues relating to database deployment.  • Setup of Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Disaster Recovery planning and procedures.  • Performed DR exercises for applications using SRDF and log shipping.  • SQL Server upgrade and migration from version 2005 to SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2012.  • Provided documentation to perform the upgrade of SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 and SQL server 2005 to 2008.  • Done migrating data from MySQL to SQL server and MongoDB  • Experience in Data Import / Export using DTS / SSIS Packages, BCP, ISQL, OSQL, SQLCMD and T-SQL Scripts.  • Performance tuning and stress-testing of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance  in production mode.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high- availability in various crash scenarios.  • Upgraded Mongo systems and involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Worked with capped collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements. Education Master's Degree in Management of Information Systems in MIS University of Illinois Bachelor's Degree Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills DBA, MYSQL, Shell, Sql Dba, Linux, Netbackup, Python, Javascript, MongoDB, NoSQL Databases, PostgresSQL, Cassandra, AWS, RDS