Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Humana Inc Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Humana Inc - Louisville, KY January 2017 to Present • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 11g and 12c RAC environment for production database.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10, 11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Migrate Database across different servers and platforms using Transportable Tablespaces (TTS) and Data Pump Export/Import and perform database Refresh and RMAN Cloning.  • Planned and implemented Disaster Recovery solutions using Oracle Standby Database / Data Guard and performed data Replication using Golden Gate Technology.  • Rebuild Indexes, table partitioning, tuning memory usage and SQL tuning using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF and Statspack for best performance.  • Manage alerts, notification, jobs and Solve ORA errors and Fix Bugs with the help of Oracle support and Meta Link.  • Installed OEM 10g grid agent on servers and configured to OEM 10g Grid Control.  • Administer RAC Database servers using SRVCTL, VIPCA, OEM Grid control, V$/GV$ views and System wide tuning using UTLBSTAT and UTLESTAT.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Alert management, Created and setup alerts to send notification to Users from application wherever necessary.  • Perform day to day activities like backup-restore, space management, monitoring database alerts, performance tuning.  • Proficient in troubleshooting Node Eviction in Oracle RAC Environment  • Have a good experience in administering Oracle Clusterware components.  • Configured ASM and handled issues and suggested feasible workarounds for ASM Metadata corruption and Configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database.  • Responsible for SQL query tuning and optimization. Performed database tuning and optimization using tools such as Tkprof, STATSPACK, Explain plan and SQL*Trace. Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Exposure to sql server databases. Installation, upgrade migration monitoring performance and supporting users. Oracle Database Administrator Admiral Insurance Company - Austin, TX July 2014 to December 2016 • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC) / ASM on Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.x boxes.  • Implemented 11g DataGuard Physical using DG Broker, and experienced with 11gR2 Data Guard new features Active Data Guard and Snapshot Standby.  • Worked on Golden Gate 12c Replication configuration like unidirectional as well as bidirectional as per the requirement and addition of tables for the existing Golden Gate configuration.  • Performed Data Guard switchover/failover as per the requirements.  • SQL Queries/Application and Database performance monitoring and tuning using various tools like ADDM, AWR, Explain Plan and Statspack reports.  • Database Growth and Space management, capacity planning; distributing the tables, redo logs, archived redo logs and rollback segments on different disks to optimize data retrieval.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year-old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Modified database structures including tablespace, tables, views, triggers, stored procedures as well as configuration and storage allocation to support application enhancement.  • General DBA daily jobs such as disk usage monitoring, table/index rebuild and reorganization as needed. Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Worked with latest 10g/11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken.  • Create database Objects, Table spaces, Schemas as needed.  • Exposure to AWS migration and implementation  • Experience in installation, migration, monitoring, patching and upgrade Exadata. Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Olap, Disaster recovery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Installed and Administered Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c and 3 NODE RAC (11g and 12c) using ASM, ACFS and OCFS storage.  • Resolved several PERFORMANCE TUNNING issues from Database, Memory and SQL Tuning using the AWR, ASH, ADDM, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL trace, SQL tuning advisor (STA) and OEM). Recommending better solutions that could save cost, virtualization, and resources.  • Configuring and administering DATA GUARD for disaster recovery. Configured physical, logical and snapshot standby databases. Configured dataguard BROKER to ease the role transition and fast start failover.  • Managing Oracle GOLDENGATE (both 11g and 12c). I did both unidirectional and bidirectional configuration  • RMAN friendly - (backups, recovery and cloning).  • MIGRATED from similar to different operating system such as Linux Red Hat, AIX, Solaris, Windows using DATAPUMP, GOLDENGATE, TRANSPORTABLE TABLESPACE, CREATE TABLE AS, and many other strategies.  • Worked in OLTP and OLAP Environments  • MONITORING THE DATABASE WITH TOOLS (TOAD, SQL Developer, OEM 12c ).  • Implementing SECURITY (Auditing, TDE, Network Encryption ).  • UPGRADING & applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using OPatch and run Installer under UNIX and Windows).  • Two (2) years of experience writing UNIX SHELL SCRIPTING & PL SQL PACKAGE.  • Three (3) years of experience with ORACLE version (12C R1 AND 12C R2)  • Exposure with MS SQL SERVER & POSTGRESQL    Operating Systems  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000/2012, UNIX    RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import