Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Herbalife Corporation High Point, NC Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Herbalife Corporation - Winston-Salem, NC 2015 to Present Fulfills a key role managing a globally-distributed network of over 3000 SQL Server databases for this leading provider of nutrition, weight management, and skin-care products, safeguarding data responsible for millions of dollars in revenue.  Engaged in database migrations, archival, purging, capacity planning, and disaster recovery coordination. Configured and implemented multi-node SQL 20xx clusters (Active/Active and Active/Passive) configurations on 64-bit environments.  - Cloud Migrations: Migrated databases from on-prem to Azure (Pass and IaaS) environments.  - Introduced a series of improvements that yielded measurable gains in system performance and an overall increase in the quality of the end user experience, leveraging expertise in performance tuning and database tuning using SQL Server  Profiler and System Monitor.  - Successfully implemented support for audit functionality to enable the company to achieve and maintain compliance with  SOX, PCI, GLBA, and HIPAA regulatory requirements.  - Served as the architect of comprehensive operating procedures governing System Security and Disaster Recovery; led the configuration of disaster recovery solutions to support mission-critical business applications; similarly, instituted multiple  strategies to provide for the backup and recovery of user data on a daily basis. Database Administrator CenturyLink - Chesterfield, MO 2011 to 2015 Effectively managed databases on behalf of clients of the Managed Hosting division of this provider of high speed internet,  phone and TV services, with accountability for over 7000 SQL Server instances across the globe hosting terabytes of information. Continually improved database performance through tuning.  - Served as a critical participant in a Follow The Sun model of support, providing 24/7, 365-day support for a high  OLTP/OLAP environment across three time zones.  - Migrated databases to more recent versions of SQL Server on 32-bit and 64-bit machines, creating and deploying  migration plans that incorporated emergency cutovers without compromising the quality of operations for end users.  - Contributed to successful space management through the archival and purge of database servers; led capacity planning for individual and farm servers within a data center, securing approval to move forward with necessary infrastructure  improvements.  - Envisioned, developed, and deployed operations "Rahul is a brilliant DBA with excellent technical know how.  procedures and programs in support of disaster His ability to interact well with people from all spheres of recovery and system security, as well as backup and business has always made him an easily reachable person.  recovery, safeguarding the integrity of both user data He had developed and excellent rapport within and outside and mission-critical business applications.  our team, with customers and partners."  - Coordinated and led Disaster Recovery testing for  Rashid A., Global IT Director  datacenter outages on a regional basis.  Cognizant Information Systems  - Led SQL Server audits to ensure compliance with a  broad spectrum of regulatory guidelines, including SOX, PCI, HIPAA, and GLBA.  - Facilitated the development of business-critical SSIS packages for applications that support financial instruments. Consultant Microexcel Inc - Secaucus, NJ 2009 to 2011 Achieved a demonstrated record of success in a series of engagements for clients of this Microsoft Gold Certified Partner and provider of global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing.  Key Client Engagements  - Target Corporation. Served as Primary DBA for the Compliance & Engineering Division of the second largest discount  retailer in the United States, safeguarding key data that drives millions of dollars in revenue. Responsibilities included  database migrations, archival, purging, capacity planning, audits, backup and recovery, and disaster recovery planning.  Provided support in a 24/7/365 environment, and led a project to ensure compliance with SOX, HIPAA, and GLBA  requirements.  - T. Rowe Price. Served as the Senior Database Administrator for the NTDBA Team at this investment firm, with responsibility for the management of key financial databases consisting of 350 SQL Server instances.  - Wells Fargo. Served as the Lead System Analyst in the Wholesale Division of the fourth largest bank in the nation, with accountability for the management of over 500 SQL Server financial databases. Key projects included a Windows  Migration Project that transition Windows 2000 Server and Microsoft SQL Server 2000 servers to Windows 2008/2003 and Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008, as well as the retirement of the Bindview audit tool, which saved close to $70K.    Early Career  Database Administrator, Dell International Services, India  Database Administrator, ADP Pvt Ltd., India  Database Administrator, Family Health Plan Ltd., India  Software Engineer, Premium Colour Industries Pvt Ltd., India Education Masters in Information System Management Walden University Bachelor of Science in Computer Science OSMANIA UNIVERSITY Advanced Diploma in Web Centric Curriculum NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Skills Capacity Planning (10+ years), Expert in Backup/Recovery/Disaster Recovery (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), Cloud Migrations specialist - AWS/Azure (3 years), Database Audits & Regulatory Compliance (9 years), AWS/Azure - PaaS & IaaS Database administration (3 years), Experience in ITIL or other formal SDLC methodologies (10+ years), Global Administration of Databases (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahulbobal/ Certifications/Licenses MCITP: Database administrator 2005 July 2008 to Present MCITP: Database Administrator 2008 March 2009 to Present AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional February 2018 to February 2020 Additional Information ••• AREASOFEXPERTISE •••    - Highly Successful in Building and Leading Teams - Project Scheduling, Planning, & Status Reports  - Effective Global Database Administration - Skill in Multi-Tasking and Communications  - Database Migrations from On-Prem to cloud - Archiving and Purging Database Servers  - Expertise in Microsoft SQL Server - Leading Database Audits  - Expert in Backup/Recovery/Disaster Recovery - Ensuring Regulatory Compliance  - Enterprise-wide IT Deployments and Upgrades - Safeguarding Key Revenue-Generating Data  - Improving Database Performance Through Tuning - Performing Capacity Planning  - Effective Project Management Expertise - Introducing Best Practices for IT Processes    ROFESSIONAL HISTORY    ••• TECHNICALPROFICIENCIES •••    RDBMS/DBMS  MS-SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/R2/200x, SSDS.    Database Tools  SSMS, Migration Assistance, SQL Profiler, and Data Transformation Services, Replication, SSIS, SSRS, Red Gate, SqlNexus,  MAP tool.    Platforms:  Azure, AWS, VMware, Windows 2012/2008/2003/2000/NT, Windows 7/Vista/XP/Win.    Programming Languages:  Powershell, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Java, VBScript, and T-SQL