Database Administrator/Developer, IT Director <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer, IT Director Sugar Land, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Developer, IT Director Futurity First Insurance Group, Inc. - Rocky Hill, CT September 2012 to August 2015 Responsibilities  Migrated from SQL Server Express to SQL Server 2012. Implemented SQL Server Agent, SSRS, SSIS, and SSAS services. Developed and automated backups, ETL processes, SSIS packages, and report distribution. Created numerous relational databases from the ground up; creating tables, primary keys, foreign keys, indexes, views, stored procedures and more. Wrote all the T-SQL code in the data warehouse from simple views to complex stored procedures with many parameters. Built numerous import routines with SSIS, and numerous reports with SSRS. Performed entire data conversions of historical data and new data due to commission and business partner changes. Performed encryption of both data and database connections. Administrated roles and rights for all data warehouse users.    Developed registration form pages with automated email replies through our mail server.  Assisted in development and maintenance of advisor dashboard developed in C#, as well as other websites and applications in XML, HTML, CSS, and more. Setup LDAP integration for  single sign on, and implemented SFTP for file sharing. Performed all VOIP phone configuration from call routing to voicemail email delivery. Technology, both hardware and software, management for 20+ offices and 300+ staff members. Performed staffing responsibilities, scouted talent and led interviews to hire quality staff.    Accomplishments  Data conversions.   Disaster Recovery processes.  Encryption and security.  Phone configuration.  Mergers and Migration.  User management and policies.    Skills Used  SQL development, SQL Server Agent, SSRS, SSIS, and SSAS services, backup automation, ETL processes, and report distribution. C# / ASP.Net development. Develop and maintain content management systems. Database Administrator CalTrend Automative Products - Santa Ana, CA July 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities  Migrated from Access 2007 to SQL Server 2008. Used SQL Server  2008 to create automated data feeds, stored procedures, and  schema intranet tools and e-tailer websites. Performance monitoring  and optimization by creating indexes, views, normalizing data  and replication through SQL Server Analysis Services. Setup SQL  Agent for nightly jobs to run packages through SQL Server Integration  Services. Education Bachelor's in Business and Technology University of Connecticut - Storrs Mansfield, CT 2006 to 2010 Skills SQL Development (5 years), C# / ASP.Net (3 years), CMS Systems (3 years), Phone Configurations (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chaudhrynaveed