Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - CIGNA -Health Insurance (Remote) Silver Spring, MD I am an experienced Oracle Database Administrator with over 6years of experience. Over the years, I been exposed and worked on Oracle Database versions 10g, 11g, and 12C across multiple Operating System Platforms like Red Hat Linux, Microsoft Windows, and Sun Solaris, performing core administrative duties such as Database creations, clones, backups and recovery, patches and upgrades, Performance tuning, Database Security and Cyber Security. I have been involved in Oracle High Availability and DR projects such as Oracle Goldengate, Dataguard and RAC. Last but not least, I am a highly motivated and proactive individual who is eager to learn and grow in my field as I have excelled working both as an individual and as part of a team. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CIGNA -Health Insurance (Remote) - Wilmington, DE December 2018 to Present • Database installation, configuration, indexing, and monitoring  • Applied Critical Patch Update (CPU)/ Patch Set Update (PSU) using OPatch and run installer  • Enforced Security Administration, system monitoring by adding and removing users, configuring quotas, auditing, TDE, network and database encryption  • Used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, SQL*DEVELOPPER, TOAD;  • Managed Single instance (10g, 11g, 12c), Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) on UNIX/LINUX, AIX and Windows environments.  • Implemented full backup, incremental, cumulative backups, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN;  • Performed user managed backups (hot and cold)  • Migrated data across same and different platform  • Installed, configured, monitor and maintained the oracle Golden Gate for data replication.  • Configured and maintained Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g Single Instance for disaster recovery  • Configured and maintained RAC for high availability  • Monitored Database, OS, Network, Database processes, Database objects on regular basis  • Administered and created all database objects and users upon the request  • Create/alter users and assigning roles and privileges  • Used DATAPUMP for logical backups Oracle Database Administrator Transurban North America - Tysons, VA November 2016 to November 2018 • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Installed, Setup, Configured Oracle version 12c Release2 64 Bit on Solaris 10 and RHEL 6  • Database Migration of from 10g to 11gand then to 12c and also applying patches whenever required.  • Applying upgrade patches, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases.  • Perform user and Security Administration activities such as enrolling users, Granting Privileges to users and maintaining system security  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Successfully implemented 11g RAC on nodes for high availability.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control.  • Troubleshoot and fixed Oracle Golden Gate abended EXTRACT/REPLICAT processes.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  • Worked on Multitenant databases, plugging and unplugging databases into and from other containers.  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to QA, UAT and Development databases using data pump  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Database refreshes/cloning using RMAN Duplicate  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Statistics.  • Installed and configured Oracle 12c OEM cloud control and manages targets on all other databases to ensure monitoring of all specified databases.  • Worked with T-SQL statements like DELETE and UPDATE statements and also like BULK insert of data into the datable.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator Catholic University - Washington, DC April 2013 to November 2016 • Provided databases performance tuning proactively as well as for ongoing performance issues using tools including but not limited to AWR, ASH, SQL Tuning Advisor, etc.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Have set up the cron jobs for run alert, space watch monitoring, RMAN backup (level_0 and level_1) and recovery, archive log purge, deletion of archive logs and AWR reports on AIX-5.3.  • Used traditional IMP/EXP for systems older than 10g and Data pump on platforms with newer Oracle software for exporting and importing schemas, tables from one database to another.  • Configured Oracle Advance Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK and AWR Reports.  • Production Support for Critical Application Databases, worked closely with Application Team in identifying issues and provided solutions for various issues (Used Jira for tickets, incidents and work orders of different severity levels).  • Implemented quarterly Oracle Patches both CPU and PSU.  • Checking and validating databases Backup and Restore procedures.  • Data refreshes from Production to Non-Production environment, Creation of Duplicate Databases using RMAN Backups.  • Responsible for tuning the database performance issues like query tuning and memory tuning (SGA tuning) and also partitioned the tables and indexes for better performance.  • Have used different tools like TOAD (10.1), EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM Oracle enterprise manager (GRID CONTROL)  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs  • 24 X 7 Production database support and administration. Education Bachelor of Science University of Maryland University College December 2017 Associate of Applied Science degree in Applied Science Prince George's Community College March 2015 Skills Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Rman, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Html, Scripting, Xml, Rdbms, Oem, Windows xp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    OPERATING SYSTEMS: Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x, Windows XP and Oracle/PostgreSQL on AWS RDS  RDBMS: Oracle /10g/11g/12c, PostgreSQL 9.0 - 10.0,  LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting and bash Scripting  SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS/ TOOLS:  DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, SQL Navigator, TOAD, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), SRVCTL, SQL*Plus    TUNING TOOLS: ASH, ADDM, AWR, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.  WEB TOOLS: HTML, XML    AWARD    Honor Society  National Society of Leadership and Success  Awarded 2014