Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - CIGNA -HEALTH INSURANCE Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CIGNA -HEALTH INSURANCE - Wilmington, DE November 2016 to Present • Worked on proof of concept to switchover to standby database and switchback to production database using DG Broker utility.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and also using silent method.  • Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Applied Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) and Patch Set Updates (PSU). One-off Patches using opatch and runInstaller.  • Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views & Query Re-Write.  • Supported functional data warehouse projects.  • Applied PSU & CPU patches for Oracle database servers in rolling fashion on RAC databases.  • Worked with database export & import scripts to backup database structures and automation procedures.  • Installation, Configuration, Upgrade, patching of Oracle RDBMS and applications Work on different versions of Databases with OEM Grid control to maintain the database effectively.  • SQL tuning and Database Performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database Performance on daily basis.  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performed policies on data confidentiality, integrity, and availability Based on Access Controls for Access to Data at the database level.  • Automated the nightly RMAN backups for the Production, Test, Development Databases in crontab.  • Creating and Scheduling Oracle Backend Process Jobs using UNIX crontab.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 11g database.  • Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Built 4 node RAC 10gr2 Standby database and set up DG Broker. Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).  • Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using  • CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Involved in I/O tuning by moving data files and redo log files to faster disks.  • Perform user and Security Administration activities such as enrolling users, Granting Privileges to users and maintaining system security.  • Translating the logical data models to physical design and validate the SQLs (Adding PK's, triggers synonyms.  • Monitoring instance performance, tablespace utilization, database objects, connectivity and database availability, verification / validation of database backups, and server space availability and maintenance. Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints. Oracle Database Administrator WEIS MARKET INC - Sunbury, PA May 2014 to November 2016 • Running scripts and monitoring the load process to avoid any issues in ETL jobs running for a long duration.  • Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion or necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  • Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases. Installed Oracle 10g and 11g on multiple platforms.  • Performed up-gradation of 10g to 11g.  • Performed traditional Cold backup in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as logical exports.  • Automated routine DBA tasks like backup's and stats by using Grid control job's  • Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications. Administration of RAC and DATAGUARD databases in Oracle 11g.  • Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes. Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  • Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  • Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  • Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & UAT.  • Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  • Applied various database / applications PSU / CPU patches as required. Also applied monthly vertex updates.  • Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.  • Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage database growth.  • Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 10g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts.  • Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions, etc. Skills Database administration, Database, Oltp, Oracle, Replication, Sql, Disaster recovery, Rman, Backups, Erp, Metadata, Netapp, Application development, Systems analysis, Data warehousing, Vldb, Security, Uat, Migrations, Scheduling Additional Information SKILLS  • Over 4+ Years of total Oracle Database Administration experience in implementing, Design, Development, Testing and Production.  • Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  • Experience in configuring Golden Gate replication between OLTP to OLTP and OLTP to data ware housing environments.  • Experience in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, and troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  • Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & UAT.  • Carried out migrations between different environments including production using STAT / Manually.  • Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  • Applied various database / applications PSU / CPU patches as required. Also applied monthly vertex updates..  • Team player with excellent interpersonal, analytical and communications skills  • Experience in using OEM, TOAD, SQL Developer and performing data migrations using Export/Import utility.  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQLTRACE, 11gOEM Grid Monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using sqltrace utilities.  • Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and testing  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Expertise in using oracle Export/import, Datapump utility to migrate data across schemas.  • Experience in managing large Oracle databases (VLDB) which includes OLTP as well as DW databases.  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Experienced in using 11g features Data pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Oracle  • Enterprise Manager. Installation, administration and maintenance of Oracle 11g  • Designed and tested Backup solutions using RMAN and NetApp Snapshots/Flex Clones.  • Tuned Oracle databases, application programs and operating system.  • Strong experience in configuration of RMAN, Planning and scheduling Backups using CRONTAB.  • Configured Oracle on different Operating Systems for OLTP & Data Warehousing environments.  • Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database (Data Guard), Materialized views, VCS, Streams Replication, Golden Gate.  • Experienced in Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Oracle and other Support.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Highly motivated with strong commitment to quality and customer service Extensive experience in 7*24 production database support.  • Expert in systems analysis and architecture, capacity planning, backup/recovery, installation, configuration, apply patches, troubleshooting, performance monitoring and tuning.  • Design, development, and testing of backup and recovery to ensure complete recoverability.  • Solid experience in disaster recovery, routine maintenance for Oracle databases.  • Security management for database, network, and operating systems.  • SQL Net installation/configuration/troubleshooting (Server and Client side