Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - American Home Patient Houston, TX Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator American Home Patient - Nashville, TN January 2017 to Present Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  Golden gate setup to achieve unidirectional replication and Golden gate database user with necessary privileges.  Creating database objects in operational data store and maintaining them in Golden Gate.  Implemented initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate.  Migration of Oracle databases 11g (11.2.0.4) from Linux Boxes to EXADATA machine using  data guard switchover and Export & Import.  Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g  (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features. Also upgraded 11g (11.2.0.3) Databases to 12c (12.1.0.1).  Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering  target Databases with the Catalog.  Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP ( Guaranteed Restore Point ) and Export and Import  (Datapump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  Building Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT  standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  Worked of MS SQL SERVER for 2years  Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g also called as keystore from  12c and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using  column encryption and tablespace encryption, also used TDE for Goldengate replication  too.  Also tested disaster recovery with database failover and switchover also tested  Goldengate replication after that using DBFS filesystem and ACFS.  Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real  Application Cluster (RAC)  Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle  Streams/CDC  Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates,  Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst  others. Oracle Database Administrator SunTrust Bank - Richmond, VA March 2014 to December 2016 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX  platforms.  Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager  (OEM) 10gGrid Control.  Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing  UNIX scripts.  Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re- organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  Applied Bug fixes patches, Quarterly Security Patches for RAC and non-RAC servers for issues when upgrading, DR switchover testing.  Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 9i/10g  databases to 11gR2 RAC.  Setup, reconfigured and monitored 2, 3 Node RAC Primary to 2, 3 Node RAC Dataguard for Disaster Recovery.  Tested the Dataguard (DR) SWITCHOVER of RAC to RAC Dataguard as part of the migration.  Created new databases/instances on 12c/11g RAC and single instances using  customized scripts, DBCA.  Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL  coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential  integrity constraints  Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/clustered Application tuning using  Dictionary views, AWR (Statspack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned  SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables  & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query  performance.  Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, sar, glance, vmstat etc.  Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and  differential Incremental Backups.  Migrated VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 7TB and redesigned the RMAN backup  Strategy.  Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN  Duplicate.  Intensively used latest 12c/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic  Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace  monitoring to send notification emails.  Migrated data to a new ASM Diskgroup to improve the IO performance of the database.  Export/Import, Datapump, Transportable tablepsaces to migrate databases from one  database to another.  Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes. Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Oracle tools, Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedures, Disaster recovery, Backups, Security, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Vldb, Uat Additional Information Skills Summary  Administer over 200+ databases across Development, QA, UAT and PROD environments  via use of command line and Oracle tools-Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c.  Experience in Creation of Databases, Set up and monitoring of Backups, Migration Security in  MS SQL SERVER  Installed Oracle 11g RAC and Upgrading Oracle 10g RAC databases.  Upgraded databases from 11g to 12c.  Set up Active Dataguard Configurations for oracle database 11.2.0.3 for twenty  databases whose size varies from 2TB to 10TB on a 3 node RAC.  Migrated and upgraded Oracle 11gR2 Databases from Sun Solaris 10 to Red hat Linux 5  using Goldengate.  Worked on SQL Tuning and how to use the available tools outside of Oracle Enterprise  Manager.  Worked on Performance Tuning, identifying large objects, analyze those objects and  recommend changes to improve performance.  Updated MVIEWS and test code to improve performance.  Identifying objects no longer accessed and remove those objects which results in saving  space in the databases.  Worked on moving data from one storage area to another.  Installed and Administered Oracle 11g & 10g RAC software with ASM.  Implemented fast start failover on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using  dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and  Snapshot standby database.  Implemented & Managed Physical Standby and even Configured Automatic Storage  Management (ASM).  Applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off  Patches using OPatch and run Installer under UNIX and Windows.  Data transferring using Export/Import utilities and SQL*Loader.  Expertise in creating and maintaining databases to Oracle Optimal Flexible Architecture  (OFA) standards in very large scale database environment (VLDB) and mission critical  OLTP and DSS systems.  Performed database tuning by using various tools such as ADDM (Automatic Database  Diagnostic Monitor) from AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), OEM (Oracle  Enterprise Manager) and STATSPACK.  Performed SQL Tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF with SQL trace and STA (SQL  Tuning Advisor). Coordinated with System administrators, application developers and  other DBAs.  Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant, Oracle Net  Manager, Netstat and ping utility.  Involved in writing stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in PL/SQL to interface  application with database system.