Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Baltimore, MD I am a well-organized, proactive, and highly motivated professional Database Administrator with extensive experience. I am a fast learner, good at disseminating information and documentations. I am a team player and culturally versed hence interacting professionally with others is easy. I have 6 years of hands-on experience in Oracle Database Administration. Duties include Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, OEM Grid Control, Oracle Golden Gate. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions on Windows, Solaris and Linux (Red Hat) Platforms. I support a full development life cycle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Nabors Drilling Services - Houston, TX April 2016 to June 2019 • Supported multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux and Windows environments.  • Installed, configured, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  • Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  • Created and Configured RMAN Catalog databases and registered target Databases with the Catalog.  • Performed Backup and recovery of databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP (Guaranteed Restore Point) and Export and Import (Datapump and Normal).  • Created users, granted roles and privilege management. Maintained user accounts and privileges to maintain application security.  • Implemented Oracle Standby databases, both Active Data Guard for real-time replication and normal Data Guard for disaster recovery.  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12C as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features.  • Configure, support and managed 3 node RAC for high availability, scalability and performance.  • Applied upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshed Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Monitored Database health check and growth with script, OEM Grid Control, TOAD and SQL Developer.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Scheduled repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Configure, manage and support Golden Gate and Performed database replication using Golden Gate.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Failover tests.  • Configured Data guard Broker to ease role transition (Switchover and Failover).  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Configured automated alerts for the production servers, which alerts DBA with the alert log errors and proactively space related errors using OEM Grid Control.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and provided consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments. Oracle Database Administrator FIU College of Education - Miami, FL March 2013 to March 2016 • Applied RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Tuned PL/SQL, SQL with Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM)  • Performed Database health checks, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Installed, Supported and managed Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) environment on Red Hat Linux.  • Applied Database software fixes/patches.  • Built Physical standby databases using Data guard as part of the BCP disaster recovery strategy.  • Identified database bottlenecks using OEM Grid Control, AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, ESTIMATE, ANALYSE, INDEXES, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE and TKPROF.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Involve in Golden gate Unidirectional and Bidirectional configuration, and support resoling issues in golden gate.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security features like TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), Data Vault and Audit Vault.  • Installed and maintained Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 databases.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Adekunle Ajasin University Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, RAC, AWS, Pl/sql, SQL, Refresh, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Installation and Configuration, Golden Gate, Data Guard, Performance Tuning, Disaster recovery, Rman, Backups, Cloning Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate February 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills Summary  • 6 years of experience in managing large-scale OLTP and OLAP databases in HA and DR setup.  • 6 years' Experience configuring and administering DATA GUARD for disaster recovery. Configured both physical and logical standby databases.  • 6 years' Experience in migration/consolidation of databases using Oracle 12c multitenant.  • 6 years of experience on Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • 5 years Expertise in implementing and maintaining Database Security such as auditing and TDE.  • 2 years' Experience in Amazon Web Services, SQL Server, Exadata and MySQL.  • 6 years of experience in Performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting using tools such as ASH, Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and ADDM reports.  • 6 years' Experience in Installation, managing and administering 3 nodes RAC on 11gR2 using ASM storage  • 6 years of experience implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • 6 years' Experience using RMAN for backups, recovery and cloning.  • 6 years' Experience MIGRATING from similar to different operating system such as Linux Red Hat, AIX, Solaris, Windows using DATAPUMP, GOLDENGATE, TRANSPORTABLE TABLESPACE, and many other strategies.  • 5 years' Experience writing UNIX SHELL SCRIPTING & debugging PL /SQL PACKAGE.  • 6 years' Experience configuring Oracle GOLDENGATE both unidirectional and Bidirectional.    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000, UNIX  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, WinSCP, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import