Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Hyattsville, MD Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator with more than five years of work  experience in SQL DBA. He has profound knowledge and skills from design, installation,  configuration, security, performance tuning, migration, high availability to disaster recovery. He  is dedicated with exceptional analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. He is eager  to learn new technologies and new perspectives. He has also developed transferable knowledge  and skills on project and people management. He is suitable candidate for both technical and  managerial posts in the IT industry specially in SQL server development and administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator The Home Depot - Washington, DC March 2016 to June 2019 He is consistently challenged to design demand driven architectures, database models and deliver industry-leading database structure, configuration, database recovery strategies, security and high availability that ensures data integrity, security and drives the future of the organization.  He takes ownership of his work by being a part of an empowered and balanced database  Administration team of the company.    Key Responsibilities  • Installation and configuring of SQL Server 2008/212/2014/2016 on windows servers  • Performing the migration of database from SQL server 2008-R2, 2008, and 2005 to SQL Server 2012.  • Administering the MS SQL Server security through Login and User Management: Add  ing logins, roles, groups to the Window NT and MS SQL Server and maintaining prope  r security procedures.  • Implementing transactional replication and merge replication for high availability of t  he databases.  molte.mengesha@gmail.com  Cell: 240 283 4230    • Monitoring daily backup jobs and automation of daily restores of development  databases. (Using third party tools such as Red gate, Idera, and Native backups).  • Troubleshooting and resolving database integrity, performance issues, blocking and d  eadlocking issues.  • Implementation of Always on Availability Groups and the clustered environment.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters and implemented Point-In-Time R  ecovery solutions.  • Evaluate CPU, Disk I/O and Memory related bottlenecks using Performance Monitor  and improved the SQL server performance.  • Enhance performance by running index tuning wizard for creating, rebuilding and reorganizing indexes on various tables.  • Monitors maintenance plans for backups, history clean up task and rebuild indexes.  • On call 24/7/365 support to databases on weekly rotation. Database Administrator AllState Insurance, Maryland February 2014 to February 2016 He plays key roles to introduce and maintain computerized information systems, provides the appropriate hardware, software, networking and communications infrastructure for automation.  He provides the highest level of data security, confidentiality and integrity, ensures a safe and reliable computing environment and provides a high degree of availability and recovery of its  systems.    Key Responsibilities  • Installation and configuring of SQL Server 2012/2008 on windows servers 2012/2008- R2/2008.  • Updates new SQL Server 2014 features.  • Monitor performance with SQL Server Profiler, extended event and others  • Testing and deploying development databases to production databases.  • Monitoring and Managing SQL Server agent jobs, maintenance plan  • Routinely take Backup and restore when there is disaster.  • Troubleshooting and resolving database integrity, performance, blocking and deadlock, replication issues,  • Developing efficient database queries, query tuning, index and statistics maintenance.  • Prioritizing and executed tasks in a high-pressure environment  • Consistently Enforces database security.  • Creating Database Maintenance plans, SQL Agent jobs, stored procedures and SSIS  packages.  molte.mengesha@gmail.com  Cell: 240 283 4230    • Uses database level triggers code for database consistency, integrity and security.  • Migrating data from MS Access and MS Excel to SQL Server.  • On call 24/7/365 support to databases on weekly rotation. Program Manager Department for International Development (DFID) January 2012 to February 2014 Major Roles: Manage the design, planning, implementation and evaluation of the three  DFID Ethiopia programs Education Bachelor's Skills Data transformation, Database administration, Database, Database design, Ms sql server, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Replication, Sql, Stored procedures, Backups, Microsoft business intelligence, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, T-sql, Cluster server, Optimization, Rdbms, Security, DBA, Sql Dba, ETL Additional Information Skills    • More than five years of solid SQL Server database administration experience  * Experience in RDBMS database design, MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query  Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Data Transformation Services and running  Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC in SQL Server 2005, 2008/2008R2/2012/2014  to maintain post installation (upgrade) configurations.  • Installation, configuration, managing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server  2008, 2012, 2014, and 2016 in Production, Test, Development and Cluster Server  Environments.  * Moving user database & system database files from one location to another location.  * Plan and implement Microsoft SQL Server Security and database permissions (creating  logins, users, roles, and assigning permission to them).  * Experience in configuring and managing SQL Server Instances, databases, Schema and  Object  * Experience in extracting and transforming data using DTS Import/Export Data, Bulk Insert,  BCP, and DTS Packages.  * Implementing and managing automated Backups and Restore, Mirroring, Replication, Log  shipping, Failover Cluster, Availability Group jobs.  Molte Mengesha  molte.mengesha@gmail.com  Cell: 240 283 4230    * Perform SQL server Tuning and maintenance (Server level and Query level) and trouble  shooting.  * Experience in SQL server profiler for tracing events, stepping through problem queries,  finding and diagnosing slow-running queries, blocking, dead lock, monitoring the  performance of SQL Server to tune workloads, an error written to the SQL Server error  log, the Start or end of a store procedure.  * Improve performance by creating Index and periodic index maintenance via index rebuild  and reorganise as well as updating statistics.  * experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies like SQL Server Integration  Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  * Creating and managing schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures  and User-Defined Functions depending on the Requirements Using T-SQL.  * Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project.  * Skill to work in a team environment  * Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills and ability to learn new  concepts  * On call 24/7/365 support to databases on weekly rotation.