Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Pfizer Takoma Park, MD I am a focused IT professional with over 5 years of hands-on experience in Oracle Database Administration. I provide excellent support on both production and project environments to my clients. I have supported databases on versions 10g, 11g, and 12c running on Linux, UNIX, Windows. I have Hands on experience on oracle software Installation and Configuration, Patching, Database Migrations, Upgrades, RMAN Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, OEM cloud control 12c and Oracle Golden Gate. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pfizer - Peapack, NJ April 2016 to Present • Applied the Database (RDBMS) Patches, PSU patches and one-off patches for Bug resolution using Opatch utility.  • Proficient with Veritas/NetBackup storage systems  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Built Oracle Standby databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Refreshed Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to lower environments  • Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace monitoring to send notification emails.  • Upgrade Classic Extract to Integrated Capture  • Proficient in an assortment of technologies, including data guard, golden gate and real application cluster (RAC).  • Created database & database objects like table, index, table space, rollback/undo segments and views & analyzed relevant objects to collect statistics to tune the system performance.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of Disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Data loading using SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP. Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time at various levels and events using AWR, Explain Plan, sql tuning TKprof,  • Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.  • Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills Oracle Database Administrator March 2014 to April 2016 • Experience in Export/Import, Data pump, and Transportable tablespaces to migrate data from one database to another., AR Mar 2014 - April 2016  Oracle Database Administrator    • Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation.  • Setup New databases on Clustered and Non-clustered environment and Implemented Maximum Availability Architecture using RAC, DATAGUARD and Golden Gate  • Administering the RAC Environment through SRVCTL and CRSCTL and applied patches in rolling fashion  • Configured diskgroups with different redundancy levels and created fail groups and managing and tuning ASM parameters  • Configuration & Troubleshooting the Oracle DataGuard & GoldenGate environment in Oracle 11g & 12c versions.  • Full database, Schema refresh using RMAN, Datapump and Implemented the Backup strategies using RMAN  • Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like RAC, DATA GUARD, GRID CONTROL and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning Advisor, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF, DBV.  • Performed Data file recovery from logical and physical block corruptions  • Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  • Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Implemented Range, List, Hash and various Sub Partitions, Create and schedule refresh for materialized views.  • Provide support to developers to enhance their SQL, PL/SQL code  • Involved in migrating applications from Solaris 10g/11g to Linux 11.2.0.3 using Transportable Tablespace, RMAN Convert  • Up-gradation of single instance databases from 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3 on Linux  • Create shell scripts that automate the database backups and maintenance.  • Worked on Active data guard, Fail over and Switch over cases  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Setup, configured and monitored 2, 3 Node RAC  Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting Education Bachelor in information management in information management University of Bamenda Skills Database, Sql server, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle tools, Sql, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Etl, Informatica, E-business, Maintenance, Oem, DBA, Postgresql, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Dba Additional Information Professional Skills:  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update using OPatch.  • Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Providing DBA support to multiple Cluster, Non-cluster and ASM Database in production, development and Testing Servers  • Have Hands on working in both Application and Production support environment.  • Excellent experience in Installation, administration and troubleshooting of Oracle for OLTP environment  • Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.  • Setup Configured and Maintained Oracle Data Guard to control Primary and Standby Databases for disaster recovery  • Expertise in setup/implementation/maintenance of Real-Application-Cluster (RAC)  • Experience of Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate Extract and Replicate issues.  • Knowledge on Exadata, AWS, e-business, Sql server, ETL, OUD, Informatica.  • Implemented RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative), user-managed backup and recovery  • Implemented Transparent data encryption for advance security