Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Business Manager/Marketing manager Ottumwa, IA A fulfilled Oracle database Administrator with a track record of implementing database services geared at optimizing the functionality and productivity in heterogeneous environments. Hold over five years in improving and optimizing the performances of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases. And cumulatively, hold eleven progressive years of Information Technology and related experiences. Have demonstrated a high skill in accomplishing various oracle environment expectations; database installations and upgrades, troubleshooting, backup and recovery perform tuning, enforce database security procedures, and perform other related database services.    • Experienced in database administration on Oracle databases ( 10g, 11g and 12c).  • Extensive knowledge on RMAN backup and recovery  • Also experience in export/import, and the data pump utility. Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • Experienced in database and application proactive and level tuning.  • High Abilities in troubleshooting and resolving environment issues and providing timely interventions.  • Skilled in installing oracle software, creating, configuring, and managing oracle databases  • Experience with the application of database backup/recovery architectures and procedures.  • Extensive knowledge of automatic storage management environment (ASM)  • Motivated self-driven technical troubleshooter - independently digs into technical issues.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A Strong team player with perfect collaborative skills  • Possess a Strong active communication and documentation skills.  • Always ready to learn and embark on challenging tasks  • Strong knowledge of Dataguard and RAC instances  • Familiar with database administration on MS SQL server 2008    Languages English and French Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator JBS SWIFT PORK - Ottumwa, IA September 2016 to Present • A member of a ten- man team that supports several(150) production and development databases on different platforms(unix, windows, and others)  • Actively perform different forms of advanced recovery activities; point in time, recovery on a different host, and other flashback Import activities.  • Work on DR operations; Open and recover or rebuild DR databases  • Perform performance tuning task using all known performance tuning tools (tracing, tkprof, tuning advisors, and etc.  • Do schema refreshes and other forms of data movement(expdp, impdp)  • Create objects as needed, conforming to best practices  • Schedule and perform various forms of Rman backup on Cron or via the OEM Grid control  • Assist in investigating and testing rman backup enhancement software and hardware; DATA DOMAIN for Rman  • Automate DR log archive apply monitoring via the OEM Grid control  • Install binaries and create database instances for out of place restore  • Collaborated with developers, application experts, and other on or offside team or cross-team members to investigate and solve performance problems  • Monitor and proactively tuned Oracle databases via the OEM grid control (10g) and RAC platforms (11g) or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts.  • Apply various patches( interim patches, patch sets, CPU, and PSU) Oracle Database Administrator METROCOM SOLUTIONS - CM July 2010 to November 2015 • A member of the DBA team that manages several production and development databases in diverse environments for a multitude of clients, managing up 200 databases (Oracle on Sun Solaris (UNIX), DB2, Linux (Red hat, Unbreakable Linux & Centos) platforms, with sizes ranging from 20GB to about 20 terabytes.  • Create and configure Oracle Databases using both the DBCA and manually using database creation scripts.  • Create primary database storage structures (tablespaces) and objects (tables, views, indexes etc.).  • Schedule and perform various modes of backups using RMAN Education Oracle database administration University of Yaoundé Skills databases (8 years), Linux (5 years), Oracle (6 years), Rman (6 years), unix (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: LINUX, UNIX, Windows  Databases: OLTP, DSS, and WAREHOUSE databases  Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)/Grid Control, Oracle Expert RMAN), SQL Loader, SQL*Plus  3rd Party Tools: SQL Developer, Toad,