Database Administrator (Contractor) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Contractor) Database Administrator (Contractor) at Connexions Charlotte, NC • An analytical approach to problem solving and detail specificity.  • Highly organized with a focus in prioritizing workload and scheduling follow-ups.  • Excellent written, verbal and organizational skills.  • Extensive experience in Oracle Database Administration.  • Knowledge of Oracle 10g, 11g RDBMS.  • Displays a high level of energy, integrity and ethics with the exceptional ability to deliver outstanding bottom line results with short deadlines.  • Excellent analytical, research, and problem solving skills.  • Knowledge of Oracle Database Architecture  TECHNICAL SKILLS  Oracle 11gR2/10gR2 installation, Database Creation, Patch sets Upgrade, Critical Patch Update (JanCPU2009 patch installation), Upgrade 10g to 11g, Oracle Enterprise Manager  OS: Microsoft Window Server 2003. Linux RedHat, CentOS, SQL*Loader Work Experience Database Administrator (Contractor) Connexions - Charlotte, NC March 2009 to Present • Install Oracle 10g and 11g on Sun Solaris 10, Linux(Oracle Enterprise Linux 4 & 5,Redhat 5) and Windows, applied patches; upgrade Oracle server and application tools, maintained the software at the latest stable release level and tested and verified the installed components.  • Use Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces containing PII data.  • Use Oracle flashback technology to restore databases and tables as needed.  • Apply Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches on our databases every quarter.  • Use RMAN to perform database recoveries and migration when necessary.  • Use RMAN duplicate command to clone/refresh development database from production  • Perform database design tasks such as enforcing referential integrity standards; create database tables and table dependencies such as indexes, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, views, materialized views etc.  • Create databases and documents procedure to migrate and refresh databases between the development and production environments.  • Installed and Configured Oracle 10g/11g software on Linux.  • Upgraded several databases from Oracle 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Performed various DBA Maintenance task such as rebuilding indexes, validating constraints, reorganizing tables using the move command.  • Setup technical procedures and administrative policies for production, test and development databases physical design, administration, maintenance, tuning, backup and recovery. Allocated system storage and plan future storage requirements for the database systems. Jnr. Database Administrator (Contractor) ISHGLO-ONE Corporation - Frederick, MD April 2008 to January 2009 • Oracle 10g/11g Installation and upgrading Software and Database  • Creating Databases based as requested by sponsors.  • Managed archives logs and redo logs.  • Created Oracle instances with appropriate initialization parameters.  • Modify Tablespaces and object storage.  • Exported data from old systems and import into new databases using expdp and impdp.  • Setup backups scripts using cron jobs.  • Created Users, assigned Privileges and Roles.  • Altered, Modified and Created Tables, Views and Sequences  • Documented migration process, database creation, monitors, and load scripts.  • Administered backup and recovery using RMAN. Education Information Studies San Jose State University July 2009 Bachelor in Geography and Information Technology Systems Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology Additional Information Oracle 11gR2/10gR2 installation, Database Creation, Patch sets Upgrade, Critical Patch Update (JanCPU2009 patch installation), Upgrade 10g to 11g, Oracle Enterprise Manager  OS: Microsoft Window Server 2003. Linux RedHat, CentOS, SQL*Loader