Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Riley Technologies Hyattsville, MD ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR    Experienced, passionate and motivated Database Administrator with over six years of extensive experience in Oracle Database administration. Responsible for the implementation, design, and optimization of various database environments ranging from small business databases to large enterprise databases. Worked on complete SDLC. Expertise involves in Performance Tuning, Production support, installation, Upgradation, monitoring and, optimization of Oracle databases. Great team player, quick learner, bilingual (Amharic, Tigrinya, Italian and English) and excellent motivator that has been very instrumental in vital DBA team collaborations and has also excelled working alone in various environments. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Riley Technologies - Mooresville, NC June 2016 to Present • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and using silent method.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 11g database.  • Configured and worked in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Installing, configuring and maintenance of Oracle Replication Tool Oracle Golden Gate.  • Setup and monitored multi node RAC to RAC Data guard with real time apply for Disaster recovery and offload backups.  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility for RAC and Non RAC databases & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 and 6 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 10g databases to 11gR2 RAC.  • Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints and business rules.  • Installed and configured Oracle OEM 12Con test environments. Used OEM extensively to monitor the general health and troubleshoot/diagnose problems in the environment both on server, database level and most importantly at the Sql level to identify and subpar Sql queries. Configuring custom metrics, monitoring templates and alerts set up based on individual dba preference and tailored to application requirements.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query Performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Analyzing STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and TKPROF and 10046 traces for diagnosing the root cause of the issue.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  • Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF. Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP. Oracle Database Administrator Scottrade - St. Louis, MO March 2014 to June 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Setup data guard create physical-standby database using hot backup. Troubleshoot errors on standby. Manually register archivelogs.  • Setup & test backup on databases. Writing RMAN scripts embedded in shell scripts. Recover full database by applying archive and redo logs. Duplicate database by RMAN on remote host. Optimize backup on RAC.  • Imp/exp used for load data into users on daily bases. Import schemas as part of recovery process in times of logical corruption. Export statistics from production to test.  • Tuning of instance, database with help of system views and init parameters. Partition of tables, indexes to improving performance. Used partition pruning, wise-join.  • Created new databases/instances on 12c/11g RAC and single instances using customized scripts, DBCA.  • Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Applied Bug fixes patches, Quarterly Security Patches for RAC and non-RAC servers for issues when upgrading, DR switchover testing.  • Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 10g/11g databases to 11gR2 RAC.  • Setup reconfigured and monitored 2, 3 Node RAC Primary to 2, 3 Node RAC Dataguard for DR.  • Tested the Dataguard (DR) SWITCHOVER of RAC to RAC Dataguard as part of the migration.  • Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/clustered Application tuning using Dictionary views, AWR (Statspack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, sar, glance, vmstat etc.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Migrated VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 10TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace monitoring to send notification emails.  • Migrated data to a new ASM Disk group to improve the IO performance of the database.  • Export/Import, Data pump, Transportable tablespaces to migrate databases from one database to another.  • Data aggregation and replication setup using Oracle Streams and Materialized views for reporting.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot, resolve the issues, monitoring alert log, trace files.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Integrated the Backup Status Reporting for all the databases in the enterprise to enable the web reporting using Oracle SQL, PLSQL  • Experience in working high transacted OLTP systems.  • Creation of monthly IOT, creation and management of partitioned indexes and tables. Performance Monitoring and Tuning Databases and Application.  • Partitioning for improving big tables to improve the Performance of the database.  • Identifying bottleneck and rectifying it fine-tune store procedures to improve performance, database loads, performance improvements, proper setup of database files.  • Performance tuning at database level for the parameters like SGA, PGA, PGA_AGGREGATE_TARGET.  Implemented and monitored all databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for maximum uptime and optimal performance. Skills Data mapping, Database, Oracle, Relational database, Replication, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, Load balancing, Backups, Data protection, Encryption, Security, Database architecture, Requirements analysis, Oem Additional Information SPECIALTIES    Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  Requirements Analysis  Sound knowledge of database installation and configuration Operating Systems: Windows, LINUX.  Manage Bank Records and Deposits Data Base  Through knowledge of database architecture and program design  In-depth knowledge of the relational database  Well-organized  Problem-solving  Decision-making    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    • six (6) years Super Knowledge in Oracle Databases 10g, 11g and 12c  • six (6) years' Experience in database. MIGRATION - 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c databases, cross-platform using Data guard, Golden Gate, Transportable tablespaces. Non-ASM to ASM. Maintain performance across all phase. Worked on oracle migration workbench. Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new datacenter.  • six (6) years' Experience with performance tuning and troubleshooting Completed Oracle University performance tuning course. Using Explain plan, ASH, ADDM, AWR, v$, dba views, HIST tables &TKPROF, SQL Profile. Instance, database & SQL performance optimization. Forcing index, hints. I/O & CPU utilization trend analysis. Top SQL/session, bottleneck issues, locks, identifying oracle wait events. Create performance baseline, comparing performance and Investigate top activities; generate trend report of tablespace usage & estimate future growth. Extensive use of OEM grid control for tuning. Worked on ADRCI command-line 11g  • six (6) UPGRADE&PATCHES - Apply security/PSU patches. Validate database structure. Troubleshoot failed component in upgrade process. Upgrade ASM and RAC from 10g to 11g.  • six (6) years in backups, restores and recovery processes.  • Six (6) years DATA GUARD - Set up physical standby for DR. Configure data guard broker, open standby in read-only, manage archive gap, testing fail-over/switch-over scenarios, changing protection modes. Configured Active, Logical, and Snapshot Data Guard.  • six (6) years RAC - Implementation & administration of 10g/11g RAC on Linux. Oracle ASM, OCFS, RAW devices. FAN, TAF, load balancing, inter instance parallelism, add/remove node. Troubleshooting & Admin ASM. Apply patches. Setup SCAN Listeners on 11gR2.  • Four (4) years Expert experience with Data Security, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and data protection best practices.  • Five (6) years GOLDENGATE: Setup, data mapping, filter, troubleshoot, developing parameter file. Live reporting, CDC, Active-Active standby configuration. STREAMS replication at table, schema and database levels. Down steams, advance queuing, change data capture.    Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), MS WINDOWS  Other Skills Oracle, DATA GUARD, GOLDEN GATE, RAC