Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Bank of America Washington, DC I am an accomplished Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 8 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, cloning, replication, security implementations, high availability and disaster recovery solutions. He is also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server.He has exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational skills. Proven leader with a motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and developing innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully prioritize and manage multiple projects and perform effectively under pressure. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Bank of America - Washington, DC October 2017 to Present • Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers.  • Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (DATA GUARD).  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Installed 12c OEM Cloud Control for monitoring; periodically reorganized and resized database objects, created table Partitions, Materialized Views, and indexes, yielding a 35% performance boost.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Database Administrator US Department of Health and Human Services - Washington, DC August 2015 to August 2017 • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Database Administrator Techteam - Columbia, MD August 2012 to August 2015 • Implemented dataguard on Oracle 9i and 10g to implement a disaster recovery plan.  • Conducted replication of tables from databases outside the network using materialized views/snapshots. Created scripts to create the snapshot logs for the databases outside the network.  • Configured Oracle 10g to gather statistics automatically by setting the STATISTICS_LEVEL parameter to typical.  • Supported Production databases and took care of any memory issues. Configured memory for automatic tuning by setting the SGA_TARGET parameter.  • Suggested DB architecture and created the databases in accordance to the requirements.  • Suggested backup and recovery plan. Cold backups were scheduled for every week.  • Created packages for various database requirements.  • Wrote scripts to identify segments that are being used in queries but are not giving good performance. Example Full table scans should be avoided on large tables. Indexes and hints can help improve performance.  • Created scripts to identify the progress of queries. Able to see exactly how many records have been entered during a transaction.  • Used new EXPDP and IMPDP utilities to conduct export and import. This is a lot faster than the conventional export and imports.  • Helped developers to troubleshoot slow performance. Reasons could be insufficient sort space or insufficient memory or tablespace.  • Used Job scheduler and resource manager to schedule jobs and setting priorities to jobs.  • Created full fledged documentation on the Disaster Recovery and Database upgrades implemented by me. Education Certified Associate Yaba College Of Technology - Lagos, NG University of Maryland Skills DATA MODELING, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, DATA MASKING, DISASTER RECOVERY, RMAN, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, ETL, INFORMATICA, SCRIPTING Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  Installation, configuration, capacity planning  Performance Monitoring & Tuning  Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration  Database Security & Patching    Oracle RAC, ASM & Grid control  Oracle Data guard  Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor, Alert Log, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor,  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5  • Database design & Data modeling    • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database security using TDE, Data masking, Patching, data redaction  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader, Transportable Tablespaces (TTS)