Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Baltimore, MD Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Riley Technologies - Mooresville, NC January 2017 to July 2019 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Worked on Configuring OEM 12c console and installed OEM12c agents on all different platforms using push method from console and also using silent method.  • Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Installing, configuring and maintenance of Oracle Replication Tool Oracle Golden Gate.  • Setup and monitored multi node RAC to RAC Dataguard with real time apply for Disaster recovery and offload backups.  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility for RAC and Non RAC databases & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Reconfigured the OCR, public and private interconnects, modifying the VIPs and the subnet masks for 2, 3, 4 and 6 Node RAC Clusters and Upgraded single instance 10g databases to 11gR2 RAC.  • Installed and configured Oracle OEM 12C on test environments. Used OEM extensively to monitor the general health and troubleshoot/diagnose problems in the environment both on server, database level and also most importantly at the Sql level to identify and subpar Sql queries. Configuring custom metrics, monitoring templates and alerts set up based on individual dba preference and also tailored to application requirements.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query Performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Analyzing STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and TKPROF and 10046 traces for diagnosing the root cause of the issue.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  • Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF. Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls. Oracle Database Administrator Barclays - Dallas, TX September 2013 to November 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 12c.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.4 and 11.2.0.3. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in option Software Engineering University of Douala - Douala, CM 2007 to 2011 Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Backups, Data protection, Disaster recovery, Rman, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Metadata, File systems, Hp-ux, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information Skill summary:  • Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new datacenter and Migrated and upgraded single instance database to multiple instance databases using export/import, data pump.  • Configure Data Guard on both standby and primary for 45 production databases.  • Fail over and switch over between standby and primary databases.  • Refresh schema using export/import, Creating the database, tablespaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required fulfilling the storage needs.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 12c) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Highly experienced in using Oracle 10g features Flash-Back Recovery and Recycle Bin.  • Expert in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle Standby/Data Guard.  • Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures and methods like Data Guard & Standby Database.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Upgrade/Migration of oracle databases from 10g to 11g, from 11g to 12c.  • Worked on Set up, configuration and maintained Oracle Data Guard/Active Data Guard to control Primary and Secondary databases and also to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes.  • Experience in Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN.  • Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and DataPump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)  • Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)    Technical Skills:    Operating Systems: HP-UX, Sun Solaris, AIX, RHEL, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 2010, 2012  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Tuning Advisor, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM, Toad, Putty, NX client, WinSCP  Database Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import