Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Professional * Scripting Ace * Math Whiz Chicago, IL Dynamic data professional possessing a proven track record of superior performance, seeks to leverage expertise in Database Administration, Process Automation, Modeling, Program Execution, Resource Alignment, Strategic Insight and Compliance to support key initiatives and operations as a Data Scientist within a progressive organization.    SUMMARY  Program Management: Highly experienced in assessing true needs and expectations, building lasting professional relationships. Grow and deepen strategic partnerships to achieve mutually beneficial outcome.    Process Streamlining: Effectively manage diverse tasks, with varying degrees of complexity, within a wide range of environments; evaluate situations, assess emergent needs, and implement solutions in a prompt and effective manner.    Resource Coordination: Possess a proven ability to anticipate unique requirements or potential roadblocks in multiple situations. Continually develop back-up plans to minimize risk and deliver exceptional results; utilize communication and implementation channels to effectively meet client and organizational needs. Work Experience Database Administrator CNO FINANCIAL GROUP 2014 to Present • Focus on meeting operational needs, leveraging SQL queries, PL/SQL code, and shell scripts to develop robust solutions.  • Analyze databases/operating system internals to optimize availability and performance.  • Research new technologies, test proofs of concept and organize implementation through the run support DBA team.  • Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks and collaborate with development teams on possible code improvements.  • Develop and test detailed practices for upgrading and patching databases.  • Author Standard Operating Procedures detailing new processes, and conduct knowledge transfer sessions on execution with external DBA team.  • Execute ad hoc SQL statements to query resource consumption, user settings and database activities.    Highlights  ? Designed a series of shell scripts to migrate and upgrade databases from 11g on AIX to 12c on Linux, incorporating bash, SQL, and GoldenGate commands.  ? Created report for analyzing resource consumption in AIX environment to deliver actionable findings for establishing a better balance among our database servers.  ? Automated utilization of Oracle's SQL Tuning Advisor, identifying under-performing SQL statements and creating alerts based on recommended improvements.  ? Developed a job that extracts employee data from SQL Server to audit for accounts to be removed from Oracle databases. Database Administrator ACTURIS, LTD 2012 to 2014 • Interacted extensively with IT department members to optimize system availability and proactively address emergent concerns.  • Collaborated with Applications Development teams during application upgrades, coordinating downtime, providing necessary storage, and running provided scripts.    • Delivered timely, critical support for Oracle databases up to 10TB in size for a Saas provider in the insurance industry.  • Employed Data Pump for schema-level backups, refreshes of cut-down environments, and data extraction for long-term storage.  • Supported Data Guard databases through use of email alerts and status banner, performing fixes as necessary and deploying new instances.  • Performed weekly on-demand refreshes of development environments, executing troubleshooting tasks when failures occurred in collaboration with internal developers.  • Oversaw rollout of weekly application updates, performing test run into QA environment, checking for failed scripts, scheduling primary run, and organizing long-term submissions.  • Provided 24x7 support for out-of-hours work, as well as overnight report processing.    Highlights  ? Spearheaded Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c rollout, including initial research, installation, testing, and configuration on the environment.  ? Coordinated with departments to prepare/perform annual disaster recovery, 2013.  ? Assisted data warehouse developers in minimizing performance bottlenecks of reporting database, as well as troubleshooting any problems.  ? Provided DBA support to development teams in efforts to develop new applications.  ? Collaborated with data warehouse developers on a method to limit resource-intensive reports via the use of Resource Manager.  ? Implemented new process for allocating database space, resize production data files, deliver requirements to storage team, and create alerts for future needs. Junior Database Administrator ACTURIS, LTD 2011 to 2012 • Applied Oracle patches and assisted during upgrade from 10g to 11g. monitoring job activity in the Oracle Enterprise Manager and addressing emergent concerns, including; database backups and daily/monthly reports.  • Opened Oracle SRs as needed, implementing suggested patches and workarounds.    Highlights  ? Explored and tested Windows authentication to limit access for internal users.  ? Developed PowerShell script to archive database listener logs.  ? Created an oracle PL/SQL package to manage space usage of partitioned tables by automating tasks of creating/deleting partitions on a regular basis.  ? Implemented Oracle Application Express, developing applications to monitor storage growth of production databases, parameter settings of development databases, and size of RMAN backups. Education MS in Information Technology in Information Technology UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 2010 BS in Mathematics in Mathematics PURDUE UNIVERSITY CALUMET 1999