Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - StackIT Solutions Laurel, MD An experienced Oracle DBA with 8 years of experience in developing and supporting value add solutions for the database needs of a variety of clients. A customer-centric, proactive, resourceful leader with a desire for learning and application of new technology.    Expertise in architecting, securing, and administering of Oracle databases in all stages of the SDLC. Currently managing environments consisting of both Oracle 11g and 12c databases ranging from small to VLDB sizes (multi-terabyte). Successfully leading projects for multiple customers concurrently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator StackIT Solutions - Springdale, MD June 2014 to Present Installation and configuration of Oracle 11g, 12c on a variety of Linux/Unix flavors.  ? Working in an Oracle 11g/12c database environment with WebLogic application servers  ? Administration of RAC database via OEM, crsctl (Clusterware Control), and srvctl (Server Control)  ? Facilitating database upgrades from 11g to 12c using Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA)  ? Implementation of advanced backup strategy via crontab scheduling for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and Data Pump utilities respectively. Applied block change tracking (BCT) as well as allocated additional channels to reduce backup times.  ? Providing Oracle database administrative support to various user groups (application developers, data managers etc); created and maintained Oracle database objects (schemas, tables, indexes etc) based on application need  ? Tuning database objects to run smoothly by analyzing queries (creating explain plan tables), and using efficient indexing  ? Use of Oracle database management packages like DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER to schedule tasks and DBMS_STATS for statistics, and DBMS_REDEFINITION for online object manipulation  ? Capacity planning for both storage and memory to support continued high availability and anticipate bottlenecks  ? Administered enterprise-wide database security via password policies, roles, and privileges,  ? Utilization of different cloning strategies to support business need  ? Migration of schemas, database objects, and egress and ingress of specific data using Oracle Data Pump  ? Installation, configuration and administration of Dataguard for both single instance and RAC databases  ? Supporting system administration groups with maintaining Oracle database servers in each lifecycle  ? Refresh/Cloning of databases for application development and testing purposes  ? Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c  ? Participation in regular 24x7 on-call schedules  ? Maintaining a virtualized (VMWare) sandbox environment used for Proof of Concept (PoC) / testing of various strategies, tools, and internal customers. Oracle Database Administrator MKIT Inc - Bowie, MD April 2011 to May 2014 Provided 24/7 database administration support in both development and production environments  ? Managed a multi-terabyte production database environment with a two-node Real Application Cluster hosting Oracle 11Gr2 (11.2.0.4) on Red Hat Linux (RHEL 6) operating system with Weblogic servers as the application servers.  ? Administering a development database environment and QA environment on single instance servers hosting 11Gr2 (11.2.0.4) databases on Red Hat Linux (RHEL 6) operating systems.  ? Created, implemented and managed custom Oracle databases on Linux and windows platforms  ? Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  ? Monitored databases using the Oracle Enterprise Manager, alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  ? Experience in creating database recovery catalogs and registering databases to them.  ? Wrote shell scripts to automate and perform backup and recovery tasks on Oracle databases using RMAN backups, import and export utilities (impdp and expdp)  ? Performed database flashback, table flashback, and query flashback depending on situation  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  ? Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  ? Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environment  ? Created non-default listeners for databases both manually and using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant (NETCA)  ? Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education Bachelor of Science in Pure Mathematics Bowie State University - Bowie, MD 2014 Skills DATABASE, DBMS, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle Dba, ETL, DBA, Sql Server, Sql Dba Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/andre-gordon-054200165 Additional Information Technical Skills  Tools & Utilities:  Oracle - Oracle 11g/12c Database, Data Guard, RMAN, Data Pump (expdp/impdp), AWR, ADDM, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Oracle Flashback, Partitioning, SQL Tuning Advisor, DBMS Procedures, Explain Plan, SQL*PLUS, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, (OEM) Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g/12c, 13c, Amazon Web Services  Tools - TOAD, PuTTY, Mobaxterm, VMware, VirtualBox    Operating Systems: Oracle Enterprise Linux 5/6/7, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5/6/7, CentOS 6/7, Ubuntu, Windows  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Bash Shell  Productivity Software: Microsoft Office, OpenOffice, SharePoint, Confluence, Notepad++  Other Skills:  Agile Scrum Methodology, Oracle MAA Architecture, Operating System, Network, and Database Troubleshooting,  Comprehensive Documentation