Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator US STEEL - Pittsburgh, PA February 2016 to Present Responsibilities; ? Administered databases of varied sizes from 400GB to 10TB ? Set up oracle 11g and 12c databases in production, development, and test environments which depend on project requirements, as well as Oracle 12c Grid Control to monitor Production, physical Data Guard (DG Broker), and Stage and Dev. systems ? Distribute system storage; develop future storage requirements; create Oracle Wallets ? Implement table space-level TDE security Perform installation, configuration, maintenance, and support of Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c RAC, physical and logical standby database for test, development, and production for various home-developed applications, as well as for business transaction functionality ? Hold responsibility for upgrading of databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1 using DBUA and applying quarterly patches such as maintenance and interim on all the databases ? I have done Database Upgrade, where I upgraded from 10g to 11g and to 12c using DBUA ? I have tested and applied Quarterly Patches for security and bug fixes ? Positioning and administration of user and space management granting required privileges to users ? Manage database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades, performance tuning, and user access control ? Track and troubleshoot database issues with OEM grid control ? Upgrading Databases is one of my tasks and I have upgraded from 10G to 11G and from 11G to 12C using both THE DATABASE UPGRADE ASSISTANT and manually using upgrade scripts on the Linux platform. I have applied quarterly patches using the Opatch utility and oracle universal installer. I have also Applied patches such as PSU for security fixes, CPU for bug fixes, inline( same home(same server)) and outline ( different home(different server)) Patches for 11g and 12c databases using the Patch Utility ? Resolving log gaps issues between source and target databases configured with Golden Gate ? Setup up listener and Tnsnames as well as Oracle grid infrastructures and Oracle database software to fulfill the current needs, while upgrading as required to meet the expansion needs of the company ? Employ database tuning, such as tuning applications, tuning instance, and tuning disk usage to monitor and optimize performance of the database, while debugging SQL tuning ? Writing SQL scripts to develop database objects such as tables, views, and sequences ? I also mentored junior database administrators and also do power point presentation during weekly and quarterly meetings ? I was highly involved in performance tuning where I tuned the Network, OS, the Instance, the application and the database using tools such as ASH, AWR, ADDM, and EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TUNING ADVISOR, SQL BASELINE ? Ability employ different tools databases software, and methods, which include the following:  - Data guard broker for Switch over to design and continue physical standby maintenance;  - Oracle 12c Cloud Control for alert monitoring and notification.  - Participate in the 24x7 on-call support for 50 databases of 5.0 TB 3 Node production 11g RAC databases;  - Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 10G to 12c to administer logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP used for re-hosting the application;  - DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab, and $UNIVERSE to schedule RMAN backups, purge jobs, and maintenance jobs;  - OEM to arrange notifications such as various levels for cluster activities, table pace utilizations, and listener alerts;  - RMAN Active duplication method as well for disaster recovery site to establish physical standby;  - Guarantee restore point (GRP) to execute database recovery;  - ASM to create disk groups integrating additional storage, called DISKS and troubleshooting ASM issues;  - Golden gate to install unidirectional replication on oracle 12g databases;  - Data Guard with physical standby effectively configured and used Data Guard Broker utility to devise and configure high-availability systems;  - Export/import and data pump to carry out logical backups;  - Distributed database feature to develop database link between two databases in accessing the table data from one local database to remote database;  - Explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Analyze, STATSPACK, ADDM, and AWR reports to ensure performance tuning of SQL statements and database tuning;  - Different types of backups to plan database backups, such as operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import; and  - I have worked closely with developer to do Partitioning, Parallel Pipe line functions, Dynamic SQL, Tuning SQL, Tuning PL/SQL, and Data Modelling exposure to shell/Perl scripting.  - PL/SQL to formulate procedures and functions.  - Played integral role in the configuration of GOLDENGATE for real time reapplication. Expert in implementing and configuring golden gate in a heterogeneous environment, across same and different platforms for real time data replication and high availability. Performed initial load using data pump, golden gate, transportable tablespace and Rman from source database to target  - Installation and configuration of Golden Gate and Replication of data using Oracle Golden Gate  - Migration of 12c Non-CDB databases to pluggable databases; and  - Installation of Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) including grid infrastructure (Clusterware and ASM) and Oracle RDBMS software on a three nodes RAC architecture in development and UAT running oracle  - Upgrading of the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c; Oracle Database Administrator XL Health - Baltimore, MD August 2013 to January 2016 Responsibilities; ? Demonstrated expertise in setting up, configuring, and managing Oracle 11g and 12cdatabases on Linux platform, as well as Data Guard for physical/logical standby databases ? My ability to protect data streams from configuring different backup types like USER MANAGED Backups, RMAN Backups for a Full Database, Incremental Differential and Incremental Cumulative. I for logical backups I used the Data pump utility and Scheduling Backups on the crontab. I have also performed different types of recovery such as Full database, Point in Time Recovery and Data File recovery for both a Critical and Non-Critical database files.  ? Create users, groups, roles, profiles; and assigned the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the teams ? Administered the performance of the databases and viewing of alert log files and trace files ? Fulfilled diverse functions including configuration of Data Guard on both standby and primary for 48 production databases; addition and expansion of disk volumes to oracle serves on virtual machines (VMware); application of patches 10.2.0.2, 10.2.0.3, and 10.2.0.4; and administration of fail over and switch over between standby and primary ? Participated in a project to move resources intensive applications to AWS cloud.  ? Maintained highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  ? Configured and managed CloudWatch alarms and logs to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Credit balance and, CPU utilization ? Devised logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases ? Operated VMware under various operating systems such as Linux, Solaris, windows; and Oracle VM (OVM) ? Executed transferal of multiple Oracle 10gR2 database to oracle 12cR2 on VMware ? Obtained snapshots and rebooting the server's and performance monitoring for Oracle databases in VMware ? Implemented high-availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, physical standby databases (Data Guard), while scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and controlling the scheduled jobs ? Been able to make use of the following: software, databases, tools, and techniques:  - RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2 to clone and migrate databases;  - Been able to transfer single instance database to multiple instance databases, while administering migration of old datacenter to new datacenter;  - Export/import to refresh schema while creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges, and user logins;  - Export/import and data pump to upgrade;  - Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2 to implement logical and physical standby databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform  - VM sphere client for various performance tuning issues;  - SQL Trace, TKPROF, ASH, AWR and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities to optimize and tune SQL queries; and  - Integrity constraints and database triggers to maintain the data integrity and security    PROFESSIONAL ACUMEN    Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Exadata  Database Tools  DB Language:    Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, OEM Grid RMAN SQL*Loader Exp/Imp/Data Pump Log miner Stats pack/AWR Top DBCA DBUA ADDM Service now ADDM Toad, JIRA, Putty, NX client, WinSCP, SQL Developer,OEM 13C, SQL server, OAM, IMP, EMC, VERITAS Net Backup. SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL, ETL.    Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX,WINDOWS, RHEL  Hardware: Sun Fire 15K Sun 6320 Storage Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450 Sun StorEdge 6320 EMC Dell Servers Red Hat Linux 5.X  Middleware: BEA Web Logic 10.2.3  Tuning Tools and DB Language: Application TKPROF EXPLAIN PLAN STATSPACK AWR/ADDM/ASH,SQL PLAN, SQL TUNING ADVISOR, SQL ACCESS , SQL BASELINE  HR, FIN, PEOPLESOFT, SAP. Education Bachelor's Skills microsoft offfice (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate January 2019 to Present