Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - QVC Austin, TX Excellent troubleshooting and performance tuning skills.  Work effectively and cost efficiently in a fast-paced, high volume, deadline-driven environment.  Leadership skills with multi-task, delegate and prioritize tasks.   Good at documentation, Fast leaner, Excellent Communicator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator QVC - West Chester, PA February 2015 to Present Hands on SQL SERVER EXPERIENCE: SOFTWARE INSTALLATION, SECURITY, BACKUPS, RESTORE, RECOVERY, PERFORMANCE TUNING, Database creation, Upgrades, Patching  Hands on EXADATA deploying, monitoring and managing Databases using EM 12c, and Migration, Patching, upgrades.  Installation and implementation of 12c cloud control and migration of 11g grid control to 12c cloud control.  Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer, SQLTXPLAIN, OSWatcher and other OS related utilities like pstack, pmap, top, vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace, truss and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g and 12c to monitor single instance and RAC databases.  Configured DATA GUARD for Disaster recovery and Data Protection, Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  Performed oracle Software's Installations, Creation of new standalone and clustered databases.  Administering and setting up of 11g RAC and 12c RAC cluster ware and instances.  Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively on command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBs to different tablespace  Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one-year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  Implemented Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10g.  Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  Handled Chained Rows and Row migration and solved the database performance issues.  Monitor ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.    Replication and Extracting data and applying on production using Golden Gate.  Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication. Implanted Bi-directional replication using golden gate.  Worked on developing, testing, performance tuning, deployment, and support in Data warehouse system.  Migrated 10TB database from regular file system to ASM using RMAN.  Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  Generated AWR reports using OEM 12c from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries Oracle Database Administrator Waltham, MA October 2013 to January 2015 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.    Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.    Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  Detect corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.    Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine-grained Auditing.  Customized RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications. Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements  Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  Used TOAD for database management.  Optimized data loading using SQL*Loader to load different types of data from flat files to the Oracle server.  Configured the automated alerts for the production servers, which alerts DBA with the alert log errors and proactively space related errors.  Cleaning the ORACLE_HOME file system by cleaning the log files, alert log file and listener.log files  Identified and trouble shot everyday issues like locking, scripts execution, Data Audits etc.  Backup and recovery utilizing RMAN.  Working with the application support people to resolve database related issues and running the scripts for the application support people.  Creating users and database links, snap shots on production and development servers.  Maintaining system security, defining of roles, profiles etc. Education Master's in Business Management Ecole Superieur Robert de Sorbon Skills Database (6 years), Oem (5 years), Oracle (6 years), Rman (5 years), Security (6 years), MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses OCA 12C November 2018 to Present Additional Information 6 years of experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing, implementing Databases on Linux RedHat, Windows, AIX  Experience on EXADATA using EM 12c to deploy, monitor and manage Databases, Migration, patching, upgrades,  Implemented LINUX HUGE PAGES on OEL 5.5 and RedHat Linux 6.x for cluster environment.  Experience with SAP managemening programs and Enterprise Resource Management ( monitoring and managing complex operations from sub programs including: logistics, human Resource; Finance and other applications.  SQL SERVER EXPERIENCE: SOFTWARE INSTALATION, SECURITY, BACKUPS, RESTORE, RECOVERY, PERFORMANCE TUNING, Database creation, Upgrades, Patching  DATA SECURITY: TDE, NETWORK ENCRYPTION, SSL ENCRYPTION, ROLES, Password files, DATA MASKING, DATA REDACTION, Oracle Wallet and Vault, STANDARD AUDITING, Value based auditing,    Experience with DATA GUARD Installation for Disaster recovery, High availability and Data protection, Patching, fail over and switchover Configurations, Troubleshooting in Data guard, Converting physical standby to logical standby database.    Experience include Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Space Management, System maintenance, patching, data replication, Database security, Performance Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery and also includes RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Data Pump and grid control experience.  Supported as Production and development DBA on OLTP, Data warehouse environment. Involved in Change/Release/Patch management and off-shore co-ordination, Product development, data center Migration and Upgrade. Administration including design, deploy, tune, trouble-shoot. Efficient to manage 50+DB.  RAC Installation and Admin on UNIX platform. Load balancing. Manage fail-over. Backup CRS files. Tune cache fusion. Resource utilization on Nodes.  Managed ASM, create and prepare disk for ASM. Create ASM instance. Add/remove disk. Manage space on disk groups. Expertise on asmcmd command line. Handle 10TB database on ASM.  Performed Backup/restore/recover using RMAN and user managed. Create backup/restore strategies. RMAN. Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN. Logical backup of schema using expdp/impdp. Restore and recover from backup.    Experience with DATA GUARD Installation for Disaster recovery, High availability and Data protection, Patching, Fail over and switchover Configurations, Troubleshooting in Data guard, Converting physical standby to logical standby database.  Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups, Flash back Technology (PITR, TSPITR) and Cloning.  PL/SQL objects creation. Create trigger/ function/ stored procedure/ packages. Tune and trouble-shooting PL/SQL codes. Write database Monitoring PL/SQL objects. Create Materialized view.  Experience in Golden Gate to support data replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning. Experience in bi-directional and broadcast replication from source to target databases using Golden Gate 9.5 and Golden Gate 10.0.  Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  Good knowledge on performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc.  Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKPROF, Oradebug and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of large tables and indexes  Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.    Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, data pump& Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  Experience in SQL, PL/SQL packages, UNIX Scripting, function, stored procedure, triggers, and Materialized view for Oracle database.  Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.  Collecting performance statistics using Stats pack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).  Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation  Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pools like Recycle pool, Keep pool.  Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace management, maintenance of Oracle Database.  Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.  Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  Excellent analytical, attention to details, Proactive, Documentation and interpersonal skills (problem solving, communication)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  EXADATA, SQL PLUS, RAC, GOLDEN GATE, DATAGUARD, DATA SECURITY  Data bases: Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c  Oracle Database Tools: SQL*Loader, TKPROF, OEM, Toad, EXPLAIN PLAN, RMAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL Developer, Grid Control  Operating Systems: Solaris 10/9/8, Sun Sparc, RHEL 5.X/4.X, OEL, HP UX 11i, Windows 2008/2012 server RedHat 7.5, AIX