Database Administrator (DBA) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Database Administrator Alexandria, VA Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) SQL Server Database Administrator with 5 plus years of experiences in planning, installation, configuration and administration of MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2005 in development, testing and production environment. Installed and Configured MySQL for various Clients. Expertise in SQL server security management, SQL Server performance tuning, troubleshooting, Migration/Upgrading, Disaster Recovery and High availability Solutions. Proficient with use of Stored Procedures, views, functions, triggers, DBCC, and joins. Experienced on developing and deploying reports using SSRS. Performed Extracting, Transforming, and, Loading data (ETL) using SSIS. Excellent ability to work in fast-paced environment with great problem solving and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (DBA) Department of forestry - Centreville, VA October 2017 to Present Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering.  ? Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server databases  ? Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server  ? Configured and maintained replication, clustering, mirroring, log shipping SQL programming  ? Monitors, measures, and provides regular reports to projects management regarding system high availability and reliability.  ? Advises the Project Manager on operational management issues and risks related to the Solution.  ? Identifies SQL Server performance issues most impacting end-user response time  ? Analyze and optimize server and application performance based on queries, sessions, servers and storage systems  ? In SQL Server Capacity Planning, verify software/ hardware, requirement server name, location of data file and log file, service startup option and authentication mode, common server configuration, database network configuration  ? In server performance tuning, used different types of tool like task manager, performance counter, DMV, error log, event log, system store procedure, DBCC and SQL profiler.  ? Works closely with the system integrator, data modeling, and database staff to ensure a mutual understanding of data definitions and relationships.  ? Manage regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and security.  ? Analyzes and facilitates resolution of database design and data integrity issues.  ? Ensures that storage, archive, back-up and recovery procedures are functioning correctly.  ? Participates in database performance evaluation, optimization, and tuning.  ? Defines database acceptance test plan and procedures.  ? Maintain database security, integrity, concurrency, backup, and recovery.  ? Data modeling using Toad Data Modeler and Visio  ? Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Generated Report using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)  ? Responsible for Database Backup, Restore and Point-in-Time Recovery.  ? Administer, maintain, develop and recommend policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the company's databases and systems  ? Manage and resolve trouble tickets (Remedy) for database-related issues  ? Designed DR database backup and restore plan.  ? User account management and connection troubleshooting.  ? Database capacity planning, Maintenance planning, SQL Agent Jobs scheduling and troubleshooting.  ? Experience writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, creating Tables, Views and Indexes  ? Build and Deployed web and windows application.  ? Used DMV (Dynamic Management View) for different database Administration tasks like find backup history, indexes fragmentation, statistics, and status of different jobs  ? Exported & Imported database objects from/To Oracle, MySQL, Access Database, flat files (text, excel, and CSV files) and MS SQL Server ? Extensive experience in using SSIS/DTS, BCP to import & export data from flat files, excel, MS Access, and Other OLEDB databases to MS SQL Server databases Database Analyst, Responsibilities FARMERS NATIONAL - Silver Spring, MD July 2016 to September 2017 Installed and Configured SQL Server in development, test and production environment   ? Installed and Configured Operating System; Windows Server   ? Migrated databases from Oracle 10g, MySQL (4.0.3, 5.0.15) to SQL Server 2008   ? Migrated MS Access 2003/2000/97 databases into MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008   ? Closely work with business analyst to deploy databases and manage availability   ? Rebuild Servers (Restore & Recover) from backups   ? Configured and Managed Log Shipping from Production to Standby Server (Running as Reporting Server)   ? Configured and Managed Database High Availability: Replication, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, and Clustering   ? Wrote SQL, T-SQL, Triggers and Stored-Procedures   ? Worked with developers to tune-up performance of SQL and T-SQL query   ? Performance tuning & optimization of servers in production, test environment   ? Created and managed database security, data encryption, and applied object level security   ? Developed and applied Backup strategy at my current workplace   ? Setup and configured Database mail for notification purposes   ? Developed Database Maintenance Plan for different important tasks   ? Used DBCC and Alter statements for different database Administration tasks like check database consistency, rebuild indexes, statistics, and other jobs Database Administrator Ethiopian Revenue and Customs Authority - Djibouti port, DJ October 2013 to June 2016    ? Monitors, measures, and provides regular reports to projects management regarding system high availability and reliability.  ? Advises the Project Manager on operational management issues and risks related to the Solution.  ? Identifies SQL Server performance issues most impacting end-user response time  ? Analyze and optimize server and application performance based on queries, sessions, servers and storage systems  ? In SQL Server Capacity Planning, verify software/ hardware, requirement server name, location of data file and log file, service startup option and authentication mode, common server configuration, database network configuration  ? Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering.  ? Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server databases   ? Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server   ? Configured and maintained replication, clustering, mirroring, log shipping SQL programming  Education Bachelor's in Business Administration and Information System Addis Ababa University Skills Database (5 years), Microsoft Access (5 years), MS SQL Server (5 years), Oracle (5 years), SQL (5 years), DBA, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Oracle Database, ETL, Ssis, Oracle Dba, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses MCITP Database Administrator 2008, 2012, and 2014 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003R2, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012R2  Database: MS-SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, 2014 MY SQL and Microsoft Access  Web Tools: HTML, DHTML, Java Script, VBScript, XML  Networking Tools: FTP, TCP/IP, LAN  Other: Idera DBA Suite, Idera (SQL Compliance Manager), SQL Doctor, Toad Data Modeler, SSIS,  SSRS, SharePoint  Languages: Oracle, PL/SQL Programming, C, C++, Visual Basic and HTML, Java    Software Applications: MS Office (Word, Excel, Visio, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access), MS Project.  Web Application: SharePoint enterprise  Web Server: IIS 5.0, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5