Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Riley Technologies Raleigh, NC An Oracle Database Administrator with over 5 years of experience with large-scale production environments across multiple platforms. Capacity to give high level technical support in all sections of database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, migration, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery. I provide support in configuring and supporting Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC), Golden Gate and Data Guard. I can work both as an individual contributor and as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Riley Technologies - Mooresville, NC June 2016 to Present • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and QA purposes on Linux and Windows environments.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test Stage, QA and Production).  • Applying PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Installing Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Configuring and worked in Oracle golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting golden Gate issues.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by Analyzing the AWR, ADDM and TKPROF, for diagnosing the root cause of the issues.  • Implementing Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations for disaster recovery and participating in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Handling all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints and business rules.  • Setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC standalone database.  • Assisting in SQL tuning through trending analysis and working with development teams on identifying tuning opportunities.  • Performing security and auditing at higher levels.  • Writing UNIX/SHELL scripts to provide the reports.  • Successfully implementing Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups. Oracle Database Administrator Cooper Vision, Inc - Rochester, NY July 2014 to June 2016 • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full and incremental backup using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Installed and configured Golden Gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden Gate in Unix scripting  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes on table.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Education Associate Degree in Accounting in Accounting Higher Institute of Management - Douala, CM October 2011 to June 2013 High School Diploma La Roche High School - Douala, CM September 2010 to June 2011 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR (5 years), DATABASE, OLTP, ORACLE, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA, MYSQL, Postgresql, Sql Server, RAC Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate - 12c February 2019 Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY    An Oracle Database Administrator with over 5 years of experience with large-scale production environments across multiple platforms. Capacity to give high level technical support in all sections of database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, migration, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery. I provide support in configuring and supporting Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC), Golden Gate and Data Guard. I can work both as an individual contributor and as a team player.    • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c in Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment  • Experience in configuring high-availability systems using physical standby  • Golden Gate setup to achieve unidirectional replication and Golden Gate database user with necessary privileges.  • 11g/10g Automated Storage Management (ASM) installation, configuration and maintenance  • Experience in using RMAN for backup and recovery, Export/Import, and Data Pump  • Performance monitoring and tuning using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM)  • Effective troubleshooting of database and performance problems  • Good experience in applying Patches, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU), and Upgrade of Oracle server to higher version available  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for high availability  • Involvement in multiple CLONING databases using manual method and RMAN utility. Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases  • Thorough understanding and excellent experience in tuning, assigning proper indexes such as BITMAP or B-Tree Index according to requirement  • Data pump implementation, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database  • Working experience on Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c to monitor database performance and availability of various targets in database servers  • Users and resources management, user privileges and roles control, and audit  • Knowledge in oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP  • Experience working on Postgres databases  • Closely work with application teams and various performance support and configuration issues on day to day basis    TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Databases  Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g    Oracle Database Tools  SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL, Developer, Grid Control    Operating Systems  IBM AIX, HP UX 11i, Solaris 10/9/8, Windows 2010/2012 Server