Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Pether Solutions Oracle Database Administrator with over 5 years of hands-on experience  performing DBA related tasks such as RMAN for Backup & Recovery, DBUA for  Database Upgrades, Opatch for quarterly patches, Data Pump for performing  Schema Refreshes, SQL*loader for performing ETL & Data Loading for Data  Warehouses, Data Guard, RAC, and Deployments. Proficient in tuning Slow  Running SQL queries. Ability to work with minimum supervision, as well as  the ability to work within a team. Excellent analytical, solve problems  independently, communication and interpersonal skills.    Professional Summary    Oracle Server Installations from 11gR1, 11gR2 and now 12cR1&12cR2.  Excellent Experience in performing backup and recovery strategy for databases  using RMAN (Recovery Manager) and Point-In-Time Recovery/ Flashback  Technologies  Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Recovery Catalog.  Worked Extensively on Cloning/Duplicating of databases using RMAN.  Excellent Experience in schema refreshes activities (Export/Import) from  production to stage and test environments using Data pump.  Hands-on Loading Data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  Hands-on performing Data Loading & ETL for Data Warehouses using SQL* Loader.  Hands-on Experience in tuning Slow Running SQL queries and database for  optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports of performance statistics  and Explain Plan.  Good Knowledge of v$ performance views (v$session) tools and command line  skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance.  Experience in applying quarterly Patches (Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update  and One-Off Patches) using OPatch.  Experience in Upgrade and Migration of Oracle database from 11gR2 to 12cR2  using both manual method and DBUA utility.  Hands-on experience in Installation & administration of high-availability 2 nodes  Oracle RAC Database 12cR2 environment  Excellent Experience in configuring Oracle Data guard to implement physical  Standby Databases for Disaster Recovery.  Hands-on experience on Oracle Data Guard broker for creation, maintenance, and  monitoring of Data Guard configurations.  Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and UNIX Scripting  [Florine Satchop] 2 Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pether Solutions - Manassas, VA December 2016 to Present Installed and configured Oracle 12cR1 on Linux Red Hat and Windows OS.  Scheduled our RMAN backups via Cron and used NETBACKUP to backup to tape.  Executed and monitored backup scripts of databases using RMAN.  Performed Recovery when Control File was lost, using RMAN.  Performed Security User Management, granted Privileges, Roles, profile and audited users.  Assisted in controlling and monitoring access to the database and did regular  database audits.  Assisted in modifying the database structures, as necessary from information given by application developers.  Regularly maintained the Training and Acceptance test environments by doing  schema refreshes with Production data.  Performed Database refreshes using Expdp, Impdp Data Pump Utility  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small-sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between databases.  Database monitoring/maintenance and performance tuning using OEM.  Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader and External Tables.  Tuned SQL queries using ASH, AWR, ADDM reports and Explain Plan.  Assisted in the Oracle 2-node RAC Installation in the development environment.  Monitored different databases using (OEM) 11g, Grid Control.  Configured Data Guard by creating a physical standby Database for disaster  recovery.  Quarterly patches as well in the development and test environments.  Used TOAD for database management.  Used SERENA for script storage Oracle Database Administrator Mobistar - Belguim March 2012 to September 2015 Used Oracle Data Guard Broker for administration of seamless switchovers.  Upgraded Database from 11gR1 to 11gR2 & Migrated from 11gR2 to 12cR1  Used Data Pump import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small-sized  databases and to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  Resolved lock/latch and resource contention issues during production hours  Applying quarterly patch and interim patches on all databases using opatch.  Performed Refreshing Dev & Test instances with data from Production.  Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  Monitoring and Troubleshooting of Database Replication issues.  Performed Tuning of Oracle Database Objects using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK for optimized results.    Analyze AWR, ASH and ADDM reports and draw conclusions that aid in troubleshooting performance issues.  Worked with Application Development team to address any issues they encounter and provide support and resolution action plans. Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Université de Mons June 2015 Baccalaureate in Mathematics and Physical Sciences in Mathematics and Physical Sciences College Notre Skills Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Apache, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Rman, Tomcat, Websphere, Exceed, Rdbms, Loader, Oem, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2003 Additional Information Technical Skills  Tools/Utilities: DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager  (OEM), Oracle Management Cloud, SQL Navigator, SQL*Plus, SQL Developer, TOAD, Data  Pump, SQL*Loader, SERENA, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, Oracle Data Guard Broker (DGMGRL)  Software: SQL Server 2012, WebSphere, TomCat, Apache, PostgreSQL, Oracle RDBMS  11gR2 & 12cR1, PostgreSQL, Oracle Grid-home (CRS-Home, ASM-Home), Putty,  mobaXTerm, Exceed, Reflection X, xMing  Applications: Microsoft Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, Microsoft Outlook.  Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux, Sun Solaris UNIX, Windows Server, 2010, XP.