Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Norton Healthcare Fairfield, OH • Over 7+ years of IT experience, all on Oracle Database Administration experience including Oracle11.2.0.4 & 12.1.0.2 on Exadata running on X6s, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools like Talent and Looker  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in and 12c HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns Matster Encription  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Installation, upgrade and patching on Oracle 11g/12C databases on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata., OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility.  • Oracle13C Grid Control implementation & Configuration  • Experience in TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) in both 11g wallet and 12C Keystore Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Norton Healthcare - Louisville, KY April 2017 to Present • Provide Oracle DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Support many Exadata databases running Oracle12.1.0.2 on X6s, Linux 6.9  & Standalones running Oracle11g , 2.0.4 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using  Cloud Control 12C for monitoring.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Constantly refresh from Production to Training, Test and UAT environment.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 on Exadata, running on X6s, Linux 6.9  • Mange RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects including new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI and SCI applications  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the dynamic performance Views (V$) at peak load of the Databases and checking RAC background processes log files & Trace files to troubleshoot performance  • Apply PSU to all the Oracle databases  • Use shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintain the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Part of on call of 24X7 support for all the production and development databases. Oracle Database Administrator University of Louisville, KY September 2015 to April 2017 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 4 Node RAC  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN,  Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN DBA Ford Motor Company - Louisville, KY June 2012 to September 2015 • Configure. Implement & Deploy Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) & Oracle 12C, single instances on  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Day to day Performance Monitoring and tuning of database.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 11g(11.2.0.4) on both Solaris and LINUX platforms.  • Creation and maintenance of database.  • Handling day-to-day activities.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Creating Databases and all database objects. Database Designing, Designing Tablespaces and Rollback Segments.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Oracle DBA School of Information Technology - Jeffersonville, IN March 2012 Skills Aix (7 years), Data modeling (Less than 1 year), Database (7 years), Oracle (7 years), Sap (7 years), Solaris (7 years), sql (7 years), Sun (7 years), Unix (7 years), DBA (7 years), Sql Dba, Oracle Dba (7 years), Linux (7 years)