Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Sun Products Corporation Houston, TX Highly technical database administrator with about 5 years of demonstrated experience with RMAN in oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases in different OS platforms. Skilled in TDE, designing, implementing and supporting high availability and disaster recovery solutions for critical environments to help improve workflows and general business efficiency, analyzing database performance and tuned databases accordingly. Implemented and administered 2 Node RAC, maintain database security using auditing as well as golden gate for real time replication and logical standby databases while proactively patching and upgrading databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Sun Products Corporation - Salt Lake City, UT August 2016 to Present • Created and monitored Physical and Active Standby databases, operating on maximum protection or performance modes for Disaster Recovery and High Availability on 11g and 12c oracle databases.  • Done Capacity Planning wherein I allocated system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • . Responsible for implementation and administration of disaster recovery strategies for 24/7 operations and deployment of high availability systems on oracle 11g, using oracle RAC, Data guard, ASM and RMAN.  • Upgraded Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11g to 12c manually and equally using DBUA. Involved in applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases for security and bug fixes.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DDL, DML, Oracle tables, functions, stored procedures, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts for reporting.  • Installed, configured, Setup, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11g, 12c standalones and 2 nodes RAC, Physical and Logical Standby databases for Test, Development and Production, and Staging on Linux, AIX and Windows environments.  • Resetting of storage parameters by series of exports and imports of tables, used conventional as well as direct path loads to upload the data into the server using SQL Loader.  • Experience in Database Tuning, System Monitoring, Memory and SQL Tuning using OEM 12c, Top command, IOSTATS, VMSTATS, SQL Trace, Explain plan, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC ). I also assisted in providing consultation such as creating Materialized Views, adding indexes, dropping unused/unnecessary indexes, using Hints where need be.  • Scheduled and monitored on Crontab repetitive activities such as gathering schema statistics, table space usage report, Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from production using Data pump and to monitor blocking sessions.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and Management of VLDB environments, oracle OLTP. Oracle Database Administrator American Home Patient - Nashville, TN January 2014 to August 2016 • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g RAC, ASM databases for high availability.  • Automated and monitored the health of my databases, backup and recovery activities by scheduling cron jobs and also customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA - errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC ), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when archive Destination is full and resync catalog.  • Performed database, schema and table level Refresh from Production to test/development environment using RMAN and Data pump utilities. Also, I have Implemented Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature on Oracle 11g and 12c to ease the movement of Tablespaces across Oracle database servers.  • Monitored and Tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created and rebuilt indexes, query tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports, SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Involved in a Client-Server environment using tnsnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount /dismount disk groups as SYSASM.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Used Oracle Flashback Technology for logical recovery purpose with sometimes creating a Guaranteed restore point after a recovery or during switchover operations.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created, monitored and troubleshoot Physical Standby databases using RMAN and scripts with zero downtime. Performed Failover and Switchover Operations using Data Guard Broker.  • Performed Physical backup ( hot and cold ) as well as Logical backup ( Export/Import). Education Bachelor's Skills Database (5 years), databases (5 years), Disaster recovery (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Rman. (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate February 2019 to Present