Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Texas, VT Have exposure to other rdbms databases such as MySQL , and sqlserver databases and I am willing and open to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator IOWA FOUNDATION FOR MEDICAL CARE - West Des Moines, IA January 2017 to Present • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD, AWR, ADDM, ASH.  • Scheduling backups using crontab, monitoring and troubleshooting daily backup failures. Oversees monitoring and performance tuning to ensure database remains healthy on consistent basis.  • Used SERVICE NOW as main ticketing tool to prioritize daily tasks.  • Performed upgrade from 10g to 11g ant to 12C using DBUA, and applied Oracle quarterly patches to 11g software.  • Created user accounts and accorded appropriate privileges. Created database objects.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespaces (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C to Exadata.  • Provided 24/7 support and reported to lead DBA. Configured flash Recovery Area.  • Knowledge of E-business suite and Exadata.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Installed and configured Oracle EBS and supported the databases that support these applications.  • Configured a physical standby database for disaster recovery and the protection mode was for maximum Availability.  • Also configured data guard broke for failover and also switch over during maintenance. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC September 2018 to July 2019 DBA EASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY - Charleston, IL April 2013 to December 2016 • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  • Installed 12c database  • Employed the use of pluggable databases and converted some of the non-pluggable databases to pluggable databases.  • Migrated databases from 11g to 12C using data pump import/export utility, and Transportable tablespace.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and stand-alone database  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases.  EASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY CHARLESTON, IL  April 2013 -December 2016  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Performed upgrade from 10g to 11g using DBUA, and applied Oracle quarterly patches to 11g software.  • Created user accounts and accorded appropriate privileges. Created database objects.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  RDBMS:  Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g  POSTGRESQL  Tools:  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, WinScp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client.  Database Utilities:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import. Education Bachelor's Skills RMAN (6 years), REL 5.9, LINUX/UNIX (6 years), DATAGUARD (6 years), ORACLE GOLDEN GATE (6 years), DATABASE MIGRATION (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present SCRUM MASTER CERTIFIED Additional Information General Skills: Windows, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Linux (Red Hat), Microsoft Office Suite