Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Danbury, CT Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Birlasoft inc - Danbury, CT July 2010 to Present Responsibilities    • 5+ years in-depth experience in managing multiple MS SQL Server servers with very large OLTP Databases in development, testing/QA and production environments.   • Administration of 1000+ databases, across servers in a heterogeneous environment from standalone to clustered servers Sql server 2005 Sql server 2008, Sql server 2012  • Logical and physical planning of relational databases; manage internal databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.   • Experience with SQL Server Installation, Configuration, Migration, SSIS, SSRS and administration, apply periodic Service packs and hot fixes (cumulative updates) and complimentary third party tools.  • Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions, including SQL Server Log shipping, Mirroring, Clustering and Always on.   • Expertise in automating maintenance Plans in Server agent jobs and task scheduler.   • Expert in creating database objects and including databases, tables, indexes, views, stored procedures, triggers, functions (Inline & Multivalued Table) and cursors.  • Extensively worked on VMware and Implemented SQL Server  • Performed regular performance tuning to ensure maximum database responsiveness using the native  Monitoring tools, such as, Performance (System) Monitor, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Diagnostics manager,  SQL Nexus, DTA, PAL, Activity Monitor, as well as, the SQL Server Dynamic Management Views.  • Provided mentorship, SQL Server database object coding best practices and coding standardizations to the  Offshore dba team and the development teams on a regular basis.  • Installs new database instances and ensure database systems maintain a high level of recoverability thru the integration of warm/hot solutions, such as, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring and Transactional Database  • Replication.  • Create and Maintain detailed documentation outlining the physical/logical structure of the various database environments, such as, database procedures and standards, management, security, maintenance and the administration of the database environments.  • Responsible for the promotion of database related objects into the staging/production environments with an emphasis on adhering to corporate standards, as well as, maintaining a secure, pristine and responsive environment.  • Sql server database migration from sql server 2005 , sql server 2008 to sql server 2012 into virtual environment.  • Fair understanding of VM Environment  • Good with Sql server internals knowledge    Accomplishments    • Database Administrator: mastery level - performance tuning, server instrumentation, role-based security, execution plan assessments, managing sql reporting, analysis etc. along with hands on experience on VLDB.  • Extensively used SQL native tools like Index tuning wizard, Database tuning advisor (DTA), SQL profiler, Performance monitor, Activity monitor, Event viewer, dynamic management views and dynamic management functions for monitoring, performance tuning/troubleshooting.  • Database Design and Implementation:. Performed Database Capacity Planning, normalizing and De-normalizing of the tables.   • Good knowledge of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).Good in implementing SQL Server Security and Process Control.  • Database Developer: authoritative database development experience creating and maintaining tables, stored procedures, views, functions, assemblies, logical/physical database modeling.  • SQL Server Installation and Upgrades: successfully executed numerous SQL Server installations, migrations and upgrades on standalone and clustered servers for all versions starting from 2000 to 2012, detailed (step by-step documentation).  • Backup/Recovery: expert disaster recovery skills with ability to implement detailed recovery plan using  Native/3rd party tools.  • Creating jobs experienced in rebuilding master database and restoring Master database and user databases.  • High availability and Disaster Recovery Implemented and supported SQL native log shipping, lite speed, log Shipping using, database mirroring, replication and SRDF disaster recovery solutions.   • Monitoring and Performance tuning Experienced in implementing the database mail, operator and implementing the alerts Monitor the production server using tools like SQL Profiler, Windows Performance Counters and SQL server logs for Monitoring and Tuning SQL Server. Experienced in performance tuning by  • Using DBCC commands, system stored procedures DMV's, and tools like DTA and SQL profiler.  • Database Encryption: implemented Transparent Database Encryption (TDE), as well as, Database Master key based encryption  • Experienced in creating maintenance plans, backing up databases and restoring  • Automation: PowerShell, MS-DOS, VB scripting, Windows task scheduler, SQL Server Integration Services and SQL Server Agent, sql cmd utility, batch programming.    Skills Used    • B.Tech electronics GGSIPU- New Delhi, India  • Server Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003,2008,2012  • DBMS: MSSQL Server 2000,2005,2008,2012,  • ETL Tools: DTS (Data transformation services), Integration Services.  • Reporting tools: MSSQL Server Reporting Services /SSRS/  • Programming Languages: T-SQL, HTML, XML, PowerShell C++, and C #.  • Network Topologies: TCP/IP, FTP, SMTP  • Third party tools: Idera Diagnostic Manager, Spotlight.  • Networking: SAN, NAS, LAN, WAN.    TECHNICAL CERTIFICATON  ? Trainings in SQL Server and T-SQL Education Bachelor's in electronics NIEC - INDIA 2006 to 2010