Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Citizens Bank, Inc. Province, RI Cleveland, OH • Over +7 years of IT experience, mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including 9i, 10g, Oracle 11.2.0.4 on Exadata running on X6s and Oracle12C on AIX, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience with ETL tools like Looker & Talent  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL scripts and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM advisors, autotrace and execution plan.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Experience in TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns  • Master Encryption.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Use of SHELL Scripts and CRONTAB for automatic backups.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata , OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Citizens Bank, Inc. Province, RI June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as Security DBA for Citizens Distributed IT Security team on the database security compliance tasks.  • Work on database security BAU task. Work with DBA teams (Delivery, support) and Audit teams to review and fix any database compliance/security related issues.  • Shell/SQL scripting to extract security data from databases for analysis/reporting.  • Technical analysis of AIX, Linux and Oracle Database vulnerability findings, Developing and producing written analysis of the vulnerability findings, when required.  • Led database administration and database performance tuning efforts to provide scalability and accessibility in a timely fashion, provide 24/7 availability of data, and solve end-user reporting and accessibility problems.  • Developed ETL scripts to enable weekly processing of 5-20 GB data sets into data warehouse.  • Maintain Oracle SQL and PL/SQL scripts, Unix Shell Scripts, debugging and tuning. Implement Production Control and Change Management.  • Solution development for remediation of the identified vulnerabilities, as needed.  • Submit/manage change management requests for security related impacts in production environments.  • Maintain the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Collect evidence confirming vulnerability remediation has been successful, as needed.  • Communications/Coordination with system specific Information to Audit and compliance teams.  • Develop and maintain documentation pertaining to Implementation Procedures, Change Control documentation, Design documents, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Solution testing, implementation, and/or validation, as needed. Oracle Database Administrator Humana Insurance, Inc - Louisville, KY May 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Support many Exadata databases running Oracle11.2.0.4 on X4s  • & Standalones Oracle 12.2.0.1 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using Cloud Control 12C & 13C for monitoring.  • Provide Oracle DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Constantly refresh from Production to Training, Test and UAT environment.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql - server to Oracle12C.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 12C on Linux 6.7  • Mange RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects including new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI and PSmag applications  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 12.2.0.1 database on Linux 6.7 VMs platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the dynamic performance Views (V$) at peak load of the Databases and checking RAC background processes log files & Trace files to troubleshoot performance  • Apply patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 2 Node RAC  • Use shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintain the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Part of on call of 24X7 support for all the production and development databases. Oracle Database Administrator Indiana University Health - Indianapolis, IN April 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Managed and supported a 4 Node Exadata on X3 & X4s from Development, Test, and UAT to Production environments, involving daily configuration, administration, all running on Red Hat Linux 6.5. Database sizes range from 500GB to 12TB (in MANHATTAN, ODS & FIN, OC11, SCI & EDW environments).  • Table refreshed and schema refreshes using Datapump, expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshed using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and EXPORT/IMPORT data from 9i to 11.2.0.4.  • Created a standby database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planned Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c, oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Managed agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c  • Configuring administration groups, and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications, in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2Node RAC on Linux in 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Worked closely with System Admins, network support team & Application Developers Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.    Tools Used: Linux, HP-UX, SQL, PLSQL, SQL Developer, Toad, Oracle 10g/11g/12C, RMAN, Oracle RAC, DATAPUMP, DATAGUARD, ASM Oracle Database Administrator CACI Inc - Indianapolis, IN June 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.4 database on HP-UX platform.  • Support many Exadata databases running Oracle11.2.0.4 on X4s  • & Standalones Oracle 12.1.0.2 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using Cloud Control 12C & 13C for monitoring.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 4 Node RAC  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Brightpoint / Ingram Micro, Inc - Indianapolis, IN June 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Configured, implemented & Deployed Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) & Oracle 12C on single instances  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Day to day Performance Monitoring and tuning of database.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) on both Solaris and LINUX platforms.  • Creation and maintenance of database.  • Handling day-to-day activities.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Creating Databases and all database objects. Database Designing, Designing Tablespaces and Rollback Segments.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Bachelor of Science in Nursing in Nursing University of Buea 2011 to 2015 Paul's Computer Institute 2011 Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, Active directory, Rman, Middleware, Data warehouse, Weblogic, Bea, Bea weblogic, Odi Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: Oracle 9i,10g, 11g, 12c, Data warehouse, PL/SQL  Database Tools And Ticketing: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DBA Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack /AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, SERVICENOW, IPcenter, Active Directory, SRVCTL CRSTL.  Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage , Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers Red Hat Linux 6.5X.6.7  Middleware: BEA WebLogic 10.2.3,ODI  Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR / ADDM / ASH / TOAD, OEM, TOP, IOSTATS