Database Administrator, Project Management <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Project Management Database Administrator, Project Management - Genesis Group Distribution Lexington, KY A highly experienced IT/IS Professional including a demonstrated ability to develop, implement and manage overall system solutions with emphasis on Project Management in Technology Solutions for Warehouse and Distribution Center Operations and Automation.  • Project and Operational Management   • System and Software Development and Integration   • Network Design and Management  • Technical Training and Development   • Forecasting Inventory and Sales  • Strategic Planning Professional Leadership Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator, Project Management Genesis Group Distribution June 2014 to Present • Designed infrastructure for webhosting, database and imaging URL systems on Dell R Series Sever farm using VMware and virtualized Windows/Unix platform.  • Built phase one Database of 47,000+ items to Microsoft SQL item database including the design of the initial distribution channel warehouse conveyor systems and logistics platform.  • Designed and implemented multi-site, multi marketplace e-Commerce model.  • Developed API and inventory, logistics and supply chain integration Warehouse Automation System on a Logistyx ADSI platform. This is to allow all sites to maintain real time inventory updates from supply chain to brick and mortar locations and 7 national distribution centers by balancing inventories across the entire supply chain and e-Commerce websites.  • Developed API real time shipping solution to allow most accurate freight costs per shipment for USPS, UPS, Fed-Ex and DHL.  • Designed Cross docking warehouse PLC scanning solution that reduced per shipment receiving time and labor costs.  • Established additional Tier one supplier and 800 additional manufactures adding an additional 92,000+ items giving a total access to around 140,000 items for national Distribution across most major Ecommerce Marketplaces as well as in-house hosted Ecommerce websites/platforms.  • Managed warehouse distribution center move from a single distribution center to a nationwide warehouse network of seven locations.  • Managed migration from single location Solid Ship WMS system to Logistyx ADSI WMS platform.  • Implemented new server farm, network switching systems and all user desktops and remote users including upgrading all servers to Microsoft Server 2012 R2.  • Upgraded all Cross-docking solutions and warehouse Management Systems to automate and improve workflow performance and logistics processing, resulting in increased efficiencies of inbound and outbound inventories.  • Established real-time third party sales data cache system to improve sales and inventory solutions.  • Completed full in-house EDI integration for all Manufacturers and Distribution Centers involved in daily operations to improve performance metrics and allow for drop shipping from manufacture to customer for most transactions.  • Managed and Implemented API to allow Drop Shipping to customer from closest available Distribution Center to cut ship time and cost. Education Some college High school or equivalent Henry Clay - Lexington, KY Skills Sql Server, Sql Dba, MYSQL, DBA, Oracle Dba, Rman, Oracle Database, Sql Database, DB2, RAC, Outlook, Estimating, Maintenance, Word, budget, Shopify, Soild Commerce, Amazon, Sales Forecasting, Photoshop, Social Media Marketing, Google Ads, Google Adwords Additional Information Database Administration / Warehouse Automations Developer / Ecommerce Development Administrator/ Database Development and Management/ Ecommerce Sales Forecasting/ Project Management/ Google Ads Marketing/ Network and IT Contracting    ? Developed e-Commerce System Solution including API and EDI programming, Warehouse automation, Supply Chain Integration & Management as well as PLC Integration.  ? Designed, Implemented and Project Managed e-Commerce AWS Cloud based network and business solutions for major retailers including ACE Hardware, Orgill & Dollar General.  ? Proficient at strategically positioning company's business solution and technology leadership to reach both short and long range business goals.  ? Specialist in Technology Project Management Solutions. Assisted international distribution companies with 831 manufactures by developing a complete end to end cloud based portal solution joining over 4800 locations, 22 international distribution centers, 831 manufactures into a unified customer to supply chain distribution and warehouse services solution which complemented their retail business while streamlining timeframes and improving budgets.  ? Database-Backed Web Solutions, Data Security/ Back-up and Recovery  ? Served as DBA on 100+ medium to large scale operation changes and upgrades  ? Developed Web-enabled inventory/sale/ranking/and shipping portal to see real time data on products listed on web-based marketplaces.  ? Time-saving inventory update system to maximize sales.  ? Managed and oversaw Database development for over 100k products  ? Established forecast system for ecommerce based sales providing vital sales information to increase revenue.  ? Oversaw and developed all major IT Projects For "Genesis Group" between 2014-2018  ? Cut warehouse stocking fees with inventory/sales forecast module.  ? Project scheduling, Strategic planning, Exceptional verbal and written communication skills.  ? Proficient in MS Office, PHP, SQL, C++ Google Ads, X12, Wordpress, Magento, VMware