Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Boston Scientific Little Canada, MN An accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator with 8+ years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle database administration. Specialized training, and experience in using TOAD, DATA GUARD, RMAN, DATA PUMP, OEM, RAC and ASM. I have worked on numerous databases from 10g, 11g and 12c, performing various DBA services and across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, UNIX, and Windows) in production, development and test environments. I am an enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication skills. With my strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems, I have a well-honed ability to adapt and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and challenging work environment. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Boston Scientific - Arden Hills, MN November 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Responsible for architecting, deploying and managing multiple 24 x7 databases for business-critical applications using RAC, Data Guard (physical and logical standby) and RMAN.  • Improved the performance of queries by 98% - execution time drastically reduced from 12 hours to 13 mins using various methods such as hints, sql profiles and indexes.  • Scheduled change implementation activity and performed regular random drills to test disaster recovery scenarios.  • Implemented the high availability and disaster protection for all the production databases using the Oracle Data Guard feature  • Built and maintained security and integrity controls in coordination with the security team using the VPD, user privileges, roles, TDE and Oracle Wallets to ensure highly controlled and audited user access.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, maintaining, monitoring and upgrading the production and test Databases  • Grant roles and Privileges to end users.  • Implement optimal space utilization in tablespaces by avoiding fragmentation.  • Load data into database using SQL Loader.  • Perform Data Guard switchover/failover as per requirements.  • Carry out quarterly patches, maintaining, monitoring and upgrading the production, development and test databases  • Implement recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recover databases in case database crashes, media/disk failures using RMAN, data pump and automated the same using shell scripts.  • Responsible for developing needed SQL queries for data extraction, and for optimizing and tuning the performance of database and queries on a daily basis and monitored the same via OEM using the ASH, AWR and ADDM reports  • Performed Point in time recovery in situations where backup is corrupt and cannot be used for database recovery.  • Restore and Recover databases from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Tablespace monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement and to avoid a database hang.  • Perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports and Active Session History (ASH).  • Authoritative in design, development, documentation and review according to standards  • Create oracle database on configure servers using both the DBCA and Database Creation Scripts  • Technical database support in 24/7 environment to ensure system performance and stability. Oracle Database Administrator WALMART TECHNOLOGY - CENTER, ARKANSAS, US April 2011 to November 2014 Responsibilities  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g/11g/12c servers and creation of databases in UNIX, Linux and Windows environments.  • Responsible for migration/upgrade of the 10g databases to 11g.  • Planned and scheduled Backup/Recovery Strategy using OEM, RMAN and took Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) to help application developers with the application design.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, ASH, AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using sql tuning adviser and ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility  • Identified and evaluated industry trends in database systems to serve as a source of information and advice for upper management. Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Performed database security and user administration via roles, profile, privilege, synonyms and auditing.  • Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Data pump.  • Provided capacity planning, tuning and administration support to application development efforts in Broad vision and PeopleSoft. Goals achieved ranged from I/O minimization, improved hit ratios and contention.  • Clone production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN.  • Work on database security including Auditing (standard auditing, fine grain, valued based and statement auditing), Encrypting (Transparent Table Encryption)  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import and migration utilities.  • Used Tablespace Manager and Oracle Expert to monitor performance bottlenecks, database response time, instance workload and operating system resource usage.  • Maintained records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial action taken, and installation activities, reduction, high database availability etc. Education Bachelor's in Leadership and Management University of Yaoundé II - YAOUNDE Skills Database (8 years), Oracle (8 years), Rman (8 years), Linux (8 years), Red hat (8 years), Unix (8 years), Virtual machine (8 years), Oem (8 years), Performance tuning (8 years), DBA (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), Postgresql (8 years), Sql Server (8 years), ETL (8 years), Oracle Dba (8 years), Sql Dba (8 years), Ssis (8 years), RAC (8 years), Sql Database (8 years), DB2 (8 years), Sybase (8 years), Oracle Database (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information Core Competencies  • Database creation, configuration, upgrade, patching and migration.  • Oracle Virtual Machine (OVM) for testing.  • Backup and Recovery using Data Pump and RMAN.  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Grid Control,  • Database integrity and advance security implementations like TDE and Triple A's  • Database upgrade and Migration using RMAN, Export/Import and Expdp/Impdp  • High availability using flashback and Data Guard  • Database Upgrade, Patching and Migration  • Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and ASM  • Oracle Data Guard  • Proficiency in Unix, Red Hat Linux 5.2, Red Hat Linux 6.