Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA • 11+ years of experience as Oracle DBA, strongly in Oracle Database Appliances (ODA), EXADATA and Oracle Golden gate.  • Proficient in Oracle 10g/11g/12c and 13c software installations, migrations, database capacity planning, automated backup implementation, Performance tuning on Linux/Unix and minor experience in My SQL platform using my SQL workbench.  • Involved with the architect group in designing, projects and planning the logical and physical model of the enterprise level databases.  • Provide support on oracle RAC, and data guard with various teams.  • Expertise in restoring and recovering Oracle database using RMAN.  • Extensive experience in Install, Configure, Deploy, upgrade, and patch and manage existing Oracle database 9i, 10g, 11g or 12c.  • Expertise using OEM 11g, and 12C, 13C Cloud Control.  • Experienced in troubleshooting, monitoring, backups and recovery as well as data migration, Data guard.  • Expertise in Deployment of Oracle Goldengate 11g and 12C.  • Work with various ticketing system including remedy, Service Center and Service Now. Support Oracle server and application tools. Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system.  • Participate in 24/7 on-call rotation schedule and troubleshoot and resolve issues.  • Work as a backup SQL server, monitor, administer using management studio.  • Experience includes Database Creation, Tuning, developing SQL Queries, and Cloud etc. Stored Procedures, Backup and Recovery, RAT Testing, Troubleshooting, UNIX Shell Scripting, Documentation and End User training.  • Strong performance analysis on AWR, ADDM, ASH and advisory views and periodic database instance performance review and tuning recommendation.  • Knowledge of Exadata Storage Servers and monitored X3/X2 Quarter/Half/Full RAC Machines. Worked on EXADATA X3-8 and X2-8 Full RAC machines.  • Experienced in working environment Exadata, Oracle Cloud, Golden Gate, AWS Cloud etc. Participated in migrating and managing oracle databases on AWS cloud RDS and EC2 services Work Experience Senior Oracle DBA Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2019 to July 2019 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Working on Exadata, Data guard, RAC and Multi -Tenant Environment.  • Provide and implement performance tuning recommendations of all components in Exadata database machine.  • Advice, provide guidance and develop Disaster Recovery strategies for the Exadata Database machine.  • Installed & configured 11g, 12c on Unix/Linux environment. Performed Migration and Upgrade of databases to 12c and 11gR2.  • Working on Incident tickets Supporting 24/7 support, on-call for production database and supporting developers & end-users  • Analyze and determine the feasibility of leverage the Oracle Enterprise Manager solution to report on performance, provide metrics, and become the centralized proactive maintenance solution for Exadata distributions.  • Develop and record certified processes/procedures for all potential IT downstream support groups to maintain and upgrade the Exadata database machine.  • Integration of Exadata monitoring and escalation into existing IT monitoring and actionable events solutions.  • Create test database for ODA/ Exadata environment for TDE implementation projects.  • Migrated 12c oracle databases to AWS.  • Performance Tuning ODA in extremely high data environments. Resolving TNS time out issues on environments from Oracle Exadata  • Installed and configured Golden Gate for replication. Golden Gate setup at both object level and schema level in both uni/bi-directional.  • Configured manager process to automate purging of the old trail files. Installation of 11g, 12c oracle client on the Application servers.  • Worked closely with developers in DDL deployments. Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, monitoring alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs.  • Performing the Yearly Standby- Data guard Tests (Fail-over/Switch over) using DG Broker. Worked on Schema Refresh Requests using import/export.  • Creating and rebuilding indexes and optimizing the code to improve the performance. Setup backup, recovery procedures and Point in time recovery using RMAN.  • Implemented Oracle Active-Data Guard for maintained Oracle disaster recovery.  • Configuration, maintenance and tuning of 11g R2 on Two-node RAC Cluster.  • Applying Patches for 10g/11g Database, Quarterly released PSU's by Oracle.  • Trained in Exadata for setting/implementing Exadata for New datacenter migrations.  • Monitoring Exadata systems using OEM 13c, Sundiag and Exachk utility.  • Experience on Exadata /Half rack/Quarter rack.  • Experience in migration of databases to Exadata using EXPDP/IMPDP and Golden Gate.  • Analysis and management of Oracle problems/defects using SR's and/or Meta link with Oracle and Follow Up with the Issues raised with Oracle Meta link support.  • Loaded entire databases with data from legacy systems into development, testing and Production areas utilizing Data Pump.  • Configuring and utilizing RMAN to perform physical and incremental backups using the RMAN utility.  • Use RMAN & User Managed backup methods for better control. And Create users and set permissions.  • Manage database security using groups, roles and handled number of databases in different places.  • Create database objects and managed the permission access on the objects with necessary security.  • Used Data Migration Service (DMS) to Migrate on-premise Oracle database to AWS RDS Oracle for development Team.  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/ RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Exa data, Cassandra IBM AIX 5.3, Red Hat Linux 6/7, Grid Control (OEM) 12C and 13C, AWS Oracle Database Administrator PNC Bank September 2015 to December 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Provisioning single instance and RAC databases using Automation OEMCloud.  • Oracle 11g and 12c database administration on Linux and Windows platforms and Exadata Servers.  • Database Duplication, Migration, Refresh, Upgrade and Patch application.  • Physical (RMAN) and Logical (Expdp/Impdp) database backup, restore, and recovery.  • Performance turning (Proactive and Reactive maintenance).  • Administering and Managing RAC, ASM and Data Guard.  • Worked on database refresh using AWS snapshot process or Exp/Imp Process.  • Configure various performance metrics using AWS Cloud watch & Cloud Trial  • Manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Cloud Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 12C).  • PL/SQL deployment.  • Capacity planning, sizing applications and server hardware.  • User and security management.  • Collaborating with vendors, end users, and other support groups.  • Cloning production databases for development, test environment with RMAN Duplicate feature.  • Monitors database resource usage, making required adjustments to end users.  • Monitor and manage SQL server using Management Studio. As a backup SQL DBA.  • Perform performance tuning, physical database design, data replication management, logical database design, complex recovery management, SQL coding and optimization techniques, etc.  • Install and configure High Availability Oracle Golden Gate (OGG) systems on Oracle 11gR2, 12C RAC environments.  • Oracle old Database decommissioning.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2, 12C, ASM, RAC, OEM 13C, OGG 12C, ODA, RHEL 5.x, Solaris 5.x, Windows 7, Toad, SQL developer, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, Exadata, Rman, Datapump, Remedy, ServiceNow. Oracle Database Administrator Westar Energy - Topeka, KS September 2014 to June 2015 Role & Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11gR2, 12C, etc. And Upgrade 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.01  • Oracle Database Administration, database backup and recovery.  • Test Oracle database environment with RMAN Duplicate feature. Monitors database to increase efficiency.  • Data migration between environments using Export/Import, expdp/impdp, Transportable Table space and Oracle Streams.  • Implemented Golden Gate Technology on Oracle 10g. Monitoring and maintenance of multiple databases for production, development, testing and Staging purposes using utilities like OEM and Toad.  • Worked on development of PL/SQL stored procedures, Triggers. Applying upgrade patches, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases.  • Performance monitoring and tuning the database using OEM, AWR and ADDM analysis.  • Working on Oracle SQL & PL/SQL programming and tuning. And Using OEM Grid control to manage and administer database. Created initial process documentation to upgrade OEM 11G to 12C.  • Perform management, performance tuning, physical database design, and data replication.  • Provide database management, logical database design, complex recovery management, SQL coding and optimization techniques, etc. Oracle software upgrades, fixes and patches necessary for the software.  • Input information on inventory software of database configuration and licensing.  Environment: 11g, 10g, 9i, RAC, Data guard, Linux, HPUX, OEM, Grid Control, Toad, SQL Developer, Banner, Cosima etc. Oracle Database Administrator T-Systems Inc - Downers Grove, IL May 2013 to June 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented Data Center migration for large databases.  • A 24x7 production database administrator.  • Register and unregister databases in the recovery catalog.  • Day-to-day tasks such as created and modified database objects like tables, Indexes, Views, Sequences, Functions, Procedures, Triggers and Packages. In addition to assigning roles and privileges to users and providing security for the databases.  • Managed Oracle 10g and 11gR2 and deleting legacy databases.  • Monitor storage usage and work with application team to add more data-files as needed.  • Database monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting and respond to alerts.  • Supported Development Teams by implementing database objects, tables, indexes etc. in DEV/TEST/PROD and through on call rotation.  • Support monitor & tune the database instances.  • Develop shell and/or, PL/SQL and/or SQL scripts to implement automation of ongoing administration and maintenance tasks.  • Scheduled Physical backups (hot/cold) using RMAN utility and monitoring scheduled jobs.  • Installed and configured oracle database on Linux platforms.  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Environment: 11g, 10g, RAC, Data guard, Linux, AIX, OEM, Grid Control, Toad, SQL Developer etc. Oracle DBA Kroger Inc - Cincinnati, OH August 2012 to April 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  • 24/7 Database support of multi-terabyte Oracle 10g and 11g database.  • Create new instances, setup and configure as per request.  • Provide 24/7 support to all 2000 stores databases.  • Involve in the maintenance and troubleshooting of RAC Databases and Enterprise Manager Grid Control.  • Involve in RAT testing before making any changes to databases.  • Involve in the Monitor of Backup and Recovery Strategies using RMAN, and Configuring Oracle Data Guard.  • Involve and participate data integration, data management and capacity planning for the Data Center.  • Provide support to development team to execute new codes in Test, Dev, QA and Prod databases.  • Prepare Installation Procedures for current Patch, Documentation for Adding a node to Existing RAC environment and Data Guard.  • Involve in the installation of Test Environments, Development Environments for the project. Oracle Database Administrator Johnson Control Inc - Milwaukee, WI August 2011 to July 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Database Administration & Monitoring space & Alerts using UNIX shell scripting and Enterprise Manager.  • 24*7 Customer Support for the customers & resolving Tickets.  • Apply database patches (Includes periodic CPU patches and specific problem related).  • Tuning SQL and PLSQL.  • Metadata Release (DDL/DML/packages/procedures/functions), Creation of Table spaces, data objects, setting privileges, indexes, users, roles (security).  • Creating QA & DEV environments from Production using RMAN as well as traditional cloning using hot backups/archive logs and massaging data.  • Develop shell and/or, PL/SQL and/or SQL scripts to implement automation of ongoing administration and maintenance tasks.  • Backups and Recovery using UNIX shell scripts & as well as RMAN.  Environment: HP UNIX, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Toad, Oracle IAS, Oracle Enterprise manager 10g Oracle Database Administrator Mediacom Corp January 2010 to June 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installation of Oracle 11g Cluster ware and upgradation of 10g RAC database in Test and Prod environments on Solaris 9.  • Cross platform migration of Oracle 10g RAC database to 11gR2 from Solaris to Redhat.  • Resolve issues related to RAC node reboot / instance evictions by applying PSU, bug fix patch sets  • Installation of Oracle 10g APEX and configure its portal.  • Written pl/sql code to upload bulk insert jobs related to business objects for telecom circuits, commercial customers and bill revenues.  • Improve RMAN backup shells to keep Data guard in sync with primary  • Scripting for database monitoring and to automate routine tasks.  • Test and apply quarterly Oracle patches/upgrades.    Professional Skills  DATABASES: ? ? ? ? ?  RMAN: ? ? ? ? ?  ORACLE: ? ? ? ? ?  SQL: ? ? ? ? ?  DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR: ? ? ? ? ? Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University 1981 to 1984 Skills Database administrator, Database, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Malware, Rman, Aix, Apache, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Ux, Hp-ux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL  * Databases Installation/Management: Oracle 18C, 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server 2005,2008,2012, PostgreSQL 8.4, 9.2, Real Application Cluster (RAC), ASM  * Security Tools: IDS/IPS, DLP, NESSUS, Nmap, SIEM, Wire shark, TCP/IP, NIST SP 800-53, ISO 27001, Internet Security, Malware prevention, Email Security, Security Controls, Antivirus tools.  * Applications/DevOps Tools: Apache, Nginx, Lotus Notes, LVM, KVM, Xend, VMware, Virtual Box, Docker  * Operating Systems: Sun Solaris 9/10, HP-UX 11i v1.5, IBM AIX 5.3/6.1/7.1, RHEL 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, Linux 6 and Windows  * DB Utilities: SQL LOADER, Data Pump, RMAN, OPatch, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ASMCMD, ASMCA, DBCA, Golden Gate, ADRCI and DBUA, AWS  * Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g/11g/12c, TOAD 8.5, SQL Developer, Putty, Log Miner, VMware  * Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Python, API, CLI, HTML5, Oracle SQL Developer