Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - FedEx Trade Networks and Brokerage 5+ years of experience in Oracle Database Administration, Design & Development, Implementation and Testing of Relational Database Management systems for Business solutions. Experience in database development and production system support, Oracle Database Administration on 24x7 critical production and large databases using Oracle 11g RAC, 10g, 9i and 12c Standalone database.    • Worked as a team member to provide 24x7 on-call production database support.  • Experience working in a RAC environment.  • Worked with GoldenGate Director, Veridata which is used for Data comparison between source and target.  • Involved in migration of oracle 9i to 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Performance Tuning of Oracle Databases.  • Adding nodes and deleting nodes to existing RAC configuration.  • Experience working with Dataguard, Grid control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Performance Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, Analyze, AWR and ADDM  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) for managing data in SAN.  • RMAN backups and Recovery.  • Experience in a variety of hardware and software platforms including UNIX/Linux, Sun Solaris.  • Strong and efficient written and oral communication skills with a customer service attitude. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FedEx Trade Networks and Brokerage May 2019 to Present Role and Responsibilities    • PI planning on how to migrate entire system to OCI, including scripts for Goldengate, RAC High Availability, Dataguard for Disaster Recovery, Data Retention, Archival of data 2+ years, Location API's, Abi Initio planning  • Maintain Oracle Streams and Veridata for replication on different Servers  • Manage data space and growth demands on the Databases, Schemas and Tablespaces.  • Apply Quarterly Patches.  • Script deployment and requests for table creations and Indexing.  • Migration from T5 servers to T8 servers within teams.  • Installation of GoldenGate.  • Involved in Dataguard environment implementation for Disaster Recovery purposes.  • Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, granting required privileges to users.  • Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  • Performance Tuning using licensed tools such as AWR, Explain plan, ADDM, SQL T.  • Refresh Test Database from the Production Database.  • Documentation of all my procedures and daily work.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Oracle Database Administrator Delta Air Lines - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to March 2019 Role and Responsibilities    • Involved in Performance Planning and Tuning, using baselines and proactive monitoring, bottleneck elimination and the wait event interface to identify issues.  • Worked with developers to diagnose database related application problems, provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data.  • Generated weekly performance reports to identify and solve the problems with performance.  • Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinated with Oracle support through Metalink to resolve them in timely manner.  • Provided 24*7 Production support.  • Actively monitored OEM and fixed any slowness caused during app related jobs.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP (Guaranteed Restore Point) and Export and Import (Data pump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Involved in Dataguard environment implementation for Disaster Recovery purposes.  • Maintenance of RAC and Non-RAC databases.  • Goldengate unidirectional replication on RAC using ACFS file system.  • Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g also called as keystore from 12c and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption, also used TDE for Goldengate replication too and worked on OKV (Oracle Key Vault).  • Part of a team that Installed, configured and maintained Goldengate Monitor, Goldengate director and Veridata for Goldengate monitoring and replicated data comparison purposes.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users.  • Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  • Documentation of all my procedures and daily work. Oracle Database Administrator Airtel Telecommunications - Kampala, UG February 2011 to October 2016 • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed backup validations using RMAN  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations / Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle Standby.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Installation of OEM agent (Both for 10g and 11g) and OEM grid (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Monitoring tool for oracle databases.  • 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Capacity Planning and requesting the storage required by analyzing the database growth.  • Performed Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain plan, Analyze, AWR and ADDM  • Monitored and maintained Goldengate software of real time replication, Zero data loss in the environment.  • Monitored and maintained Dataguard for Disaster Recovery and High Availability.  • Modify existing databases and database management system, schemas and architecture.  • Align data to support corporate business needs and strategic objectives.  • Documentation of all my procedures and daily work. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of North Georgia - Gainesville, GA 2017 to 2018 Certified Associate Kampala International University - Kampala, UG 2006 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, REPLICATION, SQL, RMAN, LINUX, RDBMS, PERFORMANCE TUNING