SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - NARTech, Inc Silver Spring, MD Over 6 Years' of experience in administrating Relational Database Management systems in Banking,  government and retail domains. Extensively worked with various technologies of MS-SQL Server;  Implemented robust Disaster Recovery & Haigh availability solutions including AlwaysON  Availability Group, failover Clustering, Mirroring, replication and Log shipping; optimized  performance of stored procedures and inline quires. Well-versed in using third party and in-built  Database monitoring tools and creating various database objects Such as stored procedures, triggers,  functions, Index, constraints and views. Recognized for solid work ethic, technical acumen, and  ability to manage multiple priorities within diverse. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator NARTech, Inc - Bethesda, MD July 2016 to Present Major duties and responsibilities  Configured and managed various HA/ DR solutions in a multi-subnet environment  including AlwaysON availability and replication  Installed, configured, patched and managed SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017 both in the lower and production environments.  Optimized & tuned stored procedures and long running queries using various built-in tools like  execution plan, profiler, DTA, PerfMon and DMVs/DMFs.  Migrated databases from SQL Server 2012 to 2017  Expertise in Database Backup and Recovery procedures using native tools and Lite Speed  Applied hot fixes, cumulative updates and service packs  Automated various database maintenance tasks (DBCC checks, index rebuild/reorganize, and database  backup, clean up jobs) and setup alerts for failure notification.  Worked both with OLTP and OLAP databases environments.  managed temp DB and implemented Indexes for optimum performance  Reviewed and deployed codes both in lower and production environments  Generated custom report using SSRS.  Deployed and managed security of SSIS packages  Implemented security and access control following the IT security best practice of minimum privilege  Provided 24/7 on call support for production systems.  Monitored server activity using SQL server log, error log, windows event view.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2014, SSIS, SSRS, Windows Server XA SYSTEM, LLC - Rockville, MD March 2014 to February 2016 Major duties and responsibilities  Upgraded and configured SQL Server 2012 from SQL Server 2008/R2 on Windows Server 2012 and applied service packs and security fixes.  Performed Export and Import of databases from Flat file, excel Access, Oracle and MySQL to SQL Server  Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP.  Migrated various user databases from SQL Server 2008/R2 to SQL server 2012 Configured and managed  AlwasyON haigh availability groups for sql server 2012 both for HA/DR needs.  Set up Failover Clustering and log shipping in SQL server 2008 (Active/Passive)  Used System monitor to find the bottlenecks in CPU, Disk I/O and memory devices and improved the database server performance  Maintain SQL Server Production databases and ensures high availability.    Backup databases before change implementation and ensure rollback capability    Restore development and staging databases to help development team work on the current Version of the database to avoid errors during production move up.  Monitored SQL server instance and host machine activities using SQL server log, error log, Windows event viewer.  Configured log shipping between the required databases for DR and reporting    Rebuild/reorganized the indexes at regular intervals for better performance    Created Maintenance Plans that helped in effective disk utilization and index maintenance.    Configured Server level audit to monitor server security status.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2, and 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Windows Server 2008 and 2012 Database Administrator 2012 to 2016 Jr. Database Administrator Dashen Bank - ET January 2013 to December 2013 Major duties and responsibilities    Installed, configured and managed SQL server 2005 and 2008.  Applied service packs (SPs), critical updates and hot-fixes on SQL server 2005/2008.  Monitored SQL server instance and host machine activities using SQL server log, error log, Windows  event viewer.  Used Dynamic Management Views (DMV) for monitoring the performance of the server.  Exported and imported data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS.  Involved in migrating SQL Server Databases from Development to Production Server.  Backing up (FULL, LOG and DIFF) and restoring user and system databases.  Provided 24/7 standby production support for SQL Server databases.  Managed space on database servers by proactively forecasting the DB growth.  Created roles and grant permissions to users upon proper approval from business.  Configured Log shipping from Production to Disaster Recovery server  Configured Database Mail for SQL Servers for mail notification.  Recovered corrupt and deleted/dropped databases\table from backups.  Created jobs for nightly backup of the database.  Attend weekly change control meetings and participate in discussions.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, Windows Server 2003, Window 7, RAID, PowerShell, Education BSC in Computer science St. Mary's University 2012 Skills Sql Server, DBA, Data modeling and database design. ... Metadata management and repository usage. ... Database schema creation and management. ... Backup and recovery,Ensuring data integrity,Performance management and tuning,Ensuring availability. (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kiflu-tiruneh-3a880a12b