Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Charter Communications Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on a 24*7 critical production support databases which are resided on multiple platforms line RHEL, ODA, Exadata sized around 10+-50+TB using Oracle 11g/12c including RAC and ASM, Golden gate and Data-guard.  • Proactive monitoring of databases using OEM and logs daily for pattern of database health by performing checks on CPU, memory, data usage and suggesting capacity planning measures if needed for further 12-18 months.  • Working with Applications teams if needed for any abnormal behavior on the database and providing analysis on SQL to see if any changed and working on better tuning options for the SQL for a better functionality.  • Sized multiple Oracle databases depending on the application requirement with the overhead storage required for the oracle.  • Migrated Oracle databases from red hat Linux to Oracle EXADATA using RMAN cloning.  • Used AWR and ADDM reports to monitor database activities and troubleshoot any performance issues.  • Migration and upgradation databases from 11g to 12c.  • Configured Golden gate 12.* version across different environments for an active-active data replication by creating required extract/pumps/replicate to populate the data either for a Schema or table level replication and troubleshooting if any issues in both Uni and Bi-Directional replication.  • Performed DB and schema refreshes as per app request from Prod to any lower environment for any testing or debugging any issues.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g/12c RAC on two node and four node configurations  • Migrated multi-terabyte databases to Exadata machine using data pump utility.  • Provided support to a combination of database system such as OLTP and OLAP which are resided on Exadata machines.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Scheduling Backups, Schema backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data Pump utilities).  • Administrating databases across development, QA, UAT and PROD environments via use of command line and Oracle tools Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c.  • Worked on SQL Tuning and how to use the available tools outside of Oracle Enterprise Manager and also checking the SQL functionality and using SPM to pin better plans for SQL for better data capture.  • Installed and Administered Oracle 12c RAC software with ASM  • Implemented and Managed Physical Standby data guard for all Productions databases across multiple datacenters.  • Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements, reorganize database objects and design indexes to improve response of queries.  • Refresh database using import/export from production to UAT to oracle tables. Used ETL to extract data from database and transform the data to different databases.  • Expertise in loading multiple data formats files into the tables using SQL loader.  • Implemented partitioning on large tables, expertise in using composite partitioning, local indexes and global indexes.  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA).  • With use of SHELL scripting automated export, import jobs.  • Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  • Implemented database monitoring and tuning, application, and queries using ADDM, ASH, AWR, Explain Plan and OEM.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, alerts & Functions.  • Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to- day operations  • Providing database support for development and deployment of database scripts in Development, Test, Pre-Production and Production environments.  • Monitoring daily reports which involved space reports and Golden gate status reports, RMAN backup reports and cleared the alerts accordingly by doing a thorough analysis.  • Database monitoring and maintenance activities which include checking alert logs, space management, undo management, gathering database statistics, database locking issues, scheduling of jobs, creation of users, schemas, table spaces and other database objects.  Involved in 24x7 support while assigned on-call role. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed Installation, Configuration, Monitoring and Troubleshooting of Oracle Cluster ware and RAC on 11gR2 and 12c on Linux, and Solaris environments.  • Provided 3rd level support for Oracle RAC, including applying Patches, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery issues with RMAN, Trace Analysis, Service Creation, Cluster and System management  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction in RAC.  • Explored and used the new Oracle Database 11g performance features, SQL Plan Management, Adaptive Cursor Sharing, SQL Profile, Invisible Index, Query Transformations etc. to successfully optimize the SQL queries, database jobs.  • Experience in using oracle trace 10046 and 10053 tracing levels for in depth tuning of performance related issues.  • Experience in analyzing Oracle Wait events in Production Databases and resolving them.  • Install, configure and support uni-directional and bi-directional Oracle-to-Oracle replicated environments utilizing Oracle Golden Gate version 12  • Worked on database and tables migrations from Solaris to Exadata servers using golden gate and monitoring and troubleshooting the issues during extract and replicat abends/fails and analyzing the performance on production servers where GG is running  • Coordinate and lead Disaster Recovery Testing Exercises to guarantee business continuity targets.  • Experience in creating Physical Standby databases, and involved in converting Physical to Snapshot Standby, and also Active Data-guard.  • Troubleshoot Performance issues for the RAC instances (GC events).  • Implemented Enterprise Manager Grid Control OEM 12c to provide monitoring and management of the Oracle database estate.  • In transition phase of Migrating Databases to Exadata and data migration using Golden gate  • Planned and Sizing of databases on Exadata (X4-2 Half Rack)  • Intial Poc stage for the Migration of databases to exadata and currently in implementation process on Dev environment  • Performed migration of databases using RMAN and Transportable Table spaces as well.  • Displayed a high level of expertise while handling the various scenarios of database Backup & recovery and cloning using the RMAN tool in RAC and Data Guard environments of large to very large databases.  • Troubleshooting RMAN whenever there is a backup failure and resolved issues.  • Configured RMAN retention policy, archive log deletion policy for Production databases.  • Performed database refresh from production to test environment in both RAC and NON RAC environment using RMAN active cloning and data-pump.  • Converted single instance database to RAC Database.  • Used the tracing tools and profilers e.g. tracing events, DBMS_XPLAN, DBMS_MONITOR, TKPROF, AWR, ASH and ADDM reports etc. to build resource profile (CPU, I/O, various Timed Events), identify the root cause and resolve it.  • Extensively used tools like OEM, TOAD for database performance monitoring, tuning of SQL / memory.  • Experience in Analyzing AWR and ASH reports and identifying key performance issues.  • Migrating non-RAC databases to RAC environment on ASM.  • Applied patches to Oracle Databases using Opatch utility and upgrading of databases manually.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering accidently dropped tables, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  • Write Shell scripts to monitor tablespace and extent growth.  • Provided support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.    Environment: Solaris, Oracle11g/12c, RHEL, 11gR2 RAC, TOAD, DATAGUARD, Golden-gate, Oracle Enterprise Manager(11g and 12C) , TKPROF, Explain-plan, ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL Tuning ADVISOR. Oracle Database Administrator AT&T Services - Dallas, TX February 2013 to July 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Performed Cloning, Upgraded Database from10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.and from 11.2.0. to 11.2.0.3  • Performed Migration of databases from Unix version to Linux 2 and 4 Node RAC and performed data transition using Golden Gate version 11.2.0.7 using Integrated capture mode.  • Install, configure and support uni-directional and bi-directional Oracle-to-Oracle replicated environments utilizing Oracle Golden Gate. Worked on database migration and monitoring and troubleshooting the GG issues by using GGS logs and monitoring the performance analysis on the servers with GG  • Proficient in development, testing, performance tuning, deployment, and support Data warehouse systems.  • Installed 12C OEM agents for monitoring the targets and currently under research phase to perform upgrades from 11g to 12c environment  • Experience with Automation and Orchestration like OEM11g and OEM12c Grid Control, Red Alert Monitoring.  • Performing Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Reading Alert Logs, GGS Error Logs and User trace Files and Diagnosing the Problem.  • Worked on major of the OLTP databases up to 10TB to 15Tb and used to monitor and perform some troubleshooting if any issues arises  • Production support Maintenance activities, written shell scripts for Monitoring production activities.  • Perform general technical troubleshooting and working with Functional teams for possible solutions for various issues.  • Performed Backup and Recovery using RMAN and written shell scripts for scheduled online backups.  • Troubleshooting RMAN backup and recovery related issues.  • Expertise in AWR, ADDM, to collect and maintain performance statistics and improve the database performance.  • Worked with Oracle Corporation to resolve applications/ database issues by opening TAR/SR  • Supporting Oracle Databases 10g/11g also RAC on Linux  • Proficient knowledge in configuring ASM for RAC databases  • Performed Cloning, export/import and Patching.  • Designing the logical and physical database structure.  • Designing the security and database access strategies.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and monitoring scheduled Backups  • Performing backups and recoveries using RMAN conventional hot backups.  • Establish and Document Backup and Recovery strategies and procedures after evaluating various options including RMAN.  • Expertise in installing, designing and testing using the Golden Gate in RAC for the high accessibility of data-Integration and data replication in the oracle 11g environment.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Efficient in handling the BMC remedy tickets  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance  • Monitoring Database for fragmentation and correcting them.    Environment: Oracle Server 10g/11g, SQL, RHEL, UNIX, Solaris 10, Shell scripting, TOAD, OEM 10g, OEM11g, Golden-Gate Database Administrator Cisco Systems November 2011 to January 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Strong working experience in 24 X 7 Production database administration, data warehouse systems and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of very large database issues.  • Creating of databases for Testing, Development and Production on VLDB systems.  • Converted a single instance database to 2 node RAC in 10g.  • Experience with Automation and Orchestration like OEM11g Grid Control, Red Alert Monitoring  • Performed Migration of databases and implemented Golden Gate for Data Integration.  • Worked on Golden Gate in both Uni and Bi-directional data transition and mainly implemented using the Integrated Capture mode  • Installed and Upgraded Oracle 11g database from Oracle 10g database on test and development environments.  • Performed Cloning, Upgraded Database from 10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.and from 11.2.0. to 11.2.0.3  • Performed Monitoring and troubleshooting on large OLTP databases which used to have sophisticated data regarding the client's database details which used to be up to 10TB.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of 4 node Oracle 10g RAC.  • ASM and CRS installation and new database creation for 10g RAC.  • Reading Alert Logs, GGS Error Logs and User trace Files and Diagnosing the Problem  • Implemented Streams on both 9i and 10g Databases, Export & Import on 9i Database, DataPump in 10g Database.  • Performed Database Administration activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR-Support, Cloning, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, capacity planning, script development, and documentation.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed backup validations using RMAN.  • Implemented and Involved in Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans  • Oracle 10g RAC Database setup and administration using Dell/EMC SAN for storage and Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for backups.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace and TKPROF, STATSPACK.  • Proactive database monitoring using 10g grid monitoring tool.  • Developer Environment Setup, Support, Cloning and Refreshes.  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development database  • Setup of Standby database for faster disaster recovery and data guard setup for high availability.  • Used External Tables to Load data from flat files to database.  • Implemented different Partition methodologies to improve performance and manageability.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot Database problems and failures  • Written Korn, Perl, shell scripts for digitization the process.  • Load balancing, databases/schema/table re-organization for faster performance.  • Proficient with Erwin tool and used for projecting of data modeling and database designing.  • Installation of Oracle version 10g on Solaris, HP-UX and AIX boxes.  • Was involved in developing a disaster recovery (DR) plan and Stand by Database  • Continuous Performance monitoring and Tuning of the databases and application using OEM Tuning Pack , Diagnostics Pack and STATSPACK  • Rebuilding of Indexes  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Scheduling jobs through Oracle job Scheduler.  • Providing Solutions to the Problem Faced by end Users Or Programmers  • Automation of Startup Shutdown on all Production and Development Database.  • Scripts for Startup and Shutdown, Health Check of Databases, Analyzing of Tables, Cold Backups.  • Used TOAD tool for querying and troubleshooting PL/SQL queries and codes.  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle Standby Serves.    Environment: Oracle Server 10g, RHEL 3, 4, Windows, Erwin, Shell & Perl scripting, TOAD, OEM 11g/10g,Golden-gate    ? References can be provided upon requested. Education Bachelor in Technology Vellore Institute of Technology University Skills Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Korn, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Netbackup, Rman, Veritas, Scripting, Hp-ux, Rdbms, Loader, Emc