Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Preston IT Consulting US A bilingual and diverse Senior Oracle Database Administrator (SDBA)with over 7 + years of experience with extensive knowledge in Oracle database administration. Oracle Certified Associate (OCA) in Oracle 12c administration, proficient in Oracle 10g and 11g, Windows, and Red Hat Linux. Expertise knowledge in database configurations and installations, Database Design and development (SDLC), Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Backup & Recovery and Security Implementations. Enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail with strong organization, verbal and written communication skills able to multitask successfully and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and resourceful work environment.    SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA  • Monitoring and performance tuning using Oracle Enterprise Manager Console and SQL Developer  • Works with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2003, 2008) and LINUX (Red Hat)  • Monitoring Tablespaces  • Database Design and development (SDLC)  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL*Plus  • PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database security  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data pump, and SQL Loader  • Network and Connectivity  • Startup and Shutdown Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Gundersen Health System September 2013 to Present Assisted agencies of various sizes with implementing latest leading-edge Oracle technologies while optimizing their current infrastructures. Establishing and maintaining database structures, objects, views, as well as ensuring data integrity and maintaining software and hardware products used to support the Oracle database enterprise environment. Performed ongoing tuning of databases, installations, upgrades, migration, database creations and deployments. Planned and Implemented Backup and Recovery strategies and enforced database Security for oracle database. Performed database object creation and querying and database resource management and generated Standard Operation Procedures to ease operational support.    End Client: Gundersen Health System  Senior Oracle Database Administrator Sep 2013-present  Responsibilities:  • Ensure high availability and recovery for over 1200+ employees.  • Monitoring and performance tuning using Oracle Enterprise Manager Console and SQL Developer to manage daily tasks regarding performance and maintenance  • Monitoring and reporting daily backup with RMAN, configuring and managing backups (full and incremental)  • Performed Installation, security and patch upgrades over successive Oracle generations using the OUI and DBCA  • Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances  • Created database objects such as tables, views, synonyms, sequences and triggers  • Created user accounts and assigned appropriate privileges  • Database Security monitoring and security compliance auditing  • Monitors and resolves Data guard problems, maintains flashback capability, troubleshoots database problems including performance issues and resolves them with the AWR, Performance views and SQL Tuning advisor.  • Implements a backup and recovery policy and uses RMAN  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the database environment.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Implement database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.  • Perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) reports and automatic session history.  • Administered tablespaces (data file) on space management and adjusted for future needs Oracle Database Administrator End Client - Winona, MN February 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Administered and supported development of Oracle 11g databases by installing and configuring the Oracle Server.  • Created databases and database objects and cloned production databases as needed for testing and development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Identified the root cause of Oracle errors and provided solutions to resolve them.  • Implemented proactive database monitoring using SQL Trace as well as Performed database design and maintenance using Oracle partition technologies.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures using RMAN and Data Pump utility for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations. Maintained 24*7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting live issues.  • Monitored and optimized database performance, troubleshooting performance issues using OEM and AWR.  • Performed SQL Tuning and provided consultation such as creating Materialized views, table partitions, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes  • Managed database security by creating and assigning privileges to users depending on the user's activity, auditing and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption and acknowledged HIPAA laws.  • Monitored bugs from the alert log and trace files and used DDL statements to CREATE and ALTER within a dynamic SQL script, created schemas, synonyms and roles.  • Used RMAN for database refresh with hot backups, incremental backups and validated to ensure the backups were secured and usable for recovery.  • Participated as part of a teamwork effort for SDLC principles and the development of documentation for new procedures and processes for technical projects.  • Managed users by creating them, assigning roles, managing passwords and privileges including other security related tasks.  • Managed Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Non-ASM database file systems  • Using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for database monitoring and performance tuning  • Installations of Oracle databases on Linux OS and analyzed SQL statements, reorganize database objects and designed indexes.  • Performed day to day database administration tasks like database creation as well as working on projects such as upgrades (from 9i, 10, 11g to 12c) and patching  • Created an application for Sales department that helped a salesperson to associate with it, its Salesperson IDs and Profit Center Ids to finally burst a report. It was also designed using SQL Server 2005. Education Bachelor's in Biology Saint Mary's University of Minnesota - Winona, MN September 2014 to June 2016 Skills Sql Server, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Perfomance tunning (3 years), Postgresql, Ssis, RAC, ETL, Rman, Sql Database, Oracle Database, DB2, Sybase Certifications/Licenses 12c oca certified Present Oracle Certified Associate Present Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/quj4oiyngmgzswpg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.