Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - OSCA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator OSCA - Jefferson City, MO August 2016 to Present • Utilized RMAN and development of a recovery catalog to perform complete and incomplete recovery and hot, cold, and incremental backups for backup and recovery purposes  • Developed physical and logical standby databases  • Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication. Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.  • Refreshed and replicated databases from production to testing environments  • Utilized DBFS and Active DataGuard to configure for high availability  • Used EXPDP/IMPDP to refresh schema and table level data  • Ensured capacity and availability requirements were met through monitoring of database activities such as backups, error logs, space, object, performance, user, and session data  • Maintained database security through granting of roles, privileges, and profiles according to user needs  • Extensively performance tuned the databases through use of database utilities  • Maintained database performance by upgrading from 10g to 11g and applying RAC and standalone database patches regularly  • Provided 24/7 support to resolve issues promptly and efficiently  • Utilized Clusterware and database logs to troubleshoot RAC issues  • Collaborated with storage teams to manage database capacity using automated scripts, processes, and reports  • Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)  • Skillfully installed and created Oracle database and software using silent feature  • Designed the database auditing process  • Migrated databases from non-ASM to ASM after installing the ASM environment  • Extensively utilized OEM 12c Grid Control to monitor all database and application servers  • Designed, installed, and maintained OCR, 11gRAC, and DataGuard Oracle Database Administrator Equifax - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to July 2016 • Successfully installed and configured 10.2.0.1 database and then migrated from 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC databases  • Utilized DataGuard to implement logical and physical standby databases for RAC on Sun Solaris  • Replicated data utilizing Materialized Views and Oracle Streams  • Maintained database access by creating users, groups, roles, and profiles, assigning users to appropriate groups, and granting relevant privileges  • Provided on-call support during off hours to maintain troubleshooting availability  • Viewed alert log and trace files to constantly monitor database performance at peak load to assess for issues  • Utilized RMAN and export/import utilities to clone and migrate databases as needed  • Migrated from old datacenter to new datacenter and from single instance databases to multiple instance databases  • Successfully configured DataGuard on standby and primary production databases  • Implemented and maintained 11g DataGuard and standby database for switchover and failover  • Created necessary tablespaces, tables, indexes, privileges, and user logins, refreshing schemas as needed  • Utilized VM sphere client to resolve performance tuning issues  • Created standalone databases on VM Ware  • Created RMAN solutions for all databases, developing best practices, optimizations, and DataGuard and cloning techniques  • Utilized RMAN utility in Crontab to schedule hot and cold physical backups and monitor scheduled jobs  • Applied all needed patches for 10.2.0.2, 10.2.0.3, and 10.2.0.4  • Monitored database health including table size growth, extent allocation, free and used space, and fragmentation using carefully run scripts  • Maintained databases including space management, capacity planning, and disaster recovery  • Optimized and tuned SQL queries using SQL Trace, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN  • Provided 24/7 support for production and development databases  • Utilized integrity constraints and database triggers to maintain database security and integrity Skills Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Linux, Solaris, Ux, Backups, Rman, Hp-ux, Olap, Remedy, Oem, Performance tuning, Loader Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:    ? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  ? Linux  ? HP-UX  ? Solaris  ? OEM  ? OEM Grid Control  ? SQL*Plus  ? RMAN  ? TOAD  ? SQL*Loader  ? SQL Developer  ? Exp/Imp  ? Datapump  ? Log miner  ? STATSPACK  ? AWR  ? ASM  ? ADDM  ? ASH  ? DBUA  ? Putty  ? WinSCP  ? Remedy  ? Hot and cold backups  ? CRONtab  ? Oracle Scheduler  ? DSS  ? TKPROF  ? EXPLAIN PLAN  ? SQL Plan Monitor  ? SQL Tuning Advisor  ? SQL Access  ? OLTP  ? OLAP  ? Patch application  ? Goldengate  ? DataGuard  ? Performance tuning