Database Administrator/programmer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/programmer Database Administrator/programmer Alexandria, VA More than 7 years of technical experience in the areas of programming, database administration with the ability of problem solving, team management, confidence, flexibility and strong interpersonal skills. Currently, seeking a position in the field of software development  Computer    .Net Frame Work  C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net  SQL & My SQL,  MS Office, MS Access,  JavaScript, CSS, jQuery  Photo Shop  GIS  ArcMap, ArcCatalog  Using & Training GPS Work Experience Database Administrator/programmer LEMA Network - Kabul, AF 2015 to 2019 • Developed New Applications and Databases for clients  • Used C# & .Net in developing new applications along with CSS, jQuery, Java Scrip  • Used SQL and My Sql for database engine in back end  • Advance knowledge of Developing Databases in MS Access  • Collection of information for new database, and survey of user's requirements.  • Conducted testing of software before implementations, and installation.  • Implemented and maintained developed systems.  • Conducted training data entry staff and all new hired staff.  • Mad back-up of the database close of business every day.  • Participate in Staff and Technical meeting inside and outside the office.  • Compiled weekly and monthly staff activity and performance reports. GIS/ Database Assistant IRD - Washington, DC 2012 to 2015 Herat, Afghanistan  • Used GIS Software to Create maps and worked on Digitization and printing maps.  • Collecting data from the field for developing maps  • Conducted training for staff, how to use Maps and other office equipments.  • Helped M&E staff in compilation and writing of reports and site visits;  • Mad back-up of the database close of business every day.  • Entered information into Database while needed.  • Joined weekly and monthly staff meeting.  • Assisted Developers team in collection of information for new systems.  • Traveled to the sub offices in the provinces for updating the systems.    Run my own business Education Diploma in Leadership Institute for Leadership Development January 2012 to November 2012 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Computer Science Faculty Jalalabad University Afghanistan 2002 to 2007 CCNA/Networking Brains College & University - Peshawar, PK July 2005 to September 2005 Skills Coding, Data collection, Maintenance, MYSQL, Sql Server, DBA, MS Access, coding in VBA and VB.Net Additional Information Skills    Data Collection  Designing Databases  Coding and Developing  Test and Debugging  Maintenance of Databases  Leadership and Management  Reporting