Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - CIGNA -Health Insurance ;    A professional database administrator with 7 years of experience on very large- scale OLTP and OLAP databases management, software installation and configuration, database migration across multiple platforms, upgrade and patching, shell scripting, backup and recovery, Dataguard, job scheduling, oracle Goldengate, database cloning and refreshes, data security and performance tuning.    I am also a self-motivated person always willing to learn new technologies, a very good team player able to adapt easily in any work environment and excellent in communication and documentation. A passion to serve (U.S Army Reserve) and a passion for soccer and football. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CIGNA -Health Insurance - Wilmington, DE April 2017 to Present Worked on proof of concept to switchover/failover to standby database and switchback to production database using DG Broker utility.  ? Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate for replication purposes and troubleshooted GoldenGate issues.  ? Installed a 3 node RAC Oracle 11g software on Linux 6 and creating the database with ASM setup.  ? Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  ? Scheduled database maintenance tasks such as tables/indexes analysis, index rebuild, materialized views refresh and database exports using OEM 12c and crontab.  ? Extensively implemented Datapump, Transportable tablespace and conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration  ? Applied regular Security Patches and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  ? Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views & Query Re-Write.  ? Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11gRAC (Real Application Clusters) and Single instances 11g and 12c databases using AWR, Explain Plan, ASH and ADDM reports as well as OEM12c  ? Implemented backup and recovery strategies (Cold/Hot backups, RMAN Incremental backups & Import/Export or datapump as well as Database cloning using RMAN and manual steps.  ? Implemented transparent data encryption to protect data at rest, data redaction and data masking.  ? Experience in optimization tools such as Index tuning wizard, SQL Profiler and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning MS SQL performance.  ? Created and scheduled jobs for various tasks and also was responsible for maintaining jobs in MS SQL Oracle Support Database Administrator Amgen - Thousand Oaks, CA June 2012 to April 2017 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on Linux platforms.  ? Monitored databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12 oracle cloud control and 11g OEM.  ? Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Extensively used AWR, ASH, TKPROF, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA.  ? Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills every 06 months, followed by some documentations regarding the validation steps.  ? Implemented Datapump for refreshes, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Configured the OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) tool for monitor the DB health checkups and provided the access to end user with read-only permissions to monitor the DB health checks.  ? Configured Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases by implementing Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace and column levels.  ? Detected corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  ? Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA.  ? Created users and assigned profiles, roles as well as granted privileges as needed.  ? Performed backup using datapump, customized scripts and RMAN and automated  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using customized scripts and RMAN.  ? Created users, assigned profiles, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the TARS(SR).  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  ? Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server. Education B.A Business Management and Economics University of Dschang Cameroon Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Cisco, Vpn, Hp-ux, Scripting, Rdbms, Loader Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems HP-UX 11.x. Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.x, 6.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 2010, 2012  RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, MS SQL 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Tools EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ASH and ADDM, Toad, Putty, WinSCP, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC and Cisco VPN Client  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Datapump,