Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Constellation INC Lanham, MD Highly result driven Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with 4 years of extensive experience in designing, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle Enterprise and SQL Server environments. Manage Oracle Database Administration assignments for diverse industry clients. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Proficient in an assortment of technologies, including Oracle 9i/10g, 11g. Flexible in various platforms such as HP-UX, Red Hat Linux. Experienced in real time data replication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Constellation INC - Laurel, MD August 2014 to Present Installed and Configured Grid monitoring tool for Oracle 10g Database.  • Installed, configured and manage 10g and 11g ASM storage.  • Performed Dataguard switchover as required for maintenance.  • Work with users to resolve any database/query performance issues using database advisors and AWR/ASH reports.  • Work with users to troubleshoot and resolve errors and performance problems with queries and databases.  • Perform restore/recovery/refresh of databases both on same and alternate servers and other levels of restore/recovery (dropped table ) using data pump.  • Apply oracle patches for various Oracle bugs and quarterly security patches to both primary and standby databases.  • Backup/Restore of databases/tables/schema using Datapump export/import and transportable tablespaces.  • Implemented different Partition methodologies to improve performance and manageability.  • Control database resource access through user profiles and data access control through Virtual Private Database and principle of least privileges implementation.  • Ensure that standby database is always in sync with production database by checking archivelogs sequences.  • Perform hot and cold backup using RMAN.  • Troubleshoot and resolve locking and concurrency issues, excessive parsing, resource bottlenecks (including memory and CPU bottlenecks) and recommending a solution. Oracle Database Administrator General Nutrition Corporation (GNC) - Greenbelt, MD January 2011 to August 2014 Established a backup and recovery strategy using daily hot backups, RMAN and weekly full backup.  • Ensured daily RMAN backups were completed and valid for restore and recovery.  • Configured the necessary parameters for Flashback database settings and Flash Recovery Area, then used RMAN to issue Flash Recovery Commands.  • Performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, SQL Trace, and Tkprof.  • Performed data migration using Data pump Export /Import and SQL Loader utilities.  • Performed daily database administration on production environments.  • Created, reviewed and monitor stored procedures and triggers used for user applications and back end reporting.  • Monitored trace files and log files for errors and database corruption.  • Maintained database configurations in compliance with release management and change management.  • Resolved various application failures due to data entry errors or system errors.  • Provided 24x7 remote support and on call Database support for Database developers & end-users. Additional Information Areas of Expertise    Database Security  Database Upgrade and Migration  Data Guard and RAC  Oracle 10g/11g Database Administration  Backup and Recovery  Troubleshooting and Performance Tuning  Data Pump Utilities  SQL Tuning    Technical Skills    Database Admin: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/: SQL Server 2008/2005  OS: Linux - Windows 2000 Server, Windows XP, Windows 2003 Server, Red Hat Linux5.4  Hardware: IBM Power Machines, Dell Servers, Windows Server  Virtualization: VMware and Oracle Virtual Box  Languages: Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Bash Shell Scripting, Java  Backup: RMAN, Cold and Hot backup  Tuning Utilities: SQL Trace, Autotrace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, AWR, ASH, ADDM, ADRCI  Migration Tools: Data Pump (expdp /impdp), SQL*Loader  High Availability: Data Guard, Grid Control