ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - STACK IT SOLUTIONS Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR STACK IT SOLUTIONS January 2015 to Present Efficient administration of both on premise and Cloud-based Oracle Database installations using both 11g and 12c.  ? Create process flow diagrams to visualize the process of database functions  ? Create database manually and using DBCA  ? Upgrade databases using DBUA  ? Create and maintain database objects (tables, sequences, schemas, views, indexes, etc.)  ? Manage Redo Logs  ? Create and Manage tablespaces  ? Configure AWS EC2 servers for installation of Oracle and creation / management of databases  ? Performed cloud database migration / refresh and full export of databases including production, development and testing databases into the EC2 servers in the cloud  ? Provide Oracle database administrative support to various user groups (application developers, data managers etc.)  ? Enforce security by properly assigning roles and privileges  ? Performance tune the database including but not limited to analyzing Execution Plans, using effective indexing, gathering statistics, etc.  ? Performed capacity planning in terms of memory and disk usage, establishing benchmarks for business and technical performance  ? Formulate shell scripts to monitor disk space and provide alerts when disk space is almost full  ? Registering and monitoring databases and listeners to OEM Cloud Control 12c  ? Create shell scripts to automate RMAN backups  ? Schedule scripts using Linux's crontab utility to automatically run at scheduled times  ? Restore and recover databases using RMAN backups and user-managed backups  ? Perform flashback and point in time recoveries  ? Perform Capacity Planning in terms of Memory and Disk usage  ? Perform data migration from a database in one server to a database housed on another server using database link  ? Migrate data using data pump export (expdp) and import (impdp) remotely and locally  ? Perform logical backups using Data Pump  ? Performed Database Cloning between local servers, EC2 servers, and between local and cloud EC2 servers  ? Create listeners and tnsnames for databases including non-default listeners  ? Dynamically and Statically register listeners  ? Apply patches including Interim, Bundle, Security Patch Update (SPU), and Patch Set Updates (PSU) patches  ? Configure Transparent Data Encryption in a database  ? Create encrypted tablespaces and tables  ? Participate in weekly on-call rotations  ? Setup a recovery catalog database; and registered all database to use the recovery catalog for their RMAN backups ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MKIT CONSULTING March 2013 to December 2014 Worked in Oracle 11g and 12c databases  ? Provided 24/7 database administration support in both Development and Production environments  ? Managed a half-terabyte sized Production database environment  ? Created database using DBCA and manually  ? Upgrade databases from oracle 11g database to oracle 12c using DBUA  ? Created and managed database objects including, schemas, tablespaces, tables, and indexes, as required and requested by clients  ? Provided DBA support to development, test, and production groups  ? Provided and managed roles and privilege assignments to various users of the database  ? Analyzed execution plans, using effective indexing, gathering statistics  ? Wrote shell scripts to automate and perform backup and recovery tasks on Oracle databases using RMAN backups, hot and cold backups, and the import and export utilities; and also including capacity planning for memory and disk usage  ? Scheduling backups using Linux's crontab utility  ? Restored and recover datafiles, controlfiles, and databases using RMAN  ? Created recover catalogs and register databases to use the recovery catalog for RMAN Backups  ? Performed flashback and point in time recoveries  ? Performed copying of databases by cloning, for providing exact copies of databases for the test group  ? Used Data Pump to provide logical export and import of database objects  ? Applied Patches  ? Provided remote support to groups with participation in outside normal hours On Call rotations Education Bachelor's Skills Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA, MYSQL, Sql Database, Oracle Database, Rman Additional Information SKILLS  • Oracle Database 11g/12c  RMAN, Data Guard, Data Pump (expdp/impdp), Oracle Flashback, AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Developer, TOAD    • Cloud  AWS - CLI, EC2, S3, VPC, DMS  Azure - CLI, VM (Linux/Windows), BLOBs, File Share    • Operating Systems  Linux - Oracle Enterprise Linux, CentOS, RedHat, Ubuntu  Windows - 7/8/10    • Languages  PL/SQL, SQL, Shell Scripting