Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Bank of America Davie, FL An accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator with 7 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle database administration. Specialized training, and experience in using TOAD, DATA GUARD, RMAN, DATA PUMP, and OEM. I have worked on numerous databases from 10g, 11g and now 12c performing various DBA services and across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, UNIX, and Windows) in production, development and test environments. I am an enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication skills. With my strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems, I have a well-honed ability to adapt and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and challenging work environment. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Bank of America - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2016 to Present Responsibilities;    • Implement recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recover databases in case database crashes, media/disk failures using RMAN, data pump and automated the same using shell scripts  • Carry out quarterly patches, maintaining, monitoring and upgrading the production, development and test databases  • Responsible for developing needed SQL queries for data extractions, and for optimizing and tuning the performance of database and queries on daily basis and monitored the same via OEM using the ASH, AWR and ADDM reports  • Performed Point in time recovery in situations where backup is corrupt and cannot be used for database recovery.  • Restore and Recover databases from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Tablespace monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement and to avoid a database hang.  • Provided database support to MYSQL server 2008 to 2013 installation and clustered and replicated the database  • Perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports and Active Session History (ASH).  • Install, configure, upgrade, Clone and maintenance all the databases versions 11g and 12c including backups, restore, Recoveries, repair disk failures, monitoring of all database components like ASM, CRS, Tablespaces, datafiles and Oracle Grid metrics using Cloud Control 12  • Technical database support in 24/7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  • Responsible for architecting, deploying and managing multiple 24 x7 databases for business-critical applications using Data Guard (physical and logical standby), RMAN and Transportable Tablespaces.  • Improved the performance of queries by 98% - execution time drastically reduced from 12 hours to 13 mins using various methods such as hints, sql profiles and indexes.  • Scheduled change implementation activity and performed regular random drills to test disaster recovery scenarios.  • Implemented the high availability and disaster protection for all the production databases using the Oracle Data Guard feature  • Built and maintained security and integrity controls in coordination with security team using the VPD, user privileges, roles, TDE and Oracle Wallets to ensure highly controlled and audited user access.  • Grant roles and Privileges to end users.  • Implement optimal space utilization in tablespaces by avoiding fragmentation.  • Load data into database using SQL Loader.  • Perform Data Guard switchover/failover as per requirements.  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g/11g/12c servers and creation of databases in UNIX, Linux and windows environments.  • Responsible for migration/upgrade of the 10g databases to 11g.  • Build infrastructure from the ground up to suit application needs  • Utilized Cloud formation to cerate templates of infrastructure for versioning, change control, and easy re-deployment of entire environments.  • Managed Cloud infrastructure using IAM roles for AWS, least privilege security practice, password policies, groups, individual users, and configuring multi-factor authentication for privileged users.  • Planned and scheduled Backup/Recovery Strategy using OEM, RMAN and took Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) to help application developers with the application design.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, ASH, AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using sql tuning adviser and ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility  • Infrastructure provisioning with Cloud formation  • Version and source control management with AWS S3, AWS code Commit, gift and GitHub  • Secrete management with AWS system manager Parameter store  • Identified and evaluated industry trends in database systems to serve as a source of information and advice for upper management. Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects.  • Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Data pump.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import and migration utilities.  • Used Tablespace Manager and Oracle Expert to monitor performance bottlenecks, database response time, instance workload and operating system resource usage.  • Technical database support in 24/7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  • Maintained record of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial action taken, and installation activities, reduction, high database availability etc.    • Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Hy-Vee - Des Moines, IA December 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities;  • Over 7+years of IT experience, mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including 9i, 10g, Oracle11.2.0.4 on Exadata running on X6s and Oracle12C on AIX, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience with ETL tools like Looker & Talent  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL scripts and instance. Used stats pack report, AWR report, ADDM advisors, auto trace and execution plan.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Experience in TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Key store on Tablespace/Columns  • Master Encryption.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Use of SHELL Scripts and CRONTAB for automatic backups.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata, OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility. Education Associate in Human Resource Management National Polytechnic Bamenda Skills Database, Oracle, Linux, Red hat, Unix, DBA, Oracle Dba, Postgresql, Sql Dba, Rman, Sql Database, Sql Server