Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Atlanticus Services Corporation Suwanee, GA • Over 4 years of result oriented professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, System & Database Administration and Production Support with Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g.  • Experienced in Oracle Disaster Recovery and High Availability Solutions (RAC & Data Guard)  • Upgrade CRS from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 with PSU 4 on a 3 node RAC cluster.  • Experience with upgrade of PeopleTools, HCM, Financials (Applications as well as PeopleTools)  • Planned and implemented DR & high availability solutions using Standby Database in Oracle 9i, 10g & 11g RAC and Non-RAC environments.  • Implementation of Oracle Backup and Recovery strategies using RMAN and Data Guard in 11g RAC environment.  • Experience on Amazon AWS cloud computing.  • Installed 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure on 3 Node Cluster with SCAN.  • Well versed with requirement analysis, project planning, and design skills including experience in developing technical specifications from functional requirements, planning technical implementations, customizing projects and upgrades and data conversion exercises.  • Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as user management (synonyms/privileges, roles, quotas, table partitioning, index, sequence), space management (table spaces, rollback segment), monitoring (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, network activity).  • Install Amazon Redshift and upload the data using S3 and EC2. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Atlanticus Services Corporation - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to Present Responsible for Production, development and testing environments hosted on AWS and Linux servers. Carry out all DBA duties, including application and database tuning, administration of production instances, Oracle upgrades and patches, data modeling and application design, installation and configuration, developer support.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration, Designing and Maintaining Amazon RDS Instances.  • Migration from Netezza to Redshit  • AWS management  • Oracle 11g/12c DB build and support  • Cloud Control 12c for Grid control management.  • Implementation of SAS VA 9.3 on Linux and support web reporting.  • Provided 24/7 Production & Development database Support and performance tuning of production & Development instances.  • Administered Amazon Web Services (AWS) for cloud computing services.  • Installed RedShift cluster environment and created an S3 Bucket and configured EC2 Server.  • Migrated data from oracle and Netezza to RedShift.  • Monitored the database using OEM Grid Control (Monitoring & Scheduling jobs)  • Monitored critical point of the Oracle 10g/11g database like Space, Availability, and Performance for OLTP & Data warehousing environment.  • Managed Oracle Data guard 11g both logical & Physical Standby database on Sun Solaris.  • Generated health reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database using STATSPACK & AWR.  • Upgrade and Migrate Database from 10g to 11g and applying patches whenever required.  • Administered MS SQL Server 2008 databases and handled all backup and recovery requests.  • Hands on experience in Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Servern2005/08.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, ADDM, SQL Adviser, Oracle Data Pump, Ms Sql Server 2005/2008, Netezza, RedShift, Amazon AWS, OEM Grid, TOAD Jr. Database Administrator TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC March 2014 to June 2016 Coordinate plans and analyzes business requirements, procedures and problems to automate or improve existing Database systems and implement new systems. Work as a team member in reviewing system capabilities, workflow and scheduling limitations of information technology. Provide expert technical assistance and support for information management and technology infrastructure operations.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration, Designing and Maintaining of ASM on Oracle 11g RAC.  • Administered Oracle 10g (10.2.0.4)/11g (11.1.0.6.0) RAC database for current production, development & test systems running on VERITAS Failover Cluster on Sun Solaris.  • Provided 24/7 Production & Development database Support and performance tuning of production & Development instances.  • Administered Amazon Web Services (AWS) for cloud computing services.  • Installed RedShift cluster environment and created an S3 Bucket and configured EC2 Server.  • Migrated data from oracle and Netezza to RedShift.  • Monitored the database using OEM Grid Control (Monitoring & Scheduling jobs)  • Managed Oracle Data guard 11g both logical & Physical Standby database on Sun Solaris.  • Generated health reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database using STATSPACK & AWR.  • Upgrade and Migrate Database from 10g to 11g and applying patches whenever required.  • Administered MS SQL Server 2008 databases and handled all backup and recovery requests.  • Hands on experience in Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Servern2005/08.    Environment: Oracle 10g /11g RAC, Sun Solaris 5.8, ADDM, SQL Adviser, Oracle Data Pump, Ms Sql Server 2005/2008, Netezza, RedShift, Amazon AWS, OEM Grid, TOAD Education Master of Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelor of Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DATABASE (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), MS SQL SERVER 2005 (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL SERVER 2005 (4 years) Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS    RDBMS Oracle 8i/ 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, MS Sql Server 2005/2008  Operating System Windows 2003/2008, NT, Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux, HP-UX  Design Tools SQL * Plus, SQL Loader, Explain Plan, TOAD  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  DB Monitoring Tools  srvctl, crsctl, crs_stat, cvu, cluvfy, asmcmd, RMAN, Datapump, Export/Import, Opatch, SQL*Loader, Statspack, AWR, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, OEM, Oracle Database and EM Grid Control