Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Huntington National Bank New Carrollton, MD 6 years+ hands-on experience OCA certified Oracle Database Administrator proficient in installation, configuration, production support, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, shell scripting and documentation.I possess complete life cycle (SDLC) experience, I have worked on projects such as Data Guard, GoldenGate, and RAC (3 node). I have worked on Oracle database versions ranging from 10g, 11g, and 12c.  • Proficient in database monitoring using OEM cloud d  • control 12c.  • Experience in Performance Tuning using ASH, ADDM, AWR, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF and SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL TRACE.  • Skilled in Identifying Top cpu resources consumption,provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and fine-tuned further  • Experience in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance and CPU resource optimization.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for waits event, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Troubleshoot and resolved locking and concurrency issues, Excessive parsing, resource bottleneck (including memory and CPU bottlenecks).  • competent in oracle Goldengate 12c software installation,goldengate administration on linux RHEL 6.5.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Extensive experience on high availability solutions with RAC, ASM & Data Guard in Oracle 11g, 12c and replication  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g,12c Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Proficient in Installation and configuration of oracle GoldenGate for real time data replication.  • Experience in administering GoldenGate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Apply PSU patch on standalone as well as rolling patch on RAC databases with no down time.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active Active standby databases supported by Dataguard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Configured Manager, Replicate,data pump and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • Experience with UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, Datapump,export and import of database.  • Perform Database Cloning, Migration,Refresh and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot/cold Backups and Logical backup using datapump.  • Extensive experience on RMAN Backup & Recovery in Oracle 12c with CDB & Non CDB environment.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "Opatch".  • Created RAC Database on Test Hosts refreshed them with the latest snapshot of data from Prod Environment. Recovering the database from Block corruption.  • Highly utilize Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g).  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g and 12c  • Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup & IBM TSM.  • Perform database and tablespace Flash-Back Recovery which is more faster for Database PITR and TSPITR.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Impliment and Maintain Database Security with strong user authentication,auditing,TDE and ODV  • Experience in Data Migrations across the same pplatform and different platforms using datapump.  • Extensive knowledge in UNIX platforms includes HP, SOLARIS, AIX, and LINUX.  • Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs to automate database tasks such as backups and refreshes.  • Proactive database monitoring via OEM cloud control,automatic Email and Text alerts of Alert log ORA, Listerner.log and Space errors to DBA emails.  • Experience in Upgrading databases and applying applying patches using the Opatch utility.  • Managing Security Management, Schema Management, Instance Management, Storage/Space Management.  • Checking and resolving Database block corruptions using DB VERIFY utility.  • Hands on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Implemented and configured Oracle Enterprise manager (OEM) Grid Control 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases, multiple databases and application servers.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH January 2017 to Present • Supporting multiple databases applications, in development,test staging and production on Linux RHEL,windows and solaris.  • Provide technical support for database environments, including upgrades,patching and oracle software installation.  • Perform database health check to detect file corruptions, physical and logical block corruptions, undo and redo corruptions, data dictionary corruptions, reports of their findings and, in many cases, recommendations for resolving problems,run health checks using PL/SQL package and Enterprise Manager interface.  • Applied Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using Opatch utility.  • Performed several database upgrades & migrations (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features. Also upgraded 11g (11.2.0.3) Databases to 12c (12.1.0.1).  • Develops, documents and rolls out standard process for implementing database and system patch upgrades and new Oracle 12c database environment builds.  • Monitoring and tuning database performance using OEM 12C Cloud control and Scripts.  • Created and managed databases, tablespace, users, profile and schema.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog database and registering target Databases with the Catalog for backup medata information.  • Participate in logical and physical database design and assist application developers in applying DBMS technology.  • Design backups strategies like full,incremental L0,Incremental L1,differential,transanctional log and tail log backup based on company SLA.  • Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture  • Perform Oracle database 10g, 11g, 12c Installation on Unix/Linux/Windows environment.  • Implemented and maintain Dataguard, both Physical & Logical standby for disaster recovery and HA and configure DG Broker for switchover and failover purpose.  • Monitored databases, set threshold and alert using OEM 12c cloud control for tablespace usage and CPU.  • Involved in 24x7 on-call support for all critical production application systems.  • Implimented Database software maintenance (upgrades, service packs and patches).  • Maintain,enrolling users, system security, controlled and monitored user access to the database, operating 24/7, with 40-50 concurrent users at any given time.  • Installed Goldengate version 11g and version 12c with latest patches applied on DBFS filesystem and ACFS filesystem, also work on testing new OGG 12.2 new features available (Intergrated and coordinated replicat).  • Creating and propagating Database Vault policies to administer access control to any user to critical object in the database like salaries.  • Configured and implemented Oracle 11g Active DataGuard for Database Disaster Recovery use DataGuard broker (DGMDRL) to automate switchover and failover  • Suported up to 100 databases and applications, including development, test, and production servers  • Implemented Goldengate integrated replicat and co-ordinated replicat(available from OGG 12c to improve the performance of data replication to targets.  • Pro-actively safeguard application data stored in the Oracle database by setting up oracle Vault.  • Set up and maintain Database Security using auditing (FGA,VBA and standard) ,TDE by creating Wallets.  • Perfomed tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR), Database restoration using RMAN and flash_back before drop.  • Schedule and restore backups using commvault backup and restore tool.  • Have worked with Oracle 10gR2 and 11gR1, 11gR2 (11.2.0.1, 11.2.0.2),12c and worked interchangeably across multiple O/S platforms (AIX, HP/UX, Sun Solaris 8,9,10, Linux Redhat 5,9 and Windows 2000+ servers supporting 100s of schemas to prevent and/or resolve production problems.  • Move subset of data from one oracle database to another on daily basis using (TTS) with the aid of Datapump.  • Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk.  • Troubleshoot and maintain Oracle Dataguard environment where TBs of log shipping and apply happen every day.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR,ADDM ASH,EXPLAIN PLAN TKPROF,SQL TRACE.  • Create and Configure new 12C pluggable databases (PDB's) using DBCA.  • Worked on Database Upgrade from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.1 using DBUA and upgrade scripts.  • Migrated Non Container databases to 12c Pluggable databases.  • Upgraded 11g databases to 12c standalone and container database to benefit from new functionality and to stay in compliance with orace support  • Developed custom scripts and implemented standard procedures to troubleshoot Live Production issues by leveraging ORACLE ASH and AWR Data.  • Monitor Production Databases using OEM 12c cloud control,various internal tools and custom scripts.  • Optimal Database parameter, Capacity Design for Heavy loaded High End OLTP systems.  • Highly involve in Database Capacity Management (Working with Storage teams for ASM Disks) using automated scripts/processes and Reports.  • Experience managing Tablespaces, Data Files, Archive Logs, Redo Logs, and Standby Redo Logs and Logical Database Objects.  • Proficient in writing UNIX Shell scripts to automate business process and daily backups.  • Exposure to new 12c Features, Container and Pluggable Database, FAR-SYNC Instance, Cascade Redo Transport Destination, Allowed usage of SYNC and NOAFFIRM to extend Data Guard Range, Moving online Data file, etc.  • Configure dataguard broker to Perform failover and switchover testing  • Troubleshooting ORACLE RAC issues using ORACLE Cssd.log file, crs.log file nodeapps.  • Follow up on SRs with oracle support for different issues (SCAN behavior, Node eviction, Failover etc.)  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & I/O and other oracle related issues.  • Perform migration of database from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1 to benfit from maintainance and new functionality.  • Supported PeopleSoft application,perfoming Refreshes to keep production and Dev environment in sycn.  • Responsible for configuring datagaurd physical standby database setup for high availability and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Work with team to set up oracle goldgate Uniderictional data replication on linux RHEL to support oracle power BI dashboard project.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases,managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Scheduling and maintaining Rman incremental level 0 and level 1 (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR,ASH,EXPLAIN PLAN and ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • Handling and debugging of high priority and sudden database service interruption issues like service interruption due to ORA-600 errors in the dump and database hung due to ORA 7445 errors and restoring the service to normal and providing efficient root cause analysis.  • Upgraded standalone and RAC databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12c on QA database for proof-of-concept  • Monitoring free space in tablespaces, space requirements of tables, indexes. Performing database.  • Experience with testing and pre-production and production of Oracle 10gR2 with 2 node RAC on Red Hat Linux with ASM.  • Vast Experience with RMAN to implement Backup/Recovery strategies and clear understanding of the data structures and architecture provided by Oracle for Recovery in all kinds of Disasters.  • Capacity Planning for OLTP environment,Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the existing and new databases.  • Proactive performance monitoring by implementing UNIX scripts and automated jobs (Grid) for alerts.  • Refreshing databases and Migration of databases from various environments for Testing, Development work.  • Developed database system build sheets, code review check lists, code promotion process documents, outage reporting documents.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments and Oracle OLTP.  • Skilledful in Sizing the SGA,PGA memory of databases to optimize memory and better performance.  • Help design, maintain, improve and implement monitoring tools to automate task.    Environment: Oracle 10g,11g VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Unix shell script, Grid Control, DataGuard, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, Oracle Linux, SQL*Plus, Toad, Various 10g and 11g Advisories, AWR and Statspack Reports, EXPDP/IMPDP, EXP/IMP, PL/SQL, RMAN, Crontab, Tivoli Storage Management for DB tape backups, BMC Patrol for DB monitoring. Oracle Database Administrator Rack Space Hosting - San Antonio, TX January 2014 to December 2016 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris,Linux and Windows environments.  • Establishes and practices a consistent database backup and recovery practice that complies with the company backup and retention policies and business continuity practices.  • Provides 24x7 operational support of corporate production databases on a rotating schedule  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.    • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Supported and administered oracle Goldengate Unidirectional data replication on solaris.  • Monitors all production database activity for operational improvements to include, but not limited to CPU, Disk and Memory utilization, space utilization, replication and consistency of sites, long running queries/data loads, query access plans, overall performance of databases Develops and implements corrective measures for database issues/problems found during monitoring.  • Provides database technical support in maintaining and building the database non-production environments, including database refreshes, database patch management, database space management, database performance tuning and migration/upgrade of the non-production database environments to Linux/Oracle 12c  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge data centers.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Perfom database point in time recovery and Instance recovery on 10g and 11g using RMAN.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of two node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful configure and maintenan Physical Standby database using Oracle DataGuard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM 12C along with homespun scripts.  • Invole in Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Creating OEM alerts that provides notifications through emails for proactive reaction.  • Extensively tune SQL statements and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, redologs, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Adapt at all stages of project lifecycle, from business requirements and technical definition to testing, documentation, production support, training and completion.  • implement, and maintain complex Oracle databases with respect to access methods, access time, device allocation, validation checks, organization, protection, security and documentation.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 11g production implementation.  • Exposure and Knowledgeable about oracle Exadata database machine configuration.  • Experience with troubleshooting database performance and query tuning Data integrity concepts.  • Experience isolating, diagnosing and resolving DBMS problems, including root cause analysis.  • provides level 2 and 3 technical support for complex database issues. Provides technical input to software developers and end users in the areas of database capabilities, performance and best practices.  • Resolve performance issues related to memory making sure sga_target and pga_aggregate targate are problem configured.  • Hands and excellent understating of AMM and ASMM onfiguration to resolve performance issues.    Environment  RHEL Linux 5.9, HP-UX, 10g, and 11g, Oracle 10g/11g RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, ASM, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, TOAD, ERWIN 7.2, Golden Gate, RAC, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader. Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, REPLICATION Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL , Shell scripts  Script and Mark-up Languages Unix bash shell programming, HTML, Windows Batch files,  OS & Administration Linux RHEL, Sun Solaris, AIX, HPUX, Windows, VMware  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  Software, Applications & Tools  DBCA, Oracle DataGuard, OEM (GC), RMAN, ASM, SQL*PLUS, VNC,Cisco VPN,win-scp,SQL*LOADER, EXP, IMP, DataPump (expdp, impdp), TOAD, SQL Developer,Team Viewer,SQL TRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.    Concepts and Administration  DataGuard (Active Active Standby) for Disaster Recovery  Real Application Cluster (RAC) for High Availability solution  Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  Oracle GoldenGate Real data replication  Oracle Partitioning for performance    Communications and Leadership skills  Communicated with project managers, supervisors, directors, team leads, developers, application testers, performance engineers, system administrators, end-users, supporting all facets of Oracle database projects and share knowledge with coworkers.