Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CIGNA Health - Bloomfield, CT January 2017 to August 2019 • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Supported production box running on Exadata X5 -2  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented physical standby databases supported by Data Guard in 11gR2 on two node RAC, and managed extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 11g.  • Supported the E Business Suit application on the administration end as well as other applications such as AUTOSYS, SERVICE DESK  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Implemented Network data encryption to improve the security  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 10G, 11G and 12C.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration and solved the database performance issues.  • Hands on experience on Sql Sever databases , monitoring jobs with the sp_Blitz, tuning, migration and backups.  • Hands on experience on SSMS, SSRS, SSIS as well as working on Sql server availability solutions  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C / TOAD from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Oracle Database Administrator Arvin - Troy, MI July 2013 to December 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export /import utilities in Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Performed disk and disk group management in ASM, Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  • Implemented a bi-directional and unidirectional replication from source to target. Monitoring, tuning of the Golden Gate data replication.  • Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.  • Worked extensively on monitoring grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.  • Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.  • Skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU) and One-off Patch) using runInstaller and opatch.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 10g,11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 12c RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker for DR testing. Skills Database administration, Database, Sql server, Oltp, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Stored procedure, Rman, Veritas, Data replication, Unix, Cluster server, Veritas net backup, Net backup, Backtrack, Backups, Data center, Load balancing Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    • 6+ years of experience in the field of Oracle Database Technology with experience in designing, implementing Databases.  • 2 years of experience in working on SQL SERVER databases, creating databases, backups/recovery, security, refreshes and also availability solutions (MIRRORING, LOG SHIPPING, Window Failover Cluster Server)  • 3 years of working on Exadata X5 -2  • Implemented LINUX HUGE PAGES on OEL 5.5 and Redhat Linux 6.x for Clustered Environments.  • Experience include Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Space Management, System maintenance, patching, data replication, Database security, Performance Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery and also includes RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Data Pump and grid control experience.  • Supported as Production and development DBA on OLTP, Data warehouse environment. Involved in Change/Release/Patch management and offshore co-ordination, Product development, data center Migration and Upgrade. Administration including design, deploy, tune, trouble-shoot. Efficient to manage 50+DB.  • RAC Installation and Admin on UNIX platform. Load balancing. Manage fail-over. Backup CRS files. Tune cache fusion. Resource utilization on Nodes.  • Managed ASM, create and prepare disk for ASM. Create ASM instance. Add/remove disk. Manage space on disk groups. Expertise on asmcmd command line. Handle 10TB database on ASM.  • Performed Backup/restore/recover using RMAN and user managed. Create backup/restore strategies. RMAN. Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN. Logical backup of schema using expdp/impdp. Restore and recover from backup.  • PL/SQL objects creation, Create trigger/ function/ stored procedure/ packages. Tune and trouble-shooting PL/SQL codes. Write database Monitoring PL/SQL objects. Create Materialized view.  • Experience in Golden Gate to support data replication monitoring, tuning and capacity planning. Experience in bi-directional and unidirectional replication from source to target databases  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, Oradebug and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  • Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of large tables and indexes  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups.  • Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and Materialized view for Oracle database.  • Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  • Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication, documentation and interpersonal skills