Administrator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> New Stanton, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrator Penske Truck Leasing May 2017 to May 2019 • Increased savings by improving the parts warranty retention procedure.  • Reduced accounts payable late invoice fees.  • Responsible for on-boarding as a liaison between new hire and manager.  • Reduced excess inventory through parts room restructure.  • Managed payroll for 105 union and non-union employees.  • Improved district tire process.  • Developed and maintained excellent working relationships with vendors.  • Responsible for parts orders, returns, and inventory process.  • Handled all accounting aspects for vehicles which included new, transfers, and write-offs.  • Distribute reports for: New Vehicle Delivery, Overdue Rentals, and Open Tire Purchase Orders. Database Administrator JSfirm.com May 2016 to May 2017 • Managed a team to develop and sustain JSfirm.com Job Distribution Network to expand the organization's reach.  • Assisted Job Seekers and Candidates to create and review resumes and provide customer support to job applicants.  • Provide administrative support to both Job Seekers and Account Managers to ensure product accuracy.  • Developed, tested, and launched new web pages. Marketing Specialist JSfirm.com August 2015 to May 2016 • Collaborated with Account Managers through marketing strategies to increase revenue.  • Responsible for sales support with client communication.  • Worked with Account Managers to grow customer base.  • Ensured data accuracy in Customer Relationship Management software.  • Participated in the planning, marketing, and sales for trade shows.  • Developed and implemented new sales tactics, marketing materials, and re-branding ideas for the website re-launch. Administrator Arkos Field Services May 2014 to July 2015 • Created and maintained the fleet management process for over 40 vehicles.  • Responsible for the rebranding process of the Smithfield location.  • Assisted in the Health, Safety, and Environment process to ensure all technicians received proper training and certifications.  • Supported the accounts payable process.  • Controlled the payroll process for 60 employees.  • Facilitated the on-boarding process for new associates.  • Provided new hire orientation processes such as schedule training and completed necessary forms.   • Managed the invoicing process for all customers. Education Bachelor's in Business Administration: Management and Marketing Penn State University January 2014 to May 2015 A.A. in Early Childhood Education Westmoreland County Community College Skills Payroll, Accounts Payable, General Ledger, Billing, Bookkeeping, Excel, Microsoft Excel, AS400, Brand Management (5 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), Inventory Management (2 years), Communications (4 years), ADP (2 years), Branding (4 years), Marketing Communications (4 years)