SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - Omni Systems Detroit, MI • Over 7 years total IT experience in Microsoft SQL Server, other RDBMS, and Windows Systems Administration, Design & Development, Systems Architecture and Infrastructure.  • Create and Manipulate shell scripts on production server for backup on AWS  • Migrated SQL Server 2014 to AWS EC2 application.  • Work on AWS EC2 and S3 Solutions  • Take responsibility of maintaining all SQL Server instances to ensure software is properly installed, security patches are applied and upgrades are done.  • Assist the automation team with power shell scripts to enhance the delivery of windows patching and upgrade  • Over 5 years' experience in Transact SQL Scripting(Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers)  • Installed, upgraded, and administered SQL Servers 2014/2008 R2/2005/2000 in virtual and physical servers in development, Test, and Production environment.  • 1 year experience in NoSQL  • Expert in configuring cluster environments: SQL Server 2008 R2/2008/2005 Active/Active and Active/Passive cluster on Windows Server platforms. (Windows 2012, Win2k8R2, Win2k3).  • Experienced in performance Monitoring and Tuning, Query Optimization via T-SQL, DMVs, System Monitor (Perfmon), DBCC Utilities, Database Tuning Advisor/Index Tuning Wizard, and SQL Profiler  • Experience with database backup, restore, and disaster recovery procedures  • Developed and documented database migration strategies, ETL using SQL SSIS/DTS, Import/Export and BCP utilities  • Supports RDBMS databases in a High Availability environment.  • Results-driven DBA with skills in team building and problem-solving with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse groups of people and adaptability to changing environments and new software version releases.  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, system administrator; handle business service requests using Helpdesk Request Management.  • Experience in full life cycle projects from analysis phase to production support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Omni Systems - Frederick, MD October 2015 to Present • Take responsibility of maintaining all SQL Server instances to ensure software is properly installed, security patches are applied and upgrades are done.  • Assist the automation team with power shell scripts to enhance the delivery of windows patching and upgrades.  • Create database tables and Views in both Production and Test environments.  • Create and Manipulate shell scripts on production server for backup on AWS.  • Migrated SQL Server 2014 to AWS EC2 application.  • Work on AWS EC2 and S3  • Create Clustered and non - clustered indexes on various database tables.  • Basic NoSQL querying on Test environments  • Plan, install, build, manage, support, configure and test Database server infrastructure components and connectivity.  • Deploy new SQL Server environments in Production, QA and UAT environments.  • Maintain server security in compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) and supporting vendor requirements.  • Implement SQL sever performance Tuning in both production and Test environments.  • Installed and configured 4 node SQL Server 2014 Ent cluster between 2 data centers with Always-On Availability Groups configured for replication between data centers.  • Manages multiple nodes of Clustered and Stand-alone SQL server 2014/2012/2008 R2  • Monitor and troubleshoot backups, scheduled jobs, and monitor systems and processes for performance related issues.  • Provides support in planned DR solution testing between multiple Data Centers  • Interface directly with end user'1s and other IT groups to ensure complete resolution of server issues reported through the Help Desk tracking system.  • Perform vulnerability and remediation for all SQL Server database server hosted across multiple data centers.  • Participates in meetings impacting databases physical architectural design.  • Apply Microsoft Security Patches.  • Utilized Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) platform (ETL) for extraction of data, transformation of data, and loading the data into destination/ data warehousing.  • Perform threat modeling, static application security testing, code reviews, and secure design reviews for high risk applications  • Participates in Scrum teams in support of Agile projects; end-to-end support for build, deployment, and operational activities. SQL Database Administrator InfoSource Data Solution Inc - Highland, MD June 2013 to October 2015 Remote    • Implemented efficient Disaster Recovery Strategies and High availability include Always On Availability Groups, Replication (Snapshot, Transactional and merge.  • Develop stored procedures, Functions and triggers for database needs.  • Implement SQL server performance tuning in both production and Test environments.  • Installing and configuring MS SQL Server 2005\2008R2 fail-over Cluster and its applicable Service Packs.  • Setup, configure, administer and maintained SQL Server databases (Prod, Stage, Test and Dev Environment) for various groups such as Developers, QA and DA users and ensured database availability in a 24X7 environment.  • Implement and manage MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active), Multi Node Cluster up to 8 Node  • Upgrade SQL Server database environment from SQL Server 2000 -> 2005-> 2008->2012>2014  • Deployed SSIS projects. Schemas and configured Report Server to generate reports through SSRS.  • Scheduling and managing SQL Server database backup jobs.  • Extract, Transform and Load millions of clinical data into ETL database using SSIS.  • SQL Server jobs performance and impact on normal operations.  • Developing and implementing DBA maintenance plan  • Participated in meetings impacting databases physical architectural design.  • Assist web Application developers with database related issues  • Maintain Relational Database infrastructure, software, upgrades, and patches.  • Monitor and provide response for all database systems. SQL Database Administrator Remote ISHGLO - One - Corp - Frederick, MD September 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Create database tables and Views in both Production and Test environments.  • Develop Stored procedures, Functions and triggers for database needs.  • Hardening Oracle environments per company database Security auditing recommendations.  • Apply CPU Patches to Oracle E-Business Suite Databases and Applications.  • Responsible for working with application developers, systems administrators and management to ensure that any new product usage or release upgrade takes place with minimal impact on test and production environments.  • Support and managed databases in High Availability environments.  • Migration of several databases (size 500GB -7.2TB) and Applications to new servers.  • Take responsibility of maintaining all SQL Server instances to ensure software is properly installed, security patches are applied and upgrades are done. Assist web Application developers with database related issues  • Maintain Relational Database infrastructure, software, upgrades, and patches.  • Monitor and provide response for all database systems. Education B.S. in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Chantilly, VA Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE (6 years), MYSQL, ORACLE (Less than 1 year), SSRS (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Windows Server 2008R2 \2012, SharePoint 2010, PostgreSQL, Oracle Database Administration, Linux Admin, Amazon Web Services (AWS), TOAD, Active Directory and MySQL administration. Chef, Puppet, Python, AWS, Azure, MongoDB, SSRS, SSIS, SSMS.