Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle DBA Washington, DC An accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with over 8 years of experience. Worked on large-scale database environments performing various DBA services across a multitude of platforms such as LINUX/UNIX, Windows, and Solaris. A highly motivated individual with strong leadership and interpersonal skills, who can be trusted with highly sensitive/confidential documentation and projects. An enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail. Possesses excellent written and verbal communication with the ability to articulate a variety of concepts to technical and non-technical audiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator DC WASA - Washington, DC September 2015 to Present • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012  • Lead database migration project from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively.  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced incremental level 1 backup time from 3hrs down to 20mins.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.   • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the “triple A” (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD)  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL  •  Part of the on-call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support. We adhere to the agile methodology; daily scrum meetings in the morning around 9:30 a.m. (via the phone) Monday to Friday and spring meetings every 2 weeks to discuss goals. Oracle Database Administrator Pepco Holdings, Inc - Washington, DC October 2010 to February 2015 • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to Optimal Flexible Architecture (OFA) Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 300GB to 3TB)     • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments   • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Worked with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Worked on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  • Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education Bachelor of Science Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD 2004 to 2008 Skills Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g 12c and 18c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA, (7 years), Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor (6 years), Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 20012), UNIX, LINUX (Red Hat) (8 years), ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Golden gate (7 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager (8 years), Oracle VM Virtual Box (8 years), MS SQL Server Management Studio (8 years), Backup & Recovery using RMAN (8 years), SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting (8 years), Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration (6 years), Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication) (8 years), Database security (8 years), Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR) (8 years), Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader (6 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, Sql Dba