DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SQL Server DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Alexandria, VA Certified SQL Server DBA pursuing position as a Database Administrator, utilizing over six (6) years of experience in the Database Administration, I have very strong experience installation, Configuration, Automatic maintenance, Performance tuning, Security, Data Transformation in MS SQL server environment and deploy and maintain different type of application. Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SURE SECURE SOLUTIONS - McLean, VA November 2016 to Present -       Regular monitor of servers, which includes backup job monitoring, Disk space monitoring, Services monitoring, and block monitoring and troubleshoot.  -       Installed and configured Microsoft Windows Clustering and SQL Server Clustering on Windows 2008 Server.  -       Migrates database from MySQL to MS SQL Server.  -       Migrates database from MS SQL Server lower version to upper version.   -       Migrates database from three datacenter to one datacenter.   -       Monitored and scheduled automation jobs using SQL Server Agent and Maintenance Plan.  -       Monitor databases for optimal performance and find out performance problem in different way using SQL Profiler, Wait stats, DMV (Dynamic Management View), DMF (Dynamic Management Function), Activity monitor, Extended Events, Error log, Windows Performance Monitor.  -       Identify and takes step to resolve poorly-performing queries that require tuning and/or optimization.  -       Used SQL execution plan to find the query problem for TSQL code and Optimize the code.   -       Developed script to find out missing Index, unused Index, Duplicate Index, and Partial Duplicate Index and create appropriate Index to optimize slow running query.   -       Provide guidance in managing incidents fixes for Production database systems  -       Experience building and supporting Always On, Log shipping , replication and mirroring.   -       Troubleshoot day-to-day problems encountered on production as well as development, test database environments.  -       Run various DBCC commands to Checks Database Consistency.  -       Involved in ensuring data recovery, maintenance, and data integrity and space requirements for physical database. Creating and Modifying Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, User-defined Functions and Triggers etc. as requirement on SQL Server Environments.  -       Assisted users provided database access by adding their logins, creating roles, granting privileges, unlocked accounts, and reset passwords.  -       Installed, Configured & Maintained MS SQL Server 2008R2,2012,2016 on standalone and Clustered Servers.  -       Involved in troubleshooting various database server issues to free up log space, update statistics, configure number of locks, create databases and match their data, log patterns with contingency. Performed many database upgrades using import/export.  -       Proactively monitored the database health through automated scripts for checking the database and extents growth, probing the alert log files, monitoring the rollback segments and temporary space usage.  -       Improved performance, reliability, security and scalability by improving internal processes and make recommendations on new storage hardware.  Troubleshoot, analyze and apply innovative maintenance techniques to maximize   application performance and ensure business stability   Cooperates with developer for technical and security standards with database administrators.  architects and other technical resources.  Provides 24/7 support for various actions including: Database engine maintenance, Apply SP or Application Releases  Collaborate with application developers and data architects to implement physical data model changes to non-prod and production databases  Respond to database-related alerts and come up with solutions   On-call for production databases - daily maintenance, monitoring, problem resolution   and internal SharePoint and Active directory Support  Environment: Windows server IIS 5.0, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Window Server 2003 IIS 6.0, Windows Enterprise Server 2012, Crystal Report, T-SQL, OLTP, PowerShell ISE,   SQL Server Enterprise Edition 2012,2016, Microsoft Operation Manager (MOM), Visual Source Safe. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR PRISM COMMUNICATIONS - Columbia, MD May 2013 to November 2016 -       Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2016, 2012, and 2008 R2 in development, test, and production environment  -       Troubleshoot day-to-day problems encountered on production as well as development database environments  -       Run various DBCC commands to Checks Database Consistency  -       Developed script to find out missing Index, unused Index, Duplicate Index, Partial Duplicate Index and then create appropriate Index to optimized slow running query   -       Developed script to find out fragmentation level and developed script to rebuild Index which affectedly improves performance  -       Used SQL Profiler, Wait stats, DMV (Dynamic Management View), DMF (Dynamic Management Function), Activity monitor, Extended Events, Error log, Windows Performance Monitor to find out health and performance problems for the server   -       Strong technical abilities, and ability to quick learning of modern technology  -       Capability to resolve complex problems logically and methodically and good judgment to involve and communicate with vendors, senior level technicians, and management.  -       Monitor Server activity, error log, space usage and solved problems as needed.  -       Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  -       Configured and Maintained Replications, Log Shipping, Always On   -       Upgraded databases from SQL 2008 R2 to 2016 in testing and production environment  -       Upgraded MS Access databases into MS SQL Server 2008R2  -       Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server  2016,2012 R2 Enterprise Edition  -       Writing T-SQL and Stored-Procedures for database automation.   -       Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures  -       Rebuild index at regular intervals for better performance   -       Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using BCP, Bulk insert  -       Generated Report using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)   -       Configure and Maintained database encryption used TDE   -       Data compression and shrinking database as necessary to improve the performance   -       Recover data base from back up in disasters, implement point in time recovery solutions  -       Refresh Database from production and attach the database from data file when needed.   -       Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification  -       Monitor Server Activity, using SQL Server Error Log, DMV, and Activity monitor tool. Event viewer and make recommendation for improve the performance and solving problem as needed  -       Create and execute PowerShell script for database maintained   -       Manage and resolve trouble tickets(WebTrack) for database related issues submitted by customer   -       Transferring and recreating all the jobs and logins in the process of migration of SQL server from SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008R2  -       Fixed Orphan user and transfer of logins etc., during the process of migration of SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008 R2.   -       Worked on and maintained an Active / Passive clustered environment.  -       Working on SQL server clusters with multiple nodes on each cluster and other methods of disaster recovery.  -       Diagnose and resolve data management problems and issues.  -       Monitoring and maintenance of databases, installation of database software upgrades, monitoring of database backups, standardization and implementation of databases to improve the management of production and test environments, physical database design  -       Documentation of standards and procedures, assistance to application developers, backup and recovery and consulting  -        Database performance fine tuning and optimizing poorly performing queries, stored procedures  -       Support users by resolving problems with applications databases.  -       Configured and maintain replication technologies that are used to support MSSQL to include log shipping, transactional, and snapshot replication  -       Successful implementation of service packs and version upgrades for MSSQL  -       Experience with the creation of backup scripts and the various backup strategies that are provided by Microsoft SQL Server  -       Wrote and executing Data Manipulation Language (DML) scripts for Microsoft SQL Server  -       Producing database metrics using SQL Management Studio as well as the creation of custom scripts  -       Configured operating in Windows Server 2008 R2 hosted on a virtual platform such as VMware  -Developing, producing, and reporting metrics on database performance and health. Education Bachelor in Science in operation research University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene - Algiers, DZ 2008 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, CSS, IIS, IIS 6, RAID, VISUAL STUDIO, C++, HTML, VISIO, R2, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, POWERPOINT, WORD, ANALYZER