Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - ECONOMIC SYSTEMS Inc Laurel, MD A proactive and goal-oriented Oracle DBA, with six (9) + years of experience, looking for an ideal environment to demonstrate my professional expertise.  A self-starter and team player with the mindset of accomplishing goals way ahead of schedule.  Can work under supervision or self-guidance. Love to attend to details while respecting deadlines.  A fast learner and out-of-the-box thinker who is so unlimited in deliverables. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator ECONOMIC SYSTEMS Inc - Falls Church, VA April 2016 to Present Providing upscale corporate IT solutions in a mission-critical environment  My responsibilities range from, but are not limited to:  • Backup and disaster recovery (Rman, DataPump User-Managed)  • Performance monitoring, analysis and response (System and Application)  • Index maintenance and monitoring of data.  • Develop policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the database(s). (Grants, Auditing, user account credentialing).  • Configuring System redundancy high availability(Physical/logical &Snapshot standby)  • Evaluates requirements and recommends available DMBS products.  • Database and software life-cycle activities to ensure highest level of system performance and availability.  • Tablespace management (Monitoring growth and reorg when necessary)  • User creation and database access control (Sql*plus, Toad, OEM, APEX, Sql-loader)  • Software installation and configuration (OUI and some other web-based applications)  • Database creation and server upgradation (DBCA, DBUA, DATAPUMP and Scripts) on Linux RedHat  • Database quarterly patch application (PSU and CPU) for critical bug fixes and security enhancement.  • Database server migration (In-place and Out-of-place)  • Proactive database performance monitoring and response,  • Schema/ database/tablespace refreshes  • Periodic schema comparison and merger, Database storage definition,  • Database cloning (Rman and Datapump utilities)  • Data analysis and modeling (Constraints, indexing, Functional dependency, Entity relationships and Normalization)  • Database server upgradation (11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.4,11.2.0.4 to 12c) (DBUA and Manual option)  • Troubleshooting (System and application)  • Database reorg  • Code deployments  • Database objects and storage administration (CPU utilization, table, indexes, views, tablespace and packages) Oracle Database Administrator CVS Health December 2015 to April 2016 • Software Installation  • Database creation, using DBCA and Scripts  • Database proactive monitoring and response, using OEM and Sql*plus  • Database performance Tuning (System/Application),using Tuning advisors, AWR, ADDM, Explain plan etc.  • Database backup and disaster recovery,including Dataguard as part of DR scheme, using RMAN, DataPump.  • Definition of Primary database storage constructs,(Tables, Indexes, Views, Tablespace, Packages etc.)  • Database cloning, using RMAN  • User creation and Security administration Oracle Database Administrator Hertz Car February 2014 to December 2015 • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g.11g, and from 11g to 12c.    • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export cal backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU) One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "Opatch".  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning,using tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O.  • Supported Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager)  • Index creation and management for optimization of DB Processes  • Used Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with failure notification.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Performed policies on data confidentiality, integrity, availability, and auditability, based on Access controls for Access to Data at the database level.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced and certified in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Used hints for SQL tuning and optimization  • Performed Explain Plan analysis for Query Optimization and SQL tuning Oracle Database Administrator AUTO ZONE Inc - Fairfax, VA March 2012 to January 2014 • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7  • Performed housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control and TOAD, Refresh, schema using DataPump, created the databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes, privileges and user logins.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies and have even recovered from external backups.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN and DataPump utilities.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQLTrace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Converted a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC database.. Oracle Database Administrator HSBC - Charlotte, NC February 2011 to March 2012 • Install oracle database software 10.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.1.0 using oracle universal installer on development, test and production server for their claim, policy and online applications in IBM AIX 5.3 environment.  • Install OEM grid control that includes oracle agent, management repository and management service on VMware Red Hat Linux virtual machine. Install agents on various AIX database servers.  • Upgrade software and databases from 9.2.0.1 to 9.2.0.6, 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.3, 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.3 and 10.2.0.3 to 11.1.0.6.0 on development; test and production databases on AIX database servers.  • Apply patch set to upgrade software and use database upgrade assistant, export/ import and manual scripts to upgrade databases.  • Migration of full 9.2.0.6 databases, schemas those are on Linux environment into AIX, 10.2.0.3 database environment using export/import and data pump utility.  • Created development, test and production databases using database configuration assistant- DBCA, manual scripts and Sql*plus using Automatic storage management- ASM.  • Database performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Sql tuning advisor, explain plan, statistics, blocking sessions, STATSPACK, TKPROF, Sql query restructure and Sql trace.  • Scheduled Cronjob for daily night hot/online backup of production databases on tape using RMAN scripts.  • Refresh or restore development, test and reporting databases from production database backup using RMAN scripts and Data pump utility.  • Schedule a Cronjob and create lots of shell script in Unix environment like backup and restore of databases, update statistics, export and import of tables, log file maintenance, cleanup archive logs, startup and shutdown databases, email logs and alert to users, mount point space check, tablespace size check and business-related activity like automatic bill payment, check generation, bill generation and many more. Education Associates in OCA Everest College - McLean, VA 2007 to 2010 B.A in History in History University Buea 2003 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba