Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Hendrick Automotive Group Accomplished certified ORACLE Database Administrator, and IT security expert with over 8 years of experience with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Database Design, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c and 18c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities French and English. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. I am an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Hendrick Automotive Group 2014 to Present • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c 18c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012  • Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB)  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD)  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Part of the on call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support.  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role.  • reduce applications implementation and upgrade cost by adopting standards-based Oracle Fusion Middleware Oracle Database Administrator eBay, GA 2010 to 2014 • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Assessed customer's ability to obtain loans and monitors it for the personal business, by providing how Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-kamga-125160182