Lead Oracle Database Administrator Lead Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Baltimore, MD Database Administrator with 6+ years of experience in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c database administration. Demonstrated experience in database security and user management, backup and recovery, disaster recovery, management, and database performance tuning. Extensive knowledge of program design, implementation, staff training and support. Ability to manage multiple projects, meet deadlines and work high pressure environments. A self-starter with a strong work ethic, excellent communication skills, and a commitment to quality assurance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Oracle Database Administrator Morrison Chiropractic September 2014 to Present • Actively manage database systems including Oracle (10g, 11g and 12c), SQL Server and Red Hat Linux.  • Install and configure Oracle 11g & 12c databases on a variety of operating systems including UNIX/LINUX Windows OS, and Solaris environment.  • Perform required upgrades from Oracle 10g to 11g, and from 11g to 12c.  • Utilize Oracle Golden Gate, import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments with maximum efficiency.   • Troubleshoot and enhance Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ADDM and ASH.  • Identify and resolve errors using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Enlist the use of Real Application Clusters (RAC) for performance tuning.   • Evoke RMAN to ensure backup is secured and reusable for recovery.  • Develop and review SOP’s and other relevant documentation for use when training incoming team members.   • Manage weekly meetings with client to maximize system efficiency.   • Adhere to HIPAA guidelines as it pertains to patient confidentiality and privacy protection.  Oracle Database Administrator The Health and Fitness Academy August 2012 to October 2014 • Performed day to day DBA activities on Oracle 10g and 11g database on RedHat Linux.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle RDBMS Software.  • Performed database upgrades from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g.  • Managed and created users, assigned user profiles, privileges and roles, including password changes and other security related tasks.  • Maintained the Oracle 11g databases by installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle server, creating databases, objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation to create materialized views, table partitions, add indexes, drop unnecessary indexes, and use hints where applicable.   • Regularly applied knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) principles to assist in the development of documentation for new procedures and processes for technical projects.  • Closely monitor system and network performance to ensure productivity is maintained.   • Manage weekly meetings with client to maximize system efficiency.  Education Master of Science in Forensic Science Stevenson University - Stevenson, MD August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Science in Biological Sciences University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD August 2008 to December 2012 Skills ORGANIZATION SKILLS, Microsoft Office (8 years), Academic Research (3 years), Report Writing (2 years), Excel (6 years), Word (8 years), Powerpoint (8 years), Qualitative Research and Analysis (5 years), Quantitative Research and Analysis (5 years), Presentation Skills (7 years), Oracle (6 years), SQL (6 years), Database Management (6 years), Linux (6 years), Solaris (5 years), Powershell (5 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, ETL, Sql Server, MYSQL, RAC, Rman, Sybase, Sql Database, Oracle Database Additional Information * Excellent communication (both written and oral) and organization skills.  * Demonstrated team work skills and attention to detail.