Oracle Developer Oracle Developer Oracle Developer - Csaac Organization I am an accomplished and certified ORACLE Database Administrator who is actively working on the OCP and OCA certifications. In addition to that, I am a proactive IT security expert with over 6 years of experience with a broad knowledge and proficiency in Backup and Recovery, Security Implementations, Database Design, Monitoring and Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. Equally, I am proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions, with a strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems. I am an achiever who successfully manages multiple priorities and perform tremendously well under any condition, even when working under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Developer Csaac Organization - Gaithersburg, MD January 2017 to Present Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  ? Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  ? Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing, & performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  ? Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning.  ? Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events & took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  ? Experience migrating database objects from development through test & into production environments.  ? Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  ? Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  ? Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage & memory for the databases.  ? Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  ? Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query. Senior Database Administrator Capital One - West Orange, NJ November 2013 to January 2017 Implemented a backup and recovery policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and Data Pump.  ? System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development & implementation.  ? Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA utilities respectively. Currently testing 18c  ? Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and LINUX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  ? Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared pool size and db cache size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  ? Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments.  ? Maintaining Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  ? Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  ? Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogenous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  ? Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  ? Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g, 12c, & 13c.  ? Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  ? Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  ? Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB).  ? Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database.  ? Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on single instance on Unix/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes ranging from 100GB to 59TB). Education AS in Database Administration Montgomery College Takoma Park Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Etl, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Data replication, Scripting, Security, Performance tuning, Loader Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  ? Backup and Recovery  ? Oracle Data Guard and Data pump  ? Upgrades and Migration  ? Unix Shell Scripting and Automation  ? Database Security and Patching  ? RAC exposure  ? Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)  ? Database Cloning  ? Performance Monitoring and Tuning    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS:  ? Database security (TDE)  ? Backup & Recovery using RMAN  ? Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, & DRA  ? Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat). Mongo DB.  ? ETL tools: SQL*Loader    ? Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data pump, and SQL Loader  ? Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  ? Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  ? Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  ? SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  ? Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g, 12c, & 13c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA