Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - KIMBALL MIDWEST Fairfield, OH • Over 7 years of IT experience, mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including Oracle11.2.0.4 & 12.1.0.2 on Exadata running on X6s, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools like Talent and Looker  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in and12c HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns Matster Encription  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Migration from oracle to Amazon AWS, RDS, EC2, Golden Gate.  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Installation, upgrade and patching on Oracle 11g/12C databases on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata., OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility.  • Oracle13C Grid Control implementation & Configuration  • Experience in TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) in both 11g wallet and 12C Keystore Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator KIMBALL MIDWEST - Columbus, OH April 2018 to Present • Support many databases running Oracle12.2.0.1 on Exadata environment ,running on X6s with the use of Cloud Control 12C  • Provide senior level DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Manage movement of data between Test. UAT and Production.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 12C.  • Manage RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects ncluding new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI.  • Upgraded of Exadata from X2 &X3 to X6s  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Transparent Data Encryption(TDE) for both 11g Wallet and 12C Keystore for tablespaces, tablespaces & columns  • Upgraded Exadata RAC cluster from Oracle11g (11.2.0.4) to Oracle12c (12.2.0.1)  • Applied Opatch 27626925 to fix optimizer_adaptive issues after upgrade to 12C  • Installed and configured Grid Control 13C Oracle Database Administrator Berry Global Inc - Evansville, IN March 2017 to April 2018 • Provided Oracle DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Supported many Exadata databases running Oracle12.1.0.2 on X6s, Linux 6.9  & Standalones running Oracle11g , 2.0.4 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using  Cloud Control 12C for monitoring.  • Migration from oracle to Amazon AWS, RDS, EC2, Golden Gate  • Provided documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Worked with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Constantly refresh from Production to Training, Test and UAT environment.  • Tuned database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 on Exadata, running on X6s, Linux 6.9  • Mange RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handled all the aspects including new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintained backups.  • Supported databases that interface with ODI and SCI applications  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the dynamic performance Views (V$) at peak load of the Databases and checking RAC background processes log files & Trace files to troubleshoot performance  • Applied PSU to all the Oracle databases  • Used shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Was part of on call of 24X7 support for all the production and development databases. Oracle Database Administrator Zimmer Biomet - Warsaw, IN May 2015 to March 2017 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 4 Node RAC  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Ingram Micro, Inc June 2012 to May 2015 • Configured, Implemented & Deployed Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) & Oracle 12C, single instances on  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Day to day Performance Monitoring and tuning of database.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 11g(11.2.0.4) on both Solaris and LINUX platforms.  • Creation and maintenance of database.  • Handling day-to-day activities.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Creating Databases and all database objects. Database Designing, Designing Tablespaces and Rollback Segments.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Bachelors of Science University of Buea Miami University,School of Applied Science Skills Data modeling, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, DBA, Oracle Dba