SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Nashville, TN • Microsoft SQL server (DBA) with almost 2+ years IT experience: designing, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in SQL Server environment.  • Possess strong communication and problem-solving skill developed through a variety of projects. Offer proven ability in team work and proactive system support.  • Experience in Installing, configuring, administration and Maintenance of mission critical client databases in SQL server 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 versions.  • Good experience in migrating huge databases from all SQL server versions based on application compatibility and fixing the orphan users  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like creation of users, granting permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Deployment, administration and operational support of production, development and test environments utilizing proper change management and other ITIL best practices using ticketing tool.  • Good experience implementing and troubleshooting High Availability of database servers using Replication, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, failover clustering and Always ONAG.  • Strong experience on understanding and creating the server level and database level roles as per business requirement.  • Experience in Configuring and Scheduling SQL Server agent Jobs, Alerts, operators, Maintenance plans, Database Mail Configuration, facets and Transparent Data Encryption.  • Extensive experience with Monitoring, Performance Tuning and analyzing DB performance issues.  • Good experience on designing and implementing the backup and disaster recovery strategies as per RPO and RTO values.  • Created jobs, alerts to run SSAS, SSRS packages periodically. Created the automated processes for the activities such as database backup processes and SSAS, SSRS Packages run sequentially using SQL Server Agent job  • Experience on configuring and maintaining full backup, Transactional log backup, Differential backup and creating the maintenance plans for index rebuild, index reorganize based on fragmentation.  • Good understanding in database and data warehousing concepts (OLTP & OLAP).  • Experience in Microsoft Reporting Service (SSRS) with Report authoring, Report management, Report delivery and Report security.  • Created the SQL Server Agent jobs for created ETL and scheduling them to run on daily and weekly basis.  • 6+ years MS SQL Server Administration experience.  • Experience with Performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO), using native monitoring and troubleshooting tools.  • Experience with backups, restores and recovery models. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator HCL Technologies Ltd - Brentwood, TN July 2017 to August 2019 Responsibilities:  • Providing 24/7 on-call support on rotation basis for production support and Help the on-call if they get multiple alerts at the same time  • Managed security of SQL server databases by creating logins, creating database users, creating roles, assigning proper permissions, creating server and database audits.  • Configured and managed multiple replication methods including transactional, snapshot replication and other high availability solutions.  • Use custom scripts to help automate routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules  • Worked on database space management.  • Planned the location of files and increased the size and number of files.  • Built and configured new SQL 2008R2 and 2012 instances; monitoring, decommissioning and maintaining SQL Servers/databases in the production, test, development environments on Physical and /virtual Servers  • Created and updated databases, tables, stored procedures, triggers, functions, and views.  • Configured, administered, and troubleshoot multiple databases in production and staging environment in clustered and standalone environments.  • Involved in installing failover clustering on multiple nodes.  • Designed and Implemented database mirroring and log shipping to meet Company's High Availability and Disaster Recovery plan  • Planned backup strategies, scheduled backups, and performed restore operations based on RPO and RTO. SQL Database Administrator ITECH SOLUTIONS - Nashville, TN July 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Built and configured new SQL 2008R2 and 2012 instances; monitoring, decommissioning and maintaining SQL Servers/databases in the production, test, development environments on Physical and /virtual Servers  • Created and updated databases, tables, stored procedures, triggers, functions, and views.  • Configured, administered, and troubleshoot multiple databases in production and staging environment in clustered and standalone environments.  • Involved in installing failover clustering on multiple nodes.  • Designed and Implemented database mirroring and log shipping to meet Company's High Availability and Disaster Recovery plan  • Planned backup strategies, scheduled backups, and performed restore operations based on RPO and RTO.  • Managed security of SQL server databases by creating logins, creating database users, creating roles, assigning proper permissions, creating server and database audits.  • Configured and managed multiple replication methods including transactional, snapshot replication and other high availability solutions.  • Use custom scripts to help automate routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules  • Worked on database space management.  • Planned the location of files and increased the size and number of files.  • Performed query optimization, troubleshooting client/server connectivity issues, and performance tuning.  • Monitored and troubleshoot database and server performance at system-wide scale and effectively identify network, databases, Memory, CPU, Disk Space, and I/O related bottlenecks using T-SQL scripts and MDW.  • Transferred data between several servers using BCP, DTS and Import/Export Wizard.  • Generated reports extensively using SSRS.  • Providing resolution to assigned tickets (JIRA, Team Track and Service Desk) as per their severity and meet dead line before SLA is due.  • Configured and administered Management Data Warehouse (MDW) for performance tuning. IT Internship DEFFIE, HAWASSA, ETH January 2011 to July 2013 Selected for competitive internship with leading consulting firm. Developed functions, scripts and reports that were instrumental to the success of high-priority development projects. Education Associate in mathematics DEC Ethiopia - hawassa, ETH January 2007 to December 2010 Skills JIRA (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL server (4 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Ssis