SQL Server DBA/ Azure SQL Server DBA/ Azure SQL Server DBA/ Azure - Volvo Financial Services I am an ambitious professional with over five years of hands-on experience as a Database Administrator. I support 24x7 production and mission critical databases including MS SQL Server and Oracle databases. I possess strong analytical and problem-solving skills, self-motivated, results-driven, team player with excellent verbal and writing communication skills. I have worked on MS SQL Server 2012/2016, Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions running on different operating system platforms. Work Experience SQL Server DBA/ Azure Volvo Financial Services - Greensboro, NC February 2018 to Present • Advised developers on the most efficient database designs  • When performance issues arises, determined the most effective way to increase performance including hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes  • Provided code reviews to make sure the database code meets company standards for readability, reliability, and performance  • Supported release processes for assigned projects/development team(s)  • Identified and analyzed data discrepancies and data quality issues and work to ensure data integrity  • Worked within a scrum team to complete any necessary development tasks  • Support the Data management team in production loading and release processes  • Availability to participate in 24/7 on-call rotation as needed  • Executed SQL Server admin tasks  • Administration of SQL Server permissions across multiple environments  • Supported SSIS configuration and deployment  • Promoted automation, optimization, and operational efficiencies Database Administrator II Atlanta, GA January 2016 to January 2018 • Upgraded, enhanced and migrated SQL server based application that meets user requirements.  • Created, modified and tested various SQL queries, stored procedures and views for obtaining data from diverse source systems and platforms.  • Laid out database development standards for Microsoft enterprise and application databases.  • Designed Database Backup and Restoration Strategy and after creating the database Backups, monitored those backups regularly.  • Deployed database change scripts provided by third party vendors for automating tasks on bulk operations.  • Documented the logical and physical components of operational databases and their functionality during the course of their work.  • Created table indexes and managed query strategies, database objects maintenance and performance issues.  • Analyzed problems as assigned and provided solutions to address business needs at any given time. Oracle Database Administrator Care Health - Edison, NJ April 2014 to January 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on AIX platforms.  • Administered and monitored over 150 databases both on 112c/11g on prod/test/dev environments  • Administering Oracle Databases 12c/11g of sizes ranging from 100GB to 5TB  • Migrated databases from File-system to Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  • Involved in migrating applications from Solaris 12c/11g to Linux 11.2.0.3 using Transportable Tablespace, RMAN Convert  • Up-gradation of single instance databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.1 on Linux  • Responsible for using Flashback query mechanism along with automatic undo management  • Experience in Creating Physical and logical database design Data Models using Erwin Tool.  • Installed 12C grid control and Used Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 11g/12c for monitoring databases.  • Programming in shell to create shell scripts that automate the database backups and maintenance.  • Involved in Mass Agent Deployment using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c  • Implemented Data Guard with maximum availability and performance configurations for production databases  • Worked on Active data guard, Fail over and Switch over cases  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 12c for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints  • Performance monitoring and Database/Instance/clustered Application tuning using Dictionary views, AWR (Statspack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, sar, glance, vmstat etc.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Migrated VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 10TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • to another.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries. Skills Ms access, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Ux, Html, Vbscript, Xml, Hp-ux, Rman, Vmware Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems:  • HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 9, 10, AIX 5.3, 6.1, RHEL 5.x, Windows, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10.    RDBMS / Languages:  • Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  • Ms Sql Server 2012/2016  • SQL, PL/SQL    Environment: Azure, Cloud Migration, MSSQL, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, Web Service, MS Office Suite, PowerShell, VBScript, VMware, MS Access, T-SQL, HTML/DHTML, XML, Data-guard, GoldenGate, RMAN, SQL Loader, SQL Developer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio