SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Ashland, MA Over six years of industrial experience as a SQL database administrator supporting SQL servers (2000 to 2017), with expertise in technical analysis, problem solving skills and documenting technical specifications. Received performance achievement and excellence awards. Legally authorized to work in the United States (received Employment Authorization Card). Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Queen Consulting group September 2018 to May 2019 Client: Hasbro, RI)    ? Worked on troubleshooting performance issues with data warehousing application teams by working on various wait types, query hints etc.  ? Worked on Hana SAP studio to grant access to users and basic scripting.  ? Installed and migrated databases from previous versions to SQL 2017  ? Frequently deployed codes coordinating with development teams.  ? Worked with external and internal auditors regarding database auditing.  ? Coordinated with various application teams and lead SQL patching project.  ? Built, configured and customized Redgate monitoring tool for SQL servers.  ? Worked with Quest support to standardize litespeed specifications across SQL servers for best speeds and performance. DBA Specialist Wells Fargo India Private Limited February 2015 to February 2018 Built approximately 100 standalone and clustered SQL servers (versions 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016) with configuration settings and from scratch level (msdtc installations, disk formatting, setting up port numbers in firewall etc.). Patched servers frequently to meet compliance and troubleshot various issues during patching.  ? Performed side by side and in-place migration from versions 2008 till 2016. It included 1TB databases and complex architecture (i.e., transactional replication with triggers).  ? Migrated production and test Sybase databases (Schema and data approximately 1TB) to SQL server using SQL server migration assistant tool.  ? Tested BCP twice a year, where-in all the production servers are shut down and BCP servers and databases are recovered within recovery time objective.  ? Configured and troubleshot various issues in all HADR solutions like mirroring, transactional replication, clustering and log shipping. Worked extensively on troubleshooting Always on Availability groups configuration and maintenance.  ? Troubleshot performance issues coordinating with application teams by recompiling Stored procedures, creating missing indexes, updating statistics, rebuilding/reorganizing indexes, analyzing the query in DTA, analyzing execution plans, checking blocks/deadlocks/long running queries, analyzing profiler trace, performance monitor counters etc.  ? Performed Point in time recovery of 500GB database during business day after databases were corrupted.  ? Tweaked existing powershell automation scripts and made them work for newer versions of SQL server.  ? Documented important and complex processes for future reference, guided new joiners.  ? Attended trainings on SQLBI and Microsoft Azure at Wells Fargo. Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation India Private Limited September 2014 to January 2015 Configured contained databases and gained knowledge on new features of SQL 2012.  ? Configured Transactional and Merge replication and troubleshot issues.  ? Imported and exported data of huge tables using BCP utility.  ? Created database snapshots for mirrored databases and scheduled the script to run as a job on daily basis. Senior Analyst HCL Technologies Limited June 2012 to August 2014 Monitored space requirements of databases, added required storage and coordinated with application team to purge old data.  ? Performed Backup and Recovery, which includes establishing standards and schedules for database backups ensuring that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements.  ? Worked extensively and independently on a third party tool alerts reduction project which reduced cost for the company. This project won me an achieving excellence award.  ? Encrypted and decrypted database objects using third party optillect decryptor tool.  ? Retrieved old backups from tapes using symantec netbackup and restored databases as per the requirements of application teams.  ? Managed database Users and Security. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2012 Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, Hana, Sap, Remedy, T-sql, Rdbms, Bmc, Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? RDBMS: MS-SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008r2/2012/2014/2016/2017  ? SQL Server Tools: Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Database Tuning Wizard, Profiler, Query Analyser  ? Operating systems: Windows 2012\2008\2003\2016  ? Software Tool: AnthillPro, Backup Utility, SAP HANA studio  ? Ticketing tool: BMC Remedy, Service now  ? Monitoring tools: Idera, ITRS, Solar winds, Redgate  ? Languages: T-SQL