Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - FDIC Washington, DC Trained and experienced Senior Oracle Database Administrator with 8 years' experience, Mr. Guillory has a strong knowledge of Oracle database architecture, performance tuning, backup and recovery, schema management, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, database security, cloning, replication, migration. Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical skills tied in with great aptitude for problem-solving and attention to detail. He also possesses skills as an Oracle Developer using tools such as JavaScript, HTML, Ajax, DevOps, C++ and C# while working in various test and devilment environments work closely with development teams. While also working closely with system administrators, web developers, database analysts, network administrators, designers, or web administrators in various instances to accomplish complex goals. He also possesses a knack for understanding the 'big picture' with a customer service-oriented attitude who is also a competitive achiever who can manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. Mr. Guillory is an excellent team player, self-motivated, and dedicated in any work environment. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator FDIC - Washington, DC November 2015 to Present • Security, User Management, Privileges, Roles, Profiling, auditing, Authentication, authorization, encryption, enterprise security.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g, and from 11g to 12c  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB  • Create primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once developers have designed an application and assist developers in the design if required  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager)  • Used Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Assisted with creation, modification and testing of codes, scripts, and forms in development environments.  • Supported and maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Supported Postgres SQL/Oracle database environment  • Plan backup and recovery methodology  • Apply Oracle patches Oracle Database Administrator One Liberty Center - Arlington, VA March 2013 to November 2015 • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, table space, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Performed some work with Agile/Scrum development teams  • Experience working with AWS tools and environments  • Experience with developing software applications on cloud platforms (AWS/AZURE)  • Experience with SQL MySQL and NoSQL  • Experience with DB2 and HADR installations, upgrades, configuration, tuning, index creation and performance analysis  • Experience in configuring DB2 Primary Server in a Cluster Environment for HADR  • Help Perform DB2 HADR restores as needed Jr. Oracle Database Administrator Target - Greenbelt, MD March 2010 to March 2013 • Install oracle database software 10.2.0.1 and 11.1.0.6.0 using oracle universal installer on development, test and production server for their claim, policy and online applications in IBM AIX 5.3 environment.  • Upgrade software and databases from 9.2.0.1 to 9.2.0.6, 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.3, 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.3 and 10.2.0.3 to 11.1.0.6.0 on development; test and production databases on AIX database servers. Apply patch set to upgrade software and use database upgrade assistant, export/ import and manual scripts to upgrade databases.  • Migration of full 9.2.0.6 databases, schemas those are on Linux environment into AIX, 10.2.0.3 database environment using export/import and data pump utility.  • Database performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL tuning advisor, explain plan, statistics, blocking sessions, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL query restructure and SQL trace.  • Schedule cronjob for daily night hot/online backup of production databases on tape using RMAN scripts.  • Refresh or restore development, test and reporting databases from production database backup using RMAN scripts or export/ Import and data pump utility.  • Created physical standby database on remote server to provide high availability.  • Responsible for patching, upgrading, developing deployment and other maintenance scripts  • Configuration and DB2 Connect Support - Nodes and DB Configuration  • Logs and Archive Logs Management  • Managing Objects, Security, Privileges and Profiles  • Experience in HADR Skills Database, Ddl, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgres, Sql, Encryption, Rman, Linux, Security, Data integration, Etl, Performance tuning, Excel, Integration Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Transparent Database Encryption (7 years) • Oracle (8 years)  • Back Up and Recovery using Rman (8 years) • SQL Server (8 years)  • Security (7 years) • Access & Excel (7 years)  • Export/import and Datapump (7 years) • DDL, DML select statements (8 years)  • Real application clusters (RAC) (3 years) • ADDM Explain Plan, ASH (7 years)  • Linux (7 years) • Load (ETL)/Data Integration experience  • Automatic Service Management ASM (3 years) • SQL Tuning (7 years)  • Performance Tuning (8 Years) • Monitoring & Reorganization of Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes (8 years)  • AWR report analysis (7 years)  • PL/SQL (4 years)    • Migration (9 years)  • Postgres (6 years)    • AWS (3 years) • Agile/Scrum (3 Years)