Database Analyst Princ <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst Princ Database Analyst Princ - MANTECH/INFOZEN/TSA Bowie, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Analyst Princ MANTECH/INFOZEN/TSA January 2015 to Present Perform security patches on Linux OS and all installed applications  • Installation and configuration of Red Hat/CentOS and Debian OS versions.  • User management and security maintenance using company policies/groups.  • Configured logrotate to automate disk space management  • Troubleshoot and resolve networking issues as needed.  • Create and maintain Windows VMs for users within our off environment  • Develop system documentation and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)  • Apply STIGs to Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Implement Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), and Transport Layer Security (TLS) actions.  • Experience using Ansible for configuration management push.  • Perform file transfers using SAFE (Safe Access File Exchange) platform  • Process any security policy changes as needed as per NIST/STIG compliance  • Knowledge of common protocols such as SNMP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, NTP, DNS, TCP/IP, and FTP.  • Strong understanding of Linux based firewall technologies  • Effectively work with application vendors to resolve issues and to request enhancements  • Provide daily user support by troubleshooting problems or answering questions to resolve issues.  • Upgrade systems, developing, testing, evaluating, and installing enhancements.  • Proficient with a large scale ticketing systems (Remedy)  • Maintain, develop and upgrade existing systems  • Develop tools (web technologies/scripting) to help automate SysAdmin tasks such as software deployment, system monitoring and routine maintenance  • Maintain the servers (system maintenance, patch management, HW)  • Create system services for automated task like database startup/shutdown activities.  • Perform application software installations, upgrades, and troubleshooting  • Knowledge about container (light weight system) using Docker engine.  Oracle Database Administration Activities:  • Supporting multiple databases for production, stage, test, development environments on Solaris 11.2/11.3, Rhel 6x,7x and Windows 7 Platforms.  • Database Security Implementation in accordance with STIG (Security Technical Implementation Guides). Collaborates with Security Team and System Administrators to achieve this goal.  • Daily Database Maintenance using WINSCP, TOAD, SQL DEVELOPER SQLPLUS & OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and PLSQL  • Refresh Databases and Database objects as necessary. Datapump for schema export/import.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Software 11g/12c on various servers/clients.  • Backup and Recovery using Rman  • Upgrade Oracle 11.2.0.1 to Oracle 11.2.0.4  • Apply Oracle PSU/CPU using Opatch Utility, quarterly security patch.  • Deploy OEM agents.  • Familiar with containers/Docker engine light weight system.  • Familiar with ansible configuration and principles of deployment.  • Production support as well as project work.  • Installation of oracle products on solaris 11x as well as RHEL 6x 7x.  • Migration of databases from Solaris 11x to rhel 7x Oracle Database Administrator FIVE RIVERS SERVICES LLC, 4000 Coast Guard Blvd, Portsmouth - VA February 2015 to August 2015 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Windows 8 Platform environment.  • Monitoring Production Databases as well as project work.  • Maintain advanced replication process and security using TOAD, SQLPLUS & OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Refresh Dev elopement and Test instances with data from Production as assigned by the project manager using Data pump (expdp/impdp utility).  • Installation and configuration of Oracle on various clients.  • Setup Backup and Recovery using Rman  • Upgrade Oracle 11.2.0.3 to Oracle 11.2.0.4 (Development and stage environments)  • Knowledge of Oracle Business Intelligence Reporting BI-PUBLISHER  • Assisted team members (Developers & System Administrators as needed).    Environment: Oracle 11gWindows 7, ADVANCED REPLICATION (Multi Master Sites Replication) TOAD, RMAN, SQL DEVELOPER, ACRONIS, SQLPLUS, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator FDIC - Arlington, VA November 2014 to January 2015 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux Redhat 6.3 and Sun Solaris environments.  • Main assignment taking care of remedy tickets as assigned.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and security done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Monitored tablespaces for growth.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Backup/ Recovery using Rman plus Rman tuning. Oracle Database Administrator Howard University, DC June 2012 to October 2014 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Involved in installation, setup and creation of two node cluster RAC with Oracle11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Unix System Administrator GMAC Commercial Mortgage - Horsham, PA November 2009 to June 2012 role.)    • Controlled and monitored user access to the database server at OS level.  • Installation and configuration of CentOS and unix platforms like Debian.  • Yum and rpm package management.  • Create and manage user accounts on the system using company policies.  • Monitor system logs for errors, warning and critical advice.  • Space management through shell scripts and alerts.  • Participated in application deployment.  • Assisted the DBAs, Net Admin, Developers as needed.  • System quarterly patches with yum update  • Monitor hobbit for alerts.  • Created and configured oracle database servers with all the necessary packages.  • Proficient with a large scale ticketing systems (Remedy)  • Production support Education BSN Howard University - Washington, DC 2008 Science and Technology Cameroon College of Art 1990 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, SQL, LINUX, RED HAT, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Vmware Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Upgrading, Migration and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Installed Oracle 11g & 12c, installation of Configuration on rhel 5x,6x and 7x, centOs 6x.  • Experience managing system packages with local repository, yum and rpm.  • Perform security patches on Linux OS and all installed applications  • Installation and configuration of Red Hat/CentOS and Debian OS versions.  • User management and security maintenance.  • Configured logrotate to automate disk space management  • Create and maintain Windows VMs for users within our off environment  • Analyze operating system quality controls and log files - troubleshoot as required  • Implement Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), and (TLS) actions.  • Process any security policy changes as needed as per NIST/STIG compliance  • Knowledge of common protocols such as SNMP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, NTP, DNS, TCP/IP, and FTP.  • Effectively work with application vendors to resolve issues and to request enhancements  • Experience user management, system security, company policies (SLA) , firewall rules.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g)  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Knowledge of automation using Ansible, light weight system like docker  • Experience in maintaining Database Security using auditing, user and application profiles.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, standby databases supported by Data guard. Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN.