Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Database Administrator Franklin, TN Summary  • A Microsoft certified SQL server (DBA) with 8+ years IT experience: designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in SQL Server environment.    • Possess strong communication and problem solving skill developed through a variety of projects. Offer proven ability in team work and proactive system support.    • Experience in implementing windows cluster across multiple availability zones and Implemented SQL Server 2014 Always On availability group in AWS.    • Experience in Installing, configuring, and Maintenance of mission critical client databases in SQL server 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 versions.    • Extensive Experience in Upgrading SQL Server (In place Upgrade and Side by side Upgrade) based on application compatibility and fixing the orphan users.    • Extensive experience in migrating huge databases from all SQL server versions based on application compatibility and fixing the orphan users    • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like creation of users, granting permissions and assigning roles to users.    • Deployment, administration and operational support of production, development and test environments utilizing proper change management and other ITIL best practices using ticketing tool.    • Good experience implementing and troubleshooting High Availability of database servers using Replication, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, failover clustering and Always ON AG.    • Strong and creating the server level and database level roles as per business requirement.    • Experience in Configuring and Scheduling SQL Server Alerts, operators, Maintenance plans, Database Mail Configuration, and Transparent Data Encryption.    • Extensive experience with Monitoring, Performance Tuning and analyzing DB performance issues.    • Strong experience designing and implementing the backup and disaster recovery strategies as per RPO and RTO values.    • Created jobs, alerts to run SSAS, SSRS packages periodically. Created the automated processes for the activities such as database backup processes and SSAS, SSRS Packages run sequentially using SQL Server Agent job    • Experience configuring and maintaining full backup, Transactional log backup, Differential backup and creating the maintenance plans for index rebuild, index reorganize based on fragmentation.    • Worked BCP for data uploading module and create SSIS packages for data transfer & transform across locations and multiple data source as per requirement.    • Expert in Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)    • Good understanding in database and data warehousing concepts (OLTP & OLAP).    • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases    • Experience in Microsoft Reporting Service (SSRS) with Report authoring, Report management, Report delivery and Report security.    • Created reports, sub reports, charts, Tablix, Matrix, Hyperlink reports using SSRS.    • Created the SQL Server Agent jobs for created ETL and scheduling them to run on daily and weekly basis.    • Good experience in Code review and done continues deployment using Octopus Deployment    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Windows, SQL Server, T-SQL, AWS-RDS, AWS-EC2, Dell Spotlight, SCOM, SQL Compare and Data Compare Redgate SQL , DataEdo, ERwin, SSDT, Azure, SSIS, SSRS, SSMS, DTA, JIRA, RAID, MySQL, ServiceNow, Octopus Deploy, TFS, MDW, CITRIX, IDERA Diagnostic Manager, Outlook, Skype for Business, MFA, SAN, Office 365 Planner, AG, HA/DR, Microsoft Teams Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Server DBA Community Health Systems - Franklin, TN November 2018 to Present Beginning Mid 2018 CHS was trying to consolidate Microsoft SQL Server environments to reduce licensing and hosting costs. This consolidation effort aimed to modernize the infrastructure and to realize and operational benefits. A tertiary goal is to improve availability by migrating to SQL 2016 and utilizing SQL Always on Availability Groups (AAG). With one team lead and another team member my task was to implement this migration effort.   Responsibilities:  ·        Installing, configuring, administering and securing production and non-production servers (clustered and non-clustered).  ·    Built and Configured WSFC for active-passive and active-active work loads  ·    Built SQL server performance dashboard using PowerShell and SSRS  ·        Created windows virtual machines and supported windows workloads using and PowerShell.  ·        Created Backup and restore automation process using T-SQL and PowerShell  ·        Managing SQL server using PowerShell scripts and IDRA diagnostic manager.  ·        Implementing Log Shipping as a migration solution for MS SQL Server to minimize downtime during migration.   ·        Configure alerts and Database mail for newly built SQL server   ·        Built multiple windows cluster servers and configured SQL server AG for production and Non-production environment   ·        Performed cross-cluster migration using PowerShell for OS upgrade and SQL migration  ·        Created and configured index maintenance jobs and regular backups using T-SQL and PowerShell  ·        Implemented Ola Halengren maintenance solution  ·        Intensively participated in designing and planning of the migration strategy   ·        Performed benchmarking and performance analysis to determine hardware provisioning   ·         Participated in Design, Platform Architect, Consolidation and Virtualization of new environments.  ·        Experience in configuring Registered Servers, Linked Servers, and Multi Server Administration  ·         Provide best practices and guidance to operational teams on deployment of SQL Server  Always On Availability Groups   ·        Prepared detail PTO checklist and engineering standard for SQL server installation and configuration   ·        Apply windows security patches on a newly built Virtual Machines   ·        Used Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Column level encryption to maintain sensitive data  ·         SQL Servers including security management, storage space, backups and restores in collaboration with production support   ·        Extensively used Management Data warehouse, DMV and IDRA diagnostic manager in collecting performance  SQL Database Administrator Cambridge Associates LLC - Arlington, VA December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installing, configuring, administering and securing production and non-production servers (clustered and non-clustered).  • Supported 70+ production SQL Servers and 20+ in UAT, Test and Development environment with over 2.5 TB of data, to maintain 99.9% uptime for SQL Server 2008R2, 2012 and 2014  • Used Management Dashboard Reports, Dell Spotlight, Profiler, Performance Monitor, SQL Server Alerts, and PowerShell scripts to proactively monitor the production servers  • Expert in Database refresh from prod to lower environment as per the business requirements. Automated quarterly/monthly database refresh.  • Expert in troubleshooting Transactional Replication issues in all Environment in a complex replication Topology  • Involved in SQL performance Tuning, identifying locking and blocking issues using Native and Third party tools.  • Implemented Ola Hallengren's Industries best SQL server maintenance plan and created schedule for all environment.  • Created SQL server Logins, Database users & roles and involved in Daily User Maintenance.  • Created Database Maintenance jobs to perform full & transaction log Backups and scheduled them with the SQL Server agent job scheduler.  • Monitor database growth activities & Troubleshoot Transaction Log Issue.  • Upgraded, troubleshot and deployed SSIS packages from development to production environment  • Migrated SQL Server 2012 and 2014 to SQL Server 2016 with AlwaysOn Availability groups.  • Providing weekly status information on all projects to Project Manager  • Wrote and debugged Stored Procedures and (DDL /DML) Triggers, Functions as per client requirements.  • Extensively worked on troubleshooting and fine-tuning of databases for optimal performance.  • Worked with Performance Tuning/Query tuning , execution plans, trace flags and SQL Profiler  • Installation of Service packs, cumulative updates and Windows updates for SQL Server maintenance to all environments.  • Created new tables, stored procedures and triggers using T-SQL.  • Performing DB backups, DB refresh, DB restores, clean-up, statistics update  • Installed and configured MS SQL Servers in Virtual Environments using VMWARE.  • Configure and maintain the Transactional and Snapshot Replication between the production, UAT and Test environments.  • Analyze the Execution plans and recommend/implement a better execution plan.  • Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Extensively worked in preparing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for incidents, problems and frequently occurring errors and failures in Prod and Lower environments.  • Prepared documentation for SQL server, database and database objects inventories.  • Configured and Deployed SSRS reports and SSIS package using Project Deployment Method  • Expert in Code Deployment in all environments    Environment: AWS, VPC, RDS, EC2 Windows 2008-2012R2, SQL Server 2008-2016, SCOM, DELL Spotlight, SQL safe , Red-gate SQL Tool Belt , DataEdo, ERWIN, VISUAL STUDIO, CITRIX, VMWARE, Octopus Deploy, ATLASSIAN(JIRA, Confluence) SQL Database Administrator CARESOURCE - Dayton, OH May 2015 to December 2017 • Experience in implementing windows cluster across multiple availability zones and Implemented SQL Server 2014 Always On availability group in AWS.  • Building and maintaining new SQL 2012/2014 and 2016 instances and Databases  • Performed unattended/silent installations of SQL instances  • Monitoring alerts from the SQL Server error log and third party tools like Idera, RedGate, and Ignite  • Troubleshooting and resolving complex production performance issues  • Performance tuning of long running queries and code reviewing  • Creating and managing stored procedures, indexed views, user defined functions, triggers, database constraints to meet business requirements and policies  • Restoring and recovering corrupted databases  • Enabling trace flag 1117 and 1118, adding & relocating tempDB files to its own drive to enhance tempDB database performance  • Implementing and monitoring high availability solutions including snapshot and transactional Replication for reporting purpose  • Configuring Always-On and implementing SQL Server clustering (Active-Active, Active-Passive).  • Applied patches and service packs on SQL 2005, 2008/R2 and 2012 instances to keep the databases at current patch level  • Configured and managed Linked Servers for OLE DB data sources  • Performing DB refresh from Production to Staging Servers on regular and on-demand basis  • Performing standard DB Security administrations (creating logins, users, roles, and assigning Permanent and also temporary permission to them)  • Consulting the Security team to add users into the appropriate AD groups for SQL DB access  • Upgrading/migrating databases to 2014 and 2012 instances from SQL 2005 and 2008  • Deploying SSRS reports and scheduling SQL Server SSIS packages  • Reviewing SQL codes in SSIS packages and providing recommendations for better query performance  • Importing data from various sources to SQL Server using SSIS  • After-hours support for Emergency and Standard releases/change management activities  • Participating in 24X7 on-call rotation and respond to critical database incidents SQL DBA Targeted Technology - Silver Spring, MD May 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built and configured new SQL 2012 and 2014 instances; monitoring, decommissioning and maintaining SQL Servers/databases in the production, test, development environments on Physical and /virtual Servers  • Installed, and Configured SQL Server Fail-Over Cluster for SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2 & 2012.  • Applied service packs, hotfixes and cumulative updates for SQL Servers and Windows Servers  • Upgraded SQL Server 2005 , 2008 and 2008 R2 Database into SQL Server 2012 and 2014  • Created and maintained logins, Users, Roles and managed security of the database.  • Implemented Disaster recovery plan by performing routine backups and restore  • Taking Full, Differential and Transactional log backups and setting automated jobs.  • Migrated data using Import/Export, bulk, backup-restore, DTS, SSIS, Detach/Attach  • Performed data Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) from different data sources.  • Rebuilding /reorganize indexes to reduce fragmentation and enhance SQL server performance  • Created triggers, views and stored procedures,  • Implemented database Maintenance plans, scheduled automated SQL Server jobs, Created Alerts, Operators, Notifications and configured database Mail.  • Hands on experience monitoring and performance tuning using Tuning Advisor, SQL server Profiler, Activity monitor, Windows performance monitor, DBCC, DMVs, Stored procedures and MDW  • Working with Resource Governor to control and allocate CPU and memory resources depending on the priority of applications.  • Configured and Managed Database High Availability: Replication, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Failover Clustering and Always On availability group.  • Prepared and Scheduled reports using SSRS to generate daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly reports  • Worked in team with integrated Developers, CAB (Change Approval Board) and Disaster Recovery Planning team.  • Experience in contacting Microsoft and other vendors for product and technical support.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases  • Providing resolution to assigned tickets (JIRA, Team Track and ServiceNow) as per their severity and meet dead line before SLA is due.  • Experience in Agile projects with a solid foundation in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). Database Administrator CAPITAL NOVUS - Washington, DC February 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Built and configured new SQL 2008R2 and 2012 instances; monitoring, decommissioning and maintaining SQL Servers/databases in the production, test, development environments on Physical and /virtual Servers  • Created and updated databases, tables, stored procedures, triggers, functions, and views.  • Configured, administered, and troubleshoot multiple databases in production and staging environment in clustered and standalone environments.  • Prepared documentation for disaster recovery plan.  • Involved in installing failover clustering on multiple nodes.  • Designed and Implemented database mirroring and log shipping to meet Company's High Availability and Disaster Recovery plan  • Planned backup strategies, scheduled backups, and performed restore operations based on RPO and RTO.  • Managed security of SQL server databases by creating logins, creating database users, creating roles, assigning proper permissions, creating server and database audits.  • Extensively worked on creating, reorganizing, rebuilding index and Statistics.  • Refreshed databases in test and development environments  • Providing 24/7 on-call support on rotation basis for production support and Help the on-call if they get multiple alerts at the same time  • Installed, configured and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Configured and managed multiple replication methods including transactional, snapshot replication and also other high availability solutions.  • Defined relationship between tables and enforced the referential integrity constraints  • Use custom scripts so as to help automate routine tasks such as Maintain operators, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules  • Worked on database space management.  • Planned the location of files and increased the size and number of files.  • Performed query optimization, troubleshooting client/server connectivity issues, and performance tuning.  • Monitored and troubleshoot database and server performance at system-wide scale and effectively identify network, databases, Memory, CPU, Disk Space, and I/O related bottlenecks using T-SQL scripts and MDW.  • Transferred data between several servers using BCP, DTS and Import/Export Wizard.  • Generated reports extensively using SSRS.  • Providing resolution to assigned tickets (JIRA, Team Track and Service Desk) as per their severity and meet dead line before SLA is due.  • Configured and administered Management Data Warehouse (MDW) for performance tuning and resource baseline. Education Master's in Data Analytics Western Governors University Present Skills MICROSOFT SSRS (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (7 years), SQL SERVER (8 years), SSRS (7 years), SSIS (3 years), AWS (2 years), DBA, Sql Dba, ETL, MYSQL, Sql Database, Python, Tableau (4 years) Links https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/4cf1e5ef-d9c1-40fe-b570-0092dffb5bb6/public_url Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present Additional Information • A Microsoft certified SQL server (DBA) with 8+ years IT experience: designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in SQL Server environment.  • Possess strong communication and problem solving skill developed through a variety of projects. Offer proven ability in team work and proactive system support.  • Experience in implementing windows cluster across multiple availability zones and Implemented SQL Server 2014 Always On availability group in AWS.  • Experience in Installing, configuring, and Maintenance of mission critical client databases in SQL server 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 versions.  • Extensive Experience in Upgrading SQL Server (In place Upgrade and Side by side Upgrade) based on application compatibility and fixing the orphan users.  • Extensive experience in migrating huge databases from all SQL server versions based on application compatibility and fixing the orphan users  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like creation of users, granting permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Deployment, administration and operational support of production, development and test environments utilizing proper change management and other ITIL best practices using ticketing tool.  • Good experience implementing and troubleshooting High Availability of database servers using Replication, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, failover clustering and Always ON AG.  • Strong and creating the server level and database level roles as per business requirement.  • Experience in Configuring and Scheduling SQL Server Alerts, operators, Maintenance plans, Database Mail Configuration, and Transparent Data Encryption.  • Extensive experience with Monitoring, Performance Tuning and analyzing DB performance issues.  • Strong experience designing and implementing the backup and disaster recovery strategies as per RPO and RTO values.  • Created jobs, alerts to run SSAS, SSRS packages periodically. Created the automated processes for the activities such as database backup processes and SSAS, SSRS Packages run sequentially using SQL Server Agent job  • Experience configuring and maintaining full backup, Transactional log backup, Differential backup and creating the maintenance plans for index rebuild, index reorganize based on fragmentation.  • Worked BCP for data uploading module and create SSIS packages for data transfer & transform across locations and multiple data source as per requirement.  • Expert in Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Good understanding in database and data warehousing concepts (OLTP & OLAP).  • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases  • Experience in Microsoft Reporting Service (SSRS) with Report authoring, Report management, Report delivery and Report security.  • Created reports, sub reports, charts, Tablix, Matrix, Hyperlink reports using SSRS.  • Created the SQL Server Agent jobs for created ETL and scheduling them to run on daily and weekly basis.  • Good experience in Code review and done continues deployment using Octopus Deployment    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Windows, SQL Server, T-SQL, AWS-RDS, AWS-EC2, Dell Spotlight, SCOM, SQL Compare and Data Compare Redgate SQL , DataEdo, ERwin, SSDT, Azure, SSIS, SSRS, SSMS, DTA, JIRA, RAID, MySQL, ServiceNow, Octopus Deploy, TFS, MDW, CITRIX, IDERA Diagnostic Manager, Outlook, Skype for Business, MFA, SAN, Office 365 Planner, AG, HA/DR, Microsoft Teams