Oracle database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle database administrator - The Standard Insurance Company Piscataway, NJ Installed Oracle Agent 12c, configured database in Grid Control. Worked extensively on Oracle Tools like OEM, Grid Control and Monitoring through 12c grid control/OEM. Proficient in shell scripting.  Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard. Worked on GRID Infrastructure, CRS management and Real Application Clusters (RAC) in Oracle 10g and 11gR2.  High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports, ADDM, SQL TRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  Worked as team lead to design, create, manage, support and enhance large databases for applications running in parallel phases such as development, system & regression testing and production.  Ability to handle multiple projects with deadlines to meet SLAs and have good coordination skills with management, development teams, vendors and systems administrators.  Designed strategic and tactical solutions for database capacity planning, scheduled database refreshes, backups and formulated recovery processes using RMAN, Data Pump, HOT/Cold methods, Export/Import and Database Cloning.  Knowledge on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) administration, ASMCMD.  Expertise experience in Installing and maintaining Oracle grid control application and Setup Golden gate  In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle database administrator The Standard Insurance Company - Portland, OR July 2018 to Present • Upgraded databases from 10g to 11g and to 12c using scripts, database configuration assistance (dbua) and Transportable Tablespace.  • Implemented both in place and out of place patching using oracle universal installer. Equally apply quarterly patch set update (PSU) and minor critical patch update using Opatch Utility.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH), Explain Plan, TK proof, SQL Tuning Advisor (STA).  • Managed, monitored and optimized databases using tools such as Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 12c, TOAD, Secure CRT, Secure FX, SQL Developer to monitor Tablespace database performance and optimization.  • Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production deployment validation development oracle 12c/11g databases.  • Installation and configuration of the oracle software (11gR2 and 12cR2) on a Solaris platform using the response file.  • Migrated single instance databases from Linux 5 to Solaris and from Linux 5 platform to an EXADATA server using Rman and transportable Tablespace (TTS). Converted oracle 12c non Container (ncdb) databases to Pluggable database (pdb) in Predefined Container (cdb). Refreshed production database to development.  • Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Expertise in storage management by managing space, table spaces, segments and extents, Rollback segments and data dictionary.  • Demonstrated a highly level of data replication of tables using SHAREPLEX.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative and logical backups using Datapump and tradition Import/Export.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Clone the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone and dbca. Database Administrator Marriott Vacations Worldwide - Lakeland, FL March 2015 to June 2018 Oracle Database Administrator Bank of Oklahoma - Tulsa, OK January 2012 to February 2015 • Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development oracle 12c/11g databases on Red Hat Linux 5.0 and oracle enterprise Linux 5.5  • Implemented Disaster Recovery database 10g/11g Data Guard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode using LGWR ASYNC mode.  • Experience with large databases (1.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.  • Administration and supporting of Oracle RAC 11g/12c Databases ranging from 100GB to 60TB.  • Installation, upgrading, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate 11G/12C software.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity and managing database security.  • Installed and configured Oracle (10g&11g R2) databases on red hat enterprise linux 5.4 and HP-Unix 11.X.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g/10g RAC with ASM and single instance database and Administrated Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases running on Cluster File system.  • Applied Critical Patch Updates and Patch Set Update (CPU/PSU) on various platforms using Universal Installer and OPatch Utility.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Have touch-point calls with offshore team and make sure all issues happen in off business hours are addressed with sense of urgency.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and Tablespace  • Monitored and optimized database performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C Grid control.  • Performed database backups with RMAN incremental and cumulative backups by registering 10g/11g databases in recovery catalog.  • Performed complete and incomplete database recovery, data file and table space point in time (TSPITR) recoveries using RMAN and user managed backups.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Experience in working with oracle support in resolving ORA 0600 / ORA-07445 errors and creating SR's.  • Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  • Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents.  Bank of Oklahoma - Tulsa, OK Jan 2012 - Feb 2015  Oracle Database Administrator  • Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Implemented and configured 11g grid control on RHEL.  • Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with a scheduled jobs (Cron Job).  • Responsible for creating RMAN catalog Database and Registering the Databases in Catalog Database and Cloned production RAC instances to development and QA systems using RMAN duplication.  • Experience in using 11g features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, and ADDM.  • Involved in Defragmenting data blocks of table spaces for optimized performance. Also partitioned large tables to increase performance. Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Education Bachelor's