Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator 3 year of IT experience in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of SQL Server 2008R2/2008/2005 in standalone  and clustered environments.  - Skilled at writing SQL scripts, modifying store procedures, setting up Production Replication and maintain the backups and recovery.  - Planned and successfully implemented production server Migrations, Production Cut-Offs and Datacenter Moves ensuring post  migration performance stability.  - As a part of MSSQL family closely worked and communicated with MS Engineering Teams, MS Technical Support Teams and MS  Professional Services Teams.  - Skilled at troubleshoots, ensure database availability, stability, performing tuning and optimization.  - Participated in application development deployments (Deploying software packages) and assists in development lifecycle.  - Skilled at learning new concepts quickly, working well under pressure and communicating ideas clearly and effectively. Work Experience Database Administrator Barnes & Noble - Somerset, NJ October 2012 to March 2014 Migrated over 30 databases from SQL 2000 & 2005 to 2008R2 & 2012.  - Managed (Installation, Configuration, Maintenance) data in all production and non-production MSSQL and the associated DR and replication servers.  - Daily maintenance of all the DB environments which including doing backups, health checks, applying fix packs, monitoring, capacity  management, and upgrading.  - Collaborated with different teams to design and implement enhancements.  - Involved in database mirroring and Creating Back-up Strategy.  - Created database objects like tables, views, indexes, stored-procedures, triggers, cursors.  - Creation of Jobs Schedules, Alerts using MS SQL Server Agent and Notifications using MS SQL Mail.  - Worked on performance tuning of Database and Query.  - Performance monitoring/troubleshooting - gather data from traces, DMVs, performance monitor objects.  - Involved in creating traditional as well as Web-based interactive reports using SSRS.  - Capacity planning in tandem with storage, network, server administration.  - Responsible for designing, creating and deploying the reports into the production server.  - Identified slow running query and optimization of stored procedures and tested applications for performance, data integrity using SQL  Profiler.  - Generated Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Subscriptions for the analysis of managers and end users by using SSRS.  - Created SQL server configurations for SSIS packages.  - Involve in Database Design activities including Data Files and File group organization, Capacity Planning, Data Partitioning and Data  Normalization.  - Maintain training documentation and user guides relating to both promotional evaluation systems and processes. Database Administrator National Kitchen & Bath Association - Hackettstown, NJ February 2011 to August 2012 Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of MS SQL Server 2005 & 2008R2  - Installed and configured SQL Server 2008 along with Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis services (SSAS), and Reporting services  (SSRS).  - Migration of data across different databases and different server.  - Involved in Setting up and testing HA solutions like Log shipping, mirroring and Microsoft database clustering (active/active).  - Write stored procedures; configure SQL Server replication, log shipping, and/or NT directory replication; and develop other scripts or  DTS jobs for integration of business apps.  - Automated/Scripted Backup and Restore Jobs.  - Database Backup Procedures, Restoration Procedures, Disaster Recovery Procedures and Contingency plans. Testing and implementing  these procedures.  - Data Migration from legacy to master tables using SSIS- import and Export wizard.  - Performance tuning to optimize SQL queries using query analyzer and SQL server profiler..  - Identified slow running query and optimization of stored procedures and tested applications for performance, data integrity using SQL  Profiler.  - Designed index and optimized queries by using execution plan for performance tuning of the database.  - Performance monitoring/troubleshooting - gather data from traces, DMVs, performance monitor objects. Suggest/test improvements:  indexing/table structure, query code, hardware, database server configuration  - Designed Security Model by creating Users, Schemas, Roles and Permissions for SQL Server  - Responsible for writing scripts in T-SQL to create stored procedures, views, triggers.  - Monitoring Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  - Testing of application for performance, data integrity and validation issues.  - Developed and document disaster recovery plan.  - ON Call 24/7 Production Issues.  - Generated Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Subscriptions for the analysis of managers and end users by using SSRS.  - Created different type of reports including Cross-tab, Conditional, Drill-down, Sub reports also parameterized reports.  - Sorted attributes members based on a secondary attribute.  - Responsible for identifying and defining the Key Performance Indicators.  - Developed physical data models and created DDL scripts to create database schema and database objects  - Developed source to target specifications for Data Transformation Services.  - Developed functions, views and triggers for automation Internship, NY Barnes & Noble June 2010 to August 2010 Project: Database Administrator  - Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of MS SQL Server 2005 & 2008R2  - Migration of data across different databases and different server.  - Automated Backup and Restore Jobs  - Update functional specifications and technical design documents  - Trouble shooting problems by using SQL server profiler.  - Performance monitoring/troubleshooting - gather data from traces, DMVs, performance monitor objects.  - Implemented Security Model by creating Users, Schemas, Roles and Permissions for SQL Server  - Monitoring Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  - Testing of application for performance, data integrity and validation issues.  - Developed physical data models and created DDL scripts to create database schema and database objects  - Created SSIS package to schedule the jobs for batch processing.  - Performance tuning to optimize SQL queries using query analyzer.  - Created indexes, Constraints and rules on database objects for optimization.  - Database Backup Procedures, Restoration Procedures, Disaster Recovery Procedures and Contingency plans. Testing and implementing  these procedures.  - Involved in Setting up Log shipping and mirroring.  - Updating with latest service packs and security patches.  - Data Migration from legacy to master tables using SSIS- import and Export wizard. Education Wake Tech Community College May 2014 Bachelors of Computer Science University of Northern Virginia June 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE / SKILLS  - MS SQL server (2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000)  - Information Security  - Programming (T-SQL)  - Database servers  - UNIX/LINUX  - Document management  - Disaster recovery planning  - JIRA  - Strong Collaborative skills  - Designing Database using MS Visio  - SSRS- Reporting Services  - SSIS - Integration Services  - Microsoft ( Word, excel, Visio, Access)  - Excellent problem solving skills  - SQL Server Management studio  - SQL Backup - Red Gate Software  - Nitrosphere  - Crystal Reports Software  - Enterprise Manager