Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Dynamic Solution Technology Severn, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Dynamic Solution Technology April 2019 to Present • Perform Oracle Data Guard switchovers and Failovers by converting the original primary Database role to standby and physical standby database to primary,  • Conduct backup and recovery in a three node RAC environment.  • Trouble shoot locks and deadlocks frequently  • Perform Clusterware and Database upgrades and apply quarterly patches Operations Database Administrator Naval Sea System Command (NAVSEA) October 2016 to April 2019 • Supporting multiple Databases on Production, Pre-Prod and Training on Sun Solaris with daily checks, troubleshooting, and monitoring of servers.  • Run AWR Reports, gather and analyze system stats and apply best practices to enhance system performance.  • Perform daily checks, validation and initialization of Kerberos tickets.  • Apply OJVM/PSU Combo patch on all Servers, databases; Trouble and apply fixes on all invalid Java patch errors.  • Deploy, update, start, stop and delete servers using Fussion Middleware.  • Daily reviews of audit tables and logs, alert logs scheduled Payroll, Cost, AIM and PSS jobs and apply solutions.  • Monitor Sql Server Test and Production Databases and apply quarterly Oracle patches.  • Conduct daily health check on all servers, set default Security Realms, perform Servers Diagnostics, monitor log files and analyze request performance using WebLogic and Fussion middleware  • Monitor, resolve and evaluate daily trouble tickets that come in through Remedy Ticketing System.  • Frequently gather system Stats on production environment and compare/analyze results between different time periods.  • Run scripts daily to check on SAEM batch jobs, DCPS Processes, VSB Interface and check for TAAS Files.  • Daily check on Appworx to monitor, reset and trouble shoot failed jobs.  • Conduct and monitor daily backups using RMAN and perform files transfer from one database or platform to another using Tectia.  • Manage OS disk space on servers, tablespace sizes on databases and load on the entire system.  • Document Tech upgrade plan/schedule, checklist and step-by-step procedure on all DBA assigned projects, known CRON job error history with solutions and interfaces.  • Daily review of Database links, Batch job reporting, interface check, listener, invalid/hung processes, Audit table/CRON results and expired accounts.  • Restore/Recover Databases from Puget to production server; Restore corrupt datafiles.  • Create and modify scripts to run cron jobs and deliver outputs through emails.  • Perform daily checks on Job Interfaces and trouble shoots all error codes.  • Perform Database maintenance regularly and investigate invalid/old interface sessions and possibly hung as a UNIX process.  • Write bash scripts and Create Cron jobs to clean up and archive Grid Audit Records.  • Monitor external interfaces daily and trouble shoot STARS TO COST transactions.  • Frequently write and modify scripts to perform daily checks of servers, databases and connections. Oracle Database Administrator Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives December 2015 to August 2016 • Providing a Secured Database Connection using Oracle Wallet Manager and Command Prompt to Create wallets, request and import Certificates for security reasons.  • Supporting database for development, test and staging purposes on Pega Platform and Windows environments.  • Performing CRM Data migration using SQL Server SSIS.Migration from SQL server 2008 to 2012 using SSIS.  • Work with Developers in creating Class structures, Cases and Properties using Pega Application.  • Understanding Pega Scrum/Agile Methodology to achieve Sprint Goals and writing User and Test Stories  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Worked on SQL Developer Modeler and OEM using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer.  • Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, Granting required privileges to users.  • Configured Oracle Dataguard for maximum availability and maximum protection. Oracle Database Administrator Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL June 2012 to October 2015 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris, Multitenant Container databases and Windows environments.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer, Foglight.  • Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  • Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.  • Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers; evaluate and implement latest database technology and new Oracle 12c features.  • Perform database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  • Used tracing, ASH, AWR, ADDM, Explain plan and SQL tuning advisor to tune reports and jobs, from hours to minutes.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle databases environments (10/11g), upgrades, patching for security vulnerabilities (CPU and PSU).  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Data Replication and Integration using Golden Gate.  • Conducted a one-way database Replication of complete database to provide high availability and disaster recovery through Dataguard.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/10g, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Morgan Stanley - Jersey City, NJ May 2011 to June 2012 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Oracle Database Administrator HMS HOSTS - Bethesda, MD March 2010 to May 2011 • Installed and configured ORACLE 10g on HP-UX and Windows NT.  • Performed Upgradation of databases from Oracle 8i to Oracle 10g.  • Planned and implemented physical backup (both hot and cold) & recovery procedures for the database using RMAN utility of Oracle 10g.  • Implemented coalescing when required by monitoring the database for fragmentation.  • Performing table space management, monitoring data files additions, extent growth, normalization, indexing as a part of day-to-day activities.  • Done resetting of storage parameters by series of exports and imports of tables, used conventional as well as direct path loads to upload the data into the server using SQL loader.  • Prepare the documents of the process and knowledge transferring about the project to the new team members.  • Created, maintained and troubleshoot PL/SQL objects, shell scripts and utilities.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using STATSPACK, SQL TRACE & TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Separated the indexes, data, rollback segments and redo log files on separate disks to minimize contention, Monitored the buffer cache hit ratio and the dictionary cache miss ratio. The DB_BLOCK_BUFFERS and SHARED_POOL_SIZE were increased, resulting in tremendous improvement in performance.  • Creating the users and assigning them the required privileges.  • Provided 24x7 on-call support as needed.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education B.Sc. degree in Political Science University of Buea Associate in Health Information Management in Health Information Management Prince Georges Community College Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SHELL SCRIPTS, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, DISASTER RECOVERY, RMAN, FILE SYSTEMS, HP-UX, BACKUPS, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    • Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.  • Experienced in using ETL Tools to extract data from source system and bring into Data warehouse.  • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g and 12c RAC, Golden Gate, Oracle Data Guard, Shell scripts, Oracle Appliances and replication using Streams.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers; evaluate and implement latest database technology and new Oracle 12c features.  • Perform database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Highly experienced in using Oracle 10g features Flash-Back Recovery and Recycle Bin.  • Experience with Oracle 11g/10g in Installation, Administration, Monitoring, Database Backup and Recovery.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Upgrade/Migration of oracle databases from 10g to 11g and 10gRAC to 11gRAC.  • Worked on Set up, configuration and maintained Oracle Data Guard/Active Data Guard to control Primary and Secondary databases and also to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Knowledge of Pega 7.1 Application, Pega Scrum/Agile Methodology including writing user/test stories and creating cases.  • Experienced in monitoring, executing, stopping and troubleshooting crontab jobs using Toad.  • Proficient in monitoring and managing applications and server using WebLogic and Oracle fusion middleware.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.  Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Tectia, Reflection for Unix.  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, SQL* Developer Modeler, Pega Application, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import, SQL*Server 2008, 2012, SSIS, RMAN, Citrix App