Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> engineer (sr analyst) Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) - Citigroup inc Irving, TX Summary    • An Oracle DBA with over 9+ years of experience in Oracle database (12C,11g, 10g,19c) upgradation, backup and recovery, migration, performance tuning, data guard configuration, security enforcement and implementation for high availability solutions, implementation and configurations in a variety of OS environments.  • Designed and implemented disaster recovery plan using standby databases with dataguard.\Created scripts for database backup, recovery, monitoring.  • Created scripts for database backup, recovery, monitoring.  • Installed all Oracle databases on RHEL and Win2K environments.  • Participated in the full SLDC of the company.  • Monitored and tuned systems and databases to optimum levels of performance; performed system upgrades in support of business processing requirements.  • Monitored DR (Data Guard) implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  • Performed data loads using Data Pump and export/import utility.    TOOLS    Databases Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g & 12C  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy    Experience Summary:  • Experience in Oracle 11g, to 12c Migration  • Experience in 10g, 11g & 12c RAC implementation, configuration and maintenance.  • Involved in each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality Assurance phase,development and production support activities.    • Administered the replicated environments and deployed to new replication sites.participated in the database upgrade from Oracle 12c to Oracle 19c , and provided support for Oracle upgrade, application installation and operation, and database implementation at the Post.    • Installed Oracle software and implemented database and applications on the server. Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the database environment.    • Analyze the database performance and performed database performance tuning.  • Document database procedures and responsible for organizing and instructing trainings to perform upgrade oracle database and application from Oracle 11g to 12c and to 19c    • ASM disk storage management experience.  • Hands-on experience with installing ,configuring and supporting Oracle for high availability and disaster recovery with the implementation of Data Guard and RAC  • Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c, 19c  • Applied PSU/CPU Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches.  • Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization.  • Performed FLASHBACK features to handle efficient database recovery.  • Qualified at writing SHELL Scripts and using CRONTAB for automatic backups.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard.  • Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Monitor and maintain system security and Auditing.  • Hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  • Scheduling and Troubleshooting Database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM)  • Knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Meta link.  • Monitoring & Reorganizing Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.  • Skilled in using tools such as SQL Developer and TOAD.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle database engineer (sr analyst) Citigroup inc January 2017 to Present • Migrated Oracle 11g Single Instance to 12c Clustered Database  • Assist in technical direction for database maintenance, and administration for level 3 DBA's  • Evaluate and recommends available DBMS products after matching user requirements with system capabilities.  • Help developed and formulate standards, procedures, and conventions for database use.  • File organization, indexing methods and security procedures for specific user applications.  • Performed software installation/administration/configuration/migration of multiple versions of Oracle enterprise databases and Oracle application (web) servers on variety of platforms  • Implement high available solutions along with Cross platform database migrations  • Maintain secure database and software environment by deploying patches,  • Proactively improve existing database infrastructure and reporting mechanisms.  • Utilized OEM 13c to help implement database performance reporting mechanism such as Oracle database auditing along with automated notifications.  • Implement sound database backup and recovery practices.  • Perform Oracle database tuning using a variety of tools and techniques.  • Perform and support Disaster Recovery (DR) for Reporting and Failover Purposes  • Installed managed and act as a SME for all oracle database client and instant client on all supported OS.  • Currently configured Active dataguard 19c and tested its core functionalities before certifying the use in our environment.  • Currently testing and implimenting all backup and recovery scenarios using rman with netbackup.  • Currently testing and applying july 2019 psu for GI+OJVM combo patches for versions 11g and 12c in our environment towards certifying and adoption phase of our environments  • Facilitated Daily scrums, Product Backlog Refinement Session, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings for the smooth execution of the sprint.  • Coached new Product Owners on how to create user stories and worked with them to keep the backlog prioritized.  • Proactively identified and found ways to resolve issues to prevent distractions and keep projects on track.  • Resolved impediments for the development team by actively working with stakeholders and extended team members.  • Collaborated with clients from concept through final delivery of product or service.  • Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services.  • Helped teams' transition from Waterfall to Agile Methodology and facilitated Scrum  Ceremonies to help in the execution of the project.  • Extraction of business rules for the utilities and documenting it as High level and Low level design  • Trained and mentored team members on the best and most effective ways to use scrum processes. Oracle Database Administrator Pinnelas county Government - Tampa, FL January 2016 to December 2016 • DBA for production and project support. Managing over 120 databases ranging from 200G to 1terabytes on both linux and windows platforms.  • Scheduled backups on both oracle scheduler as well as crontab and monitor database backups  • Scheduled maintenance jobs to monitor file system usage  • Set up threshold for and data storage management  • Install, patch and maintain all Oracle software  • Tune all Oracle instance components including SQL and PL/SQL  • Approve all production schema changes  • Approve changes to database design  • Control all migrations of Oracle schema objects  • Design and implement a backup & recovery system  • Implement Oracle failover technology  • Implements and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  • Performs ongoing tuning of the database instances.  • Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing, education and production usage  • Provides technical support to application development teams. This is usually in the form of a help desk. The DBA is usually the point of contact for Oracle Corporation  • Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Create new database users as required.  • Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.    Kahak solutions Oracle Database Administrator November 2013 to December 2015 • DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on LINUX Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  • Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases ( 10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3, SunOS 5.8 & HP-UX B.11.11)  • Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 11g database control, oracle 11g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper, DBArtisan and dbXpert for Oracle).  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 11g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.  • Backup/Recovery monitoring and reporting using Oracle RMAN  • Technical documentation of all configurations, installations, implementations, monitoring and testing projects for future utilization.  • Work closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.  • Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 11g to 12c.  • Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches. Oracle Database Administrator Barclaycardus Bank, Wiimington, DE June 2010 to 2013 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on LINUX platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 10g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases. Education BACHELORS DEGREE in EDUCATION BANKING AND FINANCE UNIVERSITY OF BUEA Skills Aix (5 years), Solaris, Sun, Unix (9 years), Ux, Vpn (5 years), Hp-ux, Cisco, Jira (3 years), Checkpoint, Emc