ORACLE DBA ORACLE DBA ORACLE DBA - FIRST TENNESSE BANK Washington, DC Work Experience ORACLE DBA FIRST TENNESSE BANK - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to Present Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DataGuard with physical  standby effectively configured and used DataGuard Broker utility.  • Installed and currently Managing Oracle 12c Grid Control (OEM) for monitoring Production, Active  Data guard (DG Broker), Stage and Dev systems.  • Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12 databases of 2.0 TB Node production 10g and 11g RAC  databases using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Installed and configured golden gate for replication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application  using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 10G to 12C.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab.  • Setup notifications (various levels for Cluster activities, tablespace utilizations, Listener alerts ) using  OEM  • Setup the unidirectional replication on oracle 11g databases using Goldengate.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting the gaps between source and target databases configured with goldengate.  • Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive  data using column encryption and tablespace encryption.  • Responsible for Maintenance and Support of multi-terabyte databases in production, testing and development environments. (Sun Solaris, Linux Redhat)  • Successfully installed Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) including; Grid infrastructure  (Clusterware and ASM) and Oracle rdbms software on a 3 nodes RAC architecture in development  and UAT running oracle.  • Configured 12c Oracle grid infrastructures & Oracle database software to meet the current needs and upgraded as required to meet the expansion needs of the company.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Experience in Capacity Planning, Space Management, Database Upgrades / Migration Data  Extraction  • Performance Tuning of SQL statements and Database Tuning using tools like Explain plan, SQL  Analyze, ADDM, and AWR reports.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database through Database Tuning - Tuning  Applications, Tuning Instance, and Tuning Disk Usage. Debugging SQL tuning  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various  types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Migrate databases from Oracle and AWS vice versa.  • Managed databases in Exadata. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR KEYBANK - Cleveland, OH June 2013 to July 2016 Applied Bug fixes patches and Quarterly Security Patches for the stand-alone databases and 2-node  RAC databases with in the maintenance window.  • Installed RAC/GRID Infrastructure on Oracle 11g and worked on ASM feature of Oracle on HP- UNIX/LINUX. Worked on the ACFS file system and scheduled backup using RMAN on ACFS file  system sharing between the nodes  • Maintained a 2-node RAC environment on LINUX AS 4.0(RHEL) for the staging purpose to support  the business requirements and provide High Availability.  • Upgraded DEV/Qa/performace databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2  • Installed and configured golden gate for replication.  • Managed DSS (Decision Support System) and OLTP (On Line Transaction Processing system) full  life cycle projects with multiple databases at one time, biggest database around 10 TBytes  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Data loads using SQL*Loader and refresh the test environments using Data Pump export/import  • Ministering the databases using Grid Control including but not limited to Space Management, Performance Tuning, and Workload Analysis (AWR, ADDM)  • Involved in setting up disaster recovery sites using Data Guard technology. Configuring the Physical  Standby, active data guard and snapshot standby database  • Used Shell Scripts to automate database operation and schedule jobs using CRONTAB  • Working with Oracle Support to fix the production issues and also to get the merge patches.  • Providing application support to create database objects and apply database changes. Education Oracle Certified Associate MONTGOMERY COLLEGE Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql