SQL developer SQL developer SQL developer - System Plus Inc Work Experience SQL developer System Plus Inc - Washington, DC December 2018 to Present • Field support calls and emails from employees  • Answer employee's inquiries and provide technical support and troubleshooting of desktop, laptop and tablet systems hardware and software, network, printers, phones and mobile devices  • Assist with the installation, configuration, and deployment of software on new desktops, laptops and tablets  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, and conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems, when needed, in providing technical assistance and support  • Document services requests, issues, and resolutions in corporate ticketing system  • Provide on-site support for those in the local office and remote support for those outside the building  • Identify incident trends and recommend preventative solutions  • Assist with maintenance, configuration and management of user accounts on FTP system  • Manage permissions and assist in providing needed functionality, including PowerPivot, within SharePoint Server  • Track/monitor system performance and activity; create, manage and respond to alerts  • Perform software installation and upgrades  • Assist with the management and maintenance of IIS configuration on our web servers  • Worked with eGrant, eGrants classic, phase2, eSpan, JIRA, also staff portal Oracle Database Administrator Copper Mobile - Dallas, TX February 2016 to September 2018 • Worked with customer for different RAC related issue: [hangcheck timer, split brain, hugepages setup etc]; Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances (GC events)  • Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and also defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Monitoring and maintaining 2/3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Generated and automated Statspack/AWR reports from Oracle database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, table space growth, and database growth.  • Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to ERP jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of testing using RMAN.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  • Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Performing database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments.  • Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and active Data Guard for faster Disaster Recovery.  • Installed and Configured OEM grid control for maintenance administering the databases.  • Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  • Used Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading Oracle10gR2 to the latest Oracle 11gR2 and applied patches as required.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN for development and production databases.  • Database cloning from Production to Test and Development environments.  • Extensively worked on applying patches (CPU&PSU) whenever required.  • Schema Refreshing of databases using normal copy method and exp/imp utility.  • Cloning database and schemas using Data pump for 10g and 11g versions.  • Cloning 10g and 11g databases using RMAN duplication (with and without backup).  • ASM Disk storage and user Management  • Monitoring the Hit Ratios and tuning the System Global Area (SGA) accordingly.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, and operating system.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator Walgreen Company - Deerfield, IL March 2012 to January 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Enterprise Manager Cloud Control to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases  • Deploying, automating maintaining AWS Cloud based production system, to ensure the availability. Performance, scalability and security of production systems  • Configuring Data Guard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.  • Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB and automated the process through crontab.  • Ran Scripts for Health Check on Exadata Storage Servers.  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Writing shell scripts for purging trace files, alert log and network log files in Linux boxes which is used as standard script across all the databases.  • Using PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX shell scripting (Implemented UNIX scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and windows task scheduler.  • Installing the oracle software using silent feature and also created databases.  • Writing SHELL SCRIPTS for the system database for effective functionality and report generation,  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes. Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, RMAN, HP-UX, VPN, CISCO, PERL, SCRIPTING, RDBMS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import