Oracle and PostgreSQL Database Administrator Oracle and PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle and PostgreSQL Database Administrator - BMC Software Houston, TX Work Experience Oracle and PostgreSQL Database Administrator BMC Software - Houston, TX September 2016 to Present Oracle and PostgreSQL Database Administrator  I am an Oracle and PostgreSQL DBA with 6 years oracle experience in total and 2 years exposure as PostgreSQL DBA at my last environment within that 6 years. In my career, I have worked on OLTP and OLAP; test and production environment carrying DBA activities aimed at ensuring database performance and availability. I also handled performance tuning, conducted backups and ensured integrity and security in the database. I have worked on Unix/Linux, AIX and Windows. During this period, I have worked with PostgreSQL databases as support where I migrated data from Oracle to PostgreSQL in AWS cloud. I have also been involved in variety of oracle projects such as; configuration of single and Real Application Cluster for HA and scalability, Golden gate for replication, Data guard for disaster recovery, perform updates and quarterly patches where necessary. I am proactive, team player and good with documentation.  Database & Software: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c; PostgreSQL 9.5, 9.6, 10 Operating System: Linux, AIX, Windows server  Oracle Skills: TOAD, OEM Grid Control, Performance tuning, RMAN, RAC, DATAGAURD, GOLDENGATE, UPGRADE AND PATCHING, AWR, ADDM, STA, SAA, ASH.  Environment: Oracle10g, 11g, 12c, PostgreSQL 9.5, 9.6., 10, Windows, Red hat Linux 6.4 and 7, AIX, TOAD 11.6, MS Office, Import/Export, Data pump, RMAN, RAC, Oracle Enterprise Manager (GC), DataGuard, Golden Gate, ASM, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, Remedy, AWS Cloud.  PostgreSQL skill: pgAdmin, PgBouncer, pgBadgepg_basebackup, pgbackrest, pg_dump, pg_restore, pg_upgrade, pgHero, EXPLAIN ANAYZE.  BMC Software - Houston, TX  September 2016 - Present  Oracle DBA Experience  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g on Red hat.  • Successfully upgraded Oracle 10g (10.2) to Oracle 11g (11.2), 11.3, 12c  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 11g to 12c. as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features.  • Monitoring System Resources, understanding and troubleshooting Database issues in Production Environment.  • Migrate Database across different servers and platforms using Transportable Tablespaces (TTS) and Data Pump Export/Import and perform database Refresh and RMAN Cloning between 10g/11g and 12c  environments.  • Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.  • Able to Installed and configured EM Central Grid control (OEM Grid) to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.  • Manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements.  • database performance, availability, handle performance tuning, conducting backups and ensure integrity and security in the database.  • Supporting databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on, Linux/Unix, Windows, AIX, environments.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA)  • Implemented table partitioning, Rebuilding Indexes, tuning SQL using SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, ASM, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader  • Worked with SQL developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Able to manage alerts and notification, jobs and Solve ORA errors and fix bugs with the help of Oracle support and Meta Link.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 11g and 12c for production database, Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes  • Able to fix gap Resolution in Data guard environment.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on Redhat, setup table level and as well as DDL replication as well.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager) and Database Flashback using GRP (Guaranteed Restore Point ) and Export and Import (Datapump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Automated the nightly RMAN backups for the Production and Test Databases using Crontab.  • Diagnosis and repair of Physical and Logical Block Corruptions.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle12c, 11g, 10g  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  POSTGRESQL DBA EXPERIENCE  • I have about 2 years exposure working on PostgreSQL databases.  • I had exposure to cross platform migrations preferably oracle to postgresql. I documented and assisted as an oracle dba data migration from oracle databases to PostgreSQL database in AWS cloud.  • I have been involved in Installing/configuring PostgreSQL. Mainly Three PostgreSQL VERSIONS 9.5, 9.6. and recently worked with PostgreSQL VERSIONS 10.  • managed and monitored these databases using pgAdmin, psql,  • USE pgHero for Performance TUNING mostly, SQL Tuning using EXPLAIN ANAYZE and PG_STAT_ACTIVITY  • creating roles, granting privileges, creating tables, use of indexes, and primary & foreign key constraints as required  • Assisted in production support based on a ticketing system and, also teaming up to defining and implementing maintenance plan for the database system.  • I have performed maintenance activities like vacuum, vacuum full, analyze; Checking the auto vacuum jobs, customized vacuum on certain tables and columns.  • Use PgBouncer for connection pooling, pgBadger for generating statistic reports  • Some experience of tuning PostgreSQL database settings & Troubleshooting performance issues, Managing Users and Tablespace on PostgreSQL Servers.  • Working knowledge of pgAdmin tool.  • Used Customized scripts, to monitor database growth, TABLE growth, automated backups using cronjobs.  • Hands on experience on restoration techniques on PostgreSQL like pg_restore and (PITR) Point in Time  Recovery.  • Familiar backups (pg_basebackup, pgbackrest, pg_dump, ) and restore, compressed (gzip) backups, database or schema refreshes.  • Configuring streaming replication (including cascading replication). I have configured a replication betweenmaster and slave, and monitoring on-going replication  • Upgrading database version (pg_dump/pg_restore and pg_upgrade). Oracle Database Administrator Cooper Vision, Inc - Rochester, NY October 2013 to September 2016 Analyzed and tuned the Database to identify potential database issues such as response delay, locking  contention, even server down time by using tools like, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.  • Performed disk and disk group management in ASM while installing 11gR2 RAC.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Ensured that oracle database systems operate securely and efficiently.  • Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  • Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning  • Performed database performance tuning, AWR reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues  • Implemented Data Guard on Oracle 11g with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Monitoring several databases varying Terra byte sizes using Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing  Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and SQL Trace  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Worked on user management mainly on grants, privileges, roles and profiles.  • Worked closely with project managers, programmers, and testers to ensure the database integrity and security and generated test data and tested new database consistency with existing databases to meet the functionalities requirements. Education Bachelor in Sociology and Anthropology in Sociology and Anthropology University of Buea