ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Citizens Bank, Rhode Island Cranston, RI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Citizens Bank, Rhode Island February 2018 to Present • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Configures backups using Net backup, monitoring and troubleshooting daily backup failures. Oversees monitoring and performance tuning to ensure database remains healthy on consistent basis.  • Performed upgrade from 10g to 11g ant to 12C using DBUA, and applied Oracle quarterly patches to 11g software.  • Created user accounts and accorded appropriate privileges. Created database objects.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespaces (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C to Exadata.  • Provided 24/7 support and reported to lead DBA. Configured flash Recovery Area.  • Working Knowledge of E-business suite and Exadata.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC January 2015 to January 2018 • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Proficiency with Installation and maintenance of replication tool Golden Gate by creating extract process, extract pump, and replicate.  • Responsible in configuring Integrated Extract (to support Compressed table extraction) and Co-ordinated replicate after upgrading Golden Gate to 12.1  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  • Installed 12c database  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and stand-alone database  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR American Home Patient - Nashville, TN June 2012 to December 2014 • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Performed upgrade from 10g to 11g using DBUA, and applied Oracle quarterly patches to 11g software.  • Created user accounts and accorded appropriate privileges. Created database objects.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.    RDBMS:  Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g  Tools:  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM, Toad, Putty, NX client, WinScp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client.  Database Utilities:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Datapump, Export, Import. Education BS in Accounting University of Buea Skills software configuration, upgrade, Patching, Database creation, Performance tuning, Backup and recovery, Dataguard, Rac, and Goldengate, Migration Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information General Skills: Windows Client (2000 Server, XP, Vista, Windows 7), Windows Server (Server 2003), UNIX (Sun Solaris, HP-UX 11i v2), Linux (Red Hat, Centos), Microsoft Office Suite