Oracle Application Database Administrator Oracle Application <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Application Database Administrator - AT&T Services, Inc St. Louis, MO 4+ years of experience in Oracle Database Administration, Design & Development, Implementation and Testing of Relational Database Management systems for Business solutions Extensive experience in database development and production system support, Oracle Database Administration on 24x7 critical production and large databases using Oracle 12cRAC,11gRAC, 10g RAC and 12c Standalone database.  • Providing DBA support to multipleCluster, Non-cluster and ASM Database in production, development and Testing Servers on UNIX, Linux and Solaris Environments.  • Handful of experience in Oracle Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) in various environment ranging from 9i/10g/11g/12c.  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c database with experience within very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Having Hands on experience working in both Application and Production support environment.  • Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.  • Having good experience in configuring OEM 12C cloud control and monitoring databases using OEM 10g/11g/12c, Configuration and Management of Data Guard 10g/11g/12c on RHEL, OEL and Sun-Solaris for Disaster Recovery.  • Expertise in setup/implementation/maintenance of Real-Application-Cluster (RAC) of 2/3 Node RAC on 10g/11g/12c.  • Installed and maintained Oracle 12c/11g/10g RAC with ASM & OCFS2 File systems.  • Experience of Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate Extract and Replicate issues.  • Extensive troubleshooting of typical Oracle Golden gate technical issues: such as differences in the rows count from source to target, column mismatch errors, unique key violation by using ggsci / logdump/discard file & ggserr.log analysis.  • Performed Upgradation of databases from lower version (9i/10g) to higher version (11g).  • Implemented RMAN Backup and Recovery, Incomplete Recovery and disaster recovery using Data Guard.  • Have good experience in migrating data from Solaris, HP-Unix to Linux.  • Worked on disaster recovery, Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental, cumulative backup and implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • System administration, Oracle Problem analysis & resolution and active cloning of databases between servers.  • Testing and implementing different physical (hot/cold), logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, and data pump export/import.  • Database refresh from production to QA, development and testing environments.  • Detecting and diagnosing production system performance problem by analyzing STATSPACK reports, Oracle trace and log files, AWR, ADDM, analyzing SQL statements, measuring system and database activity, Querying Oracle dynamic performance views.  • Analyzed STATSPACK/AWR Reports to identify on-going/proactive issues and Proactive Database tuning to keep hit ratios at a minimum standard guideline using STATSPACK and AWR reports.  • Support databases in Exadata environment and worked on Exadata x3-2, x4-2, x2-2 machines  • Developed both database and OS-level security policies for data protection and having good experience in Working with Oracle security, Transparent Data Encryption, Oracle Wallet Management and Oracle Identity management.  • Performing Database or schema level refreshes using the traditional EXPORT/IMPORT and Data pump or Backup utilities.  • Experience in SQL Tuning, SQL Optimization, cost based optimization and Hints.  • Proficient in raising TAR with Oracle Support and using Meta-link to resolve the bottlenecks in the database environments.  • Extensively used BMC Remedy, Pac 2000 ticketing systems.  • Worked proactively and gave 24/7 on-call production support and Weekend support for maintenance and server level patching.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills with ability to work independently and in a team environment. Work Experience Oracle Application Database Administrator AT&T Services, Inc - St. Louis, MO October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation and use of High Availability and Disaster Recovery components; Oracle GRID Infrastructure / Clusterware, Oracle 12c two node RAC for the database tier.  • Planning and implementing DR & high availability solutions using Oracle 11g /12c Standby Database using Dataguard.  • Installed GoldenGate on 12c RAC and Various Standalone environments. Configured Integrated Extract and Replicat on Multitenant database 12.1.0.2 and Performed Cross platform migration and used Oracle GoldenGate to migrate database from IBM-AIX 6.1 to OEL 6.1.  • Configured Bidirectional Oracle Golden Gate replication Active/Active across various sites with Conflict Detection and Resulation (CDR)  • Configured Extract,Pump,Replicat for GoldenGate replication 11g/12c and Troubleshooting issues in GoldenGate Environment.  • Used Logdump Utility to Investigate data on the trail and defgen to create definition files used for replication.  • Performed Zero-Down Time migration from Hp-Unix to Oracle Enterprise Linux using Expdp and Golden Gate and Ongoing proactive database-level performance tuning, with a good working knowledge of Oracle internals.  • Used OEM 11g/12c and Administering Oracle Database 10g, 11g and 12c databases and masking sensitive data in production databases.  • Patching & upgrades on Oracle 12c database (whilst minimizing or eliminating the impact to live services, i.e. using rolling node patching).  • Upgraded databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12c in QA and Prod environments.  • Worked on Oracle Enterprise Manager Express for Oracle 12c RAC standard.  • Working with logical backup using Data pump and Exports/Imports Utility.  • Database Load and Transformation Techniques (SQL Loader, External Tables).  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Autosys for RMAN database backups and recoveries and Cloned databases using RMAN Utility.  • Installation and use of Oracle ASM (as well as traditional file system storage).  • Monitored DR (Data Guard) implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  • Creation of Users and granting them the required Roles and Privileges accordingly.  • Responsible for all database activities such as User management, space management, database security management, rollback segments & creation of DB links between oracle servers.  • Working with the Oracle Support Mechanisms; My Oracle Support (Metalink), Raising Service Requests.  Environment: Oracle 12c, RHEL 5/6, IBM-AIX 6.1, OEM, RMAN, Grid, Dataguard, ACFS, RAC, ASM, GoldenGate, TOAD, APEX, SQL*LOADER, Performance Tuning, Data pumps, Exports/Imports Oracle Database Administrator Wilson Bank and Trust - Hermitage, TN November 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on maintenance of Oracle 10g/11g RAC databases on Linux and Configured 3 Node RAC on Grid Infrastructure.  • Administered and monitored over 120 databases both on 10g/11g prod/test/dev environments.  • Administering Oracle Databases 10g/11g/12C of sizes ranging from 100GB to 10TB.  • Migrated databases from File-system to Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Involved in migrating applications from Solaris 10g/11g to Linux 11.2.0.3 using Transportable Tablespace, RMAN Convert.  • Up-gradation of single instance databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 on Linux.  • Responsible for using Flashback querymechanism along with automatic undo management.  • Installed 12C grid control and Used Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 11g/12c for monitoring databases  • Involved in Mass Agent Deployment using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  • Implemented Data Guard with maximum availability and performance configurations for production databases.  • Worked on Active data guard, Fail over and Switch over cases.  • Installed Oralce Golden Gate and configured Bi Directional replication between various database on 11gR2 RAC environment.  • Hands on Experience in SQL Tuning and SQL Optimization.  • Created Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views.  • Worked on database security, Transparent Data Encryption, Created tables with Encrypted Columns and Managed Encryption Keys  • Implemented the TDE column encryption to encrypt sensitive data stored in Tables for Security Remediation.  • Creation of Users and granting them the required Roles and Privileges accordingly  • Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using Data pump utility  • Decreased Contention by reducing the Wait Events as a part of Performance Tuning  • Implemented Backup and Recovery Strategies using RMAN and used Recovery advisor to repair data block corruptions& data dictionary corruptions  • Generate and interpret Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports.  • Responsible for all database activities such as User management, space management, databasesecurity management, rollback segments& creation of DB links between oracle servers  • Ability to work effectively and can liaise as a part of team monitoring proactively  Involved in 24x7 production database maintenance and on-call support.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, RHEL 5/6, SOLARIS, IBM AIX, OEM, RMAN, Grid, RAC, ASM, Data-guard, Golden Gate, TOAD, TDE, SQL*LOADER, Performance Tuning, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Data pumps, Exports/Imports Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Colorado Technical University Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering Vignan's University Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, MYSQL, ODBC, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, RMAN, VERITAS, HP-UX, VERITAS NET BACKUP