Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - Howard Systems International Charlotte, NC Dynamic, dedicated, hands-on, bilingual servant-leader with experience in handling large enterprise software development projects efficiently and accurately. Demonstrate excellent ability to coordinate, coach, facilitate and collaborating with single and multiple Scrum teams with optimal results. Skilled in providing effective leadership in fast-paced, budget-constrained, deadline-driven environments with outstanding oral and written communication skills. Background as a Database Administrator provides informed perspective on the challenges facing Development Teams and offers unique touch in the leadership qualities expected of a Scrum Master. Obtained effective academic training suitable for the industry and possess leadership qualities, team spirit and customer care imperative in the profession.    CORE AREAS OF COMPETENCE  Product/Project Management Documentation skills  Agile/Scrum Principles. Product Development  Process Documentation. Process Improvement  Quality Assurance. Estimation and Budgeting  Prioritizing/Multi-tasking Leadership/Team Building Work Experience Scrum Master Howard Systems International - Raleigh, NC April 2014 to Present • Proficiently organized and facilitated scrum events such as the daily scrum, scrum reviews, retro, sprints and release planning  • Effectively tracked team's progress using burn down and burn up charts, team velocity and release forecasting  • Expertly promoted continuous improvements and helped teams increase productivity and foster innovation.  • Functioned as a Project Manager when necessary  • Collaborated closely with Product Owners on backlog grooming to keep Product backlog relevant and prioritized  • Worked with Scrum Masters across different teams to prepare for and facilitate potentially shippable increment planning sessions  • Assisted team to remove impediments by having an understanding the control and release processes  • Contribute to product roadmap planning, project scheduling and release management.  • Identify and remove organization and team impediments to enhance productivity and optimize results.  • Assisted with internal and external communication, improved transparency, and radiated information  • Assisted with prioritization and resolution of software defects  • Built relationship with Product owner and other stake holders to facilitate team's interaction with them  • Coached Product Owners in creation and maintenance of Product Backlog  • Coached team members on Agile principles and providing general guidance on the methodology  • Continuously learned Agile/Scrum techniques and shared findings with the team  • Engaged with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization  • Facilitated getting the work done without coercion, assigning, or dictating the work  • Facilitated sprint planning, retrospective and sprint demos  • Helped team to solve problems rather than provide solutions  • Interfaced with Program Management Office to ensure project goals and requirements are being met  • Organized and facilitated project planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint, release planning, demos, and other Scrum-related meetings  • Provided all support to the team using a servant leadership style whenever possible, and led by example  • Removed impediments by finding the right personnel to remove the impediment  • Took responsibility of delivery and management of the tasks Oracle Database Administrator Dynamics Resources - Chicago, IL February 2011 to March 2014 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Cloned pluggable database in existing container database.  • Troubleshoot memory leaks related to Oracle 12c database instance, ASM instance and tuning application related issues, queries associated with pluggable databases.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Maintaining UNIX scripts for monitoring and backup.  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g and to Oracle 12c RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQLPlus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0.    TECHNICAL TOOLS  Project Management  MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office, Trello, Jira, SAFe.    Databases  Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g    Oracle Database Tools  SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, Toad Education BSc. in Computer Science University of Dschang Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) April 2019 to Present