SENIOR ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SENIOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SENIOR ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - ASSURANT INC Over 11+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator has hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, shell scripting and documentation.    * Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 10g, 11g &12c with experience within very large-scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  * Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 11g/12c in HP-UX, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX and RHEL Environment.  * Experienced in Installation of high availability RAC environment and upgraded standalone databases to 11g RAC environment.  * Experience with Real Application Clusters RAC and Automatic Storage Management ASM, RMAN, Oracle Data Guard.  * Installed Configured and Administered Golden gate replication and migrated missing critical databases using Golden Gate.  * Proficient in setting up Standby Database using RMAN, activating and Re-building Standby Databases both Physical and Logical supported by DATAGUARD.  * Experience in setting up SSL configuration between client and database server for securing connections using TCPS protocol.  * Extensive experience in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, SQLT, AWR and ADDM.  * Extensive experience in analyzing the 10046-event trace files for resolving performance issues.  * Extensive experience in fixing the bad SQL explain plan using SQL Profile/Baseline and SQLT.  * Experience in applying security patches to the databases standalone and RAC environments.  * Cloned the databases using RMAN Duplicate and using manual method (Restoring database using RMAN and renaming using NID utility).  * Expertise in database upgrade of Oracle Development and Production databases Oracle 10g/11g & 12c using manual approach.  * Extensive experience in flashing back the database to restore point.  * Good experience in Migration of databases on different ending platform using data pump and transportable table space.  * Experience in automating the daily schema and table level refreshes and automated the database alerts mechanism using UNIX Shell script.  * Widely used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for administering databases for monitoring the databases and troubleshooting the performance issues.  * Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical skills, Documentation & Problem-solving skills with customer service oriented attitude. A very good team player, self-motivated, dedicated in any work environment. Work Experience SENIOR ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ASSURANT INC May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  Support up to 5TB of Business Critical Databases  play a lead role in database optimization and instance and resource monitoring.  Conducting Performance Review of Oracle Databases for business critical applications with Senior Leadership, team and Involve in the discussion of designing the new applications and deciding the databases design model and migration strategy.  Upgraded Oracle 10g/11g databases to Oracle 11g R2 (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) and 12c (12.1.0.2, 12.2.0.1  Managed projects by developing implementation plans and timelines, providing weekly status reports, preparing technical documentation pertaining to various projects, exchanging relevant information with management and technical teams, and meeting timelines established.  Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries. Use Explain Plan and Oracle optimizer hints to enhance performance of SQL statements. Work actively on SQLT, OEM, AWR, ADDM, and ASH in resolving performance related issues.  Identify Top SQLs that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  Monitor and report on daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non-production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic complete, cumulative and differential incremental backups.  Testing and implementing different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, expdp/impdp.  Creating Database Guaranteed Restore Point before application upgrade and flashing back the database in case required by application team.  Implementation of Flashback Technology and Created and monitored database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users and DB links  Fixing the bad execution plan by pining the good execution plan for SQLs using SQL Baseline/SQLT, Use Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements.  Set up & manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges  Migration of databases of size 5TB using Golden Gate with minimum downtime.  Configuration of ACL for email communication using SMTP server.  Performing Database refreshes of size 1TB+ at schemas and table level using data pump utility.  Configure and set up Oracle Data Guard environment for disaster recovery purpose and Active Data Guard for reporting purpose.  Perform the Dry run for disaster recovery using Snapshot database and actual annual disaster recovery test by using the Data Guard Switchover functionality.  Resolving Undo issues during the database refresh of LOB table's size of 500+ GB.  Taking care of table space related issues like increasing the storage parameter values, resizing the data files, adding new data files etc.Environment: Oracle 12c/11g HP-UX, RHEL 6.8/7.3,Oracle Golden Gate, Physical standby Oracle Enterprise Manager, RMAN, Golden Gate. SENIOR ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MIAMI CHILDREN HEALTH SYSTEM February 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  Built Oracle 11gr2 both RAC and Non RAC servers on Linux, implemented database activities like monitoring databases servers, scheduling jobs, monitoring performance issues patches implementing on Oracle suggestions, setting up alerts, ASM Management, Data Guard implemented.  Supporting/monitoring 3-node Oracle 11gr2 RAC on RHEL platforms on high availability environment and writing shell scripting for various database maintenance and alerting activities.  Cloning the Oracle databases from Production to Development servers, supporting the development and testing team during implementation of the Project and on all DBA related issues.  Building and implementing backup and recovery using Recovery Manager RMAN, RMAN scripts and customized shell scripts on Oracle 11g data pump export/import for data transfers between various Oracle environments and for logical backups.  Monitoring and supporting day-to-day activities of the production and development databases and work on urgent issues based on call, Finding long running requests and sessions terminate them if needed.  Assisted the other members of development team with application tuning and identifying inefficient SQL statements written by the developers using Explain Plan, SQL trace and TKPROF and assisted the team in using Optimizer hints in the SQL statements to improve performance.  Sound troubleshooting, root cause analysis and performance tuning skills at database and OS levels with database backup recovery skills including hot/cold/storage backups complete/point in time recoveries.  Analysis of data requirements, data modeling, conceptual/ logical/physical database design. Involved in complete system development life cycle SDLC in building large high availability and high performance databases including architecture, designing partitioning, database sizing, installation, configuration, implementation and administration of Oracle RAC databases.  Managed on Oracle Enterprise Manager OEM, Automatic Workload Repository AWR , Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor ADDM , Active Session History ASH , TKPROF, CRSCTL, SRVCTL, EMCTL, DBCA, and CLUVFY for database administration.  Administering/adding/removing resources to Grid Infrastructure and setting up of 11G RAC cluster ware and instances.  Upgraded the Oracle 11gR2/12c Grid Infrastructure and database using manual method. Setup, Configured 11g Data Guard (Physical/Logical Standby) using RMAN. Performed DR test using restore point/ Snapshot Standby.  Database Security Administration involving creation of users, managing their roles and privileges.Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/, AIX 6.1/7.1, RHEL 5.10/6, Oracle 11gR2 RAC, Logical/Physical standby Oracle Enterprise Manager, RMAN, Golden Gate. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR EJ WARD September 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  Responsibilities include maintaining databases, monitor daily database activity, implement customer requirements, coordination, performance tuning.  Installed and configured Oracle 9i/10g/11g Database on AIX Server on Development, Test and Production Systems.  Migration of databases from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g using RMAN backup and expdp/imdp.  Setup, Configured Oracle10g/11g Data Guard (Physical Standby) using RMAN Active Duplicate and configured Data gaurd Broker.  Administrating Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC).  Performed DR test using Switchover of Standby database and using of Snapshot Standby.  Maintenance of the RMAN repository database and configuration of backup policies.  Widely using Oracle Grid Control for monitoring the database activities.  Patching Oracle databases using OPatch utility.  Refreshing of databases, Schema, tables using expdp/impdp.  Designed and Implemented database security using Oracle roles and privileges. Set up the password for new users and then managed users and their respective sessions.  Monitoring the various database activities by developing shell scripts and using various tools.  Monitoring of database objects like rollback segments, temp segments and table spaces.  Extensively used Oracle Flash back features.  Using OEM to monitor Database health, Bottlenecks, session information, table privileges and user roles and grants.  Monitoring scheduled jobs for backups, gathering statistics, AWR reports, data guard status reports, disk space utilization report  Experience in Cross (Sun Solaris to AIX) platform migration.  Database Cloning to create Test and Development environments from Production.  Monitoring the databases locks and blocking sessions using OEM or SQL Scripts.Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Oracle Enterprise, AIX, Linux, Oracle RAC, Oracle Enterprise Manager, RMAN, AutoSys, BMC Patrol. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR BENEFIT CONCEPTS INC August 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  Designed, Installed and configured the Oracle server software 11gR2 for both standalone & RAC databases.  Administered 11g databases on File systems & ASM.  Upgraded databases from 10.2.0.4 to 11gR1/R2 on RHEL and AIX.  Involved in meetings with application team for database migration review to gather legacy information such as type of application, database options, current oracle configuration, capacity and oracle outstanding tasks.  Developed, revised and implemented policies, standards, procedures and guidelines necessary to effectively administered the database environments.  Worked on cloning instances from production to dev and stage environments  Ensure databases adhere to corporate standards and policies.  Worked with application team, developers, change management team and DBA team to ensure smooth life cycle progress from development through testing and production implementation.  Monitoring and maintaining 3 node 11g RAC databases. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  Implementing backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  Database refreshes using export /import and datapump.  Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  Perform Database Tuning & Performance, Storage Management, Plan growth and changes (capacity planning), Database Monitoring, Security Management and Tuning SQL queries.  Involved in Performance Planning and Tuning, using baselines and proactive monitoring, bottleneck elimination and the wait event interface to identify issues.  Developed views, materialized views, functions, procedures, triggers, packages using PL/SQL & SQL to transform data between source staging area to target staging area. Rebuilt indexes for better performance of Oracle database.  Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  Day-to-Day General Administration Table space Management, Undo Management, Managing Users, Resources, Managing User Privileges and Roles.  Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinating with Oracle support through meta-link to resolve them in timely manner. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology Information Technology Osmania University Skills Database administrator, Database, Oracle, Sql, Rman Additional Information Professional Skills  DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR: Expert  ORACLE: Expert  SQL: Expert  RMAN: Expert