Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Oracle corporation - CO Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Oracle corporation - CO January 2016 to Present Environment: Oracle software 11g - 19C, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, OEM, TOAD 13.0. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10, MS SQL server, Exadata Server 12- 19    Responsibilities:  • Patch Exadata databases to higher versions of Oracle, with all exadata components (YUM, CELLS, IB) with high trouble shouting skills  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from different Oracle versions.  • Upgraded to 19C 18C 12c Grid Infrastructure from 12C  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Performed Database Maintenance Tasks, Rebuilding Fragmented tables, gathering statistics, refreshing materialized views, created partition tables and maintaining index's  • Enabled Flashback for database to create restore points and supporting DDL changes  • Used Oracle database vault and proactively protecting application data, Created Oracle Wallet, Enabling Transparent Data Encryption, Automatic Login Enabled for Transparent Data Encryption, Setting and Resetting the Master Key, Adding and Removing Salt from an Encrypted Columns, created encrypted table spaces and backup wallet and master keys to tapes  • Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.  • Login for the Keystore for cdb$root and Pluggable databases  • Applied PSU quarterly on 11g/12c GRID & RDBMS homes using opatch auto and Up-gradation of 11g/12c databases and Implementing catalog backup from RMAN  • Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in handling large databases upto 4TB in size and largest table of size 60GB with 145 million records.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases  • Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.  • Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.  • Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.  • Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.  • Performance tuning of Oracle instances  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using Oracle Data Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups. Senior Oracle/SQL Database Administrator Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO July 2012 to January 2016 Environment: Oracle 12C, 11.2.0.3, SQL server, Teradata, Dataguard, RAC, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SQL* LOADER, TOAD, OEM 12C, RAC, MS SQL server, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10, Teradata, Golden Gate, SSMS, Foglight    Responsibilities:  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.    • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.    • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Upgrades and Patches-Installation of oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Proficiency and expertise in SQL Server Replication, Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and planning.  • Extensive experience in Capacity planning, Performance Tuning, Disaster Recovery, troubleshooting, backup and restore procedures.  • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Experience in Maintaining SQL Server Security, creation of logins and users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database.  • RMAN CLONING-Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Performance-Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Data Migration/REPLICATION-Extensively used ORACLE GOLDEN GATE and ORACLE DATAGUARD for data replication and protection. Also used Data pump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from other databases.  • Security-Managing database security.  • Security-Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Performance Tuning-Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Performed in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Integration Services (SSIS) to manage data warehouse environment  • Performance Tuning-Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Network-Configured Listener and Tnsnames.  • Performance Tuning-Performing regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Database Links-Created database links between two databases to access data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Experience in implementing SQL Server Security and object permission like maintaining creation of users, configuring permissions database authentication modes and assigning roles of users.  • Backup & Recovery-Planned database backups (operating system, full/incremental database backups, Data pump, or export/import)  • SDLC-Provide 24/7 support to during production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Proficient in SQL Server Replication, Always on, Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and Capacity planning.  • Expert in tuning database by choosing indexes and using tools Database engine tuning advisor, SQL Profiler.  • Worked on Clustering and server consolidation, troubleshooting production issues and raising high availability.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g 12C Education Certified Associate University Of Buea Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix