Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Wells Fargo Wilson Escobar is an accomplished, Certified ORACLE Database Administrator, and IT security expert with over 6  years of experience with extensive expertise and dexterity in Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Security  Implementation, Cloning, Backup & Recovery, Replication, and Database Design. He is also proficient in various  technologies such as Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, 18c, SQL loader, MySQL, and MS SQL server. He also acquires  prosperous verbal, written, analytical and organizational abilities. With Motivational Management style, known for  building and retaining highly motivated teams and expansion of innovative solutions. A dynamic affluent person  who can gracefully manage multiple priorities and perform extraordinary under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo - College Park, MD October 2013 to Present Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple  data centers.Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms  using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  ? Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT),  reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  ? Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA  respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update(CPU/PSU application) using Opatch utility to instal, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  ? Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN  Duplicate.  ? Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  ? Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data  Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  ? Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery  solutions (DATA GUARD).  ? Leaded and supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  ? Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of  incident reports.  ? Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load  balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  ? Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  ? Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  ? Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65%  increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  ? Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Generating Standard operating procedures  (SOPs) Oracle Database Administrator Fitness Evolution - Silver Spring, MD June 2011 to July 2013 Implemented a backup and recovery strategy policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and Datapump  ? General database administration task like installation of Oracle 10g and 11g, creation of users and roles, managing tablespaces, and ensuring database functionality.  ? Generating Standard Operating procedures (SOPs) to ease operational support  ? Highly skilled in SQL, Sqlplus including DML, DDL, and writing quieres.  ? System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  ? Specialize in one way and multi way replication between oracle DBs using GoldenGate and Oracle Streams  ? Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  ? Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  ? Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  ? Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  ? Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  ? Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  ? Performing Database maintenance and upgrades which include patching, cloning and migration.  ? Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c  architecture  ? Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments Education Certified Associate University of Maryland Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, DISASTER RECOVERY, ENCRYPTION, RMAN, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, DATA REPLICATION, ETL, INFORMATICA, AB INITIO