Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Pearson Austin, TX • Six (6) years Superb Knowledge in Oracle Databases 10g, 11g and 12c  • Six (6) years' Experience in database. MIGRATION - 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c databases, cross-platform using Data guard, Golden Gate, Transportable tablespaces. Non-ASM to ASM. Maintain performance across all phase. Worked on oracle migration workbench. Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new datacenter.  • Six (6) years' Experience with performance tuning and troubleshooting Completed Oracle University performance tuning course. Using Explain plan, ASH, ADDM, AWR, v$, dba views, HIST tables &TKPROF, SQL Profile. Instance, database & SQL performance optimization. Forcing index, hints. I/O & CPU utilization trend analysis. Top SQL/session, bottleneck issues, locks, identifying oracle wait events. Create performance baseline, comparing performance and Investigate top activities; generate trend report of tablespace usage & estimate future growth. Extensive use of OEM grid control for tuning. Worked on ADRCI command-line 11g  • Size (6) ) UPGRADE&PATCHES - Apply security/PSU patches. Validate database structure. Troubleshoot failed component in upgrade process. Upgrade ASM and RAC from 10g to 11g.  • Size (6) years in backups, restores and recovery processes.  • Six (6)years DATA GUARD - Set up physical standby for DR. Configure data guard broker, open standby in read-only, manage archive gap, testing fail-over/switch-over scenarios, changing protection modes. Configured Active, Logical, and Snapshot Data Guard.  • Six (6) years RAC - Implementation & administration of 10g/11g RAC on Linux. Oracle ASM, OCFS, RAW devices. FAN, TAF, load balancing, inter instance parallelism, add/remove node. Troubleshooting & Admin ASM. Apply patches. Setup SCAN Listeners on 11gR2.  • Four (4) years Expert experience with Data Security, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and data protection best practices.  • Six (6) years GOLDENGATE: Setup, data mapping, filter, troubleshoot, developing parameter file. Live reporting, CDC, Active-Active standby configuration. STREAMS replication at table, schema and database levels. Down steams, advance queuing, change data capture.  • One (1) year AWS: Migrating databases from Oracle to AWS vice versa.  • Two (2) years SQL Server: installation, upgrades, migrations, and configuration, establishes databases, users, roles, and permissions, performance tuning  • One (1) year POSTGRES: Software Installation, user and table space creation. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pearson - Iowa City, IA December 2015 to Present • Up-gradation and migration of database from 10g to 11g and then to 12c and also applying patches whenever required.  • Implementing datapump, conventional export/import utility of oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing databases/schemas/tables to improve the performance and cloning/migration of databases in 10g /11g and 12c environments.  • Performed database refresh from production to QAT, UAT and development databases.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using oracle enterprise manager (OEM 13c) 10g, 11g grid control, and cloud control 12c.  • Implemented and manage oracle golden gate for real time replication of data between oracle and heterogeneous platforms  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space.  • Worked on automatic storage management (ASM) with EMC storage for managing data in san.  • Worked extensively on performance tuning of queries by maintaining aggregates, compression, partition, indexing and use of hints, stored outlines, statistics.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and Explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for event waits, sessions, physical and logical I/O and memory usage.  • Experience in editing and rewriting UNIX/shell scripts for providing the reports.  • Created a clone database using Rman on remote server and used Srvctl commands for real application cluster (RAC) databases.  • Successfully implemented backup & recovery using Rman which includes hot backups and cold backups.  • Implemented data guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in data guard fail over tests.  • Knowledge of PeopleSoft  MSSQL SERVER work    • Experience in managing and monitoring, SQL Server databases 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016  • Downloaded, Installed, Authenticated and monitor MSSQL SERVER as well as the Database  • Created Databases  • Created user and granted them password and privileges using SSMS OR T-SQL  • Implemented Backups ranging from full, differential and transactional backups  • Recovered databases using the FULL SIMPLE and Bulk Logged Recovery models  • Troubleshoot performance of the database using tools like SQL PROFILE, TASK MANAGER, DYNAMIC MANAGENMENT VIEWS as well as Database Engine Tuning Advisor and extended events.  • Use the DBCC Package for monitoring and general troubleshooting of sql server environment  • Implementing security, from logins authentications granting of Roles, Permission on user and databases  • Implemented Advance encryption at the COLUMN LEVEL, Transparent Data encryption as well, as Always on encrypted Features. Also implemented DYNAMIC DATA MASKING  • Migration upgrade and patched MS SQL SERVERS databases using Backups from either a lower version or higher using the SQLSERVER MIGRATION ARGENT  • PATCHED instances of sql server, I applied the service packs, security packs and cumulative updates  • Ensuring high availability and Disaster Recovery through mirroring, replication, log shipping clustering and ALWAYSON Availability groups.  • Implemented service SSIS for data integrity in an OLAP DATA WAREHOUSE environment  • SSAS for DATA ANALYSES and SSRS for Reporting purpose Oracle Database Administrator NORTHWEST MUTUAL - Milwaukee, WI February 2013 to December 2015 • Participated in 24 x 7 production & development database support and administration.  • Worked with data pump to take the logical backups of databases and experienced in performing point in time recovery using rman.  • used oracle configuration assistants like: dbca ( database configuration assistant) for creating databases, dbua ( database upgrade assistant) for upgrading databases, and netca (network configuration assistant) for creating client-server environment using listener, tnsnames etc.  • Working experience with latest toad having new features PLSQL & SQL script debugger, database health checkup, ASM manager, diagnose extents, segment advisor, SGA trace and query builder.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing datapump, conventional export/import utility  • Implemented proactive monitoring using tuning pack, diagnostics pack, and statspack, SQL Trace & TKPROF.  • implemented oracle database 11g two node real application cluster (RAC) using oracle cluster-ware, and responsible for high availability and load balancing. *  • configured oracle data guard for oracle disaster recovery.  • applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • implemented flashback technology of the oracle 12c, 11g, 10g along with recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using rman and implemented recovery strategies.  • refreshed/cloned databases using rman utility.  • involved in converting a single instance database to oracle 12c, 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • made optimal use of oracle support in resolving the SRS  • documented the standard processes for peers to follow. Skills Database, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, Oem, Loader, Architecture Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Exadata, AWS, SQL SERVER  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13C, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Toad, Putty, WinSCP, SQL Developer, OEM 12c, Exadata.    Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), MS WINDOWS  Other Skills Oracle, DATA GUARD, GOLDEN GATE, RAC, EXADATA, AWS ARCHITECTURE, SCRUM MASTER