Principal Consultant Principal Consultant Principal Consultant - Mythics Inc Database Administrator with7 years of experience. Extensively worked on Installing, configuring Oracle 12c, 11gR2 and 10g. Duties include Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management and performance tuning. Managed Database on AIX, Linux and Windows environments. Experienced in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) 10g/11g, Data Guard and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability. I have supported multiple environments spanning Finance, IT, Insurance and Tech sectors. I can work both as an individual contributor and as a member of a team.  Professional Summary  • Proven experience in troubleshooting issues related to Oracle RAC (Node Evictions, Node Reboots).  • Experienced with all facets of Oracle DBA day-to-day activities like production, database monitoring, Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Cloning, Troubleshooting production issues, and Physical Database Design.  • Extensive Experience in working with the Tools like OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM Expdp/Impdp, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Plan Baselines.  • Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations.  • Very comfortable in using ASM for creating diskgroups, adding additional storage (DISKS) and troubleshooting ASM issues.Setup the unidirectional replication on oracle 11g databases using  • Experience with configuring Unidirectional Oracle Golden gate for Instance reporting and managing Bi-directional Golden gate for real time replication.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting the gaps between source and target databases configured with golden gate.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Installed & configured Oracle Management Server (OMS) & Oracle Grid Control.  • Extensive knowledge in maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage.  • Installation, Administration of 11gR2 RAC on HP-UX. Configured ASM, and RAW devices for storage. Investigation of node eviction, CRS resources failure. Running Queries in parallel, setup inter instance parallelism, Load balancing. Resource utilization on each node. Fix corrupted OCR disk.  • Tuning of RAC environment. Managing fail-over of instances. Configure table for parallel load.  • Managed ASM storage. ASM cloning. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  • Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listener, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • Experience as 24x7 productions DBA as well the application (development) database administrator.  • Successfully installed Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) including; Grid infrastructure (Clusterware and ASM) and Oracle rdbms software on a 3 nodes RAC architecture in development and UAT running oracle.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DataGuard with physical standby effectively configured and used DataGuard Broker utility.  • Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in working with DBVERIFY utility and other method to find Data Corruption.  • Experienced in resource management like data files with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) (Trouble shooting, Add, Remove Files etc.), online redo log files, control files. Allocating logical storage structures like tablespace, schema and extents as well as configuring Oracle databases on Multi-Threaded Servers Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN.  • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • Experience working on ticketing systems like Remedy and Service Now to address escalated tickets and requirements.  • Used Service now to customize projects and automate repeated daily processes in order to maximize company resources.  • Used ServiceNow to report, manage and resolve tickets related to one off Incidences,Problems, Requests and Changes.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Experienced in working with very large 24x7 Oracle RAC 10g & 11g databases on ASM of nearly 80GB to 22TB.  • Experience in database patching, cloning, upgrade, migration & maintaining standby db server (DR).  • Experience with database backup, recovery, and setting up disaster recovery Database servers. Work Experience Principal Consultant Mythics Inc - Virginia Beach, VA July 2018 to Present Oracle Engineered Systems)  • As a consultant, I worked to administer, develop, test and databases. Performed many related database functions across one or more teams or clients, including designing, implementing and maintaining new databases, backup/recovery and configuration management. Install database management systems (DBMS), Oracle Engineered systems such as ODA and Exadata and provided input for modification of procedures and documentation used for problem resolution and day-to-day maintenance.  • Worked on Integration of Exadata monitoring intoexisting IT monitoring framework. Provided and implemented performance and tuning recommendations of all components in the Exadata machines.  • Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, Flash Cache, etc.  • Solid skills to configure Exadata to meet security requirements.  • Extensive experience in Exadata fresh installs, re-imaging, GI and Database patching.  • Experience with all steps involved in Exadata patching and upgrade including but not limited to running downloading the right bundle, patchmgr, running pre-checks, upgrading grid and db nodes etc.  • Extensive experience in performing database and system health checks on (Oracle EXAchk) on Exadata.  • Experience with setting up of databases on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), managing cloud accounts/access, cloud storage container for automated and on-demand backups.  • Created SSH key pairs, created and deleted administrative accounts via OCI console, granted and revoked roles under different groups.  • Worked extensively with network teams to configure VCN's Public and Private IP's Subnets, Dynamic Routing Gateways (DRG), Route Tables, Subnets and Security etc., for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)  • Worked on configuring and monitoring of database nodes on ODA -Oracle Database Appliance  • Created alarms in CloudWatch service for monitoring cloud server performance, disk space and CPU utilization.  • Created and deleted IAM accounts in OCI for security purposes and provided access to users per company requirements Oracle Database Administrator QVC - West Chester, PA January 2015 to 2018 • Displayed a high level of expertise while handling the various scenarios of database Backup & recovery and cloning using the RMAN tool in Data Guard environments of large to very large databases. Setup RMAN catalog for the same environment  • Hands on experience in installation and implementation of 12c cloud control and migration of 11g grid control to 12c cloud control.  • Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer , SQLTXPLAIN, OSWatcher and other OS related utilities like pstack , pmap , top, vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace, truss and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 11g and 12c to monitor single instance and RAC databases.  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction issues.  • Replication and Extracting data and applying on production using GoldenGate.  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication. Implanted Bi-directional replication using golden gate.  • Experience in development, testing, performance tuning, deployment, and support in Data warehouse system.  • Migrated 20TB database from regular file system to ASM using RMAN.  • Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  • Performed oracle Software's Installations, Creation of new standalone and clustered databases.  • Administering and setting up of 11G RAC and 10G RACclusterware and instances.  • Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Worked with customer for different RAC related issue: [hangcheck timer, split brain, hugepages setup etc]; Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances (GC events)  • Implementing Best Practices for migration regular databases to Oracle Exadata    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL May 2012 to December 2014 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.    Tools Used:Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman, Hp-ux, Ux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Aix, Linux, Sun, Remedy, Oem, Loader, Emc