Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Elizabeth City, NC Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator VariQ Corporation - Elizabeth City, NC August 2018 to Present Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes  on Ingres environment.    • Learning Ingres software database system    • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance to the Ingres software installing for all the database on the system.  • Checking on the Operating system disk storage space for space issues.  • The ability to install Ingres 10 installation from the front end and back end of the server.  • Upgrade the Ingres from installation 10 to 11.  • Worked on Ingres routine, checking on trace files, audit files, alert log erros, RMAN back up errors on a daily basis.  • Ability to reset passwords from users on each specific databases on several environments. For example stage, test, QA, prod, CM.  • Supported the information systems division with Aviation logistics management system by adding users and removing users from specific databases. Oracle Database Administrator Constellation Energy - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to June 2018 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Active Data Guard configuration and implementation on Exadata servers ( production and standby )  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Red Hat enterprise Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Implemented Oracle ASM 12c software installation and configuration ( Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning Disks in Linux.  • Extensively worked Oracle ASMLib Utility for managing ASM disk storage & Oracle 12c ASMCA.  • Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk.  • Implemented Oracle 12c Multi-tenant RAC data base with 2 node cluster and instances using ASM storage.  • Worked on to take backup and restore cluster ware storage (Voting Disk, OCR Disk).  • Worked to take backup on Oracle RAC database by using RMAN utility in a CDB (Multi-tenant) environment.  • Worked on performing health checks in Oracle RAC & monitoring Oracle Instance.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database  • Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  • Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  • Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as user management (synonyms/privileges, roles, quotas, table partitioning, index, sequence), space management (Tablespaces, rollback segment), monitoring (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, network activity).  • Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binary structure, Listener,  • TNSNames, SQLNet, V$ and DBA views.  • Good knowledge in UNIX Korn Shell scripting and Perl scripting.  • Performed Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, Analyze, AWR and ADDM  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM  • Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication on RAC using ACFS file system.  • Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.  • Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.  • Installed Veridata to compare data between source and target and which are replicated using Goldengate.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Setting up and managing Hot and Cold Backups, Exports, Imports.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF. Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP. Database Administrator BIC Graphic USA - Clearwater, FL January 2011 to May 2015 • Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  • Tuning SGA, Rollback segments, Latch contention issues, Optimize sort operations.  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases - created RMAN repository, wrote scripts for backup, integrated RMAN with OEM and GRID, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques - restore and recovery.  • Creating and refreshing materialized views.  • Serve as a Lead Resource to all teams in evaluating and proposing technical alternatives for resolving project issues.  • Reporting to the Database Architect and supervising offshore resources for administration and support of database & applications  • Resolves database performance issues, database capacity issues, backup, replication, and other distributed data issues.  • Creating and refreshing materialized views.  • Setup and manage RAC environments for our customers, Monitor, recommend and implement changes to database applications ensuring satisfactory end-user response time with reliable database connectivity.  • Implement physical database changes, and performance reports.  • Maintain Oracle SQL and PL/SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts, debugging and tuning.  • Ability to pro-actively understand and manage end user/customer expectations.  • Provide best practice on new technology and implementations.  • Provides expertise and makes recommendations for physical database design, testing, performance tuning, and implementation of DB.  • Performance issues (track and trend overall database performance and database area, index, and drive performance).  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Installed, configured and maintained 11g R2 databases on standalone servers and Real Application Cluster (RAC) 2 Node RAC  • Managed Oracle Real Application Cluster (2 Node RAC) running on ASM storage  • Hands on experience in migrating Non-RAC environments to RAC environments both manually and by using R-CONFIG  • Created custom services on RAC database for distribution of load across the nodes  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Having good experience in build stage, installed Oracle databases on ASM using DBCA. Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential. Education Bachelor of Science degree Washington Adventist University Skills Database administration, Database, Ingres, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Replication, Sql, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Rman, File systems, Metadata, Backups, Business continuity, Application integration, Front-end, Scripting, Ocr Additional Information Skills Summary    • Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.  • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  • Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.  • Implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.  • Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases).  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purpose.  • Implemented Single Node instance to RAC and added instance to the existing RAC.  • Extensively worked on RMAN Backup & Recovery in Oracle 12c with CDB & Non CDB environment.  • Implemented Oracle ASM 12c software installation and configuration ( Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning Disks in Linux.  • Extensively worked Oracle ASMLib Utility for managing ASM disk storage & Oracle 12c ASMCA.  • Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk.  • Implemented Oracle 12c Multi-tenant RAC data base with 2 node cluster and instances using ASM storage.  • Worked on to take backup and restore cluster ware storage (Voting Disk, OCR Disk).  • Worked to take backup on Oracle RAC database by using RMAN utility in a CDB (Multi-tenant) environment.  • Worked on performing health checks in Oracle RAC & monitoring Oracle Instance.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated database from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard)  • Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.    Technical Proficiencies    Front-End Tools: MS Excel, MS Word,  Databases: Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, Oracle 12c, Ingres 10, Ingres 11  Oracle Database tools: SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, Toad, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Grid Control  Operating Systems: Linus/UNIX, Windows 2008/2010 server