SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - United Airlines ? 7+ years of experience in Database Administration with various SQL Server versions: 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000. Also worked with SQL Server 2016 new features. The databases that I have supported range from few gigabytes to terabytes of storage.  ? Experience with Installation and Configuration of MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 databases.  ? Involvement in Database Administration, Management utilizing RDBMS, for example, SQL Server under WINDOWS environment.  ? Experience with Database Backup (Full/Differential/Transaction Log), Recovery and Disaster Recovery Procedures.  ? Extent involvement in executing HADR solutions like Replication, Log shipping, Clustering and mirroring on physical and virtual machines.  ? Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering.  ? Worked on Transactional, merge and Snapshot Replication.  ? Configured Synchronous and Asynchronous Mirroring for DR.  ? Implemented In place and Side by Side Migration of MS SQL SERVER of various Versions.  ? Experience with Policy Based Management, Resource Governor, and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  ? Experience in Database Migration. Migrated SQL Server 2005 to SQL 2008, SQL Server 2008 to 2008R2, SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012, SQL Server 2012 to 2014 and SQL Server 2014 to 2016.  ? Troubleshooting the Disk failure in a Cluster Environment.  ? Experience working in both OLTP and OLAP situations.  ? Experience in changing information from one server to different servers utilizing instruments like Bulk Copy Program (BCP) and Data Transformation Services (DTS) and SSIS.  ? Great involvement in Deploying SSIS packages in MS SQL Server 2008 and MS SQL Server 2012.  ? Expertise in Data Integrity, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization.  ? Expert level abilities in Objects creation, for example, Table, Normalization, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and other SQL joins and query writing.  ? Involved in BI Development (SSRS, SSIS, and SSAS). Created Dynamic charts and reports using SQL Server SSRS.  ? Investigating and applying necessary SQL Server database patches, installing service packs and upgrading to higher versions.  ? Experience with Client / Server Connectivity / Network Issues, Named Pipes, TCP/IP Protocols, Database consistency checks using DBCC Utilities, Troubleshooting.  ? Expertise in scheduling SQL Server Jobs, Maintenance plans and automating administrative tasks.  ? Implementing security at server, database and object level. Experience with Always On availability groups.  ? Experience in Adhoc Monitoring and Trend Analysis utilizing SQL Server Profiler, Windows System screen/Performance Monitor.  ? SQL Server Monitoring and Optimization utilizing outsider tools, for example, Idera SQL Diagnostic Manager for checking question execution arrangements to get a reasonable picture of inconvenience spots.  ? Data Compressions (Row Compressions/Page compressions) for tables, lists and segments to enhance execution of the SQL Server. Compressions of SQL Server Backups to build the reinforcement speed.  ? Auditing of database for client's transaction, login and database activity and evacuating orphan users.  ? Experienced on working with production Servers and 24 x 7 On-Call environments. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator United Airlines - Houston, TX November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Install, Manage and regulate SQL server 2005\2008R2\2012\2014 SQL servers.  ? Implemented one next to the other and in place Migration of MS SQL server 2005/2008R2 to 2012 and connected Patches and Service packs to upgrade distinctive forms of MS SQL server.  ? Implemented SQL Server 2016 procedure ALWAYS-ON High Availability groups with two secondaries.  ? Building SQL 2008R2 multi node cluster situations on VMware/Physical situations.  ? Adding nodes to officially existing clustered servers as a piece of data load\High availability.  ? Configured Transactional Replication and Log Shipping.  ? Fix the Cluster and Replication issues on SQL 2005/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 servers with in exceptionally solid SLA's.  ? Implementation of SQL server logins, Roles and Authentication modes as a piece of security approaches.  ? Creating and scheduling maintenance plans for updating statistics, checking fragmentation, checking database integrity and backup plans.  ? Configured Database mail, linked servers, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Auditing.  ? Performance tuning of databases by windows execution screen and SQL Profiler.  ? Used Index tuning wizard to update and made the indexes for better performance.  ? Fine-tuned Stored Procedures utilizing Execution Plan as a part of T-SQL for better execution.  ? Documenting the standard methods on normal premise.  ? Used extended occasions/SQL profiler for performance tuning.  ? Created modified maintenance and observing scripts for Blocking alerts, DBCC checks, Index Reorg/Rebuild, Missing backups and so on.  ? Ran diagnostics as required keeping in mind the end goal to search for the reason for high CPU use, high I/O and long running queries.  ? Implemented and kept up a backup and disaster recovery plan.  ? Analyzed the execution counters, for example, Buffer cache hit ratio, Page life expectancy etc. and agent jobs execution times on production and development servers; altered issues causing slow performance.  ? Developed script to automate the backup of SSAS databases. The script keeps running as SQL job on regular schedule.  ? Documenting and keeping up lists of all the SQL Servers in nature for licensing purpose.  ? Worked with System Administrators in designing windows failover cluster and implemented SQL Server Always On.  ? Used Database Engine Tuning Advisor to check for execution proposals.  ? Configured Resource Governor to limit the CPU and Memory use. Database Administrator State Street - Quincy, MA September 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Accountable for monitoring, troubleshooting, and fixing database issues 24x7.  ? Setup Always-On High availability on 2012 SQL Servers.  ? Migrating SQL server from 2008R2 to 2012 on standalone and cluster environment.  ? Tuning the Production server to get the execution change.  ? Implemented Database Mirroring/Transactional Replication as a piece of high availability and disaster recovery.  ? Use log shipping for synchronization of database.  ? Fixed high Memory use issues.  ? Reorganizing or Rebuilding Indexes considering the Index fragmentation.  ? Build two-node/Multi-node group on physical/Virtual situations.  ? Checking Database Health by utilizing DBCC Commands and DMVS.  ? Added SQL Clustered Node to Existing Cluster for SQL Server 2008R2.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a piece of Security Policies for different classes of users.  ? Restore Development and Staging databases from production backups according to the necessity.  ? Creating Backup methodologies and planning them as a piece of database maintenance plans.  ? To investigate long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  ? Managed SQL Server utilizing PowerShell.  ? Performance Tuning and Establishing incorporated change control.  ? Documented and Created SLAs (Service Level Agreement) for the server availability in the event of disaster.  ? Configure Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) on Financial Applications.  ? Auditing SQL Server logins and access to the databases to identify the active applications/users pointing to the databases.  ? Researched and implemented SQL 2014 new features such as Delayed durability, Buffer pool extension, Incremental statistics, In-Memory OLTP, Managed lock priority on test boxes.  ? Involved in point in time recovery.  ? Created Linked Servers in SQL Server to establish connection to a remote oracle database. Database Systems Admin Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA November 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Installed and maintained SQL Server database systems. Monitored success and failure of automated jobs.  ? Supporting the business 24x7, keeping up 99.999 uptimes, depending upon the application and business SLA necessities.  ? Experienced with making logical and physical database plan for development ventures.  ? Experienced with enhancing SQL Server utilizing windows execution screen to enhance the server performance.  ? Created the reinforcement plan for production, test and development servers.  ? Worked with developers to do the database schema changes and database restores demands.  ? Involved in restores operations to refresh the data from production to test servers.  ? Included in Data Security by keeping up and giving granular authorizations to the clients/login as required, upholding the password strategies and by making proxy accounts.  ? Implementing Database Mirroring utilizing high safety with automatic failover for Disaster Recovery. Executed New Objects as per the Business necessities. Executed Constraints (Primary Key, Foreign Keys Check and Not Null/Null) and fine tune Indexes on Tables.  ? Performing fine tuning of Database Application.  ? Administering the MS SQL Server by making user logins with proper roles, dropping and locking the logins, observing the user accounts, formation of groups, allowing the privilege to user and groups.  ? Automate and improve every day administrative tasks, including space management, object alteration, backup and recovery and performance monitoring. SQL Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Dallas, TX December 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Database Performance of Index tuning using Database Engine Tuning Advisor to resolve Performance issues.  ? Performed security tasks like Grant, Revoke permissions. Implemented security at server, database and object level.  ? Worked on Data Denormalization using SSIS, analyzing it using SSAS and creating interactive reports using SSRS. Maintained and managed critical Databases.  ? Implemented High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions including Database Mirroring, Fail-over Clustering, Log-Shipping and Replication. 24x7 on call support in case of a production environment.  ? Used Third party tools such as SQL Admin Toolset from Idera (for monitoring and troubleshooting), Litespeed (for backups and restores) and SQL Sentry plan explorer for checking the execution plans to get a clear visibility of trouble spots.  ? Used SQL Profiler and Performance Monitor for Trend Analysis and Ad hoc Monitoring.  ? Developed database maintenance plan for backup, integrity check and re-index. Performed database recovery operation.  ? From backup document. Performed point in time recovery utilizing T-log backups.  ? Setup alert for Memory/CPU use and different Windows services at whatever point down utilizing Solar winds. MS SQL Server Developer Axis Bank - IN July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Monitoring the CPU use, IO Statistics, and CPU time to recognize any OS level Performance executioner.  ? Wrote and Optimized Stored Procedures, Views, and User-Defined Functions for the application.  ? Configured Database Mirroring with high performance and high safety (with and without automatic failover) mode.  ? Troubleshoot for performance related Issues in the servers utilizing DBCC and DMVs.  ? Monitored disk space issues on the servers. Configured Snapshot, Merge and Transaction replication for high availability.  ? Implemented log shipping and schedule jobs and alerts utilizing SQL Server agent.  ? Monitoring and performing daily incremental backups, weekly backups.  ? With SQL Server, performed backups (Full, Diff, Transaction log) and restores. Moved data to different databases and Created DTS Packages to import data from Excel spreadsheets and Implementing user training and providing technical support.  ? Involvement in SQL Server investigating rules DNS/Authentication/Data/Common errors. Skills Database, Dbms, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oltp, Replication, Sql, Olap, Ssrs, T-sql, Asp, Asp.net, Client-server, Dmx, Visual studio, Visio, Shipping, Analyzer, Office 2010, Windows vista