Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Lawrenceville, GA Certified Oracle and SQL Server Database Administrator with over 8 years of experience working on different operating systems such as Linux, Solaris, Windows. I have managed Oracle and SQL server in AWS (both on EC2 and RDS). I possess Strong skills in tuning databases using AWR, ADDM, IOSTAT, TOP, Explain plan and SQL Tuning advisor. I also have experience in performing both physical and logical backups using RMAN and Datapump while performing cross platform migration while working on different Oracle versions to include 12c, 11g, and 10g. I have configured and managed a 3-node RAC on ASM file system for high availability, setup and managed SQL Server merge replication using SSMS and also configured and managed Disaster Recovery technologies such as Dataguard, Golden Gate and SQL Server Logship. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Qbase - Washington, DC January 2019 to Present • Create and manage SQL Server and Oracle databases on AWS (EC2 and RDS) using Aqua Data Studio, SQL Developer, OEM and Toad.  • Perform database migration to RDS using AWS DMS and Oracle Datapump.  • Experience in using SQL developer for data migration from RDS to RDS.  • Used Bitbucket and Git command line to push and pull files for schema migration and database refresh.  • Create and manage S3 Bucket on AWS and performed backup to S3.  • Installed and set up Oracle GoldenGate.  • Configured the Extract, Replicat, Manager, and OGG User.  • Configure and managed GoldenGate for data replication for target RDS Database instances.  • Experienced using tools like Jira, Confluence, Slack  • Implemented TDE for advanced security. Oracle Database Administrator Accenture - Cincinnati, OH January 2018 to December 2018 • Oracle Database Administrator supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Windows, Linux and AWS.  • Refresh Dev and Test databases with data from Production on a regular basis using DataPump and RMAN.  • Debug PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Performed backup and restores to S3 on AWS using RMAN, User managed scripts.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage reports, and backups using crontab.  • Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk.  • Worked on instance level performance by monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and managed TDE wallet.  • Managed Real Application Cluster (RAC) using SRVCTL, CRSCTL and ASMCMD commands  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and regularly performed Data Guard failover tests using DG BROKER.  • Performed Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using regular performance tuning tools like, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases managing disks and disk groups.  • Creating, Configuring and Setting up of Recovery Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Assists in SQL tuning and providing recommendations and solutions such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successfully Provisioned new environments following Company's SLA.  • Completed Pre and Post Deployments successfully following deployment guides Oracle Database Administrator Constellation Energy - Baltimore, MD May 2015 to December 2017 • Oracle Database Administrator supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris, Windows, Linux.  • Performed cross-platform migration from Solaris to Linux using RMAN.  • Managed user privileges by creating, granting, and revoking roles using Aqua Data Studio for SQL Server and Oracle databases.  • Also managed and monitored SQL Server databases using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).  • Refresh Dev and Test databases with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Debug PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage reports, and backups using crontab.  • Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed ASM disk with a new disk.  • Implemented Oracle 12c Multi-tenant RAC database with 2-node cluster using ASM storage.  • Performed manual backup of OCR and restored corrupt OCR from OLR.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth, and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and managed TDE wallet.  • Managed Real Application Cluster (RAC) using SRVCTL, CRSCTL and ASMCMD commands  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests using DGBROKER.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA.  • Performed Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using regular performance tuning tools like, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases managing disks and disk groups.  • Installed and Configured GoldengGate for a bi-directional data replication.  • Monitored Golden Gate using 12c Golden Gate Plugin and also shell scripts for alerting failed GG processes.  • Installed Veridata to compare data between source and target, which are replicated using Golden Gate.  • Identified and Resolved performance issues related to GoldenGate  • Creating, Configuring and Setting up of Recovery Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Assists in SQL tuning and providing recommendations and solutions such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLAP.    • Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows, AWS, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, SSMS, OEM, Aqua Data Studio. Oracle Database Administrator Northwest Mutual - Milwaukee, WI July 2011 to May 2015 • Backup and restore using RMAN utilities, Disaster Recovery testing, recovery Catalog and refreshing databases on multiple environment.  • Supporting Dataguard (11g Active Dataguard) for customer data service.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD, OEM for database management and Monitoring.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving tickets.  • Worked with latest 11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases Schemas, and Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Applied quarterly patches and upgraded databases from 10g to 11g.  • Configured Dataguard broker to manage primary and standby databases.  • Performed Switchover and tested failovers using DGMGRL command line interface.  • Implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and Cold backups to tape, drives, and disks.  • Involved in query optimization and using both rule based and cost based optimizers. Education BSc in LAW University of Yaounde2 Skills backups (8 years), Database (8 years), Oracle (8 years), SQL (3 years), AWS (4 years), RAC (4 years), Dataguard (6 years), GoldenGate (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate11g Present Additional Information Professional Skills  • Experience as 24x7 on-call rotation production and application support DBA.  • Strong skills in applying Quarterly patches (PSU/SPU, CPU) using the Opatch utility.  • Experience in Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), using RMAN, Datapump and customized scripts.  • Refresh data from SQL Server production databases on AWS-RDS to pre-prod databases on Local windows server using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).  • Manage and monitor SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL databases in AWS (EC2 and RDS) using Aqua Data Studio, Sql Developer, Toad.  • Experience in doing Export/Import on Amazon RDS using Datapump, Sql developer, AWS DMS.  • Used Bitbucket and Git command line to push and pull files for testing purposes.  • Create and manage S3 Bucket on AWS and performed backup and restores.  • Create and manage user profiles, grant and revoke roles and maintain audit records.  • Experience in installation of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c software on Linux servers.  • Migrate stand-alone databases to RAC using DBCA and RMAN.  • Troubleshoot and resolve RAC issues like bugs, network, configuration, and OCR, Voting Disk and Node eviction.  • Perform upgrade on CRS, ASM, DB and OEM Agent.  • Experience in working with large 24x7 Oracle database of about 20TB in size.  • Experience in configuring and implementing Data Guard Physical and Logical Standby databases for disaster recovery and data protection.  • Setting up, maintaining, monitoring, and resolving log gaps on standby databases.  • Configured, and managed Golden Gate (11g and 12c) for real-time data replication and continuous data availability in a heterogeneous environment.  • Resolved Extract Replicat abend issues in Golden Gate environment.  • Implemented Real Application Testing (RAT) to run Proof of Concept (POC) test for 12c upgrade on most critical databases.  • Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA.  • Basic knowledge with Exadata.    Technical Skills  • Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c. SQL Server Databases.  • Database Tools: OEM, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, Toad, OEM Grid/Cloud control, RMAN, Exp/Imp, Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Aqua Data Studio, MYSQL Workbench, AWS DMS.    • Operating Systems: Windows, Solaris, AIX, LINUX, AWS (Linux and Windows).  • Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, StorEdge D240, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2.