Database Administrator II <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Database Administrator II Bowie, MD • Over 7 years of cross-platform experience in Oracle Database and System Administration experience in Windows and Linux environments.  • Oracle database with experience in installation, configuration, maintenance, security, backup, troubleshooting, performance tuning of Oracle RDBMS in a Linux/Windows environment  • Information Systems Technology experience with a solid reputation for productivity, complex problem resolution and professionalism through excellent communication, customer service and diagnostic skills.  • Experience in Configuration and implementation of Oracle database 11g R1/R2, 12C  • Experience in RMAN Backup and Recovery, user accounts management, database cloning, Patching and upgrades, datapump, Enterprise Manager and Oracle OEM Grid Control  • Database performance tuning knowledge and skills  • Can Work well in a team environment and work alone with little or no guidance.  • Highly results-oriented and self-motivated professional with proven expertise in supporting and optimizing performance of windows servers and workstations, operating systems, network printers, system configuration, preventive maintenance, patch management, business continuity and data recovery solutions.  • Ability to participate in off-hours on-call rotation and provide 24x7 support Work Experience Database Administrator II BUSINESS INTEGRA, INC - Lanham, MD August 2016 to Present February 2017 - Present:  Business Integra, NASA SEWP V Program)  • Populating Agency Reports using complex SQL queries on SEWP Databases  • SEWP V Data Dictionary management and update/changes using scripts  • Applying Oracle 12C RAC Patching (CPU) and Upgrade on Linux and Windows platform  • Skilled in performing database cloning and relocation  • Performed user account management such as account lockouts, privileges, password resets, and account creation, role and profile assignment. External DB Account creation and Permissions  • SQL Analyzation and tuning using Explain Plan  • Backup and Recovery Configuration and continuous monitoring via RMAN utility and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Wrote Cron scripts to monitor the database components, disk space/utilization with shell and PL/SQL code or SQL code such as stored procedures, functions and packages.  • Create Database Links, Creating and Managing Tablespaces and Datafiles, Creating and Rebuilding Indexes, Managing Database Security.  • Performing data transfer/movement through Data Pump Utility  • Administrative tasks, monitoring and troubleshooting performance through Oracle Enterprise Manager and Enterprise Cloud 12C  • Oracle RAC & ASM storage 11GR2/12C installation, configuration & management  • Oracle Data guard Installation, Configuration, Disaster Recovery, Replication and Management  • Skilled in Database migration and upgrade from different platforms, including Oracle Database Appliance  • Perform Database refreshes from Production down to Test.    • Provide documentation through Fingerprints, ServiceNow ticketing system.    • Documentation of Database Change Requests and Database Implementation Plans: Add new tables, columns, triggers, sequences, and application permissions. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Lockheed Martin, IS&GS, Network Management and Control Center for the Internal Revenue Service February 2015 to August 2016 February 2015 - August 2016  Lockheed Martin, IS&GS, Network Management and Control Center for the Internal Revenue Service  • Manage 11g & 12C Oracle databases in development (VMWare) and production  • Manage and administered multiple 11g & 12C Oracle databases used heavily in the computing environment (production, dev, test & UAT).  • Installation and testing of Oracle 12c database on Sun Solaris 10 SPARC server.  • Running reports using complex SQL queries on network management graphs, routers and switches  • Added more data files for each table space and recreated the HPOM database. The data was also distributed among multiple disks to improve performance.  • Proactively monitor all oracle databases in the IRS Network Management and control center  • Responsible for evaluating and applying oracle CPU patches  • Monitored and improved database performance and capacity utilization to provide high database availability and redundancy  • Implements and enforces database security based upon best practice and regulatory policies  • Assisted with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Provided technical, hands on support for project and/or operational issues, for all platforms.  • Configured and continuously monitored RMAN backups on multiple databases.  • Implemented database migration and cloning using backups and/or data pump  • Performed user account management such as account lockouts, password resets, and account creation, role and profile assignment.  • Implemented Database Encryption, Security and Auditing, Capacity Planning for databases, servers and storage and provide 24x7 on-call rotation support    Oracle GoldenGate Experience  • Installation, upgradation, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate 12c software  • Configure Golden Gate for Classic and Integrated capture components for replication  • Configured Golden Gate High availability using Oracle ACFS on Grid  • Experience in performance tuning of Oracle Golden Gate process to achieve zero lag time  • Experience with Oracle Golden Gate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database vendors  • Expertise in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Experience in using GoldenGate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal impact to online systems.  • Establishing standards, policies and procedures for GoldenGate replication administration.  • Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle RAC, Physical and Logical Standby Databases (Data Guard) and Replication using Golden Gate.  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication. Implanted Bi-directional replication using golden gate.  • Implemented Golden Gates for Active-Active Replication between the Datacenter for High Availability.  • Experience in deploying new application and setting up replication between the databases using Golden Gate  • Implemented Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication using various versions of Golden gate  • Configured different levels of replication such as DDL replication, DML replication for table level, schema level, database level using Golden Gate.  • Implemented classic Golden gate replication as well as integrated replication. Implementing and maintaining database security (create and maintain users, roles and assign privileges)  • Upgraded GoldenGate from version 11.2 to 12.1 and also responsible for cross platform migration using GoldenGate from Linux to Solaris.  • Performed near zero downtime database upgrade from 11g to 12c using Golden gate with rollback strategy in place  • Implemented GoldenGate (10.x/11.x/12.x) replication solutions to facilitate data flow between heterogeneous (SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle) environments.  • Implemented GoldenGate replication between SQL Server data warehouse and Oracle database  • Experience in implementation of Golden Gate features to extract and replicate the data between various topologies.  • Implement Oracle Golden Gate Cloud Service (GGCS) to replicate physical server to Oracle cloud (DBaaS). Education BS in Computer Technology Bowie State University - Bowie, MD December 2014 Skills Database (5 years), Linux (7 years), Oracle (5 years), RMAN (5 years), Security. (7 years), Oracle Dba (5 years), DBA (5 years), RAC (5 years), ASM (5 years), Oracle Database Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  • Database: 11g & 12C, Enterprise Manager, RMAN, SqlP  • lus, SQL Developer, Toad, Oracle RAC, Performance Tuning (AWR, ADDM), Oracle Security/Access Control, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle Patch  • Platforms: Windows 7/8, Windows server, 2008, 2012, Linux, UNIX, Solaris 10, 20, Fedora 20, VMWare, ESXi 5.5, vCloud Director  • Networking: LAN/WAN Administration, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, MS Active Directory, PC Architecture (A+), Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPO), Group Policy Management Console (GPMC), IIS7  • Languages: Windows PowerShell Scripting, SQL, C++