Job Seeker Work Experience ShareFood May 2019 to May 2019 Designed the XML layouts and Java files for android application(ShareFood) using Android Studio to show the Food Wastage Problem in United States of America. Capstone Project (Group), Travel Stories January 2018 to December 2018 • Drafted Technical Paper, Designed Logo of the application (Pace University)  • Collaborated with team about the front end pages along with database queries.  • Drafted User Stories, Test cases, Github wiki and Helps in gathering the backend data.  • Tested the whole web application.  Weather Sort December 2017  • Analyzed time complexity of different sorting algorithms like Merge sort, Quick Sort, Heap Sort, Bubble Sort etc. to sort the same weather data. Database Administrator Golden Group of Institutes May 2013 to July 2017 • Created Database management procedures and provide end to end technical support along with problem resolution.  • Led the team responsible for monitoring the efficiency and effectiveness of database resources to ensure data availability across the institution.  • Identify staff's problem and assists during the applications installation. leader Online Examination January 2017 to May 2017 January 2017-May 2017  • Collaborated with a team of three to develop an online tool which allows organizations to administer online multiple choice examinations by sending exam link to users  • Designed the layout and coded the front-end using PHP and Java  University Management System July 2015  • Developed several modules for university management system which allows students and university administrators to manage attendance, grades, contact information, and library book loans for students  • Utilized DBMS and Java to develop modules.  ACITIVITIES/LEADERSHIP  • Served as a leader for Residential Campus Housing in Pace University.  • Participated in seminars of IBM, Google, Infosys to gain knowledge about technologies. Education Master of Science (M.S.) in Computer Science in Database Management System Pace University, Seidenberg School of Computer Science - New York, NY May 2019 Bachelors of Engineering and Technology in Computer Science Engineering Guru Nanak Dev University - Amritsar, Punjab May 2017 Skills Mysql, Sql, Android studio, C++, Html, Ms project, Python, Eclipse, Java, Android, Ssrs, Tableau, Wireshark, Vmware, Linux, Microsoft windows, Windows 8, Windows xp, Mac, Mac os, SSIS (Less than 1 year), SSRS (Less than 1 year), Business Intelligence, Excel, MS Office, Microsoft Office, testing Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/raghav-mahajan Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System: Kali Linux, Mac OS, Microsoft Windows (Windows XP, Windows7, Windows 8, 10)  Software: Eclipse, Microsoft Office, MySql, Azure Data Studio, Microsoft SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, MS Project, Tableau, VMware, Metasploitable, Wireshark, Android studio.  Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, HTML, SQL, Python