Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Upper Marlboro, MD Focused and proactive professional with 7+ years of experience and proven knowledge on troubleshooting, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle enterprise, Microsoft SQL Server, and PostgreSQL database environments. Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Golden Gate. High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance. In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity. Great in written and verbal communications, presentation, analytical and problem-solving skill. Highly self-motivated and excellent time management skills. Ability to produce the best result in pressure situation. Ability to work in team as well as individual. Work well with all levels of business. Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the open role at your company. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Jefferson City, MO July 2016 to Present • Good knowledge in PostgreSQL database architecture and Primary components.  • Expert in Backup & Recovery including PG dump, setting up WAL archiving, Point in time recovery.  • Monitored the client connectivity using pg_hba.conf files.  • Assisted in designing and management of PostgreSQL database schemas and tables.  • Monitored the production PostgreSQL alert logs for database errors.  • Automated hourly, daily, weekly system health reporting using crontab, PL/SQL and shell scripts.  • Performed Online and Offline Backups using RMAN.  • Performed incremental backups using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Created recovery catalog, performed complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN.  • Worked on large-scale databases with size around 10TB in large system environments.  • Experience on working with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Configured GoldenGate Downstream Mining and Integrated components for Active-Passive and Active-Active replication.  • Configured GoldenGate High Availability using Oracle DBFS and Active DataGuard.  • Installed and configured GoldenGate JAgent to work with OEM GoldenGate Plugin.  • Performed Schema level and Table level data refreshes from Production to Development environments using Datapump EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Monitored the various database activities such as Backup, Error Logs, Space, Object, Performance, User and Session monitoring to ensure proper Capacity and Availability.  • Involved in User Management and Database Security by granting appropriate Roles, Privileges, and Profiles.  • Monitoring the availability of system, listener, database, alter log file, trace file.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes  • Used Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification  • SQL Query tuning on the OLTP Environments with the the techniques like SPM(SQL plan management) fix by taking the advantage of cell offload efficiency.  • Maintaining ORACLE Software (RAC and standalone) by upgrades, Apply PSU patches on regular basis  • Performed numerous ORACLE software upgrades from 10g to 11g by managing whole process  • Test and Implement Applicable new feature during each upgrade  • Maintain 24*7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting live issues within defined tight SLA times  • Manage High Availability Architecture (ORACLE RAC and ORACLE Data guard)  • Perform Database cutovers using ORACLE Data guard switchover  • Design and implement Application aware ORACLE RAC Active/Active Service based infrastructure  • Troubleshooting ORACLE RAC issues using ORACLE cluster ware and Database logs.  • Troubleshoot and maintain ORACLE Data guard environment where TBs of log shipping and apply happen every day.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ASH, TKPROF 1046 traces etc.  • Developed custom scripts and implemented standard procedures to troubleshoot Live Production issues by leveraging ORACLE ASH and AWR and ADDM Data.  • Monitor Production Databases using various internal tools and custom scripts.  • Optimal Database parameter, Capacity Design for Heavy loaded High End OLTP systems.  • Database Capacity Management (Working with Storage teams for ASM Disks) using automated scripts/processes and Reports.  • Wrote shell scripts for purging trace files , alert log and network log files in Linux boxes which is used as standard script across all the databases  • Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)  • Installed the Oracle software using silent feature and also created databases  • Worked on Set up, configuration and maintained Oracle Data Guard/Active Data Guard to control Primary and Secondary databases and also to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes.  • Worked on designing, installing & maintaining OCR, 11gRAC and Dataguard components of Oracle.  • Writing shell scripts for the system and database for effective functionality and report generation  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control. Oracle Database Administrator CIGNA-DENTAL - Sunrise, FL July 2012 to July 2016 • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Assisted in designing and management of PostgreSQL database schemas and tables.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Databases migrated to RAC for improved resiliency and performance.  • Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication. Creating Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Increased Performance and Data Replication.  • Knowledge in Golden Gate installation & Configuration setups in both windows/Linux environments.  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Created Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Views, Joins and T-SQL code for applications.  • Managed indexes, statistics and optimized queries by using execution plan for tuning the database.  • Responsible for performance tuning and Optimization of stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Database tuning wizard.  • Create and maintained jobs  • Designed and create SQL Server tables.  • Assisted in SQL Server optimization including indexing and query optimization  • Creating and maintaining jobs  • Designing and creating SQL Server tables. Data Intern RICHMOND CITY HEALTH DEPARTMENT - Richmond, VA January 2012 to July 2012 • Identified and reported any data issues, conducted detailed weekly reports, and pro-actively participated in team meetings with managers.  • Collaborated with fellow interns and executed other duties as assigned by our coordinator.  • Awarded Intern of the Month for performing great work.  • Operate help desk and active support via telephone, E-mail, Web and onsite as needed.  • Data Migration using SQL Loader, UTL FILE package for loading data into Oracle. Education B.S. in Information Technology VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH UNIVERSITY - Richmond, VA Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Security, Comptia, R2, Remedy, Oem, Associate Additional Information • Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, 13c, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, 2014 R2, 2016, and PostgreSQL 9.3, 9.5, 10, and 11gR2  • Database tools: Toad, Putty, OEM, PGadmin, PGagent,db2pg, ora2pg  • Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  • Ticketing tools: Remedy, ServiceNow    CREDENTIALS AND LICENSES  • Oracle Certified Associate  • CompTIA Security+