Tech Consultant Tech Consultant Tech Consultant - Metropol Laurel, MD IT professional with over four years of experience in Oracle Database Administration using database versions: 10g, 11g, and 12c. Experience in data migration across various platforms, Backup and Recovery using RMAN/Recover Catalog as well as user managed backups, Real Application Clusters (RAC) for scalability and high availability, Upgrades/Patching, Data Guard for disaster recovery, Advance Database Security implementation (TDE), Performance Tuning and monitoring ( Database and Instance Tuning), database refreshing and cloning Work Experience Tech Consultant Metropol - Laurel, MD July 2017 to Present Oracle Database Administrator  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs such as backups.  • Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including Instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning.  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM).  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Maintained and backed up databases ranging from 40GB - 2 TB.  • Performed full & incremental backups (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Upgraded Oracle databases 11g databases to 12c.  • Install, patch and upgrade Oracle 10/11g/12c databases to support internal production and test environments.  • Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 3-node RAC.  • Good experience of installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Clusters) on different nodes  • Implemented Data Guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Set up, configured and maintained Data Guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 10g, 11g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.  • Refreshing Dev and Test databases with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 10g, 11g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects. Oracle Database Administrator MARC LLC - Washington, DC June 2014 to May 2017 • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning).  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes on tables.  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Installed, configured, upgraded and performed patching of Oracle server software 11g/12c and other related products.  • Assisted with the creation and enhancement of cross-functional database systems in large data centers, including implementation of databases and data models  • Performed Oracle database performance analysis and optimization, identified bottlenecks and managed testing and production implementation  • Developed compliance reports and performed oversight tasks including auditing at higher levels.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g, 11g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system  • Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Migrate OCR files to ASM.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.    Technical Proficiencies and Business Skills:  • Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  • Operating Systems: RHEL ( Linux), UNIX  • Database Language & Tools: SQL Developer, SQL*PLUS, SQL*LOADER, SQL, RMAN, OEM, Data Pump  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills  • Excellent organizational and oral/written communication skills  • Proven ability to work independently and take ownership of projects  • Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, PeopleSoft, Macintosh OS, and Windows XP/Vista/7 Education Bachelor of Science in Business Marketing Franklin P. Perdue School of Business Salisbury University - Salisbury, MD