SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - eBay Inc San Jose, CA • Over 6+xyears of extensive hands on experience of SQL Server DBA  • withdetailoriented, analytical and troubleshooting experience in multiple systems using MS  • SQL. Depth knowledge in data modelling, server configuration, tuning and providing 24x7  • dedicated support to all Production, development and clustered servers. Seeking challenging career as a SQL Server DBA.  • In-depth knowledge of IT industry database technologies and processes and business applications integrated with database technologies  • Experience in deploying SQL Server in virtualized environment and good understanding of Operating system concepts of Windows and Linux  • Experienced in installing, configuring SQL Server  • Hands on experience in SQL Server maintaining in memory tables, column store indexes  • Good knowledge of capacity planning and architecture design for database server  • deployment, creating databases, migrating database objects from non-production to  • production environment  • Extensive experience in fine tuning of long running queries, developing and managing reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Strong knowledge in using database third party tools (SpotLite, RedGate, SQLDoctor, ERWin, SentryOne, SCOM and DataWatchDog) and Graphs as well.  • Performed Database migration/upgrades between multiple versions and implemented ARCHIVELOG process to maintain active log files  • Strong working experience with SQL Server Database High availability using Failover Clustering, Replication, Database Mirroring and Log shipping and specialty in Configure and Manage Failover Clustering and AlwaysOn High Availabity.  • Experience in writing SQL/T-SQL Programming, implementing and apply the T-SQL code, stored procedures, Views, Trigger and Function.  • Hands on experience on DB Backup and Recovery strategies, Handling table space and file systems space issues, and extending Table space  • Hands on experience in Ticketing System.  • Working and troubleshooting on day-to-day problems via opening and closing tickets  • Working experience on Operating Systems (O/S) include Windows Server 2016, 2014, 2012R/ 2008R2  • Experience also includes installing, configuring and administering the above operating systems.  • Administered user accounts AD (Active Directory) in Windows 2008/2012/2014 Server, Managed file and backup server.  • Working experience on Windows and Cloud SQL Server Azure  • Experienced Cross Functional DBA with significant communication skills and technical expertise, focused and efficient working, effective team player with good communication skills Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator eBay Inc - San Jose, CA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Supporting SQL Server, Oracle, Mysql, Sybase ASE databases and  • We are supporting about 200 VMs and 20 Microsoft Azure and 10 Amazon Web Services (AWS) Server.  • Completed two projects for apply service packs to more than 200 Servers as a project manager.  • Completed one project for DR solution for 10 Servers and successfully completed the testing as a team member.  • Now working on a migration project for upgrading Database Installation, Configuration, Upgrading SQL Server and including cloud Azure environment.  • I have completed a project for 50 SQL Server Database Migration from Local to AWS environment.  • Install/upgrade/configure MSSQL and SQL Server  • Setup, Configured and Maintained MSSQL Always-On Availability Groups in SQL  • Database Backup and Restore  • Security management of MySQL, Oracle and COCHDB server  • Deploy Databases, Stored Procedures, Function, Triggers, Indexes by using RMR and work with dev and QC team.  • Perform On calls Duties and resolved the issues.  • Monitor and resolve the issues of SSRS and SSIS services  • Deploy the SSIS, SSDT packages to the QC and Production Servers and resolve the issues.    DATABASE PROGRAMMING:  • Writing T-SQL, Trigger, Function, Views and Stored-Procedures  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  • Using PowerShell and SQLCMD commands SQL Server DBA CTIS - Rockville, MD February 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Setup, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server  • Setup, Configured and Maintained AlwaysOn_Availability 2012  • Setup, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering On Windows Server and 2008 R2  • Setup, Configured and Maintained AlwaysOn_Availability Windows Server 2012 R2  • Setup SQL Server Azure  • Setup Replication, Mirroring and Log Shipping on SQL Server 2008 and 2008R.    Project 1 Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning:  • Strong on database Monitoring and Performance tuning of SQL Server and Windows Server  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health and disk space,  • Jobs Setup and Monitoring    Project 2 Report Development:  • Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Developed Reports using SSRS  • Deployed Reports    Project 3 Database Programming:  • Writing T-SQL, Trigger, Function, Views and Stored-Procedures  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  • Using PowerShell and SQLCMD commands Database Administrator IDS - Alexandria, VA June 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2005, 2008R2 and 2012  • Administer Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2008 R2  • Database Backup and Restore  • Apply Service Pack on Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2000,  • Database Migration  • Upgrade Windows server 2003 to 2008R2    Project1 Database High Availability:  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2008 R2/2012  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring of SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2 and 2012  • Configured Log Shipping SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2008 R2  • Configured and Maintained Replication    Project2 Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning:  • Strong on database Monitoring and Performance tuning  • Monitor SQL Server Logs, Agent Error Logs and Space usage  • Monitor Server Activity and solving problem as needed    Project3 Database Programming:  • Writing T-SQL, Trigger, Function, Views and Stored-Procedures  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  • Using PowerShell and SQLCMD commands Database Administrator Allscripts - Chicago, IL March 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 and 2008R2  • Database Backup and Restore  • Preproduction staging environments. Approximately 80 of the servers are dedicated MS SQL Server 2000 and Servers on a mixture of Windows 2000 and 2003.  • Monitored the system at RDBMS level as well as OS level, memory, processor, Disk I/O, user connections and locks  • Created user logins and adding users to the respective databases and managing the Security tasks like granting and revoking permissions.  • Performed Recovery of a Database by dropping the database and recreating the database  • Performed database maintenance activity by scheduling update statistics and reorg rebuild to reclaim space and improve performance.  • Writing T-SQL, Trigger, Function, Views and Stored-Procedures  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  • Using PowerShell and SQLCMD commands Database Administrator Practice Fusion - San Francisco, CA July 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Bring both relational and non-relational chops to help us build and maintain  our SaaS data stores both on-premises and in the cloud (AWS).  Ensure the continuous availability of our mission  • critical systems.  Help manage all aspects of our AWS instances and EBS storage  • backing our cloud platforms.  • RDBMS platforms. collaborate with the broader SaaS Ops,  • Data Architecture and Engineering/DevOps  • teams to deliver solutions Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (7 years), SQL SERVER (6 years), REPLICATION (2 years), SQL (6 years), T-SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Database Migration SQL Server 2016, 2014/2012/2008 R2.  ETL/BIDS Tools SSIS and SSAS/DTS with using BIDS/Data Tools  Reporting Services SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) with BIDS/Data Tools  Operating System Windows Server 2016, 2012R2/2008R2, VMware, SCOM, SSCM  Hardware/Storage RAID, SAN and NAS and Troubleshooting any Hardware and Software related Issues  Performance Tuning Performance Tuning with native tool and third party tools also.  DR/HA Solutions  Configuration, Management, Troubleshooting, Administer Replication, Mirroring, Log Shipping, Clustering and Always-On-Availability    Database Development T-SQL programming, Windows Powershell and SQLCMD