SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA Medtronic - Mansfield, MA June 2015 to Present Medtronic is an Irish medical device company headquartered in Dublin, Ireland. The operational headquarters is centered in Fridley, Minnesota, USA. Medtronic is the world's largest standalone medical technology development company.  In 2015, at the time of its acquisition of Covidien, Medtronic's market cap was about $100 billion while the market cap for CRH, Ireland's largest indigenous business, was $18.4 billion. Medtronic operates in more than 140 countries. The company employs over 80,000 people and has more than 53,000 patents    Responsibilities  • Build back-end database using programming and scripting language.  • Experience in improving SQL Server Database performance using Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler, and execution plans.  • Installed a New SQL server 2005 on windows server 2003 and upgrade 2005 from 2000.  • Create the disaster recovery plan for production server and development server.  • Support and develop multiple SQL Server Databases and ensure all the developed SQL Server components functions in the production environments.  • Monitor database environments, related jobs end procedures Database tuning & optimization Write and maintain stored procedures Work with database tools and utilities for administration and development  • Sending and Receiving the data and Images using XML technology.  • Daily support - resolve problems promptly with good solutions Backup and recovery - maintain appropriate file retention, manage rollback segments, etc.  • Migration of DTS packages to the SSIS on SQL Server 2005.  • Planned and Scheduled the Online/Offline Backups. Backed up master and system databases and restored them when necessary. Performed Log Backups and Restoration.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Database Administrator / Production Support IBM Watson Health, CO August 2014 to May 2015 Using advanced technology IBM Watson Health enables professionals to share health data and deliver insight to further care through hospitals, providers, insurers, researchers and patients. We have set an ambitious goal to improve lives and give hope by addressing the world's most pressing health challenges.    Responsibilities:  • Provide Production Support and give 24/7 On-Call support  • Involved in the DB Migration process from one Data Center to another data center.  • Day-to-day Technical Support on MS SQL Server 2008 R2/2005 Servers Platform for Production, Test and Development Environments (Clustered/non-clustered).  • Involved and documented in SOP based activities.  • Implement code changes and configuration changes (if needed) and other administrative activities.  • Designed and developed a full-scale reporting solution for a multi-client environment using MS SQL Server 2012 and MS SSRS 2008/2005.  • Technical support to users for various purposes like Access change, performance issues and storage space managements on RAID/SAN drives.  • Prepare RCA (Root Cause Analysis) using Profiler Trace, Performing counters with System Monitor.  • Created SSIS Packages on production and development environment.  • Recommend possible remedies for better performance.  • Designed SSIS Packages to extract, transfer, load (ETL) existing data into SQL Server from different environments for the SSAS cubes.  • To ensure all scheduled administrative/business jobs are running/completed for daily/adhoc business cycle on Microsoft SQL Servers in Production, Devlopment and QA Environment.  • Setting up Transactional and snapshot Replication for Production Environment.  • Running various DBCC commands for administration of database objects and system performance.  • 24x7 Technical Support for Production OLTP and Data Warehouse based on Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Servers/databases.  • To ensure all scheduled administrative jobs are running/completed for Microsoft SQL Servers.  • Involved in working with the system/storage administrators to appropriately spread files across the SAN drives.  • Interaction with client and onsite team members.    Environment: SQL Server 2008 R2, 2008, 2005, 2000, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Safe, IDERA, SQL Litespeed. Database Administrator SAVVIS - St. Louis, MO November 2012 to July 2014 Savvis, formerly SVVS on Nasdaq and formerly known as Savvis Communications Corporation, and, later, Savvis Inc., is a subsidiary of CenturyLink, a company headquartered in Monroe, Louisiana. The company sells managed hosting and colocation services with more than 50 data centers (over 2 million square feet) in North America, Europe, and Asia, automated management and provisioning systems, and information technology consulting. Savvis has approximately 2,500 unique business and government customers.    Responsibilities:  • Installed MS SQL server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012 on all production servers and VMware products.  • Worked on Data Center Move project.  • Up gradation/Migration from earlier / legacy version to MS SQL Server 2005/2008 R2 using suitable methods.  • Interacted with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designed SQL server accordingly.  • Administered MS SQL Server security by creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitored the user accounts, created groups, and granted the privileges to users and groups.  • Worked with Developers to identify the issues from SQL Logs.  • Stored procedure optimization and index maintenance.  • Maintain the SQL Backups on SAN through Light Speed.  • Automated processes using SQL Server jobs and handled database objects with Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer.  • Expertise in Log shipping and Replication and all standard maintenance.  • Crated SSIS Packages on production and development environment.  • Created and provided proper access use of Views to prevent unauthorized access.  • Maintenance of the database using the Database Maintenance Wizard to make some necessary changes and to keep the performance of the server at acceptable levels.  • Planned and Scheduled the Online/Offline Backups. Backed up master and system databases and restored them when necessary. Performed Log Backups and Restoration.  • Performed Capacity Monitoring, short and long-term capacity planning in collaboration with development resources, System Administrators, and System Architects.  • Performed Database Administration and Management activities in a safe, recoverable, and professional manner that ensures the optimal operation of all database environments.  • Created all SQL-Backup script and blocking script.  • Tuned SQL queries using Profiler, Show Plans, and Execution Plans for better performance. Employed Indexing Strategies and optimized them using DBCC commands & Index Tuning Wizard.  • Partitioned a lot of tables, which had frequent inserts, deletes and updates to reduce the contention and to improve the performance.  • Created and implemented the use the stored procedures and triggers to improve the performance and the business logic.  • Performed Data Transfer/Migration using Export/Import  • Created logins and maintained user permissions appropriately.    Environment: SQL Server v 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2000, SSIS, Win 2003, 2008 Server, Win 2003 Cluster, Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering A.D. Patel Institute of Technology - Gujarat, IN Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, SQL, VMWARE Additional Information • 5+ years of total IT experience mainly as SQL Server Database Administrator.  • Proficient in giving 24/7 production support  • Expertise in SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, SQL Server Surface Area Configuration, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, BCP and Bulk Load.  • Expertise in Database Administration (DBA) tasks like Backups and Recovery, Log shipping, Mirroring, space utilization, load balance, process scheduling, security, replication, etc.  • Expertise in managing 50+ Server including SQL Server, Oracle, and application server.  • Expertise in SQL Installation and Patching 2014/2012/2008/2008 R2/2005 on all windows servers.  • Proficient in Microsoft Standard Configuration.  • Implemented Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication for DR and HA  • Expertise in design and Plan HA Strategy  • Understanding of ETL Process using Partitioned Tables, SSIS and Deploying SSIS Packages using Package Configuration along with Deployment utility.  • Using DMV's for performance analysis and Implementing Index Rebuild process for performance improvements based on Built - in SSMS reports.  • Expertise in system trouble shooting in production environment and development environments.  • Experience with VMware products.  • Expert in T-SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), and Data Transform Services (DTS)  • Expertise in work with End users and solving the issues.  • Expertise in developing stored procedure, Jobs, and trigger in SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2005.  • Upgrade/Migration from earlier / legacy version to SQL Server 2008 R2/2005 using suitable methods.  • Expertise in supporting team of application developers for .Net web and OLTP database application.  • Involved and documented in SOP based activities.  • Experience in the designing, developing, Implementation and testing on production server.  • Involved in building data warehouse using ETL Tools for creating analytical reports.  • Ability to perform all common Database Administration (DBA) tasks like performing database backups and disaster recovery, space utilization, load balance, process scheduling, security, clustering, etc.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Indexing and Query Optimization. Understanding of Query Execution Plans.  • Used third party tools like IDERA, RED GATE, SQL LightSpeed for Backup, and Monitoring  • Creating Database users, controlling access to SQL Server and making sure right people get access to right data and looking after the security issues.  • Expertise in making documentation on SQL server 2008 R2, 2005.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Windows server 2008 R2 / 2003, VMware  Database: SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, ORALCE 9i, MS- Access.  Tools & Utilities: IDERA, Red-gate tool for back-up, Light speed, SQL Safe  SQL Server Tool: Enterprise Manager, Profiler, Query Analyzer, Export, and Import