Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Prime Therapeutics Brooklyn Center, MN Dedicated Database Administrator with 8+ years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle Database Administration, backup and recovery, database design and development, upgrades and security implementation. Competent to manage Oracle RDBMS 10g, 11g and 12c in dev, test and production environments and data analysis that support overall database management system. Proficient in providing database knowledge needed to safeguard clients and end users' information and carryout other administrative functions as required. Profound ability in a fast-moving environment and demonstrates coping with changing workloads and deadlines. Competent team player, energetic problem solver who is able and willing to adapt to a very fast-paced environment. A hardworking, efficient, reliable, trustworthy administrator willing to learn newer technologies with top-notch attention to detail with strong organization, verbal and written communication skills. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Prime Therapeutics - Edina, MN October 2015 to Present Administered and supported development of Oracle 11g databases by installing,  upgrading and configuring the Oracle server, creating databases, objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid  Control.  • Implemented backup procedures using RMAN and Data pump utility for Oracle  databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations.  • Maintained 24/7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting  live issues within defined tight SLA times.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views,  table partitions, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever  possible, amongst others.  • Performed patch jobs using crontab utility.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing and other security related task including  transparent data encryption.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM grid control, AWR, ADDM and ASH.  • Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC.  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC  configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using  Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as TDE and Data  Masking. Oracle Database Administrator Xcel Energy - Minneapolis, MN September 2013 to August 2015 • Identified root cause of Oracle errors and provided solutions to resolve errors.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Monitored bugs from alert log, audit logs and trace files.  • Used DDL statements to CREATE and ALTER within a dynamic SQL script to create  schemas, Synonyms and Roles. Extensive use of SELECT statements for reporting.  • Troubleshoot application related problems with developers and system administrators  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes.  • Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Datapump.  • Provided capacity planning, tuning and administration support to application  development efforts. Goals achieved ranged from I/O minimization, improved hit ratios,  contention reduction, high database availability etc.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving  the use of the export/import and migration utilities.  • Used Tablespace Manager, Oracle Expert and STATSPACK to monitor performance  bottlenecks, database response time, instance workload and operating system resource  usage.  • Used SQL Developer and OEM in maintenance of database.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Monitored Alert log and trace files for errors.  • Performed database tuning by reviewing AWR, ADDM reports, implementing SQL profiles and baselines, designing table and index partitioning and coalescing of database objects for faster query performance. Including memory, I/O, contention, and SQL statement tuning. Oracle Database Administrator MedStar Health - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to August 2013 • Implemented backup and recovery procedures using RMAN and Data Pump utility for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations. Maintained 24*7  • Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting live issues.  • Monitored and optimized database performance, troubleshooting performance issues  using OEM and AWR.  • Performed SQL Tuning and provided consultation such as creating Materialized views,  table partitions, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes  • Managed database security by creating and assigning privileges to users depending on the user's activity, auditing and performing other security related tasks including Transparent  • Data Encryption and acknowledged HIPAA laws.  • Monitored bugs from the alert log and trace files and used DDL statements to CREATE  and ALTER within a dynamic SQL script, created schemas, synonyms and roles.  • Used RMAN for database refresh with hot backups, incremental backups and validated to ensure the backups were secured and usable for recovery.  • Participated as part of a teamwork effort for SDLC principles and the development of documentation for new procedures and processes for technical projects.  • Managed users by creating them, assigning roles, managing passwords and privileges  including other security related tasks.  • Managed Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Non-ASM database file systems  using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for database monitoring and performance tuning  • Installations of Oracle databases on Linux OS and analyzed SQL statements,  reorganize database objects and designed indexes.  • Performed day to day database administration tasks like database creation as well as working on projects such as upgrades (from 9i, 10, 11g, 12c) and patching. Education Associate in OCA Oracle University February 2019 Skills Database (8 years), OEM (8 years), Oracle (8 years), security (8 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS AND CORE COMPETENCES    • Backup and recovery using data pump and RMAN.  • Incident, Problem & Change Management  • Oracle, SQL Server Database Administration  • Monitoring and Performance tuning using OEM/Grid Control/Manual.  • Oracle Installation and Configuration.  • Database Upgrade and Migration.  • OMS Grid Installation & Administration  • Oracle Exadata administration and Oracle Cloud backups.  • Application Support.  • Database integrity and Advanced security implementations.  • Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC, and Dataguard  • Operating Systems: Unix, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.5, Windows  • RDBMS: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c R1  • Tools/Utilities: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Plus, SQL Developer, Toad, Putty, Data Pump,  • Generating AWR, ADDM reports.