Database Administrator Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Specialist Database Administrator Specialist - FIS Global Denver, CO 5+ years of IT experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands-on experience in database administration and performed different tasks like installation, configuration, migration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, production support, cloning, space management, database security.    • Expert in planning, creating, administrating and troubleshooting of ORACLE 12c/11g/10g OLTP (multiple instances)/OLAP databases in different environments and worked on HP-UX, AIX, Sun Solaris, RED HAT Linux, Oracle Linux, SQL Server and Windows environment.  • Experienced in Mass deployment of agents from OEM, performing administrative tasks using OEM, generating reports, scheduling RMAN jobs, SQL tuning advisor.  • Installed and Configured GoldenGate components for transaction level DDL, DML, Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication.  • Implemented GoldenGate Replication 11g/12c and configured for Automatic failover of GoldenGate process and Handy in upgrading GoldenGate from v11 to 12c and experienced in GoldenGate utilities like ggsci, LogDump, and investigating replication failures using ggserr.log and report files.  • Experienced in configuring DataGuard, implementing and maintaining physical standby databases, logical standby databases, active DataGuard and snapshot databases in 11g/12c, DataGuard Broker and managed standby databases using DG broker.  • Good Experience in Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN and database backup concepts such as user-managed backup, RMAN backup, cold and hot backup, implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Experience in implementing Flash-Back Technology 10g/11g/12c and used different techniques using Flashback Query, Flashback SCN, Flashback using timestamp and creating restore points on the database.  • Experience in applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU) and Patch Set Update (PSU) Quarterly and applying Oracle rolling patches on RAC 11g/12c.  • Experience in logical backups with Data Pump, Export/Import.  • Performed Real Application Testing on databases by applying peak loads of data and performed SPA (SQL Performance Analysis) using OEM and tuned the performance of SQLs and databases.  • Having good experience in working with Exadata and implemented Exadata features.  • Experience in performance tuning of OLAP and OLTP databases using utilities like AWR, ASH, ADDM, Tuning of SGA, tuning instance.  • Performed the validations and counts between the source and target databases and corrected the data using Oracle GoldenGate Veridata.  • Having good experience in working with Exadata and implemented Exadata features.  • Developed shell scripts for regular administration tasks that include various Cron jobs for alert logs, Backups, restore and recovery. Work Experience Database Administrator Specialist FIS Global - Denver, CO March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and maintained databases on high availability systems like DataGuard and Real Application Cluster environments.  • Performing Cross Platform Migration of production databases by performing initial load using GoldenGate/Datapump/RMAN and maintaining data synchronization using GoldenGate.  • Involved in installation and configuration of OEM 12c/13c and performed mass deployment of agents from OEM, performing administrative tasks using OEM.  • Involved in Patching the ASM, RDBS and Grid Infrastructure homes using OPatch utility.  • Instantiated the ADG Standby databases, configured the DG Broker and tested DG switchover and failover using the DG Broker.  • Performs Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning and Database tuning and GoldenGate sessions at Database level and GGSCI level.  • Working as support DBA and troubleshooting the issues and resolving them and Works with Oracle Support regarding open Service Requests.  • Involved in deployment meetings before application new/upgrade Releases and prepared company standard documents for lower environments.  • Managing incremental backups and weekly cumulative backups using RMAN. Archive weekly all production database exports to Tapes and done exports and imports of tables, schemas and tablespaces with Data Pump(Expdp/Impdp).  • Creating the databases on ODA and applying patches on it and worked on DB Links and materialized views.  • Implemented Table space Data Encryption (TDE) on Exa-data Databases.  • Enabled and disabled the Golden Gate CDC on multiple databases as per client's requests by performing the clean-up jobs and validated the data using GoldenGate Veridata.  • Involved in creation of scripts to automate the procedures to generate statistics on database space management and refreshing the data from production to test databases and get alerts on backup failures and GoldenGate high lags and abends.  • Grant and Revoked user privileges and roles as per requirement and killed blocking sessions and performing Auditing on user activities on request and per organization policies.  Environment: Oracle12c/11g, DB2, HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, RMAN, RAC, RAT, ASM, DataGuard, Data Pump, Unix Shell scripting, GoldenGate, Veridata, OEM13c/12c, AWR. Database Consultant Performance Tuning Corporation - Austin, TX August 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed administrative maintenance, monitoring on Oracle database systems in a global 24x7 operational environment. Performed Migration of production databases from SQL Server 2012 to SQL Server 2016 by executing initial load and maintaining data synchronization using GoldenGate.  • Performed the Counts and Validations of data and corrected the data discrepancies between source and target databases by using Oracle GoldenGate Veridata.  • Configured the ODBC connections to connect to the source and target databases through GoldenGate hub.  • Implemented Data guard, created both logical and physical standby databases using 12c RAC environment and configured Oracle Flashback on production databases  • Scheduled RMAN Level 0 and Level 1 backups on migrated databases and Wrote Shell Scripting for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  • Performed patching on Oracle Database Server 11gR2 and 12c using Opatch utility and Opatchauto and daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, users, Table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Developed database monitoring and health check alert scripts for database uptime and downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and collected ADDM recommendations using OEM to tune the TOP running SQL Query's.  • Performed the upgradation of GoldenGate home from 12.2.0.2 to 12.2.0.6 to get rid of contention issues on production databases.  • Involved in creation of scripts to automate the procedures to generate counts of tables that CDC got enabled and created GoldenGate monitoring scripts to get the alerts for high lags and abends.  • Applying PSU Patches and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  Environment: Oracle12c/11g, Linux 5.8, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, RMAN, RAC, ASM, DataGuard, Data Pump, SQL server, Unix Shell scripting, GoldenGate, OEM. Oracle DBA United Airlines - Houston, TX December 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:    • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11g R2 on HP-UX and Oracle 12c on M7 Supercluster and performed Cross Platform Migration using Oracle GoldenGate v12c  • Developed scripts and performed Real Application Testing (RAT) on go-live databases by applying peak loads of data from production databases and tuned the database parameters. Performed SQL Performance Analysis(SPA) using OEM and tuned the SQLs based on results.  • Installed OEM 13c on database 12.2.0.2 and performed mass deployment of agents from OEM, patching OEM, performing administrative tasks using OEM, generating reports, scheduling jobs, RMAN, SQL tuning advisor to tune sql's on databases.  • Used GoldenGate logdump utility to investigate data on trail files and created GoldenGate monitoring scripts using shell scripting to get the alerts for high lags and abends.  • Configured Listener and Net service names using NETCA and performed a Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Performed Database Cloning from Production to Test environment and performed Index Rebuilding and allocation and reorganization of table spaces.  • Analyzing AWR, ADDM reports for performance tuning. Monitoring and resolved hung database backup jobs.  Environment: Oracle12c/11g, HP-UX, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, RMAN, RAC, RAT, ASM, DataGuard, Data Pump, Unix Shell scripting, GoldenGate, OEM13c/12c, AWR. Jr. Oracle DBA Microspark Software Solutions Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented data transfer using Data Pump Export/Import utilities and performed Database Refresh from production to lower environments and used EXPDP for schema level.  • Configured network components like TNSNAMES, Connection Manager, for easy and effective management of Oracle networking.  • Applied patches on standalone servers using OPatch utility.  • Involved in scheduling incremental, cumulative and full backups and configured retention policy using RMAN and experience in scheduling the database backup jobs using Crontab.  • Implemented Disaster Recovery Plan for critical databases using DataGuard and worked on physical and snapshot standby 11g databases in DataGuard.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like OEM, SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, TKPROF, LOGMINER, STATSPACK, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for monitoring health checks and for taking RMAN backups  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Statistics.  • UNIX shell scripting as and when required based on the requirement.  • Created Service Requests with Oracle to resolve oracle internal errors.  • Created new database objects like Tables, Procedures, Functions, Indexes and Views in Development and Production environments.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, RAC, RMAN, ASM, GoldenGate, DataGuard, TOAD, OEM, SQL*LOADER, AWR, ADDM, ASH, DB Links, SQL, PL/SQL, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, Data pump. Education Bachelors Koneru Lakshmaiah College in Vijayawada - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh Skills AIX, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, Oracle Dba Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Red Hat Linux, AIX, Windows, HP-UX, Sun Solaris.  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g, SQL Server 2012/2014/2016.  Tools and Utilities  LogDump, Defgen, RMAN, OEM, TOAD, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data pump, SQL Tuning/Access Advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer, Real Application Testing, Oracle GoldenGate Veridata    Languages C, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, HTML, CSS, UNIX/NT Shell Scripting.  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, ADDM, AWR, SQL Tuning Advisor.  Ticketing Tools Service Now, CMS, Snow Central, BMC Remedy