Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages 7+ years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment, supporting a variety of mission critical applications running on Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c. and PostgreSQL.    ? Development  ? Testing  ? QAT  ? Project and production support  ? Installation and configuration  ? Upgrades and patching  ? Migration of systems  ? Backup and recovery  ? Performance Tuning  ? Data guard and Broker  ? Goldengate  ? RAC  ? RMAN  ? Database security  ? Optimization of SQL and PL/SQL scripts  ? Import/Export data pump  ? Database refreshes.  ? PostgreSQL Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages - Plano, TX July 2017 to Present • Installed, configured, maintained, and supported Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, physical and logical standby database for testing, developing, and production of various applications  • Installed, configured, maintained and supported a unidirectional golden gate for data sharing and replication.  • Configuring Physical standby Data Guard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.  • Upgraded databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.  • Migrated from 11.2.0.4 to 12c using transportable tablespace  • Extensively investigated and followed-up with application teams, and proposed solutions to resolve slowness and performance issues  • During production hours, resolved lock/latch and resource contention issues  • Identified root causes of SQL performance issues by analyzing EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE, and TKPROF trace files  • Aided troubleshooting of performance issues through analysis of AWR, ASH, and ADDM reports  • Cloned and migrated small databases using import/export utilities, and used Data pump import/export for 11g/12c databases  • Applied patches (including opatch), upgrades, and maintenance on all databases  • Utilized production data to refresh development and test instances regularly  • Monitored and troubleshot Golden Gate replication issues  • Extensively utilized Oracle 11gR2 features, including Real Application Testing, Enhanced RMAN, Oracle Data Pump, EM Grid Control, and various others daily, and enhanced features in 12c such as table and partition recovery, DDL Logging  • Resolved issues involving RAC, OCR, faulty node rebooting, and switched over service relocation  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data  • Managed the monitoring and troubleshooting of database replication issues  • Collaborated with application development teams to support and resolve any issues encountered  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to perform database monitoring, maintenance, replication processes, and performance tuning.  • Created and managed database objects such as users, roles, tables, indexes, views, sequences and permissions.  • Assisted developers with setting up PostgreSQL database and installation of PgAdmin4 on local machines.  • Configured and scheduled database backups using appropriate tools (snapshots/pg_dump/) and method for various environments Oracle Support Database Administrator Walgreen Company - Deerfield, IL March 2014 to July 2017 Utilized RMAN and traditional Data pump utilities in Oracle 10gR2 to clone and migrate databases  ? Installed 11gR2 RAC while performing disk group management in ASM  ? Monitored health checks of OCR and VOTING DISKS while troubleshooting issues in RAC environment  ? Performed daily tasks such as resolving tickets, development support, and collaboration with application tuning  ? Managed databases from initiation, including planning, testing, implementation, and on-going support  ? Extensively monitored grid control database, error notification configuration, listener installation, and addition to grid control  ? Converted non-RAC single instance to RAC database instances  ? Created and implemented recovery strategies, and successfully recovered databases using RMAN  ? Utilized RMAN utility to schedule and monitor physical backups in the CRON tab  ? Created users, groups, roles, profiles, and granted privileges according to job needs  ? Optimized and tuned SQL queries using SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities  ? Applied security patches such as Patch set, Critical Patch Updates, and Patch Set Updates  ? Used Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to quickly move a user's tablespace across Oracle databases  ? Implemented data refreshes using RMAN, Data pump, and conventional export/import for Oracle 11g and 10g  ? Upgraded databases from 11g to non-CDB 12c  ? Implemented Tablespace level TDE security and created Oracle wallets  ? Constantly monitored the performance of databases through viewing alert log and trace files  ? Managed space, capacity planning, disaster recovery, and overall maintained the databases  ? Creating and Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges  ? Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using exports from 10g database and imported in 11g using data pump ADVISER INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY January 2010 to May 2013 I ensure the implementation of new technology in the IT department and monitor and Coordinated ICT educators to ensure compliance  ? I Conducted and facilitated workshop to train educator in new area of the curriculum and how to capture data and generate report for evaluation.  ? Supervised the installation of computers and programs in various schools and train educators on the administration of SASAMS data base (data base for schools in South Africa)  ? Producing reports on SASAMS on required information needed by any  department (department of education, parents or teachers) Education B.SC in Agricultural sciences University of South Africa 2014 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Sql, Etl, Linux, Solaris, Oem Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OPERATING SYSTEM: Windows, Linux, Solaris 10/9/8  DATABASES: oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  : PostgreSQL  Ms SQL SERVER  TUNNING TOOLS: Explain plan, AWR, ADDM, SQL TUNNING ADVISOR.  MONITORING TOOLS: OEM 13C TOAD, ETL, SQL DEVELOPER, grid control, WinSCP