Technology Analyst Technology Analyst Technology Analyst - Infosys Ltd Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with 5+ years extensive experience demonstrating success in designing, implementing and supporting next generation database solution. Proficient in Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM12c), implementation of high availability solutions Golden Gate, (RAC) with 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c D/R disaster recovery infrastructure (Physical and Logical Standby) using Data Pump, Data Guard technologies. Work Experience Technology Analyst Infosys Ltd - Indianapolis, IN Present • Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting Golden Gate 12c Software  • Configuration of Golden Gate for Classic and Integrated Capture components  • Configuration of Golden Gate High availability using Oracle ACFS on Grid  • Experience in performance tuning of Oracle Golden Gate process to achieve zero lag time  • Experience in Oracle Golden Gate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database vendors  • Expertise in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  • Establishing standards, policies and procedures for Golden Gate replication administration.  • Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle RAC, Physical and Logical Standby Databases (Data Guard) and Replication using Golden Gate.  • Implementation of Golden Gate for Active-Active Replication between the Datacenter for High Availability.  • Implantation of Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication using various versions of Golden Gate  • Configured different levels of replication such as DDL replication, DML replication for table level, schema level, database level using Golden Gate.  • Implementing and maintaining database security (create and maintain users, roles and assign privileges)  • Upgrade of Golden Gate from version 11.2 to 12.1.  • Performed near zero downtime database upgrade from 11g to 12c using Golden gate with rollback strategy in place Oracle Database Administrator The William Carter Company - Atlanta, GA December 2017 to 2019 • Extensive experience in Installation, Migration, Database Upgrade, Backup and Recovery using RMAN utility, DR, RMAN, ASM, 10g RAC administration, data pump, performance tuning of Oracle Database  • Provide database system management functions on Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c  • Implement Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM12c) for centralized monitoring and administration of the Test, QA and Production databases.  • Engineering and administration of Oracle standalone and RAC clustered (11g, 12c) database environments  • Work with the system DBAs to implement changes and performance improvements.  • Implement and configure Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Performs Bidirectional replications  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Perform capacity planning of Oracle server environment and provide recommendations to management to sustain business growth.  • Provide development and design assistance to development and other application support teams  • Ensure system integrity, efficiency and performance through management of core system resources (CPU/Memory/IO Performance)  • Assess and perform systems utilization and headroom reports to assist in troubleshooting and performance tuning  • Evaluate and manage existing software and licensing configurations, systems and the design, implementation and management of new/improved systems  • Provide 24X7 support for Oracle 10g/11g databases on windows/Linux platforms    PROFESIONAL EXPERIENCE IT System/Oracle Database Administrator Fast Data Ltd - Lagos, NG July 2011 to November 2017 • Perform maintenance of the data backup systems.  • Deploy bug fixes, patches and security updates to ensure system readiness, performance, resource  • Gather data pertaining to client needs, and use the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements  • Monitor server performance, network capacity, and security issues.  • Assist with audits on existing software to verify authorized use and license certification  • Remain up-to-date on products available in the market; support new technologies.  • Disaster Recovery Testing; working with multiple departments in testing disaster recovery plans.  • Designed, installed, configured and maintained High Availability (RAC, RAC One Node, Data Guard etc.) Database solutions.  • Monitored backup operations, and schedules manual backups as needed  • Perform installations and configurations of grid infrastructure, databases, clients and much more.  • Researched, tested, and made recommendations of data validation tools  • Provides recommendations to management on behalf of the team  • Developing functional process diagrams for Oracle database services.  • Providing support to developers working on SQL, including development of best practices, hands on demos, and knowledge transfer  • Assisting with procurement of hardware, software, and services  • Monitor Oracle trends for hardware, system and user load utilization  • Responded to and resolved database access and performance issues.  • Performed capacity planning of Oracle server environment and provides recommendations to management to sustain business growth    PROFESIONAL EXPERIENCE IT System Administrator Guarantee Trust Bank March 2009 to July 2011 • Manage Server and storage area for network support and upgrades  • Produces basic infrastructure and application documentation and design.  • Administer and maintain the Symitar financial system.  • Administer and maintain Windows, AIX, and Linux operating systems.  • Administer and maintain SAN (Storage Area Network) systems.  • Communicates and coordinates various vendors when additional in-depth technical assistance is needed  • Performs software and hardware upgrades in accordance with bank policies and procedures  • Performs network troubleshooting to diagnose common network problems.  • Supports the Remote Desktop User Environment.  • Perform maintenance of the data backup systems  • Monitor server performance, network capacity, and security issues  • Responsible for compliance with all Federal regulations including Bank Secrecy Act NG  • Provides project support for software and hardware projects  • Remain up-to-date on products available in the market; support new technologies.  • Handle trouble tickets related to server and system performance  • Maintain with onsite resources to troubleshoot issues Education Diploma in Statistics in Statistics Yaba College of Technology Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Red hat, Unix, Unix shell, Rman, Vm, Java, Confident, Written and verbal, Fast learner, Team player, Windows 2003, Loader Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System: Oracle VM, Oracle Linux, Red Hat, Windows 2003/2008 Server  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Script, Java  Database: Oracle 10g, 11g & Microsoft SQL Server  Tools/ Software: SQL Developer, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager  (OEM), DBCA, Data Pump, Data Guard, RMAN, Oracle Schedule    PERSONAL STRENGHTH  Excellent in work ethics, communication and analytical skills  Excellent team player  Excellent in organizational written and verbal communication skills.  Fast learner and confident approach to work  Work very well in both team and individual environment.