Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Bowie, MD Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator SunTrust Bank - Tampa, FL February 2016 to April 2019 • Skillfully implemented all new 12c features including redaction policy, optimization of adaptive queries, multi-index single columns, and RMAN table restoration  • Successfully cloned non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c  • Efficiently installed high availability Goldengate systems on 11g and 12c environments  • Expertly configured Dataguard and logical and physical standby database in 11gR2 2-node RAC  • Utilized RMAN to perform hot/cold backups, recovery and cloning of databases  • Managed 100GB to 5TB databases using TOAD, OEM, and SQL Developer  • Extensively used TTS, Datapump, and SQL Loader to migrate tablespaces and databases across platforms  • Collaborated regularly with development, application, system administration, and release teams to ensure optimized functionality  • Primarily used diagnostic tools such as TKPROF, SQL*Trace, SQL*Analyzer, EXPLAIN PLAN, and ASH and AWR reports to monitor and tune database performance at the operating system and database level  • Optimized efficient database simultaneous auditing through installation, configuration, and maintenance of Oracle Audit Vault  • Provided 24/7 technical support for production and development databases  • Implemented and deployed high availability systems on 11g database using RAC, Dataguard, Streams, ASM, and RMAN to implement and administer effective disaster recovery strategies to mitigate data loss in the event of crashes  • Used SQL*Loader and external tables to load flat file data to databases    Sql Server Experience  • Became an expert on SQL Server in managing and monitoring, SQL Server databases 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016.  • Downloaded, Installed, configure, patch, and upgrade Microsoft Sql Server Database.  • Control and monitor user access to databases and maintain database security.  • Analyze online and Database Performance and/implements improvements.  • Perform basic analysis to help in identifying and resolving performance issues.  • Document the company database standards and changes for future references.  • Implemented Backup ranging from Full, Differential and Transnational backups.  • Recovered Database using the FULL SIMPLE and BULK LOGGED RECOVERYMODELS.  • Troubleshoot performance of the database using tools like SQL PROFILE, TASK MANAGER, DYNAMIC VIEWS as well as database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Implement service SSIS for data integrity in an OLAP DATA WAREHOUSE environment, SSAS for DATA ANALYSES, and SSRS for Reporting purpose.  • Responsible for 24X7 support of production databases. Oracle Database Administrator Xcel Energy - Minneapolis, MN March 2014 to February 2016 • Extensively utilized OEM 12c Cloud Control to monitor various database and application servers  • Analyzed user activity to determine appropriate roles and privileges to create and assign for individuals  • Cloned and migrated small databases via traditional import/export and moved data with Datapump expdp/impdp  • Periodically performance tuned database using AWR, ADDM, and EXPLAIN PLAN to optimize performance  • Extensively implemented enterprise databases on Enterprise Storage Solutions using SAN and NAS  • Applied all needed upgrade, security, and interim patches as needed, using Opatch utility  • Implemented effective recovery strategies and utilized RMAN to perform full and incremental backups both cumulative and differential  • Utilized RMAN utility efficiently to refresh and clone databases to maintain data integrity  • Successfully upgraded databases from10g (10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC databases  • Rebuilt indexes on database tables and indexes to optimize database performance  • Developed well-constructed Unix scripts to automate database processes including file movement, alert log management, and efficient backup strategies  • Skillfully configured 2-node RAC with ASM file system on Linux and converted single instance database to 11g RAC  • Maintained currently knowledge of new technologies and applications to apply to database quality, productivity, and efficiency  • Managed large database from 50GB to 3TB utilizing TOAD, OEM, and SQL Developer  • Created detailed documents in SharePoint for future database administrators to reference while troubleshooting Education Bachelor of Science degree in Biochemistry University of Buea 1999 to 2003 Skills ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, SQL, RMAN, BACKUPS, REMEDY, SOLARIS, SUN, OEM, LOADER, BILINGUAL Links http://linkedin.com/in/ghislain-ngatsi-9a4046156 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:    ? Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  ? Linuz  ? Sun Solaris  ? Windows  ? OEM  ? OEM Grid  ? SQL*Plus  ? RMAN  ? TOAD  ? SQL*Loader  ? NETCA  ? SQL Developer  ? Exp/Imp  ? Datapump  ? Log miner  ? STATSPACK  ? AWR  ? ADDM  ? ASH  ? DBCA  ? DBUA  ? Putty  ? WinSCP  ? Remedy  ? Hot and cold backups  ? DBMS_SCHEDULER  ? CRONtab  ? Oracle Scheduler  ? TKPROF  ? EXPLAIN PLAN  ? SQL Plan Monitor  ? SQL Tuning Advisor  ? SQL Access  ? Bilingual: English and French