Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) - General Mills Minnesota Over 7 years of IT and related experience with over 6 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle 11g and 12c database administration and system analysis within a multifaceted environment.  Possesses excellent written and verbal communication skills and a great team player with a fast learning curve. Works perfectly and effectively under stressful conditions where speed and accuracy are necessary for mission critical systems.  Remarkable attention-to-detail with the ability to coordinate multiple activities; determine and analyze problems and implement corrective actions.  Worked on both Unix (Linux, AIX, Solaris) and Windows Operating Systems.  Experience also includes Database Security, Database design and Modeling, Capacity planning and Documentation. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) General Mills - Minneapolis, MN August 2016 to Present • Creating physical databases with multiple tablespaces from logical and physical data model  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) to 12C.  Built and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery strategy.  • Configured Physical Standby on oracle 12C.  • Scheduled daily Exports/Imports to serve as temporary backups.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as Virtual Database Privacy, TDE and Data Masking.  • Worked on on-call and queue manager roles as part of the DBA team.  • Configured and managed standby databases using Data Guard.  • Performed SQL tuning using tools such as SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace, ASH, AWR, and Explain Plan.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support using RSA-VPN  • Data Warehouse tools.  • Configures, supports, and optimizes replication.  • Performs acceptance testing on computer systems, applications and hardware.  • Performs other duties and responsibilities as assigned.  • Utilized the broker to manage Dataguard physical and standby databases.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import utilities and Transportable Tablespace.  • Identified and worked with developers on automating processes using shell scripts to minimize errors.  • Hands on experience in UNIX scripting.  • Worked on database security including Auditing (standard auditing, fine grain, valued based and statement auditing), Encrypting (Transparent Table Encryption - TDE).  • Use a varied range of backup optimization techniques including incremental backup, backup stripping, backup resilient or mirror, compressed backup and backup with checksum.  • Automated process using CRONTAB.  • Perform day to day database security tasks such as login issues, access privileges, installing client software on pc, creating and managing tables and indexes. Preston IT - Saint Paul, MN May 2012 to Present Preston Consulting is a consulting company based in St Paul, MN. I worked for the following end clients through this company: Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Medtronic - Fridley, MN July 2014 to July 2016 • Performed Oracle Database Lifecycle Management (LCM) tasks that included migrations, patching, upgrades, automation and decommissioning legacy databases.  • Upgraded databases from 10g, 11g to 12c (12.1.0.1 and 12.1.0.2) by doing either in place upgrades for dedicated databases or migrations for shared databases.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g software on AIX / UNIX / LINUX operating systems.  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as Virtual Database Privacy, TDE and Data Masking.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support using RSA-VPN.  • Configured and managed standby databases using Data Guard.  • Performed SQL tuning using tools such as SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace, ASH, AWR, and Explain Plan.  • Built and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery strategy.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Documentation.  • Design od data structures and database systems  • Effective oral and written communication skills  • Utilized the broker to manage Dataguard physical and standby databases.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import utilities and Transportable Tablespace.  • Identified and worked with developers on automating processes using shell scripts to minimize errors. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Interstate Battery - Dallas, TX May 2012 to June 2014 • Performed Oracle Database Lifecycle Management (LCM) tasks that included migrations, patching, upgrades, automation and decommissioning legacy databases.  • Upgraded databases from 10g, 11g to 12c (12.1.0.1 and 12.1.0.2) by doing either in place upgrades for dedicated databases or migrations for shared databases.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g software on AIX / UNIX / LINUX operating systems.  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as Virtual Database Privacy, TDE and Data Masking.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support using RSA-VPN.  • Configured and managed standby databases using Data Guard.  • Performed SQL tuning using tools such as SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace, ASH, AWR, and Explain Plan.  • Built and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery strategy.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Documentation.  • Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) using SQL DDL and DML scripts/commands using primary and foreign keys.  • Performed database security and user administration via roles, profile, auditing and TDE.  • Automated processes using CRONTAB.  • Refreshed databases from Production to Test environments using a hot backup and data pump. Education Bachelors of Arts in History University of Dschang 2000 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000