Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Montauk Energy Bethel Park, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Montauk Energy - Pittsburgh, PA August 2017 to Present Responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of all SQL Databases within the network. This includes ensuring availability, optimizing efficiency and promoting usability. Additional responsibilities include development and implementation of new applications as well as performing regularly scheduled maintenance tasks for security, integrity and performance monitoring. Creation and enforcement of policies for maintenance, monitoring, procedures, standards and security. Creation and implementation of SSIS Packages, SQL Server Agent Jobs, Stored Procedures and Backup across all the network. Perform tests and evaluations regularly to ensure data security, privacy & integrity. Perform backup and recovery tests. Responsible for the development and maintenance of QlikView Business Intelligence Suite. Responsible for Web Development and Social Media Management. Lead Application Developer & Lead Database Administrator Teleplex INC - Pittsburgh, PA October 2013 to March 2016 SQL Server Database Manager responsible for operations out of four different offices throughout Western, PA. Responsibilities included creation, implementation and maintenance of all databases within the network. Provided support to operators on a 24/7 rotating schedule. Responsible for troubleshooting and management of the system. Oversaw that best practices were being implemented and utilized by Junior DBAs. Other responsibilities included GUI Application Development and Maintenance to support the operators. Developed advanced programming methods to execute applications based on client specific needs. Oracle Database Administrator I PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA October 2012 to October 2013 Responsible for the creation, implementation and maintenance of Oracle Databases on both Linux and Solaris environments. Utilized both Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g and Oracle RDBMS 11g. Was responsible for up to at least five servers at any given time including Production, Test and QA servers. Was part of a ten person Database Team specifically tasked with improvement of current database servers. Coordinated with other lines of business regarding access rights, security and deployment. Coordinated with end users to gather requirements specific to that line of business and to ensure a smooth transition from development to production. QA Automated Testing Intern Ciber Inc - Pittsburgh, PA July 2012 to August 2012 Internship for Highmark where primary responsibilities included testing applications and other software programs. Learned the fundamentals of functional and automated testing including white box, black box, and regression testing. Was able to applied these fundamentals to test on development applications. Learned the fundamentals of Oracle Forms & Reports. Web Designer/Webmaster, Database Administrator Travel Time Transportation Group - Pittsburgh, PA January 2011 to June 2012 Responsible for creation, implementation and maintenance of front end website including a backend SQL Server Database. Software Compliance Engineer & Programmer Alcoa May 2010 to August 2010 Responsible for user security including detection of unauthorized software, anti virus software and monitoring external interactions. Created and executed C# scripts to detect threats on the network. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Point Park University Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA 2010 to 2012 Associate's in Software Development Community College of Allegheny County Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA 2009 to 2010 High School Diploma Bethel Park High School - Bethel Park, PA 2002 to 2006 Skills HTML, Javascript, XML, jQuery, SQL (6 years), QlikView (2 years), Microsoft 365 (2 years), Microsoft Powerapps (2 years), Microsoft SharePoint (2 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL, Oracle Dba