SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - PACIFIC SYSTEMS, INC Chicago, IL * Has 5+ years of experience as a SQL Server DBA  * Very good experience in Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Server.  * Experience in Data Modeling (Logical and Physical Design of Databases),  * Experience in Database backup and disaster recovery procedures.  * Experience in Replication - Snapshot, Merge and Transactional.  * Has very good experience in complete ETL cycle including data analysis, database design, data mapping and conversion and data load.  * good T-SQL skills. Experience in query optimization & performance tuning. Used SQL Profiler, Execution Plan, Performance Monitor and DBCC Commands  * Worked in OLTP & OLAP environment that includes Production (24x7), QA and development databases in SQL Server.  * Has Knowledge of Analysis Services & Reporting Services, SQL Server Clustering  * Has very strong background in a disciplined software development life cycle (SDLC) process and has excellent analytical, programming and problem solving skills.  * Has the ability to work in a fast paced environment, Good team player and can work independently. Helped the database developers on technical issues. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator PACIFIC SYSTEMS, INC 2011 to Present Proactively monitored, identified, isolated and resolved server problems to avoid impact on the business.  Performs SQL SERVER database upgrades from version 2000 to 2005 and applied patches to 2005 database server instance.  Used SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL code  Assists in providing documentation detailing the design and architecture of the databases, as well as the administration, backup procedures and data recovery steps.  Worked with other DBA's in the recovery of corrupted databases, timely troubleshooting of all database-related problems and emergency response to all production downtime events.  Monitored application and database performance, and adjusted database parameters, application code or schema as needed.  Coordinated with platform hosting vendor(s) DBAs to ensure proper support maintenance, and tuning of various databases  Implemented and enforced appropriate security measures for the database  Developed, tested, and maintained a backup and recovery process to ensure proper system continuity in the case of an unforeseen event.  Provided primary support for Enterprise Data Warehouse databases Engaged in 24x7 on-call rotation with peers to support all database infrastructures  Developed required scripts to properly monitor and report error conditions  Monitored space usage, and adjust database as needed.Monitored backup operations, and schedules manual backups as needed.  Participated and coordinated the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures with minimal supervision. SQL Database Administrator WHOLE FOOD - Chicago, IL July 2008 to January 2010 Performed backups of all SQL servers daily and monthly  Ensured security of the database servers by implementing applicable security patches and maintaining appropriate security measures.  Reviewed Developers SQL code for security, standards and optimization.  Provided recommendations to Developers outlining alternate methods of accomplishing the same tasks.  Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  Managed and executed maintenance jobs that ensured the stability and performance of the database servers.  Performed Administration tasks on SQL Server 2005 (replication, tuning, configuration, troubleshooting.  Established and enforced all database standards.  Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications.  Established and enforced controls to ensure database integrity.    Coordinated with platform hosting vendor(s) DBAs to ensure proper support, maintenance, and tuning of various databases  Developed, tested, and maintained a backup and recovery process to ensure proper system continuity in the case of an unforeseen event.    LANGUAGES: English, French, Spanish, Portugues, and Swahili. Education BSC in Business Administration University of Kinshasa