Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA • Hands on experience in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation)  • Successfully performed rolling upgrade In RAC environment from 11. 2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and to 12.1.3  • Good experience in RAC Clusterware administration, Configuration and Patching Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups.  • Implemented various backup strategies for Large / Medium sized databases using RMAN  • Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Worked with VERITAS Net Backup & IBM TSM on file system Backups. Experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing implementing Databases.  • Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  • Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 11g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  • Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine tuning those sql's for better performance.  • Extensive experience in shall and batch scripting on Red hat Linux 6.x.  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler.  • Experience in using 11g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 11g&12c Grid Monitoring.  • Skilled in cross platform migrations from Windows to Linux, Solaris to Linux.    • Experienced in Installation of high availability RAC environment (2node clusters) and upgraded standalone databases to 11g RAC environment.  • Proficient in setting up Standby Database using shell scripts and RMAN utility tool, activating and Re-building Standby Databases both Physical and Logical supported by DATAGUARD.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and capacity planning for new applications.  • Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /No catalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  • Plugging the table space between different platforms using Cross platform transportable table space Utility.  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Experience in Golden Gate upgrade from 10.2 to 11.2.and Installing Oracle patches  • Configure Migration, Replicate and Extract processes and implement unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Scripting.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills  • I have been involved in Installing/configuring PostgreSQL. Mainly TWO postgres VERSIONS 9.5 and 9.6.  • Have one year experienced with PostgreSQL performing basic tasks like creating databases creating roles granting privileges and creating tables.  • Worked hand in gloves with oracle apps DBA for high performance.  • Two years experience on sql server. Installed, configured and maintained databases, users and their profiles. Work Experience Oracle DBA NFP - Austin, TX May 2016 to June 2019 • Created and administered 11g and 12 oracle databases  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities)  • Performed RMAN backups for databases through the SCDL  • Supported recovery of critical and non-critical files using RMAN  • Did full recovery of Databases With RMAN  • Monitored Backups by scheduling shell scripts on crontab  • Performed schema refreshes using Data pump, expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Cloned Databases using RMAN Active Duplicate As well as clone from backup  • Performed database migrations using transportable Table Spaces  • Worked with Team to configure a 3 Node RAC for High Availability  • Performed RAC Administration/trouble-shooting of 3 Node cluster on Oracle 11G R2  • Configured Grid Infrastructure, SCAN listeners on 11gR2 and migrating OCR files to ASM.  • Involved in 24x7 on-call support for 11g 3 Node RAC production databases using Oracle 12C Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  • Managed ASM storage, ASM cloning, Add/remove ASM disks, tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  • Performed upgrade In RAC environment from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and perform rolling upgrade using data guard.  • Extensively involved in performance tuning of applications, SQL queries and databases using OEM, Explain Plan, ADDM and AWR, ASH reports and SQL Tuning Advisor  • Used v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL Optimizer, Trace various levels, Explain Plan, TKprof,.  • Worked with SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  • Applied quarterly CPU patches  • Worked on Applied vulnerability patches when necessary  • Installation and configuration and administration of Oracle Golden Gate  • Replication of data in heterogeneous data environments using Oracle Golden Gate  • Troubleshot and resolved abbending processes in Golden Gate  • Installed and Configured data guard for Disaster Recovery (DR) solution  • Created and Sync a physical standby database from production  • Configured data guard broker to manage stand by database  • Participated in DR simulation activities annually  • Resolved log gabs between production and stand databases  • Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Designed, developed, and implemented database security management.  • Applied critical patches to Oracle databases using opatch and also apllied patches to application servers.  • Installed and configured Used Oracle Enterprise Manger (OEM) 13C to manage and administer databases  • Manage agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c  • Scheduled jobs in the database using OEM  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for better performance Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables..  • Configured and implemented different types of Advanced Replication Models of distributed databases.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via the SCDL  • Constantly Performed Database refresh from Production to Non-Prod environments as required.  • Successfully implemented Always-On for disaster recovery on sql servers.  • Used sql server management studio to configure, manage and monitor all components within Microsoft sql server  • Used sql server agent to automate tasks such as backup and log shipping Oracle Database Administrator ESTES-EXPRESS - Richmond, VA June 2013 to May 2016 • Critically analyzed and tuned the database to identify potential issues such as response delay, locking contention, etc. using tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.  • Handled all daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints.  • Performance monitoring and database instance, clustered and application tuning using dictionary views, AWR (Stats pack), ADDM, ASM reports, OEM Grid Control, tuned SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using hints to improve the query performance.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using TOP, IOSTAT, SAR, etc.  • Designed daily, weekly backup and recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic complete, cumulative and differential incremental backups.  • Data refresh/cloning from PROD environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid control.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Worked with latest 10g/11g features Data pump, flash-back recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid monitoring, and recycle bin.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Applied necessary patches during installation and also in upgraded databases on Oracle database versions 10g and 11g.  • Configured Data Guard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the Data guard status via DGMGRL and GUI.  • Implemented backup and recovery using RMAN, which includes hot backups and cold backups to tape, drives, and disks.  • Designed and implemented backup strategies using RMAN and user managed Backups.  • Successfully implemented incremental and full backups.  • Involved in query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  • Performed database performance tuning, STATSPACK reports automation, stress test on production copy for scalability, resolving production performance issues.  • Involved in GoldenGate setup and monitoring, troubleshooting replication errors & reading Trail files to identify replication issues and conduct performance/latency test of GoldenGate  • Configured parameter files for EXTRACT/DATAPUMP/REPLICAT process to perform Replication Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  Certified Database Administrator (DBA) with over 6 years of hands-on experience.  recoverability. Worked extensively in configuration of Data Guard, Golden Gate, and RAC. Also Skilled in installing various Oracle software/tools and Preforming upgrades, As well as Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, and Performance Monitoring and Tuning,    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Database Tools:  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, Service now, Remedy  Operating Systems:  MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware:  Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2