Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Huntington National Bank New York, NY • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • Proficient in Database administration activities such as user management, space management, Monitoring, Creating Database, Managing Oracle Instance and Database security and Materialized Views.  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, Tuning Contentions) using oracle 11g tools like AWR, ADDM, Advisories, TKPROF, SQL TRACE,EXPLAIN PLAN for the better performance.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Database using Grid Control & Diagnostic pack (AWR, ASH ADDM)  • Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Experience in taking backup and performing recovery.  • Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle Data Guard to perform quick disaster recovery.  • Experience in applying PSU patch on standalone as well as RAC databases.  • Experience in Golden Gate upgrade from 10.4 to 11.2.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Configured Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Installation and configuration of oracle Golden Gate.  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup & IBM TSM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting ORACLE RAC issues using ORACLE cluster ware and Database logs.  • Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Worked on setting up of Goldengate 12c Integrated Capture on Exadata Servers for replication purposes from OLTP system to Downstream systems  • Installed Goldengate version 11 and version 12 with latest patches applied on DBFS filesystem and ACFS filesystem, also working testing new OGG 12.2 new features available.  • Implemented Goldengate integrated replicat and co-ordinatedreplicat(available from OGG 12c) to improve the performance of data replication to targets  • Troubleshoot and maintain ORACLE Data guard environment where TBs of log shipping and apply happen every day.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ASH, TKPROF 10046 traces etc.  • Developed custom scripts and implemented standard procedures to troubleshoot Live Production issues by leveraging ORACLE ASH and AWR Data.  • Monitor Production Databases using various internal tools and custom scripts.  • Optimal Database parameter, Capacity Design for Heavy loaded High End OLTP systems.  • Database Capacity Management (Working with Storage teams for ASM Disks) using automated scripts/processes and Reports.  • Experience managing Tablespaces, Data Files, Archive Logs, Redo Logs, and Standby Redo Logs and Logical Database Objects.  • Performing tuning of application using CBO, SqlTrace, Tkprof, Explain Plan, Statspack, AWR and ASH/ADDM.  • Proficient in writing UNIX Shell scripts to automate business process and daily backups.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning.  • Exposure to new 12c Features, Container and Pluggable Database, FAR-SYNC Instance, Cascade Redo Transport Destination, Allowed usage of SYNC and NOAFFIRM to extend Data Guard Range, Moving online Data file, etc.  • Sanitize behavior of SCAN.  • Perform failover failback testing.  • Follow up on SRs for different issues (SCAN behavior, Node eviction, Failover etc.)  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Responsible for configuring datagaurd physical and standby database setup for high availability and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Done migration of non ASM database to ASM database.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • Handling and debugging of high priority and sudden database service interruption issues like service interruption due to ORA-600 errors in the dump and database hung due to ORA 7445 errors and restoring the service to normal and providing efficient root cause analysis.  • Upgraded standalone and RAC databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12c on QA database for proof-of-concept  • Monitoring free space in tablespaces, space requirements of tables, indexes. Performing database.  • Proficient in writing UNIX Shell scripts to automate business process and daily backup.  • Experience with testing and pre-production and production of Oracle 10gR2 with 2 node RAC on Red Hat Linux with ASM  • Vast Experience with RMAN to implement Backup/Recovery strategies and clear understanding of the data structures and architecture provided by Oracle for Recovery in all kinds of Disasters.  • Capacity Planning for OLTP environment- Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the existing and new databases.  • Proactive performance monitoring by implementing UNIX scripts and automated jobs (Grid) for alerts.  • Refreshing databases and Migration of databases from various environments for Testing, Development work.  • Developed database system build sheets, code review check lists, code promotion process documents, outage reporting documents.  • Sizing the SGA, db buffers, shared SQL area, log buffer based on the requirements. Oracle Database Administrator Equinix - Sunnyvale, CA November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g/11g Real Application Clusters (RAC).  • Implement Grid based monitoring solution for large Databases and Installation of Cluster ware, configuring public, private and VIP.  • Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Implemented and configured 11g grid control on RHEL.  • Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with a scheduled jobs (Cron Job).  • Responsible for creating RMAN catalog Database and Registering the Databases in Catalog Database and Cloned production RAC instances to development and QA systems using RMAN duplication.  • Experience in using 11g features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, and ADDM.  • Involved in Defragmenting data blocks of table spaces for optimized performance. Also partitioned large tables to increase performance.Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11gGrid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using OracleData Guard forOracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5RAC databases.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implementing Datapump, conventionalexport/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databasesandDatapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support inresolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Oracle Database Administrator Novartis - Emeryville, CA March 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and Maintained Physical standby databases for critical databases.  • Performed BACKUP and RECOVERY strategies using RMAN to recover my database loss.  • Performed logical backup of the database using DATAPUMP (Expdp/Impdp).  • Generated and interpreted Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports for database performance improvement.  • Configured Oracle 11g R2 Data guard for High availability of the database.    • Experience in UNIX Perl, bash Shell Scripting for database backups and refresh.  • Performed oracle Database data refreshes using export/import from production to test Servers.  • Performed Oracle cloning and Refresh Database from Production to Test servers using RMAN utility.  • Refreshed Schemas from Prod to DEV and TEST up on the Developer Request.  • Performed Point in time recovery for database from Prod to Development.  • Performed Installation, Configuration and Monitoring of Oracle 11gR2, 11gR1, 10g on UNIX, Linux AIX, HP-UX and Windows environments.  • Managed Table spaces in the production Databases and added space when needed.  • Involved in applying CPU and PSU patches for Oracle Server.  • Created Service Request for production issues, Interacted and Worked with Oracle Support.  Environment: Oracle 12c, 11g, Data Guard, IAM, OIM, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, OEM Grid Control 12c, Shell Scripting, RMAN, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, Putty. Oracle DBA / SQL Server DBA AAA mid Atlantic - Mount Laurel, NJ January 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • nvolved in monitoring the Database related activities using Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g Grid Control (OEM Grid) and monitoring the backup jobs scheduled in OEM Grid.  • Configured Oracle 11g R2 Data guard for replication.    • Performed oracle Database data refreshes using export/import from production to test Servers.  • Installed, configured and monitored Oracle RAC 11gR2 11.2.0.3. and 10g with ASM.  • Involved in performance tuning by general health checks and maintenance for Database using AWR and ADDM reports by finding wait events.  • Involved in writing UNIX Shell Scripts for maintains tasks for oracle database.  • Provided the status of the Long running Query to the end users and killed unwanted user sessions per requests.  • Monitored weblogic server Health check for applications.  • Handled and performed client requests and internal Service Request for Incident Management (IR), Problem Management and request Change Management (RFC) & SR using BMC.  • Having Experience on Real Application Testing 11g R2.  • Created Users and implemented Security administration by creating roles, views and granted the necessary system and object privileges for users.  • Performed Oracle cloning and Refresh Database from Production to Test servers using RMAN utility.  • Installed and Configured MS SQL SERVER 2000/2005/2008  • Backup and restore SQL Server database 2005/2008.  • Deployed builds in IST, UAT and PROD environments  • Refreshed Schemas from Prod to Dev and UAT up on the Developer Request.  • Restored the tables from PROD to DEV according to the requirement.    • Investigate the root cause for the failure of the jobs and re-run the jobs.  • Creating users and assign requested Privileges.  • Creating the Linked servers for accessing from UAT to Prod.  • Deploy the SSIS packages from file system to SQL Server and from Server to server by using IMPORT and Export packages and monitoring ETL Jobs.  • Export and Import data from PROD database to DEV database.  • Deployed scripts to UAT and Production with Business approval from Change Management and Deployment Readiness.  • Created Backup devices for backup database.  • Created new jobs for backup and scheduled for run the job and set alerts in case of Failure and Successful job run.  • Created the database and restore from Production to create test environments.  • Performed Point in time recovery for database from Prod to Development.  Environment: Oracle 11g RAC, Data Guard, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.7, Windows 2003 Server , OEM Grid Control 11g, ASM, AWR/ADDM, Shell Scripting, RMAN, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer , BMC Service Desk Express 10.1.0.282, Putty, MS SQL 2005/2008 RDBMS Education COMPUTER SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF BUEA Skills ORACLE (7 years), RMAN (7 years), LINUX (5 years), RED HAT (5 years), SQL (5 years), javascript, database, sql server, java Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS: Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x and Windows XP    RDBMS: Oracle 11g/10g/12c    SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS/ TOOLS: DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, Sql Navigator, TOAD, Data Pump, SRVCTL, SQL*Plus    TUNING TOOLS: SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM