Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - MARINE CORPS LOGISTIC BASE Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator MARINE CORPS LOGISTIC BASE - Albany, GA July 2017 to Present Install, configure, upgrade, monitor, and administer 10g, 11g, 12c in UNIX / LINUX (RHEL) and Windows Server 2008 / 2012 as well as 12c container databases on standalone servers / cluster on Windows and UNIX platforms.  • Produce AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, and ORADEBUG reports for performance tuning and introduced new tools for 12c for security.  • Clone non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone, and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Duplicate tablespaces and databases from production server to test server in alignment with client requirements.  • Install, upgrade, and resolve issues with GoldenGate.  • Evaluate database performance to identify and target areas in need of changes / improvements.  • Exposure to oracle web logic, patching and administration  • Use of SQL and data dictionary views and tables to identify issues inside database  • Worked with various development, test, and production teams.  • Maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedures with RMAN  • Experience hardening of databases according to DISA Secure Technical Implementation Guidelines (STIGS)  • Upgraded multiple standalone and RAC databases as well as grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Introduced new features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking of fields, and advanced optimisation parameters for enhanced performance.  • Troubleshot RAC databases and enhanced application performance within clustered environment.  • Rolled out physical standby databases on two-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automated scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  • Played an instrumental role in large-scale datacentre migration into multiple platforms.  • Launched two types of standby databases supported by DataGuard, logical standby, and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two-node RAC.  • Implemented Active DataGuard, creating Logical / Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11gRAC, and 12C environment for production databases (ranging from 50GB to 5TB).  • Migrated 12c Non-CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Enhanced information security through network data encryption upgrades.  • Developed new database services for distribution of applications across multiple nodes.  • Delivered backup strategies (Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP / IMPDP).  • Established and enforced security for all Oracle Databases.  • Boosted database uptime via reorganisation, implementing SQL access and expert recommendations.  • Standardised application design / code to ensure optimal integrity, security, and performance. Oracle DBA US Foods - Rosemont, IL July 2014 to June 2017 Performed installation, configuration, and maintenance of databases, including backups and recoveries.    Select Highlights:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC) / ASM on Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.x boxes.  • Implemented 11g DataGuard Physical using DG Broker.  • Contributed to Golden Gate 12c replication configuration.  • Completed Data Guard switchover / failover in alignment with requirements.  • Drove database expansion, monitoring, and optimisation of space management and capacity planning.  • Launched Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Modified database structures, including tablespace, tables, views, triggers, and stored procedures.  • Formulated backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Established ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Enhanced use of Oracle support in resolving the SRs.  • Improved database performance having re-organised / optimised databases, schemas, and tables.  • Utilised import / export utilities for cloning and migration of small databases and data pump import / export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Spearheaded table space expansion, monitoring data files additions and extent growth.    Tools: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 9i (9.2.0.8), RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0    703-909-6432 eneme.ebenezar@yahoo.com  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AND ACHIEVEMENTS continued Oracle Database Administrator Admiral Ins. Company - Austin, TX June 2012 to June 2014 Install, configure, upgrade, monitor, and administer 10g, 11g, 12c in UNIX / LINUX (RHEL) and Windows Server 2008 / 2012 as well as 12c container databases on standalone servers / cluster on Windows and UNIX platforms.    • Produce AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, and ORADEBUG reports for performance tuning and introduced new tools for 12c for security.  • Clone non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone, and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Duplicate tablespaces and databases from production server to test server in alignment with client requirements.  • Install, upgrade, and resolve issues with GoldenGate.  • Evaluate database performance to identify and target areas in need of changes / improvements.  • Played an instrumental role in large-scale datacentre migration into multiple platforms.  • Launched two types of standby databases supported by DataGuard, logical standby, and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two-node RAC.  • Implemented Active DataGuard, creating Logical / Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11gRAC, and 12C environment for production databases (ranging from 50GB to 5TB).  • Migrated 12c Non-CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Enhanced information security through network data encryption upgrades.  • Developed new database services for distribution of applications across multiple nodes.  • Delivered backup strategies (Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP / IMPDP).  • Established and enforced security for all Oracle Databases.  • Boosted database uptime via reorganisation, implementing SQL access and expert recommendations.  • Standardised application design / code to ensure optimal integrity, security, and performance.    Tools: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Business and Management University - Geneva, CH 2018 Bachelor in Business Administration in Business Administration Academie de Langue et de Commerce - Geneva, CH 2008 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, DISASTER RECOVERY, RMAN, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, VPN, CISCO, HP-UX, PERL, DBA Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Patch Installation System Migration, Deployment and Upgrade Backup and Disaster Recovery (DR) Planning  Cloning and Replication Security Memory Management / Tuning Database Administration  Technical Troubleshooting Organisation and Planning Quality Assurance Test Planning Diagnostics  Analytical Thinking Interpersonal Communication Team Collaboration Data Gathering and Assimilation    TECHNOLOGIES    Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x / 11.x, Sun Solaris (2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10), AIX (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1), RHEL (2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x), Linux Enterprise Server (9, 10), Windows (95/98/NT/2000)  RDBMS: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM; Toad, Putty, NX Client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client  Database Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle 12c / 11gR2 / 10g / Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, DataGuard, Golden Gate, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Data Pump, Export, Import