Development Associate Development Associate Development Associate - Search Work Experience Development Associate Search - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Processed gifts including pledges and payments via credit card, direct debit, stock transfers and checks including; database entry into Raiser's Edge, Salesforce, Crystal Reports, Financial Edge, Blackbaud NetCommunity, Luminate Online, and Target Analytics.  ? Built queries and exports for complex mailing lists such as newsletters, membership or direct mail appeals, and event invitations including updating the database of donors.  ? Worked with the finance department to ensure accurate record keeping and reconciliation.  ? Extracts, analyzes, reconciles, and distributes data on donor giving, prospect tracking, and other development activities. Database Administrator (DBA) PnpStaffingGroup - New York, NY December 2013 to November 2018 Secured database by developing policies, procedures, and controls to ensure database integrity. Monitored data entry procedures.  ? Maintained users and security settings for the system.  ? Reconciled gift deposits with finance department at month and year-end in conjunction with Financial Edge.  ? Managed all existing codes and tables; adding new ones as strategies dictate. Periodically eliminated obsolete query, report, and export parameter settings.  ? Conducted all global changes and/or imports to maintain data.  ? Maintained records needed for annual audit.  ? Trained and supported colleagues on how to input and extract data properly.  Database Manager  ? Built queries and exports for complex mailing lists such as newsletters, membership or direct mail appeals, and event invitations.  ? Created and maintained Event and Landing Pages  ? Maintained database performance by troubleshooting problems.  ? Kept senior technical management informed by preparing reports on system performance and problems.  Database Operator  ? Entered data, via computer, pertaining to the services provided by organization. Updated database information to reflect most current source information. Followed established practices or standards for the input and presentation of information to ensure data loads were maintained at 100% compliance.  ? Manage the organization's report requests and priorities.  ? Perform duties and special projects as assigned.  Volunteer Coordinator  ? Acted as a single point of contact for communications between volunteer department heads and volunteers.  ? Answered, evaluated, and prioritized incoming telephone calls, voicemail and e-mails by collecting information regarding any problems or issues. Provided resolutions in a timely and effective manner.  ? Maintained Volunteer Service Descriptions for each "Volunteer Assignment" and ensured volunteers were staffed to support the various areas of operations, using excellent written and oral communication skills. Education Bachelor of Arts in English The City College of New York 2017 Paralegal Studies Borough of Manhattan Community College 2011 Skills Sql, Crystal reports, Docsopen, Document management, Document management systems, Rightfax, Active directory, Ccna, Networking, Remedy, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Visio, jquery, Macpac, Imanage, Css, Excel, Groupwise, Photoshop, Organizational Skills, Project Management, Outlook, Management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/donna-marie-carpenter-bey-bab4313b Additional Information Microsoft Office Specialist, Expert Level – Certification ID: 8461285 *2011