SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Jacobs (client: USAF) Destin, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Jacobs (Client USAF) - Fort Walton Beach, FL February 2019 to Present Jacobs (Client: USAF)  Hired to:  • Design SQL Server Production cluster  • Troubleshoot problems with jobs, backups, linked server, other objects  • Performance tuning at SQL server and database levels  • Design and set up Test environment  • Work with database mirroring and AlwaysOn for HA and DR  • Consolidation of Development servers SQL Server Database Administrator (Remote) Boeing September 2017 to February 2019 DXC Technology (Client: Boeing)    • First DBA for over 30 applications  • Troubleshoot problems with jobs, backups, linked server, other objects  • Performance tuning at SQL server and database levels  • Migrate databases from SQL Server 2008r2 to 2012 or 2016  • Migration of databases to new datacenters  • Work with database mirroring and AlwaysOn for HA and DR.  • Deploy code and SSIS packages during business hours and during outages  • Restore database from backup in Dev, Test and Prod environments  • Monitor performance of databases and SQL Server  • Maintaining documentation of request fulfillment processes, and other repeatable processes. SQL Server Database Administrator (Remote) Modis February 2017 to September 2017 Modis: (Client: Boeing)    • Work the SQL Server queue to pick up database hosting tasks.  • Run PowerShell scripts to create databases/jobs/operators on hosting servers.  • Join databases to AlwaysOn group.  • Refresh Dev and Test environments with Production backup and restores  • Restore Production from backups  • Work with Application DBA's to troubleshoot issues with hosting and to clarify requests and/or to inform about new upgrade paths.  • Maintaining documentation of request fulfillment processes, and other repeatable processes. Production SQL Server Database Administrator DataEdge Technology (Client: Compass USA) - Charlotte, NC March 2016 to September 2016 • Create new instances of SQL Server on new servers. Add instances to servers. Install service packs. Add features to existing instances. Test out new service packs and SQL versions on DBA machine. Migration of SQL Server 2008R2 to 2014.  • Database, index, and statistic maintenance.  • Monitor servers using third party tools such as Idera Diagnostic Manager, Idera SQL Doctor, Precise, Spotlight on SQL Server, Apex SQL Monitor.  • I have also used the Central Management Server feature to query all servers in a group to obtain information on databases without recent backups, databases with the wrong backup mode, number of connections to a database, database growth, among other. These results were then turned into email reports.  • Respond to user requests for backups, moving and restoring databases on new servers, including logins, users, permissions - including securables.  • Run developer scripts as requested.  • Create script for gathering data to monitor server and databases configurations and performance. Production SQL Server Database Administrator Halfpenny Technologies - Blue Bell, PA March 2014 to June 2015 • Monitor 8 servers (SQL 2008R2) by gathering data on server performance, disk space, I/O pressure, memory pressure.  • Monitor database growth, database memory usage, track wait stats, track I/O pressure, failed jobs, and any other measurements that came up.  • Responding to JIRA tickets to move/restore databases, stand up new databases, or solve issues concerns existing databases, code and disk space.  • Use of scripts to create reports for clients and put them up on SFTP sites for client retrieval.  • Use of T-Sql to create jobs and e-mail alerts.  • Testing out and using new software was also a part of my duties. We used various Apex products such as Diff and DataDiff. I also used the Idera toolset of free software, which are extremely useful. Whenever possible I use Idera's Diagnostic Manager for Server Monitoring, for its ability to maintain historical data.  • I set up my own Monitoring database so that I could gather data over time, and compare results from different time periods, and do performance tuning.  • Tested out software for Change Auditing, Scripting across Multiple Servers, Server Monitoring, and other software I thought could be useful when it comes to making our servers more stable and our ability to be proactive about issues easier. Vice President/Data Lytle Development, LLC and Freelance - Destin, FL January 2012 to February 2014 • Property searches, pricing out rehab costs vs expected returns  • Draw up proposals for potential investors  • Create project brochures  • Create the database and front-end for the company contact information Production SQL Server Database Administrator U.S. Xpress Enterprises, Inc - Chattanooga, TN September 2011 to November 2011 • Develop jobs to monitor Production databases (SQL 2008) to develop a baseline for the different servers and databases.  • Find trouble spots and work on them from a proactive perspective, such as setting up  maintenance jobs to handle fragmentation automatically.  • Document databases in Development, Staging and Production, assuring scripts were run on correct database and level, deploying script as requested.  • . Reviewed relevant database software to see if it would be of value. I reviewed software such as Idera Diagnostic Manager, Idera SQL Doctor, Spotlight for SQL Server, and Combine. Production SQL Server Database Administrator eMason, Inc - Clearwater, FL September 2010 to November 2010 • Production database administrator in charge of monitoring and troubleshooting QA, UAT and Production SQL Server boxes. SQL Servers were a mix of 2005 and 2008 R2.  • Used a variety of tools both built into SQL, T-SQL, Profiler, and third party such as Spotlight, Idera Diagnostic Manager, Idera SQL Doctor, and Configio's Ignite.  • Troubleshoot and solve server issues, the problems covering such issues as configurations, indexes, code, and recompile.  • Document the SQL Servers assuring they all had the same configurations, noting differences to be addressed.  • Document databases and run comparisons of schemas.  • Deploy scripts as requested to proper level.  • Use SharePoint 2010 to uploaded documents related to projects or general files, and team knowledgebase.  • Use ticketing system to track and resolve user application (frontend, CRM, etc.) problems and database issues and requests. Production SQL Server Database Administrator Public Consulting Group - Blacksburg, VA April 2010 to August 2010 • Performance tuning of SQL 2005 databases, ranging from 5-57 GB in size, spread across several clustered servers.  • Used T-SQL to gather statistics/metrics on current performance of databases and queries.  • Worked on indexes with a view toward creation, dropping and modifications to improve query performance  • Reviewed the server, database and code configurations to make sure each was optimized for the current load/usage type.  • Revised tables that were not normalized so that additional tables were created and all the resulting tables were normalized optimally. Production SQL Server Database Administrator Davita, Inc - DeLand, FL July 2008 to March 2010 • Monitoring and deploying code/scripts to over 1900 field (branch) using SQL Server 2005 on Windows 2003 servers, with databases that ranged in size from 3 to 50 GB at each location.  • Code was deployed across servers simultaneously using SQL Farms Combine. Combine saved change history to a repository for review and allowed for the dynamic creations of server containers dependent upon the requirements of the deployment.  • Duties included: daily monitoring via scripts against a repository to check on the server jobs (failed and long running), check for synchronization of tables across all servers, check unused indexes and review any DBCC CheckDB issues. General performance tuning using creation of scripts and jobs, using T-SQL to be run at the field servers to populate a central repository of server information about SQL configurations, IO data, query and cache information, unused indexes and other areas of interest. Created simple SSIS packages.  • Worked with storage/hardware personnel to work on server builds/configurations and the placement of disk space and in placement of files in a SAN environment.  • I also taught/mentored field server operations personnel how to manage standard SQL DBA functions such as restores, queries and script distributions, how to tell minor SQL issues from major ones.  • Responsibility to research, evaluate/test and do direct comparisons of SQL encryption solutions. Do final testing for the POC and evaluation testing for the preferred/recommended solution to meet HIPAA and HITECH requirements. The solution I suggested was the solution chosen and implemented.  • Use of repository information for the extraction of data concerning the impact of changes due to code/script deployments or actual changes to the SQL Server configuration such as memory.  • The company was required to follow HIPAA regulation and I had training in HIPAA compliance.  • On-call rotation for off hours and weekend work. Education JD Oklahoma City University School of Law BA University of Maryland Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Ssis, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner June 2019 to June 2022 The CASP+ certification validates advanced-level competency in risk management; enterprise security operations and architecture; research and collaboration; and integration of enterprise security. Successful candidates will have the knowledge required to:  • Enterprise Security domain expanded to include operations and architecture concepts, techniques, and requirements  • More emphasis on analyzing risk through interpreting trend data and anticipating cyber defense needs to meet business goals  • Expanding security control topics to include Mobile and small form factor devices, as well as software vulnerability  • Broader coverage of integrating cloud and virtualization technologies into a secure enterprise architecture  • Inclusion of implementing cryptographic techniques, such as Blockchain- Cryptocurrency and Mobile device encryption Additional Information Clearance: Secret