Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA - Solu Technology Partn Durham, NC • With over 8+ years of experience in Microsoft SQL server database administration and development. Dealt in maintenance of servers and databases in terms of giving access to developers at both servers and database levels. Excellent knowledge in mortgages aimed at achieving financial goals using SQL server 2005, LiteSpeed etc.  • Deep knowledge in setting up High Availability Solutions like Replication, Mirroring, Log-shipping. Intensively worked in Extracting, Transforming and Loading data from various heterogeneous data sources like Flat files, Text Format Data, Excel. Excellent verbal and written skills, Soft and Interpersonal skills combine with Conflict Resolution and Analytical excellence as a Team Player as well as a Quick Learner.  • Extensively involved in installation of MS SQL. Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, Performance Tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities • Experience in Database designing, RDBMS, and Normalization/De-normalization • Experience in Index Maintenance, Index tuning, Rebuild & Reorganizing according to Index fragmentation, running DBCC checks and Update Statistics to check Data Integrity • Extensively used tools like SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning MS SQL Server performance • Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering • Experience in SQL Server 2008 new features like Policy Based Management, CDC, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Performance Data Collector and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) • Experience in working with system administrators for creating/modifying/user/group accounts in Windows Active Directory to authenticate SQL server users through domain group/user accounts.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills combined with interpersonal and conflict resolution skills and possess strong analytical skills. Provide 24x7 on-call production support in case it requires. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.SQL Server DBA Solu Technology Partn - Victor, NY July 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Responsible for integrating data into a centralized database with dynamic design and user-friendly web application, to keep track of Direct Bill Payments and Commissions from various Clients across the nation.  • Involved in Data Center Migration project for moving databases across the location which includes around 500 servers with SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012, 2014, & 2016.  • Worked closely with Microsoft to make sure the recurring corruption issues are fixed in our Database environment. Installation and managing SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008 on different environments.  • Upgraded to SQL Server 2012 and guiding the development and application team to fully utilize SQL Server 2012 enhancements. Implemented backup strategy for the new data center environment.  • Planning and Implementation of Data archiving strategies using OPTIM for the data life cycle management and data retention procedures.  • Daily support, troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization and tuning of SQL server environments across entire system. Managed SSAS cubes and supported full, incremental load process.  • Involved in Change Control Management is the discipline of systematically identifying and controlling change requests to a project from both internal and external sources.  • Successfully migrate and upgrade SQL 2008 databases to SQL 2014/2016 and SQL 2008R2 databases to SQL 2014/2016.  • Setup and configure Database mirroring and Log shipping in High Performance, High availability mode as standard DR strategy.  • Configure and maintain transactional replications.  • Design and deploy SSIS packages to implement business logics and deploy SSRS reports and SSAS cubes in production environment.  • Install and configure SSRS, SSIS and SSAS services.  • Automated daily database refreshes from production to staging and on-demand refreshes from production to test environments.  • Troubleshooting and resolving database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues, replication issues, log issues, connectivity issues.  • When performance issues arise, determine the most effective way to increase performance including hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes.  • Provide our development team a list of the most resource-intensive queries and suggest ways to improve performance.  • Write, test and maintaining T-SQL and stored procedures.  • Design indexes for existing applications, choosing when to add or remove indexes.Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Document the company's database environment.  • Participate in planning, design, Implementation and testing of new and changing database configuration.    Environment: SQL Server 2008-R2/2012/2014/2016, Clustered, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, TDP, LiteSpeed, Spotlight, Visual TRUVIEW Sr.SQL Server DBA GLOBAL DATA CONSULTANTS - York, PA March 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities: • Used SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 Database Development and Administration.  • Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting, Upgrading and Migrating SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2008R2/2005 on standby environments.  • Installed latest service packs, applied hot fixes and cumulative updates.  • Migrated servers from 2005 to 2012 and 2008 to 2012 with In-place and Side-by-Side Processes.  • Applied Patches and Service packs to update different versions of MS SQL Server in Clustered and standalone environments. Created linked servers between SQL Server 2005 and 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016. Clear, Fix &resolve Database Vulnerabilities Reported by Enterprise Security Manager (ESM).  • Implemented Database Cloning using Netapp snap manager for databases more than of sizes 5-10 TB.  • Monitoring database performance, identifying bottlenecks, and proposing ways to optimize performance on the production server • Working with development teams to incorporate database changes required for release rollouts.  • Maintenance of existing trading instruments, and managing updates to their underlying data • Implemented Replication Models, i.e., Snapshot and Transactional • Manage and resolve trouble tickets for database related issues submitted by customer.  • Provide 24 X 7 supports for SQL Servers on-call responsibilities.  • Tested and installed SQL Server 2008.  • Migrate DTS packages from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008 Integration Services (SSIS).  • Database optimization, performance monitoring and index tuning.  • Creating jobs and alerts for monthly and weekly maintenance.  • Worked with SQL Server 2008 Management Studio (SSMS) to develop deploy and troubleshoot databases.  • Data migration from other data storage like Oracle and DB2 using SSIS.  • Migrated SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Implement Log shipping between production and DR servers.  • Tested and implemented Database Mirroring solution for Production critical application.  • Ensure that SQL Server databases are updated accurately and regularly.  • Implemented transactional replication for populating reporting database.  Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014, Clustered, VMware, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Spotlight, SCOM, CyberArk, Arcsight SQL Server DBA Karsun Solutions LLC - Herndon, VA July 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities: • Installed and administered clustered and virtual SQL server 2014/2012/2008 and 2005.  • Installed Service Packs/Hot fixes and created documentation for tracking and SQL server installation purposes.  • Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases on Production, Test and Staging for various groups and ensured the availability of the database Servers.  • Patch updates in Standalone and Cluster Environments.  • Physical database designing & creation devising strategies for Backups, Recovery, DR-Failover & Query-tuning.  • Involved in requirement gathering and interact directly with stake holders and business teams in coordinating the business needs.  • Implemented and maintained high availability systems (clustering, database mirroring, log shipping).  • Monitor jobs execution, and make correction actions when necessary.  • Deployment, configuration, troubleshooting and debugging of the application environments.  • Refreshed databases for Pre/Post Deployments and Data Loads activities.  • Work with EMC, Microsoft on multiple cases and fix the Database issues.  • Administered SQL Server/ Database level Security and utilized Auditing and Data Encryption (TDE) according to requirements and Integrity with HIPAA requirements.  • Created logins and database users, roles and provided permissions to users and roles according to the requirement and security policy.  • Implemented Data Masking and Database Security Hardening.  • Scheduled jobs and monitored and troubleshooting them. Task automation using power shell script and SQL agents.  • Created DDL triggers for auditing any DDL change.  • Created various jobs to monitor resources on various servers and to mail the necessary information when threshold was reached.  • Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases.  • Design/ developing SSIS (ETL) MDX developing components.  • Involved in migrating share point from one server to the other.  • Involved in migrating share point from one server to the other.  • Write, test and maintaining T-SQL and stored procedures as they relate to DBA support.  • Performed data partitioning for efficient management of database tables and indexes.  • Evaluated CPU, Disk I/O and Memory related bottlenecks using Performance Monitor and improve the SQL server performance.  • Fine tune slow running T-SQL queries using Execution Plan and Database engine tuning advisor.  • Worked with the application team on the planning, testing and implementing production database software upgrade cycles.  • Moved/Copied of Databases from one server to another server using Backup-restore, Attach and detach methods and refreshing databases in development, QA and stage environments using production backup. Implemented Always ON, Transactional replication, DB Mirroring, Log shipping using SQL Server 2014/2012.  • Implemented wrappers for Smart Re-indexing features for DB maintenance Routines.  • Implementing Database audits based on risk levels and Security as per enterprise compliance.  • Built SQL Servers in Stand Alone and cluster Environments (Virtual & Bare Metal).  • Implemented Upgradations and Migrations from SQL 2008 to 2014which includes SSAS, SSIS and SSRS.  • Automated Data refreshes from Data Domain and NetBackup media servers using Command line scripts for 3rd party Plugin Backups based on retention requirements.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Clustered, VMware, SSIS, SSAS, SSRA, Tivoli, NetBackup Database Administrator LINTECH GLOBAL INC - Alexandria, VA January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities: • Administering 200+ enterprise level SQL Server 2012/ 2016 in a high available clustered environment, high transaction and large scale production databases for CRM applications.  • Implementing and maintaining disaster recovery servers using Always On Availability Group, and SQL transactional replications. Provide written status reports to management regarding project status, task, and issues/risks • Develops, implements and manages the employer's enterprise database technology road-map to include: • Building backup repository server, performing encrypted backups and restores using IDERA SQLSafe.  • Upgrading SQL 2012 servers to SQL 2016, migrating databases to AWS, migrating SSRS servers.  • Managed and administrated database and database applications 24x7 that include Oracle 10g /11g/9i Databases, Siebel and Cognos application databases, Micro focus Cobol, RAC (real application cluster) clustering server, OEM Grid, High Availability, Data Guard, Web service applications (WebSphere and WebLogic) and IBM Rational products. Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases. SAP Hana migration • Participated in quarterly meetings with Senior Management to discuss technical infrastructure and market recommendations assisting in the formation of the technology roadmap.  • Troubleshooting production server performance issues, performance tuning and optimization and proactively monitoring using IDERA SQLDm and ScaleArc.  • Writing various scripts for server maintenance, monitoring, and data archives.  • Building and administering 220 SQL 7.0, SQL 2000, SQL 2005 production servers, and 35 backup servers on DELL 4600/6600, HP Proliant 380/385/530/570.  • Performing database upgrades, servers performance tuning and query optimization.  • Upgrading 20+ SQL 2000 servers to SQL 2005 servers.  • Writing stored procedures, triggers, various transact-SQL scripts and setting up replications.  • Working closely with the Development and Customer Support Departments in resolving issues.  • Writing stored procedures, triggers, and other scripts.  • Responsible for server performance optimization and tuning, building indexes, DBCC.  • Performing database backups and restores.  • Transferring database objects from stage server to live server using DTS. Database Administrator MATRIX RESOURCES INC - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities: • Successfully scrubbed all social security numbers (primary keys) and other personal identification information (PII) from the production database, thereby ensuring compliance with HIPAA and mitigating substantial risk to the business.  • Produced comprehensive documentation of critical systems for the first time, which enabled the organization to understand and address vulnerabilities as well as enabling more effective strategic planning and scalability.  • Developed automated alerts to cover aspects of the system not monitored by the standard set of tools.  • Brought all in-scope production environments into compliance with SOX regulations.  • Liaison between auditors and the Enterprise Operations Center, maintaining a perfect history of passing audits.  • Presented with an award from the Director of IT for demonstrating to auditors that every user account with the capability of altering production data was SOX compliant under the new access control process.  • Recognized by the Senior IT Director for leading the team which rescued the company's current cloud project schedule.  • Used DBArtisan to conduct a majority of the daily database administrative tasks.  • Create joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables.  • Writing Transact-SQL Query (DDL-Data definition language and DML-Data manipulation language), involving sub queries and joins and experienced in configuring linked servers to access heterogeneous databases.  • Projects support DBA for SQL Server Design &Build for New applications (In-house and Vendor) and Migrations (Till GO Live) as per enterprise baseline and DRAs.  • Design Database backup and Archival solutions using Netapp, Veritas NetBackup and EMC Avamar.  • Implemented High availability and Disaster recovery solutions. Database Administrator Citadel Information Services Inc - Iselin, NJ May 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities: • Migrating database from Microsoft Access to SQL Server and worked with application team in integrating Access forms with SQL Server. Monitoring and resolving the tickets for development and testing boxes.  • Designed SSIS packages to retrieve system configurations from all the servers and loaded them in staging tables.  • Create stored procedures to be run as regular SQL Server jobs for cleaning the violations.  • Created SQL Server Agent Jobs to automate tasks such as to run Index Maintenance, Index defrag, Rebuild, Update Statistics etc. (DBCC). Also, created jobs to backup databases.  • Performed Root cause analysis to track down problems and used SQL profiler for troubleshooting.  • Recommend R&D Developers on proper coding techniques to avoid Timeout errors and Deadlock issues.  • Recommend, create and implement processes for clients to resolve performance issues and data integrity issues. Modified and optimized complex queries for data retrieval and modification.  • Formatted the reports according to the requirements using T-SQL scripts.  • Used DBArtisan to conduct a majority of the daily database administrative tasks.  • Create joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables.  • Writing Transact-SQL Query (DDL-Data definition language and DML-Data manipulation language), involving sub queries and joins and experienced in configuring linked servers to access heterogeneous databases.  • Projects support DBA for SQL Server Design &Build for New applications (In-house and Vendor) and Migrations (Till GO Live) as per enterprise baseline and DRAs.  • Design Database backup and Archival solutions using Netapp, Veritas NetBackup and EMC Avamar.  • Implemented High availability and Disaster recovery solutions.  • Provisioning SQL servers in cloud environment and Bare metals.  • Designed SQL wrappers for Implementing Database Security, Automated DB Refreshes, DB and Windows User audit logging. Implemented automations using PowerShell.  • Worked closely with development teams for performance improvements, code reviews and provided inputs in terms of index optimization, partitioning, CLR routines, data changes, file layouts etc.  • Managed and Administrated the SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 production and Non-production servers.  • Designed a report on the monitoring of SQL Server Performance. This report gives a detail report to the management on the Performance of the server • Worked with SQL Server 2005 side by side upgrade from SQL server 2000.  • Installed couple of SQL Server 2005/2008 on cluster environment • Created Documentation for steps need to be taken while upgrading the SQL server 2000 to SQL server 2005 • Implemented the new SQL Server 2005 concepts like Data partitioning, Snap shot isolation, database mirroring, database snapshot, DDL triggers, try-cache blocks, online indexing, DMV's, DMF's, Mail Setup, Jobs, and Alerts, DTA,SQLCMD and dedicated admin connection • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users • GIS Primary objective of the project is to provide 24/7 production database support and manage all the databases of Retail Broadband DB running on MS SQL Server , DB2 Sybase, Oracle & MySQL • Design, maintain and build conceptual, logical and physical database models. Database architecture and creation, optimization, deriving conversion and migration methods for existing data, and developing automated conversion and migration methods • Responsible for the planning, installation, configuration, maintenance and production monitoring of database instances. It's a SME ( database) role • Performed end-to-end architecture and implementation strategy for RAC, GRID with ASM, DG, data Replication, upgrade/migration, patching and transformation. Oracle middle tier fusion and web-logic configuration as well.  • Configured and standardized the database access and roles for compliance and regulations.  • Responsible for Architect the enterprise database road-map and achieving the shared vision of the technology leadership group and the organization goals.  • Addressing the technical aspects of database business needs by recommending off-the-shelf and/or custom, in-house solutions. Off-the-shelf solutions will be researched, reviewed, and tested to conform and integrate to the environment • Migrating the database to AWS as per the company roadmap.  • Meet with business stakeholders and other technical team members to gather and analyze application requirements • Provides mentoring and support to all database teams and developers.  • Tracks emerging technologies; evaluating their applicability to business goals and operational requirements • Researches and understands new and emerging technologies and recommends and develops solutions in conjunction with other technical leaders.  • Design database solutions to satisfy application (business and technical) requirements • Implement database solutions using available database development tools ,AWS Cloud • Lead database compliance effort in accordance with 21 CFR 11 and participate with internal and external audits resulting in fulfillment of VDA requirements.    Environment: SQL Server 2008/R2/2005, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS. Education Bachelor's