Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - State of Michigan Denver, CO 8+ years of experience in Oracle Database Administration encompassing Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modelling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Streams Enterprise Manager and GoldenGate on Sun Solaris, Exadata ,Red Hat Linux, ETL tools, HP-UX, AIX, and Windows Platforms  * Experience in Configuring Single instance, Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC). Expertise in Installing, configuring and tuning issues in automatic storage management (ASM) and RAC for high availability databases.  * Performed installations and configurations of Oracle grid infrastructure, databases, clients etc.  * Good Experience in migrating Databases from Solaris, AIX Oracle 10g/11g to Linux Oracle 12c  * Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC and 12c RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database(Data Guard) and goldengate  * Designs, implements, maintains Disaster Recovery (DR) methodologies and creates documentation.  * Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP, DSS and data Ware-housing.  * Good Experience in implementing Exadata Smart Scan for query processing and data mining scoring to scalable intelligent storage servers.  * Experience on informatica (ETL) development, batch jobs and control M  * Have implemented ORACLE STREAMS and worked on both types of standby databases supported by DATAGUARD (logical standby and physical standby).  * Responsible for different Data mapping activities from Source systems to Teradata.  * Extensively created and used various Teradata Set Tables, Multi-Set table, global tables, volatile tables, temp tables.  * Worked on all kinds of backup operations using RMAN (full database, datafiles , image copies, incremental back upsets ,validating), using Flash recovery area, recovery operations (block media, full database, tablespace ,datafiles, control files, point in time, validating) and catalog maintenance  * Good Experience in Implementing Oracle Bi-directional and Uni-directional using goldengate  * Good Experince in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN and schema level refresh using datapump expdp and impdp  * Designs, implements and maintains backup and recovery strategies on Database Management Systems.  * Performed Strategic Planning, Logical and Physical Data Modelling & Application Tuning.  * Experience in Performance Tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc) by using tools/utilities by Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM).  * Experience in working with Grid Control and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). Grid Control for maintaining many databases together on separate servers.  * Good experience in DBA task's like installation, patching, cloning and upgrade of oracle database  * Good Experience in implementing golden gate and replicating databases using golden gate and implemented unidirectional and Bi-directional replication on oracle databases.  * Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX- Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic.  * Supports multiple services and multiple databases of medium complexity with multiple concurrent users, ensuring control, integrity and accessibility of data.  * Solution with strategic disaster recovery plans with different recovery procedures and methods.  * Experience in migration of oracle database to higher version and installing patches.  * Exporting and Importing of dumps using expdp and impdp  * Experience in create and manage SQL Server Azure databases  * Experience in creating and configuring Azure directory.  * Configure Geo-Replication for SQL Server Azure databases.  • Experience in applying CPU and PSU patches/patch sets to the databases.  * Experience on handling very large database (vldb).  * Expertise in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Scripting (Used to write UNIX Scripts & implemented by Using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities).  * SQL statement tuning using Explain Plans, SQL Trace using TKPROF utility and AUTOTRACE utility. 10g, 11g and 12c OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using sql trace utilities.  * Data loading using SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP.  * Troubleshoots alerts (alert log, Jobs, Disk Group, Tablespace etc.) and performance issues.  * Gathers business requirements and designs, implements multiple projects along with the production support.  * Performs capacity planning of Oracle server environment and provides recommendations to management to sustain business growth.  * Good coordinator, understanding and presentation skills with all work departments. Work as the subject matter in the matter of performance issues, reorganization, auditing the required down times and the effect on the business application between the developers, system administration and the end clients.  * Designs and maintains access and security administration.  * Actively and consistently supports all efforts to simplify and enhance the customer experience.  * Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support.  TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator State of Michigan - Michigan City, IN March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • 24/7 Production Database Administration Support  • Planning hardware and software requirements for installing Real application cluster (RAC) 11gR2.  • Installation and Database Administration of multiple Oracle 11gR2 instances, in a development and in multiple BETA-TEST, and Production environments on Oracle Linux and Red Hat servers, and VM's.  • Managing, troubleshooting, and resolving oracle database, RAC and applications issues.  • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c and Sun Solaris to OEL (Oracle Enterprise Linux)  • Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Solaris with EMC Storage for an OLTP application with Transaction Application Failover and high transaction volume  • Monitored/managed 2,3 node RAC environments, databases using OEM-Grid control, and RMAN database backup and recovery  • Extensive Performance tuning using the AWR and ADDM reports from time to time to Analyze and enhance the database performance.  • Expert-level performance monitoring and tuning using OEM, TOAD DBA SUITE, Spotlight.  • Implemented RAC installations and configurations, database and table space restructure and redesign, partitioning and compression.  • Configured and implemented best practices, monitoring, performance tuning, backups, security and auditing, patch and software releases on Oracle11g databases.  • Implemented Database Backup and Recovery strategies and policies.  • Successfully, planned and implemented Oracle database installations and upgrade from Oracle 11.2.0.1 databases to Oracle 11.2.0.3 databases on Oracle Linux Servers for the development and production environments.  • Worked on SAP Net weaver 6.0, SAP Net weaver 7.4, SAP Solution Manager 7.1, SAP Business Suite Implementation, SAP Basis administration and also • Performed OS Migration, Data Migration & System Administration tasks and worked as an SAP Basis Consultant, Security tasks & implementing Business Suite SAP SCM, CRM.  • Configured SAP Net Weaver & Gateway Installation in 3 system Landscape.  • SAP Mobile Platform 2.3 and upgraded the current Performed SAP Homogenous system copy\ Migration for ECC6.0 EHP5 system to Oracle 12C DB & RHEL 6.5 using SAP Import Method  • Analyzed & resolved support issues related to SAP ECC, SAP EP, SolMan & SAP BW systems.  • Responsible for Integrating SAP ME (SAP Netweaver 7.3 based) with Pinpoint and Devise Wise, third party shop floor applications, via https based Web Services.  • Troubleshoot various Database instance tuning issues and maximize performance.  • Performed cloning of the databases from the production to test.  • Architected and implemented Golden Gate replication in Oracle RAC Multimode and Oracle RAC One Node.  • Worked with Oracle Service Requests, escalations and high severity requests.  • Regular Monitoring of databases: growth, performance, health of Cluster and archive log destination on Day to Day Basis using OEM and TOAD.  • Planned and implemented Table partitioning strategies for the Oracle Database in the BRM Application.  • Database monitoring and creation of reports of grow.  • Resource monitoring (servers, storage, services) using SiteScope.  • Working on the Linux Operating System user commands, contab, and performance check.  • Closely work with the developers, performance testing engineers and program managers to recommend the best practices and troubleshoot prodigious problems.  • Troubleshoot Web Logic Server, collected, analyzed, archived and accessed diagnostic data generated by deployed applications with the Web Logic Scripting Tool.  • 24x7 on-call support for critical database issues to help meet the deadlines.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle BRM Application and Database.  • Change and Release Management of the IPC, BRM, Siebel Applications.  • Moreover than Oracle Databases, I was responsible of the SQL Server and Progress Databases Administration (Installation, Maintenance, Performance, User Administration, Storage Management, Monitoring, Upgrade, Backup and Recovery)    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/, Solaris, TOAD, ERWIN, RMAN, SQL server, Data Guard, OEM, Grid Control, Golden Gate, Data Guard, STATSPACK , AWR, Explain Plan, . SAP ERP 6.0, SAP Net weaver 7.4, SAP Solution Manager 7.1.. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo bank - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on 600+ databases on different Oracle versions 10g/11g and 12c of Oracle databases on RHEL, Solaris and AIX  • Involved in installation and maintenance of oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Performing various tasks like Administering RAC using SRVCTL, adding nodes and instances, Administering Storage Components, Parameter Management, and Configuring High Availability Features for RAC.  • Experience in monitoring SQL performance through TOAD and OEM, AWR and ASH reports, comparing execution plans of complex parallel statements, gathering statistics of large sub-partitioned tables, identifying schema object locks and resource contentions in RAC.  • Implemented ASM, Migrate Databases from non-ASM file system to ASM file system with normal redundancy and external redundancy.  • Created database links and multiple database instances within an application.  • Using Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Enterprise Manager for various maintenance tasks like backing up of database, restoration and recovery of database.  • Performed upgradation of databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 and upgraded grid infrastructure from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 release version  • Applied patches in rolling fashion using OPatch auto and maintained GRID infrastructure and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment  • Worked on Oracle RAC (10g, 11g, 12c) administrations, installation, migrations and upgradations.  • Worked on 12c PDB and Non PDB databases administration.  • Setup of Standby database for faster disaster recovery and data guard setup for high availability.  • Converted physical standby databases to active Data guard and snapshot standby for real time testing  • Creating and managing users, roles and profiles, audited and monitored databases and user access.  • Configured Bi-directional replication using GoldenGate active-active setup and troubleshooting issues in GoldenGate environment  • Contributed in Data Modeling by performing Source to Target Mappings. Used Teradata Mapping Manager tool for this.  • Created Shell scripts for daily execution of Teradata jobs.  • Used Teradata Performance monitor for checking the performance of queries.  • Experience in loading of data from several flat files sources to staging area using Teradata  MLOAD, FLOAD, TPUMP and FASTEXPORT  • Converted many Stored Procedures from SQL database to Teradata stored procedures.  • Worked on Fast load, Multi load for loading the data into the Teradata database.  • Used logdump utility to investigate data on GoldenGate trail files to resolve out of sync issues in environment  • Replaced materialized views with GoldenGate and improved performance of data ware housing jobs  • Working with developers to tune their queries for high performance and less wait time.  • Involved in Setting up OID (Oracle Internet Directory) for Single sign on feature of Oracle.  • Involved in the setting up encryption and decryption of secure data in Oracle and SQL server databases.  • Writing shell scripts to monitor data guard status, taking backup and restoring databases using RMAN and data pump utility.  • Involved in yearly off site disaster recovery testing for major applications.  • Writing windows .bat and Power Shell script to backup databases and to monitor different audit and user settings.  • Analyzed the execution plans generated by optimizer and replaced bad plans with historical execution and improved performance of sql running on databases  • Worked on Exadata x3-2 half and quarter rack servers and databases and supported and maintained different applications.  • Used OEM 11g / 12c to manage Oracle databases Supported change control process and involved in creating implementation plan for the change request  • Extraction of data from different flat files into Oracle Database using SQL*Loader    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, OEM, RMAN, Data Guard, Oracle ZFS, DB2 9.7. Tools: Toad for Oracle, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, PUTTY, SSMS, DB Artisan, Fog light, Terminals. Connecticut Oracle DBA Alexion Pharmaceuticals - New Haven, CT September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Served as Oracle DBA in a 24x7 Production environment managing several Database instances.  • Monitoring System Resources, understanding and troubleshooting Database issues in Production Environment.  • Configured and maintained 2 node RAC cluster.  • Setting the parameters, maintaining Data Files, Control Files, Redo Log Files, managing Tablespaces, segments, extents, indexes and managing Undo Data.  • Carrying out EXPORT and IMPORT operations on Oracle Database using the DATAPUMP utility.  • Monitoring the performance of the database using of OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Responsible for database Backups and Recovery, maintain 24 hours uptime for the database.  • Upgraded from Oracle 10g R2 to Oracle 11g R1 database.  • Mentored and provided oversight and backup for the production Databases.  • Installed, configured and implemented 10g Dataguard as a physical standby database.  • Developed backup and recovery strategies with the use of incremental cumulative and differential backups using RMAN  • Involved in Capacity planning meetings & operations.  • Automating the daily routine activities backups using the DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER.  • Knowledge in oracle super cluster.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) for analyzing the database performance.  • Use TOAD to Optimize and test SQLs, PL-SQL statements developed by the Development Team.  • Automating the routine DBA tasks through CRON.  • Creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, procedures, triggers and maintaining Referential Integrity.  • Perform User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users, altering passwords of users and granting and revoking system/object privileges, roles for user actions.  • Used Flashback feature to return database objects to a previous state.  • Communicated with Oracle support via the Metalink in order to troubleshoot important issues.    Environment: Oracle 10g and 11g, RHEL 4, HP-UX, Windows 2008, Oracle Enterprise Manager- OEM, Toad, Sun Solaris Oracle Database Administrator West Corporation - Omaha, NE May 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:    • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11g R2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Up gradation of Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 on 3 node RAC environment.  • Database Refresh from one version to another version.  • Focusing on Exadata administration. With nodes ranging from 2 to 8 and incorporating Dataguarded Exadata clusters for maximum availability.  • Disaster recovery of Exadata Dataguard Physical Standby.  • Failover/Switchover/Loss of service/Rebuild/Corruption/Loss of datafile testing.  • Use of RMAN for backup operations with Exadata.  • Worked on X3-2 machine where backups, restores are run across all database instances in Exadata system with two or four RMAN channels allocated per instance.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using EM 12C cloud control.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Implemented Data guard, creating physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Installed, Configured and Administered Golden gate.  • Configured parameters for the Bi-directional replication.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Done migration of non ASM database to ASM database.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Used cross platform transportable table space (TTS) to transport tablespaces across platforms.  • Data Refresh in Test and Integration Databases using Transportable Table spaces.  • Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Using Oracle Data Pump utility making faster exports/imports on large databases and saving lot of time.  • Performed patching on Oracle Database Server 10g and 11g using Opatch utility.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using AWR, ADDM.  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and tablespaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Performed day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  • Created Users with limited rights as per specific module under specific client. Granting roles and profiles as per system study to users.  • Replication of tables to cross platform and Creating Materialized Views.  • Configured and Implemented Cold/Hot Backups Also configured database cloning using RMAN.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like OEM, SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, TKPROF, LOGMINER, STATSPACK, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN.  • Developed Scripts for transferring data from production server to testing/development servers.  • Shell scripting and PL/SQL programming to resolve business problems of various natures.  • Experience with UNIX and SQL commands.  • Managing databases on multiple servers.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, Linux 4/5, OEM, DBUA, RMAN, Golden gate, Grid, RAC, ASM, Exadata X3-2, Data guard, SQL*LOADER, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TTS, Data pumps, Exports/Imports. Jr. Developer/Oracle DBA CALIBRE Systems, Inc - Alexandria, VA October 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  * Involved in 24x7 support for both production and development databases with on-call pager  * Installed Oracle Streams for Basic and Advanced Data Replication between Oracle Databases and other databases.  * Used Oracle Streams for propagation and management of data, transactions and events in the data stream to ensure smooth and transparent data flow  * Upgrade and Migration of Database from 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.2 later 10.2.0.4 and applying patches whenever required.  * Automation of data load using Korn shell scripting and SQL*Loader  * Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges to users  * Defining and Implementation of backup and recovery strategies  * Performing all daily Maintenance tasks. Interacting with Oracle Customer service when required  * Writing scripts for the system and database for effective functionality and report generation  * Applied High priority, security patches downloaded from Metalink.  * Involved in Logical and Physical database design.  Environment: Oracle 10g with RAC, Oracle 9i, Oracle 8i, TOAD, Solaris8/9, PUTTY Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (6 years), DATABASES (6 years), ORACLE (6 years), SQL (6 years), OEM (5 years) Additional Information Operating systems: LINUX, SOLARIS, MS-DOS, NT, Windows 95/98/XP/7/2000, Windows  Advanced Server 2000/2003  Databases: Oracle 12c, 11gR2, 10gR2 RAC, 9i, 8i, SQL Server 2005.  Oracle Database Tools: Golden gate, SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, SQL Developer, Grid Control, ASM, SQL server RMAN, TOAD, EXPORT/IMPORT, Data Pump, Data guard, Cron tab.  Tools & Utilities: Export/Import, RMAN, Data Pump, ERWIN, ETL, Control M  Languages: C, C++, UNIX shell scripts, PL/SQL, perl  Web Tools: HTML and XML, SQL NET, ODBC, TCP/IP