SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - Edgesource Corp Olney, MD I add immediate value to a team and drive reliable system performance using my extensive 9 years hands-on experience working on a large, fast paced environment supporting MS SQL server. I add value by leveraging my in-depth technical and soft skills. My technical skills include installation, configuration, administration, maintenance, performance tuning, security, monitoring, implementing HA and DR solutions, and Business Intelligence (such as SSIS and SSRS). My soft skills also include being a good team-player with excellent analytical, detail oriented, interpersonal, problem solving, great communication and mentoring skills. In Addition, very proficient in Cloud/Azure with experience of Azure Services, PaaS, IaaS, and Migrated from premises databases and Legacy products on Azure, deployed products on Azure, setup development and test environment on Azure. I will use my technical and soft skills to foster quality, efficiency and productivity. As my detailed resume, below, reflects I have the skills and experience to add immediate and long lasting value to your team and organization. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Edgesource Corp - Washington, DC May 2016 to Present • Provide support for multiple applications using Microsoft SQL RDBMS Platforms, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2016, SQL Servers, Integration Services, High Availability (Clustering & Replication).  • Track, monitor and prioritize service request to meet customer deadlines  • Refined and automated regular processes, track issues, and documented changes.  • Performed Installation, Configuration of highly available clustered environment, Upgrade, and Migration of 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016 SQL Servers and Databases  • Monitor alerts dashboard and incident ticket queue to troubleshoot and resolve database issues  • Worked on documenting database environments and standard operating procedures.  • Solid experience troubleshooting and resolve database availability, connectivity, performance issues, and security issues  • Migrated databases from premises databases and Legacy products on Azure Services, PaaS, IaaS and cloud.  • Created, implemented or recommend a process refinement opportunities, making the database administration support model more efficient.  • Enroll users and maintain system security including implementing DISA STIGs SQL Database Administrator Five Stones Research Corp - Bethesda, MD December 2014 to May 2016 • Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL and other database systems  • Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation and provides backup recovery  • Install, configure, upgrade and patch SQL server software, features and related products  • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements for the database system  • Applied SP (Service Pack) and patches on SQL Server  • Ensure compliance with SQL license agreement  • Migrated databases from SQL Servers to higher versions  • Installed configured and maintaining SQL Clustering ( AAG) using 2012 and higher version in test and production environment  • Monitor and optimize the performance of the databases and applications  • Interface with Microsoft Corporation for technical support  • Troubleshoot all issues related to SQL and Windows products and give consultation to development teams  • Day-to-day administration of the Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Database clusters & nodes.  • Configure and maintain database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance so to ensure high levels of performance, availability and security. SQL Database Administrator Leidos - Falls Church, VA May 2013 to December 2014 • Make recommendations to purchase hardware, software and coordinates installation  • Administrate systems/ database environment solutions for multiple projects with varying schedules  • Determine the most effective way to increase performance including hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes  • Support the planning of system/environment requirements for individual projects  • Schedule, plan, and oversee database / system upgrades  • Installed, configured SQL Server 2008 & 2012 in development, test, and production environment  • Create, migrate, and upgrade SQL Server Databases using best practices  • Ensure all database servers are backed up in a way that meets the business's Recovery Point Objectives (RPO)  • Test backups to ensure we can meet the business' Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) SQL Database / System Administrator MV Transportation - Hyattsville, MD January 2010 to May 2013 Responsibilities and Accomplishment  • Export & Import data from/to Oracle, MySQL, and Access Database including flat files like text, excel, and CSV files to SQL Server 2005/2008  • Installed, Configured, and Administered SQL Server 2005 & 2008 in development, test, and production environment  • Backup/Recovery:  ? Work experience and strong knowledge in disaster recovery  ? Rebuild databases using backups  • Database High Availability:  ? Installed, Configured and Managed Database Mirroring, Replication and Log Shipping  ? Maintained Fail-Over Cluster Servers in SQL Server 2005 & 2008  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning:  ? Performed database monitoring and Performance tuning  ? Monitor Servers activity, and worked with clients to solve different problems  ? Performed index and statistics management  ? Managed SQL Server Error Logs, space usage, growth pattern  ? Managed BLOCK and LOCK  • ETL Tools: Used ETL tools like DTS, SSIS, Import/Export, BCP (Bulk Copy), to import & export data from flat files, and excel to MS SQL Server databases  • Security Management: Created and Managed users, roles, security at object level, data encryption  • Database Migration:  ? Migrated MS Access 2003/2000/97 databases into MS SQL Server  ? Imported data from Oracle, Excel, Flat file, CSV file to SQL Server Database Education Bachelors of Science in Database Theory, Software Eng. Practicum, Data Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), School of Life Sciences - Richmond, VA May 2009