Application DBA Application DBA Application DBA - Northern Trust Chicago, IL I am a DBA with 6 years of hands-on experience. My body of work includes Installation, Configuration, Patch administration, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Golden gate. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions running on UNIX, LINUX and Windows platforms.    Programming experience as an Oracle PL/SQL Developer in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).  Involved in all phases of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and maintenance with timely delivery against aggressive deadlines.  Expertise in Client-Server application development using Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, PL/SQL, SQL *PLUS, TOAD and SQL*LOADER.  Strong proficiency in supporting Production Cloud environments (AWS, VMWare) as well as traditional managed hosted environments.  Effectively made use of Table Functions, Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views, Query Re-Write and Transportable table spaces.  Strong experience in Data warehouse concepts, ETL.  Good knowledge on logical and physical Data Modeling using normalizing Techniques.  Created Tables, Views, Constraints, Index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based).  Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  Developed materialized views for data replication in distributed environments.  Excellent technical and analytical skills with clear understanding of design goals of ER modeling for OLTP and dimension modeling for OLAP.  Experience in Oracle supplied packages, Dynamic SQL, Records and PL/SQL Tables.  Loaded Data into Oracle Tables using SQL Loader.  Partitioned large Tables using range partition technique.  Experience with Oracle Supplied Packages such as DBMS_SQL, DBMS_JOB and UTL_FILE.  Created Packages and Procedures to automatically drop table indexes and create indexes for the tables.  Worked extensively on Ref Cursor, External Tables and Collections.  Expertise in Dynamic SQL, Collections and Exception handling.  Experience in SQL performance tuning using Cost-Based Optimization (CBO).  Good knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes.  Experience with Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS using Explain Plan and HINTS.  Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, ASH, TKPROF and AWR  Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  Experience in ETL techniques and Analysis and Reporting including hands on experience with the Reporting tools such as Cogno.  Created Shell Scripts for invoking SQL scripts and scheduled them using crontab.  Excellent knowledge about managing large-scale OLAP and OLTP databases 5+TB size in HA and DR setup.  Monitoring the ASM instances on the multiple nodes and adding the disk to the disk group when required.  Monitoring the Database health check and growth with scripts.  Expertise concerning migration/consolidation of databases using Oracle 12c multitenant.  Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures and methods like Data Guard & Standby Database.  Executed and implemented user helpdesk tickets of various issues via REMEDY database from creating user accounts, read-only accounts on a database & table down to assisting them with logging into the database. Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  Experience in Data Migrations.  Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  Tablespace & Data file creation and Maintenance by Adding and Resizing data file if needed  Keeping the databases up to date with respect to Latest PSU's and very comfortable in applying patches.  Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning, user access control.  UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  Starting/Shutting down the RAC databases and Creating and Relocating RAC database services to instances.  Switchover and Failover RAC database with Data guard Broker.  Implementation of RAC using ASM on 3 Nodes.  Monitoring of cluster ware files i.e., OCR files & Voting Disk files.  Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Linux.  Experience in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  Experience in conversion of Single Node Instance to multimode RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  Experience in Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 4 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application DBA Northern Trust - Chicago, IL March 2019 to Present Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, performance tuning.  Import and export of the database objects to move data between 10g, 11g and 12C RAC environments. Expert on change management and service management ( service request , change request , IDM request etc..).  Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR ASH, SQL tuning advisor and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  Created new database sequence after database refresh.  Good experience on Capacity planning, Architecture planning; Along with database lock, blocking session, and space management.  Responsible for setting and managing USER, Granting required privileges and revoking them as well when needed.  Creation or modification of custom tables, views, sequences, procedures, functions, indexes, tablespaces and other DDL requests.  Use tools as SQL developer and custom scripts; while creating users and maintaining password rights.  build positive and professional business relationships with internal and external clients; work independently and handle a team, work with business to gather requirements. Oracle Database Administrator Cotiviti - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to February 2019 Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  Created and monitored Physical standby databases on maximum protection, performance mode using Data guard for Disaster Recovery and High Availability.  Upgrading Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  Upgrading Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12c.  Configured and implemented Oracle 11g ACTIVE DATAGAURD for Database Disaster Recovery by using DATA GAURD broker (DGMDRL)  Installed and configured 4 node server side load balancing Oracle RAC 11g, 12c databases on Linux with ASM and Data Guard.  Production support database on 11g and 12c versions with standalone and RAC environment.  Set up user profiles and roles as per the access level of user for the data and application security.  Re-wrote the shell scripts to monitor Golden Gate processes various states (like STOPPED/ABENDED/LAG/HUNG) to reduce number of alerts by grouping them together by environment.  Installation and configuration of Oracle Golden gate.  Responsible for implementation and administration of disaster recovery strategies for 24/7 operations and deployment of high availability systems on Oracle 11g, using Oracle RAC, Data-Guard, Streams, ASM, RMAN.  Configured deployed and administered 4 node RAC clusters on Solaris 10 and Redhat Enterprise Linux 6.0, using ASM and Raw Devices on Oracle 11gR2.  Table created with Daily Range partition, indexes and script automated which add/remove partition as per client requirement.  Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  Oracle HA Stack: Install, Configure, Setup, Maintain and Support Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database for Test, Development and Production for various home-developed applications like Portfolio Management Systems and vendor applications like SAP Business solutions  Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12 databases of 2.0 TB 4 Node production 10g and 11g RAC databases using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  Upgrade DBs from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1. Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.  Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)  Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL tuning advisor etc. Done resetting of storage parameters by series of exports and imports of tables, used conventional as well as direct path loads to upload the data into the server using SQL loader.  Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  Upgrade and Migration of Database from 11.2.0.2to 12.2.0.2 and applying patches whenever required.  Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC  Troubleshooting of various problems on AWS Production databases.  Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 12.1.0 RAC databases  Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning  Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.    Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports  Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator News Bank, Inc - Chester, VT July 2013 to December 2015 Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  Provided Development DBA support for developer queries and requests, which includes query tuning, server tuning, identifying problematic code, etc  Suggested and improved system design and architecture, this includes built New Oracle 10g/11g RAC Databases, ASM Physical and standby systems, enabling LDAP authentication and configuring RMAN backups.  Monitored the operating system response in terms of CPU usage, disk space, and swap space by using various UNIX utilities like SAR, VMSTAT, IOSTAT and TOP.  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  Implemented and configured 10g grid control on Production server and 11g grid control on Responded to all database alerts, warnings, errors in a timely, consistent manner.  Escalated complex issues to internal team members and third-party group members as appropriate.  Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  Utilized TOAD for database management.    TOOLS USED:  Tuning Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM    Tools and Utilities  RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer    RDBMS  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Operating Systems  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Education Bachelor's Skills LINUX, SUN, UX, HP-UX