ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> Cedar Park, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CIGNA Health - Bloomfield, CT February 2016 to Present Hand on experience on Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups. Also experienced with RMAN active-active duplication.  ? Experience in implementing and monitoring active data guard and physical/ logical standby database for disaster recovery and fail-over purposes.  ? Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  ? Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, Crontab and Autosys.  ? Experience in installing and monitoring oracle database software (11g and 12C) using OUI Response file in silent mode.  ? Upgraded and migrated databases from Oracle 10g&11g to 12C using DBUA, Transportable tablespace, Datapump and Scripts.  ? Worked on Network data encryption to improve security and implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections. Also Implemented TDE for advanced security majors.  ? Configured and monitored a three nodes 11gR3 RAC database for High availability, and performance improvement. Created Database Services to distribute applications across nodes.  ? Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespaces.  ? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  ? Installed, configured and troubleshooted oracle Golden Gate for data Replication across same or different platforms for business continuity and data protection.  ? Experience migrating using Oracle Golden gate  ? Involved in database troubleshooting and maintenance activities and solve some Golden Gate issues such like abended, lagging, long transaction issues.  ? Resolved the issues in conflicts between the target and source database in Golden Gate  ? Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  ? Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  ? Provided on call 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NRG Energy - Houston, TX October 2013 to January 2016 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Cloud Control.  ? Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader and External Tables.  ? Implement Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g/11g/12c environments.  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Experience in the installation, configuration and monitoring of golden gate processes in a unidirectional for real time replication of data and business intelligence.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches (PSU) for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Detected corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  ? Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  ? Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine-grained Auditing.  ? Worked on application and database security (data access, passwords, network, etc.). Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements  ? Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  ? Performed production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  ? Managed data files, control files, redo log files, tables, indexes, constraints for performance and availability.  ? Handled daily production problems/change requests with Oracle.  ? Performed daily database administration tasks: User management, Space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning, Alert Log monitoring and backup monitoring.  ? Proactively managed the databases; set up alarms for managing any exceptions in day to day management of the databases; pre-empted and prevented issues, disasters from happening. Education Associate in Business Administration NORTHERN VIRGINIA COMMUNITY COLLEGE Bachelor's Degree in Economics UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, COLLEGE PARK - College Park, MD Skills Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server