Full stack software developer Full stack software <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack software developer - ASOFTIO LLC Boca Raton, FL Work Experience Full stack software developer ASOFTIO LLC - Miami, FL May 2018 to Present In charge of the relational databases design and technology infrastructure implementation. Develop API's with Ruby On Rails for backend and consumed with VUE.js or React.js depending on project scope.  Implement Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Stripe as a payment gateway for cloud and mobile ecosystem.  Practice AGILE methodology for project sprints with collaboration tools like Jira, Trello, and others.  I did implement CircleCI for CI/CD to some of the projects that I led. Full stack developer CRYPTOSTUDIO LLC - Miami, FL 2017 to May 2018 Created a SAAS platform for the company where they sold online (using Stripe as a payment gateway) crypto trading courses and developed with them a tool called the swap coin where we connected to several crypto exchanges to create remote random orders.  Bitcoin and Litecoin as a payment method  Developed an auto trading algorithm to operate on crypto exchanges. We developed the apps API with Ruby on Rails running with a MySQL database and Redis queue system. The user platform was made with React.js for the web Front End Developer BUSHIDO LAB LLC - Miami, FL 2017 to June 2017 Helped the team to structure new apps architecture, mostly in the front end using React as our main framework. For the backend of certain apps, I had to use Ruby on Rails and in some cases Firebase when the project needed a fast MVP. Ruby on Rails backend developer Clever Code SAS - Bogotá, CO February 2013 to June 2017 Colombia  Leader of the development team where we created several platforms for the company clients, most of them online advertising platforms to measure traffic and clicks on client websites, and also we developed an e-commerce creator (Like Shopify) made in Laravel for Latin America.  After using Laravel for some time, found many limitations hence the reason for moving to Ruby on Rails, a much more reliable framework.    ? Education Wyncode Academy - Miami, FL June 2017 to November 2017 B.S in Psychologist Pontificia Universidad Javeriana - Bogotá, CO 2012 to June 2017 Skills Javascript, Reactjs, Redux, Php, Laravel, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Scripting, Mysql, nginx, Html5, Bash, Linux, Wordpress, Jquery, Node, React, React, Node, Jquery, Nodejs Links https://github.com/mdiaz00147 Additional Information Skills    • Ruby on Rails • Javascript • Ruby • HTML5 • CSS3 • NodeJS • ReactJS • VueJS • Redux • Vuex • Bash Scripting (Linux) • Mysql • Nginx • NPM • Yarn • PHP • Laravel • Wordpress    ?