Lead Front- end Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front- end Developer - Blockchain Indemnity Astoria, NY Highly seasoned and reliable Entry Level Web Developer with a strong work ethic and customer service and satisfaction record. Adept multitasker capable of bringing simultaneous web page creation to completion with full accuracy and efficiency. Able to function well independently with little to no supervision or in coordination with a professional media team Work Experience Lead Front- end Developer Blockchain Indemnity May 2018 to Present • Developed custom features/experiences using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Work with producers and project managers on requirements and estimations.  • Ensure absolute accuracy and high standards for detail throughout the development process. Front- end Developer Racket April 2017 to August 2017 • Coordinate with design and back- end teams - Replicate design given by graphic designer into web page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript/JQuery.  • Test websites for mobile responsiveness and cross browser friendliness.  • Contributed in improving functionality and profitability for the company main websites. Front- end Developer Wrevel September 2016 to December 2016 • Tasked with designing webpage layout.  • Coordinated various web pages with appropriate links and multimedia elements in collaboration with design team members.  • Worked comfortably with tight deadlines. Education Digital Film Academy - New York, NY January 2016 to November 2016 Information Technology Management Berkeley College - New York, NY January 2015 to January 2016 Skills DJANGO, HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), CSS (4 years), jQuery (4 years), Front End, Front-End Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages  • Proficient in: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, SQL  • Familiar with: Django, Ruby on Rails, node.js  Software  • Platforms: Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Windows 10, OSX and Linux