Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Gemini Health Bloomfield, NJ • Extensive experience in Front- end web development using HTML 4.01/5, CSS (2/3), Bootstrap, XHTML, JavaScript 5/6, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular 2/5/7, Node.js 6.x/8.x/10.x and JSON with solid understanding of database designing and development, JavaScript Libraries and installation of different modules.  • Hands on experience in creating Modules, Components, Directives, Services, Pipes, Form Validations, etc. and various bindings provided by Angular 2/4/5/6.  • Exposure with CSS utilities such as LESS, SASS, FusionCharts, D3.js, Twitter Bootstrap, media Queries and Compass.  • Configured Reactive and Template-driven forms with dynamic components using angular 2/4/5/6.  • Experience implementing component directives to add DOM Elements as well as attribute and structural directives to modify existing DOM layout at runtime.  • Experience with browser testing, cross-browser compatibility, and cross-platform compatibility.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Configured and bundled source files using Webpack and transpiled the build files using Babel in production environment.  • Experience with debugging front- end applications using Augury and Chrome DevTools.  • Extensive knowledge about designing and implementing NoSQL database using MongoDB and Firebase as well as operational knowledge in working with relational databases like MySQL.  • Configured application to handle multiple HTTP requests by leveraging Angular's interfaces like Http Interceptors and Redis to speed up query operations on database.  • Experienced in testing cross-browser compatibility on feature updates using libraries like Polyfills & Modernizr.  • Experience with JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and daily stand up to sync up with Team for current sprint status, implementation and maintenance with extensive  • Experienced in server-side authentication using Passport.js 0.4.0 and JWT 8.4.0, delegating access using OAuth 2.0 and encrypting passwords with bcrypt.js 3.0.4.  • Extensive experience in developing interactive application using HTML5/HTML4, CSS3/CSS2, jQuery 3.0.0, vanilla JavaScript and DOM manipulation and DOM traversal along with advanced JavaScript concepts.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases under BDD/TDD using test frameworks like JEST, Karma and Jasmine.  • Proven Knowledge of setting up source control repositories and ticketing systems using version management software like Jenkins, GitHub.  • Effective interpersonal and communication skills (written, oral and listening), with the ability to build positive working relationships across multiple groups within the organization Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Gemini Health - Piscataway, NJ December 2018 to Present Gemini Health provides healthcare solutions to eliminate the pharmacy hassles by delivering drugs and alternative cost transparency service at the point of sale.    An online portal for their HIPAA-compliant Electronic Health Record (EHR) system was developed by the team which allowed prescribers to view drug costs and comparative pricing information during patient visits to determine which medications are covered for their patients according to their health insurance plans. My role as Front- end developer was to implement login functionality for registered vendors/brokers and routing functionality for the portal page.    Responsibilities  • Developed an integrated web portal using Angular 7, Typescript 2.x, ES6, HTML5, Bootstrap 4, CSS3, FusionCharts and Media Queries.  • Designed a database schema for patient's medical history and created secure login using Reactive Form Validations in Angular 7.  • Used Router module to configure routes for navigating between different HTML pages and protected them using Route Guards.  • Worked with Typescript and ES6 new features type restrictions, decorators, block scope, arrow function, modules, classes, interfaces.  • Responsible for injecting services into the components by making use of Angular 7 Injectors and configured HTTP interceptors to consume the web services securely.  • Used Angular 7 HTTP module to make REST API calls to MongoDB database with simple JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication and worked with the Observables.  • Generated data visualization reports using Angular's FusionCharts.  • Used Git as source repository and for controlling versions of the code.  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure Cross-Browser Compatibility with JavaScript libraries like Modernizr.  • Used Agile Scrum Development Methodology and scripted test cases for Test Driven Development using JEST to perform unit testing.    Environment:  Angular 7, Typescript 2.6.2, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap 4, FusionCharts, Jest, RESTful web services, MongoDB, JWT, Media Queries, Polyfills, Modernizr, JIRA, GitHub, Gulp, Webpack, Jenkins, Agile Test-Driven-Development MEAN Stack Developer Houston, TX December 2017 to November 2018 Developed a responsive and cross-browser compatible hotel booking module for a travel agency using Angular, Bootstrap and Nodejs. The module filters the best deals for booking hotel rooms and resorts available within a given budget range or travel destination. My responsibility was to develop an interactive forum allowing the users to rate & review the amenities, staff and hospitality of the hotel as well as viewing hotel location by integrating Google Maps API.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Worked on Angular 5.0 to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked closely with web designers and translated their designs into websites, apps, HTML emails, and interactive experiences.  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure Cross-Browser Compatibility using libraries like Polyfills, Modernizr and transpilers like Babel.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX & JSON.  • Worked with NPM modules like CORS, body-parser, Multer, Morgan and view engines like Pug in server-side programming.  • Worked with ODM libraries like Mongoose for database persistence using Node.js and wrote NoSQL queries for MongoDB.  • Made REST API calls by importing Angular's Http Client module to manage CRUD operations between business client and server.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design and CSS3 MediaQueries.  • Worked with Passport.js & OAuth-2.0 for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Used GitHub UI, Git bash to commit, changes to the repository for maintaining various versions of the agile process.  • Worked on CSS Preprocessor SASS to maintain styling across application along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt and configured Webpack for production.  • Assisted the testing team working with Karma and Jasmine to test and structure our project.    Environment:  Angular 5, Typescript 2.6.2, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap 4, FusionCharts, karma, RESTful web services, MongoDB, JWT, Media Queries, Polyfills, Modernizr, JIRA, GitHub, Grunt, Webpack, Jenkins, Agile Test-Driven-Development Custom Admin Panel Personal Business - Houston, TX July 2016 to November 2017 TX  MEAN Stack Developer    Developed a custom admin panel using Angular framework. The panel has a vast collection of assorted reusable UI components integrated with latest jQuery plugins. The admin panel can be customized for admin dashboards for websites hosting the CMSs, SAAS, CRM, HRMS, Support & Social portal, E-commerce, Personal Business, Corporate clients.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed custom admin panel using HTML4, CSS3, Angular 5.0, Bootstrap-3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Used various jQuery plugins like Date picker, Autocomplete and document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for Website.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript code to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used CSS modules like Grid and Flexbox to design custom web pages.  • Experience with Bootstrap 3/4 to design and implement responsive web pages so that the website is compatible with different devices and used Font Awesome toolkit.  • Used Angular Material UI library for developing the layouts along with HTML5, SASS.  • Used task runners like Gulp to automate minification of the files, compiling SASS to CSS and configured Webpack for production.  • Generated data visualization reports using D3.js and FusionCharts  • Creating self-contained, reusable, and testable modules and components    Environment  Angular 5, Typescript 2.6.2, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap 4, FusionCharts, heroku, GitHub, Material-UI, AJAX, Gulp, Webpack, Jenkins, Agile Test-Driven-Development Web Developer Hyderabad, Telangana March 2015 to June 2016 Developed translation management platform for emerging teams. The platform is designed to manage translation workflow of the client. Once the project is setup, the platform automates the translation of the project via 3rd party integrations and allows the client to work collaboratively with the team, port the translations in different formats and instantly deliver the translation updates over the air.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Created Single Page Application by using Angular 4.0 cli and ES-6 following mobile first visual designs ensuring that they render appropriately across multiple devices, browsers and screen sizes.  • Used Router module to configure routes for navigating between different HTML pages and protected them using Route Guards.  • Consumed RESTful web services in Angular 7 using operators available in RxJs library like modify, filter, map for calling data from the backend.  • Implemented a professional and production quality module system with Node.js and used Node.js for managing JavaScript packages using the npm tool.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Bootstrap 3.  • Worked with latest Typescript and ES6 features like type restrictions, decorators, block scope, arrow function, modules, classes, interfaces.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more flexible and supportive  • Built pages from Photoshop mockups using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML and Angular 4.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment:  Angular 4, Typescript 2.3, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap 4, Photoshop, heroku, GitHub, Material-UI, AJAX, Gulp, Webpack, Jenkins, Node.js Software Engineer I.M.S - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to February 2015 I.M.S. was devised for the implementation and maintenance of the online account management system that provides secure online access to customer accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, deposits, and facilities like inter-bank money transfer was provided by the application. It also provides a service to the customers to pay the bills.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in design, analyze and functional specification documentation for the project.  • Developed various functionalities using JavaScript, XML, HTML, XHTML, DHTML.  • Used jQuery to make HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript function to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Worked widely on CSS (Background, Positioning, Text, Border, Margin, Table, Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and Behaviors)  • Extensive use of JavaScript and jQuery for client-side form validation.  • Use of JavaScript, jQuery and different CSS property to get effect on pages.  • Design photo orientation positioning with CSS.  • Developed the website architecture in accordance to Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Revamped the code for different pages to bring latest technology effect on the pages.  • Work in parallel with Quality Assurance team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Agile SDLC, GIT, Sublime Text Front- End Developer Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to June 2014 Developed reddit-like crowd-sourced news portal for a well-known viral content publishing company Inshorts MediaLabs, allowing users to curate selected news feeds and voting the posts or comments being published on the forum by engaging the use of text, images and multimedia extensively and authorizing admin privileges to certain user groups based on number of accumulated "karma points" or "up-votes".    Roles and Responsibilities  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML4, CSS3, Angular.JS, Bootstrap-3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Developed Interactive modules in the application by usage of HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS and JavaScript  • Consumed RESTful APIs to get the JSON object and modifying the response object to display in UI.  • Wrote JavaScript code for popping up a new window with control over size, position, and attributes of the new window.  • Worked on Pop-up Screens using CSS3 Modal box, dropdown menus on web pages and AJAX calls to display part of a web page upon user request.  • Worked in an agile environment delivering output in sprints.  • Implemented event emitters like $broadcast and $emit for data transfer between child and parent controllers.  • Used Git as source repository and for controlling versions of the code.  • Optimized application for maximum speed and scalability    Environment:  Angularjs, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.x /4, ES6, Node.js, Express.js, Passport.js, Mongoose, MongoDB, NoSQL, Postman, Font-Awesome, AJAX, GitHub Education Master's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Cucumber, FIREBASE, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, MONGOOSE, NODE.JS, TYPESCRIPT, WEBPACK, JENKINS, VISUAL STUDIO ENTERPRISE, XML, ANGULARJS, HTML5, SASS, AJAX, WEB SERVICES, MONGODB, NOSQL, ECLIPSE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Editors / IDE Tools\ JavaScript Libraries \  Visual Studio Code, Visual studio Enterprise\ Node.js 6.x/8.x, Mongoose 5.x, Passport.js, \  Eclipse, WebStorm, NetBeans, Sublime text\ Bcrypt.js, FusionChart, Multer\    Module Bundler and task runners\ Preprocessors \  Webpack, Yarn, Gulp, Grunt, Brunch, Babel\ SASS, LESS, SCSS\    SDLC\ Web Services\  Agile Scrum, Kanban\ RESTful.\    Database\ Web Technologies\  NoSQL, MongoDB 3/4, FireBase, MySQL\ HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, XML, Axios, AJAX, \    Frameworks\ Languages, Scripts, Environments\  Angular 2/5/7, AngularJS, Bootstrap-3/4\ JavaScript 5/6, Typescript 3.x, AJAX, \  Jasmine, Cucumber, Material Design4.x, \ Postman 7.0.7, \  Express.js \    Tools\  GitHub, JIRA, Jasmine, Karma, Jenkins, \  Heroku \