UI /React Developer UI /React <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI /React Developer - Tracfone Wireless.Inc Doral, FL • I have around 6+ years of Experience as User Interface/ Front/Web End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, React JS, MongoDB, React-Native, Angular 2/4,/5/6 and Angular JS.  • Skilled IT Professional with proven success in maintaining multiple e-projects & experience in implementing high performance user interfaces and web applications  • Specialized in development and implementation of Application, mobile and Web based Technology Solutions  • Experiences with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile methodologies  • Solid understanding of Responsive Web Design  • Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Good knowledge in building Android and IOS applications using React-Native.  • Good knowledge in building animated screens in Android and IOS using React Native.  • Good Understanding in building the React, AngularJS,2 and Angular4/5 applications using Typescript.  • Developed many POC in React and Angular applications and integrated them into the application  • Good Understanding of developing the React Applications from scratch using Webpack.  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular 6  • Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Controllers and Web API's, using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Experience on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components  • Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code  • Extensive experience in developing Node JS applications using MVC frameworks  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version controls like SVN and GIT  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) and MVVM frameworks for developing web applications  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team  • Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing  • Demonstrated ability to complete high- end projects in deadline-oriented environments  • Firm understanding of agile, scrum. Test driven and waterfall development methodologies  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, strong in object-oriented analysis and design, excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development  • A result-oriented professional with good communication, leadership, team management, analytical and co-ordination skills  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess excellent communication skills Work Experience UI /React Developer Tracfone Wireless.Inc - Miami, FL February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing user interfaces pages using Angular 4/5/6 along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NodeJS, Typescript, Bootstrap and RxJS library  • Experience in developing the angular application from Scratch  • Created several Angular 6 components with Typescript using component decorator (@Component) and arranged them in cohesive blocks to work together and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6  • Understanding the customer preferences through the client's feedback and deliver fidelity clickable prototypes, for new user interfaces and interactions using technologies like HTML5, SASS, Angular, Typescript and Angular Material components.  • Ag-Grid is a fully-featured and highly customizable JavaScript data grid. It delivers outstanding performance, with React as React Component  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @Angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @Angular/common [Common core things including form validation], @Angular/router [Routing for entire application]  • Involved in integrating Angular application with UI component library like Angular Material  • Utilized the Responsive Web Design Library Bootstrap 4 to display the same site properly in browsers, tablets and phones.  • Expertise in React-Redux using actions, reducers, stores and view  • Used React JS, Next JS for building Single Page web applications (SPA).  • Expertise in working on Routes in ReactJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page.  • Expertise in working on Routes in ReactJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time  • Implemented web services for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP  • Utilized core Angular 6 features such as HTTP, Data Binding, Forms, Services and Dependency Injection  • Used Angular 6 custom Directives for reusable DOM manipulation and Services to implement Dependency Injection. Also Used Angular 6 build-in template expression to perform two-way data binding  • To provide a better styling and maintainability used SASS features like mixins, variables, nesting, Extend/Inheritance, functions  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular 4. And Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives  • Created custom directives for re-usable components and transferred data between parent and child Component by using @Input and @Output  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Controllers and Web API's, using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Tested frontend code in multiple browsers and devices to ensure cross-browser compatibility  • Unit testing for all the UI logics being developed using Jasmine and Karma  • Used GIT for version control and JIRA for defect tracking  • Followed Agile Methodology & Iterative Development throughout the project and participated in daily scrum and Sprint meetings  • Effectively involved in coordinating with Business Analyst for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 4/5/6, ReactJS, Node JS, AJAX, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Git/Bit bucket, Jasmine/karma, NPM, Jira and Webpack. UI / Front end developer Share Care - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Delivering a complete client-side application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and the latest powerful web technologies such as Angular 2/4.  • Expertise in React-Redux using actions, reducers, stores and view  • Expertise in life cycle methods to control the component mounting, updating and unmount in React JS.  • Expertise in working on Routes in ReactJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page.  • Expertise in React-Redux using actions, reducers, stores and view  • Expertise in life cycle methods to control the component mounting, updating and unmount in React JS.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and project setup with scaffolding features.  • Created templates for the UI view in HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. Design and Development of the application is customized and styled as per Bank standards  • Intensively used PrimeNG components along with Angular in creating the application.  • Implemented authentications with Node JS.  • Updated the project midway to Angular 4 for its performance benefits.  • Written code on Typescript and ES6 to implement Angular 4 Components.  • Validated user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback.  • Displayed JSON Response on webpage in a grid/table format as well as charts using C3.js.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node JS applications.  • Used Git, BitBucket for source code management and JIRA for tracking purposes.  • Worked with ES6. Also Worked with Typescript new features block scope, type restrictions, decorators, arrow functions, classes, interfaces and modules (import and exports).  • Tested middleware application web services using SoapUI.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Designed and created database for Application, writing queries in MS SQL and Oracle.  • Participated in code reviews and ensured coding standards are met with optimum code development.  • Written test scripts using Jasmine and Karma for each application component.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily Scrum meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular2/4, React js, Redux, Github, Maven, Git, MVC, Mongo, Agile methodology and Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, Nodejs, LESS CSS, IntelliJ IDE, Sublime Text, Windows. UI/React developer Guild mortgage July 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools, configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Webpack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Performed CRUD operations in the Mongodb database.  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular 2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine. UI Developer Augmatrixgo - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • As a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications and managed in developing of Account landing page, Account summary/overview and Login page.  • Responsible for building a new website for the Small fleet clients and for the maintenance of Online New Platform.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery making use of Bootstrap framework. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 modules, components, dependency injection etc.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, AngularJS  • Integrated the service call with UI using http and resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  • Using GIT for version control.  • Used TypeScript to reduce the number of lines of traditional JavaScript files.  • Integration of TypeScript to the whole project.  • Used Angular.JS http service to communicate with Restful web services and JSON data.  • Involved in up gradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach to UI development.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2, Bootstrap, XML, Apache Tomcat, Dreamweaver, GIT. Web Developer Unicel Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  • Coded extensively in jQuery to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality  • Prepared sequential diagrams for individual flow  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons  • Drove multiple component design sessions parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Eclipse. Education Bachelors in K.L.Uinversity Master's Wilmington University Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Json, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Html5, Sass, Eclipse, jquery, Version control Links http://@injectable http://@injectable http://@injectable Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, XML, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, AJAX  Framework: Angular 4/5/6, jQuery, Node.js,React  IDE & Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans IDE, WebStorm, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Cornerstone  Version Control SVN, GIT, Source Tree and Bit Bucket  Languages: JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery  Operating Systems: Windows