Contractor Contractor Contractor - Coder Dallas, TX Have created and applied React & Angular page content using React (JSX) and Angular (2,4,7). Created new content using ES5 and ES6. Have created and applied new React Link-To, Life-cycle hooks etc. and Angular Routes, Services and Modules. Have created and applied new forms with validation.  Passionate about creating and maintaining web sites for better user experience; create landing pages per Designers/Client comps or wire-frame then leveraging hand coding HTML, CSS, JavaScript(ES5-ES6). Use of JavaScript libraries like React/JQuery and Framework tools like BootStrap4 and Foundation to create responsive web pages. Mindful of creating DRY code. Primarily use SASS but have used LESS. Use Chrome Development Tools for coding with Apple and Windows environment. Mindful of cross-browser compatibilities, progressive enhancement and server response time.  Have coded/developed with CMS (Content Management Systems) Hybris, CQ5, WebSphere, WordPress and Drupal. Experienced developing on Corporate eCommerce WCM (Web Content Management) environment using Git to backup/achieve and Grunt Terminal to test/develop. Worked with Project Managers, Clients and Designers prototypes and wire-frames to develop micro-sites, landing pages and make updates. All project are developed to be responsive. Used Bright Pod, Base Camp, Slack, OneNote, Cisco Jabber to coordinate projects. Standard daily Scrum and weekly management updates on current and on going projects. Have incorporated Adobe PhotoShop and Scene7 to edit images. Primarily used Sublime and Chrome Developer to edit code. Work Experience Contractor Coder December 2018 to Present Front End - Developer - Coder - Content Management.  Duties:    • React.js - Context API / Redux  • Angular - versions 2, 4, 7  • Coding using Javascript ES5 - ES6  • Applied and created React (JSX) content.  • Created and Applied new Fetch/Axios, HTTPClient code for JSON  • Created and Applied new Routes, Service, Modules, Links.  • Created and Applied React - Angular Forms with validation.  • Styling content using Bootstrap 4  • Coding used Visual Studio , HTML5, CSS3 Front- End - Developer - Coder - Designer Orion Communication November 2017 to December 2018 Duties:  • Updating and designing new landing content - daily  • Updating and stylizing back- end Dev-Express content  • Applying Boot Strap for responsive landing page  • Worked with Visual Basic to edit and update - daily  • Worked SQL to update HTML5 content  • Updated content daily using CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Version Control - TFS (Team Foundation Server) Contractor Randstad August 2016 to October 2016 for Lennox International    Web Coder/ Developer (Creating/Editing Micro-sites and Landing Pages)    Duties:  • Code daily to develop new and existing micro-sites and landing pages.  • Work daily on a corporate CMS Hybris environment.  • Used Sublime and Chrome Development to edit code.  • Developed per designer's comps/prototype examples and assets.  • Front end deveopment using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript (JQuery).  • Coordinated with Project Managers to update or make changes on new or existing landing pages and exiting web pages.  • Creating Micro Sites and Landing Pages to be responsive for mobile, tablet and computer screens. Used Hybis Bootstrap and JQuery features.  • All created landing pages are subject to QC for accuracy and file review.  • Daily team meeting and weekly department status report on current projects.  • Evaluated Angular 2 & 4  • Evaluated React JS    Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript (jQuery), CMS (Hybris), Sublime Text Editor, Google Chrome Development Tool, Adobe PhotoShop/Scene7 on Win 7 Laptop. Helped migrate from WordPress to responsive micro websites/ landing pages. Coded landing pages per designer prototypes. Use of Bright Pod and Cisco Jabber to coordination projects. Contractor Defakto January 2016 to March 2016 Web Coder/ Developer (Creating/Editing Landing Pages)  Duties:  • Code daily on new and existing landing pages per client's request.  • Work daily on a corporate CMS CQ5 environment.  • Primaraly use of Chrome Development Tools, Sublime.  • Developed per client comps/prototype examples and assets.  • Front end deveopment using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript.  • Coordinated with Project Managers to correct or make project changes on developing or existing web pages.  • Creating Landing Pages responsive for mobile, tablet and computer screens.  • All created landing pages are subject to QC for accuracy.  • Team goal is to complete projects some after hours and weekend work.    Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, CMS (CQ5), Google Web Development Tool, Sublime Text Editor, Win 10 Computer Systems. Developing Landing Page per clients comp page. Use of Slack Messaging App and OneNote for in office coordination. Web Coder/ Developer JCPenney March 2015 to October 2015 Duties:  • Daily coding, developing and building of numerous web pages to maintain and update eCommerce content. Integrated images and text compliant to website SEO standards.  • Use of Grunt (Tower and Stash) to backup/achieve/publish and access existing web pages. Compliant with merchant standards (Disney, Levi, Nike, etc.) to advertise in an WCM (Web Content Management) environment. Used Grunt Terminal for coding and local-host to check completed web pages.  • Meet standard daily and weekly deadlines on assigned projects.  • Up to three weekly SCRUM meetings with designers and managers on current and up-coming projects. Worked with Base-camp and Project Managers to meet daily/weekly deadlines and address any emergency requests.  • Coded from existing achieved Grunt (Tower or Stash) as template, to save time, or as a starting point for hand coding from scratch. Company provided images (assets, slices, creative) and Linking Document to code on web page.  • Coordinated with Project Managers to correct or make project changes on developing or existing web pages.  • All coding checked live via Git Terminal and Local Host prior to FTP/importing.  • Clickable hot-spot were coded according to device (desktop, mobile or tablet).  • Used FileZilla to FTP/importing projects to stage for final review before going live.  • Besides corrections and updates, our team handled eighty to ninety web page asset imports and/or coding per week. Always mindful of errors in provided links or image spelling, size and quality.    Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, LESS, Adobe (Photoshop and Fireworks), WCM (Web Content Management), FTP (FileZilla), JSON, Sublime Text Editor, Apple Computer Systems. Grunt Terminal to develop and Git Tower/Stash to backup and achieve. Freelance Web Developer / Design Dallas, TX April 2013 to March 2015 Worked to start my own Web-Site development business.  - Decided to pursue employment instead - Front End Web Developer    Duties:  • Responsible for developing and designing unique and comprehensive websites with editors: Notepad++, Sublime Text and Dreamweaver. Used hand coding and WordPress CMS (Content Management System) development console.    • Hand coded with XHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript (compliant with cross-browser compatibility).    • Included JavaScript (jQuery Library) to enhance Web Sites and provide dynamic functionality; minified to keeping the code light and reduce server response time.    • Installed and monitored Web Analytics to enhance and track SEO Web Site performance for quality of content.    • Used Photoshop and Illustrator to create color gradient schemes, custom shapes and applied web graphics.    • Debugged issues discovered while testing using Firebug and browser provided debuggers; as always, tested sites for cross browser compatibility (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari).    • Used FTP (FileZilla) and CMS Admin to update Web Sites on Host Server.    Technologies: XHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript (jQuery), BootStrap3, LESS/Sass, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator CC, CMS (Content Management System) WordPress, Googles Analytics, Google Webmaster. Googles API's, Wire Framing with Axure RP & Balsamiq Mockup. Experienced with JSON, AJAX, Git (GitHub), FTP FileZilla. Editors: Notepad++ and Sublime Text. Debugger: Firebug. Front End Web Developer / Coder Faith Gifts for Christians Specialty Sales March 2009 to April 2013 Duties:  • Responsible for developing and maintaining an eCommerce Web-Site/s in an Agile Development Environment.  • Hand coded xHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript (responsive and cross-browser compliant).  • Included JavaScript with jQuery Libraries to enhance web pages, provide dynamic functionality keeping the code light to reduce server load.  • Created color gradient schemes, custom shapes and applied web graphics with Photoshop.  • Designed, edited HTML Email Templates for email marketing campaigns and newsletters.  • Debugged issues discovered while testing, tested site for cross browser compatibility (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari).  • Used Filezilla to upload to host server.    Technologies: XHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript/jQuery Libraries, BootStrap, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Note++ and SubLime editors, Axure RP (Rapid Prototyping). Education MCP (Microsoft Certified Professional) UTEP (University of Texas at El Paso) - El Paso, TX Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, CODING, CONTENT MANAGEMENT, FRONT-END Additional Information Technical Skills:    React JS Context API and Redux (JSX)  Angular (2,3,7) Front- end Development - Typescript  Front- end coding: HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3 and JavaScript (JQuery)  Image Design: Photoshop CS6/CC, Scene7.  Responsive-Framework: BootStrap 4, Foundation 5 (Responsive Content).  WCM: (Web Content Management) CMS Corporate eCommerce.  Wire-frame:: Axure RP (Rapid Prototyping), Balsamiq Mockup.  CMS: Hybris, CQ5, Websphere (WCM), WordPress and Drupal.  Project Coodrinator: BaseCamp, BrightPod, Cisco Japper, Slack.  CSS Preprocessors: SASS and LESS.  Version Control System: Git / Tower / Stash / Terminal.  Operating Systems: Windows 7 / Windows 10 / Apple OS.  Debugger: Firebug preferred but can use browser provided debugger.  SEO: Google Analytics, HTML5 (Sementic).  Editor: Visual Studio, Sublime Text2, NotePad ++, Dreamweaver,  Experienced with: Grunt Terminal (NodeJS), FileZilla.