ReactJS Developer ReactJS <span class="hl">Developer</span> ReactJS Developer - BCBS, California ? Over 7+ years of IT experience including Web development, Database systems, 3-layer web applications development using HTML/XHTML/DHTML, CSS,JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, JSON & SEO technologies.  ? Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using ReactJS.  ? Hands on knowledge of JavaScript works such as ReactJS.  ? Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, jQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS, ReactJS and JavaScript.  ? Hands on experience on developing the components using ReactJS needed for the application from scratch.  ? Proficient in Web Services, REST, WSDL, SOAP, XML, CSS3, DOM, HTML5, AJAX and JavaScript, and JQuery.  ? Experience in IDEs like PhpStorm, PHPMyAdmin, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio and Net Beans.  ? Have extensive debugging and bug and issue fixing experience in React JS application  ? Experienced in maintaining version control systems such as SVN, GIT, website deployment, Databases, FTP Client and cPanel.  ? Designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS and Redux.  ? Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React ComponentsLibrary.  ? Experienced in database designing, development and installation of different modules. Performed Back end development work using MySQL  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication  ? Hands on experience on Docker, Amazon Web Services (AWS) technologies.  ? Experience in knockout JS programming. Experience on restful architecture using Web API.  ? Excellent Profound experience in cross platform application development and maintenance with PHP development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora), Windows and MAC  ? Experience in web and mobile testing using emulators, mobile devices and browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE, Opera.  ? Knowledge of security issues and best practices for building web applications.  ? Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  ? Strong understanding of quality processes and development of highly reliable software compliant with industry standards. Work Experience ReactJS Developer BCBS, California August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Redux for SPA development  ? Developed drag and drop document editing using React JS-dnd and React JS-motion.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, ES6 and ReactJS.  ? Research, implements and documenting UX and UI patterns and best practices.  ? Using route-based code splitting with React Loadable.  ? Used React-Auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.  ? Design and develop web part of application using REDUX and REACT frameworks.  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture and building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid  ? Work son React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Creates the front end part as per the given wireframes while consuming the Restful API's.  ? Used JavaScript/JQuery to make interactive site. Responsible to handle front- end side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in components  ? Responsible for setting up spring OAuth for the project which will be used companywide for authorization.  ? Used OAuth as a secure authorizing tool and implemented authorization on web services.  ? Used OAuth tokens for secure access to server resources from external clients.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface using React, Jquery, AngularJs, Redux, NodeJS, HTML, JSP and CSS.  ? Use Node.js application built using Vue.JS as front- end framework.  ? Building and testing knowledge of user-facing code using tools like Vue.js,and Web pack.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble  ? Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  ? Used JSON as response type in REST services.  ? Provided cloud computing platform using Amazon Web Services (AWS) provided by Amazon.com.  ? Experience working on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  ? Experience in UI Architecture design using Angular JScomponents. Thorough understanding of core concepts like Ng Modules, Services, Dependency Injection, and Decorators.  ? Used GIT for version control and JIRA for project management.  ? Designed responsive UI to work on cross browser and multi devices.  ? Consumed REST services using Angular HTTP and performed various REST Http operations for data retrievals and updates.  ? Worked with Web Services migration from SOAP to RESTful architecture.  ? Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Bootstrap. Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML 5/XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery and used bootstrap for designing web pages to get responsive designs.  ? Responsible for fixing bugs and adding new features to the existing website.    Environment: jQuery, Linux, Bootstrap, JSON, ReactJS, Eclipse, REST services,Vue.JS, JavaScript, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, XML, XHTML ReactJS Developer CVS Health care - Chicago, IL November 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and ReactJS  ? Worked in rewriting the web application of standard utilizing ReactJS, Oracle DB & Bootstrap. To enhance the execution of SPA.  ? Developed a well responsive single page application using ReactJSframework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team  ? With close interaction with clients gathered and analyzed requirements and developed functionality accordingly.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  ? Consumed web services(WCF) created by Visual Studio application  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Used JavaScript/jQuery to make interactive site. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  ? Created the responsive UI components using React/Redux and to dispatch events to the store.  ? Used advanced features of Visual studio 2008 controls like Master Pages, Security and Login Forms.  ? Implemented Restful architecture using WEB API Controller to use in the application to populate the data from the database  ? Implemented client side Interface using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Involved in creating custom components and library components for displaying data using react with Redux, EcmaScript6.  ? Published Rest services for performing CRUD operations from database. Implemented RESTFUL web services using spring boot and consumed using spring REST services.  ? Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wire-frames and Mockups.  ? Experience in working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  ? Experienced in working with React life cycle methods and working with React States using Redux.  ? Creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch and developing Docker images to support Development, Testing Teams and their pipelines, distributed Jenkins, Selenium and JMeter images, and Elastic search, Kibana and Log stash.  ? Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) on EC2 to manage the containers created by Pivotal Cloud Foundry PCF.  ? Used Docker to virtualized deployment containers and push the code to EC2 Cloud using Pivotal Cloud Foundry PCF.  ? Developed drag and drop document editing using React JS-dnd and React JS-motion  ? Used Bootstrap to build responsive UI Design.  ? Deployed spring based application on Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform using Chef Configuration management.  ? Used React JS and Redux created custom UI components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  ? Secured API's by implementing OAuth token-based authentication/authorization using Spring Security.  ? Created frontend SPA application using bootstrap, vue.js to communicate with backend.  ? Working very closely with designing team to provide great user interface.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Vue.js was used to fetch data from server using Axios, prepare and transform data to display in the forms, validate user-entered data and then post data.  ? Version control through TFS. Developed web pages using Visual Studio IDE. Used IIS Webserver.  ? Implemented Search Engine Optimization techniques.  ? Strategically planned and programmed applications that collected business minded intelligence and helped to better manage the site.  ? Used GIT for version control.  ? Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.    Environment: ReactJS, Linux, Bootstrap, JSON, ReactJS, Visual studio, Eclipse, JavaScript, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, XML, XHTML ReactJS Developer / Front End Developer General Motors, Michigan December 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  ? Worked on React JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs  ? Participation in maintaining existing code and refactoring the code, moving old parts of application to ReactJS  ? Implements stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language  ? Design Authentication form to check whether the user is an authorized person to use the system.  ? Interact with Client to gather requirement. Analyze Requirement and develop functionality accordingly  ? Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  ? Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search  ? on the webpage.  ? Created the help desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users.  ? Used CSS and Bootstrap to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 And CSS3. Modified the source code according to the requirement.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  ? Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc.  ? Responsible for creating admin automated tools which makes easy add, update, delete of content  ? Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS    Environment:ReactJS, Python, MYSQL, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Aptana, AJAX, MVC, Pentaho, Perforce, HTML 5, CSS 3, MS Excel, Linux, MS Word, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio, WSDL, XML, Dojo, Markdown, MooTools, Agile UI Developer Span Info Tech - IN July 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented front- end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript and CSS, and usedJQuery slide menu, easing plugin to implement the front end.  ? Developed compatible User Interface functionality using jQuery, AJAX& other libraries.  ? Wrote SQL queries to fetch and store the data using MYSQL database.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, AJAX, and CSS, jQuery other libraries.  ? Debugged JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  ? Created navigation lists using list elements in HTML and form validations with JavaScript.  ? Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  ? Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML/CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Prepared a Test plan which specified the testing approach and strategy and the scope of testing.  ? Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering blog sites.  ? Implemented custom Validation Controls for form validation using Object Oriented JavaScript.  ? To develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5and CSS3. Modified the source code according to the requirement.  ? Hands on experience with adding widgets, plugins, tools and posts.  ? Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.    Environment: XML, HTML, .NET, AJAX, CSS, MySQL, VPN, jQuery, JavaScript. UI Developer ICIC Bank April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities  ? Design the UI layer for the Messaging application.  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of users.  ? Participated in daily pulse of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  ? Integration and deployment of applications done using tools like DEV, MAVEN, FIREBUGS. These tools include many powerful tools to help make Debugging java script less painful  ? Developed screen functionality using HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript and JQUERY.  ? Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML4, Angular.js, CSS2, Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript validations and XML.  ? Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  ? Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS2 and JavaScript, Angular.js for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  ? Written CSS2 to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  ? Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle Database.    Environment: HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, MySQL, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, TOMCAT Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, C++, XML, Javascript, HTML, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shashank-naga-sai-638666188 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    ProgrammingLanguages Python, C, C++, C#, Java, Shell script, Ruby.  Frameworks and Tools MVC framework,AngularJS, ReactJS  Web Technologies JavaScript,CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XML, JSON, jQuery, DOM, XHTML, XSLT, XHR, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Bootstrap, AWS  Databases MySQL4/5[PHPMYADMIN], MicrosoftSQLServer2000/2005/2008, MS Access, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Application/Web Servers Apache Web Server, IBM Websphere, ZEND server, WAMP server  Operating Systems Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora), Unix, Windows, Mac OS X  IDE Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Eclipse, PHP Designer, Microsoft Visual Studio  Versioning Tools GIT, SVN, GitHub  Web Services WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API, REST