Web Designer & Front- end Developer Web Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer & Front- end Developer - George Mason University Alexandria, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer & Front- end Developer George Mason University - Fairfax, VA February 2012 to Present Web designer & front- end developer for in-house Ruby/Rails development team serving the College of Humanities and Social Sciences' (CHSS) 30+ sites and the supporting, custom CMS, "Chssweb".  ? Developed first responsive website at George Mason (in 2012). Coding responsive web templates that adapt  university brand. Researching higher-ed web trends. Updating design of college's websites every two years.  ? Enhancing navigation and mobile experiences with CSS3 animations and Javascript. Rewrote CSS into SASS.  ? Creating college data representations and visuals with Highcharts.js and D3.js.  ? Designed a course management tool used by faculty with Bootstrap and Material Design.  ? Working with Ruby/Rails to maintain the Chssweb CMS. Working with Software Developer and IT Director to build new CMS tools and add features. Creating new migrations for rails database. Providing assistance during after hours deployments. Keeping code clean and neat with comments for easy readability.  ? Analyzing and integrating data from University to maintain a shared, consistent network of information across all sites within the Chssweb system.  ? Debugging browser issues, adhering to accessibility requirements, testing on operating systems and mobile  devices, ensuring HTML is 508 compliant. Using Developer Tools and console to handle questions and display mockup ideas.  ? Strategizing with Marketing & Communications directors and Deans on effective methods to target student,  faculty, and donor audiences.  ? UX/Graphic Design - Developing wireframes, mockups, and HTML prototypes. Providing graphic support and visual feedback for marketing materials. Selecting appropriate images that represent George Mason.  ? Client Support - Technical contact for 50+ editors. Teaching trainings on CMS usage and advising editors on site improvement strategies, analytical goals, IA, and organized page content. Proving a comfortable and  welcoming environment. Writing CMS help documentation and articles regarding best practices for website  management.  ? Served on search committee as chair for onboarding of new employees. Visual Designer Project Create - Washington, DC September 2011 to October 2011 Visual Designer in small team to build Wordpress website for non-profit organization.  ? Responsible for visual identity, brand guidelines, logo redesign, and web design.  ? Meeting with client to set timelines, discuss end goals, and deliverables.  ? Hand-coded CSS and PHP templates. Production Coordinator Dominion Dental Services, Inc - Alexandria, VA February 2009 to January 2011 Promoted from Production Assistant to Production Coordinator within one year of employment.  ? Maintained DDS, Inc. brand identity by creating enrollment forms and marketing materials using Adobe  Illustrator and InDesign. Updated documents and content on company website.  ? Handled requests from regional Sales Managers and brokers for group enrollment.  ? Assisted Manager of Graphic Design by providing context input and layout strategies.  ? Responsible for mass mailings to dental insurance members, groups and providers.  ? Organized archived files and inventory stock in storage facility. Education Certificate in Web Design Boston University's Center for Digital Imaging Arts - Washington, DC B.A. in Fine Arts Hampton University - Hampton, VA Skills HTML (7 years), CSS (7 years), Javascript (5 years), Responsive Web Development (5 years), Ruby/Rails (5 years), PHP (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), MVC (Less than 1 year) Links http://melaniew.github.io Additional Information ? Core languages include: HTML, CSS, SASS, Javascript, jQuery, Ruby/Rails  ? Thorough understanding of Responsive Web Design, Debugging and Testing code, Cross-browser  Compatibility, UX/UI processes: researching and prototyping, Content Management Systems (CMS),  Behavior Driven Development, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, Development lifecycle, and  agile/waterfall development practices.  ? Familiar with D3, HighCharts, Bootstrap, Material Design, WordPress (PHP), and Google Analytics.  ? Proficient in Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and OmniGraffle.  ? Working knowledge of Sublime Text, Git/Github, Chrome Developer Tools, G Suite applications, Microsoft  Office, and social media platforms.  ? Valued skills in verbal and written communication: Evaluating and providing recommendations for  enhancements on new and existing software; Providing technical guidelines to team members; Consulting  with clients to discuss and develop user/site requirements; Providing technical assistance and training.  ? Advocate for producing thoughtful material and appropriate communications relating to diversity.