Graduate Coordinator Graduate Coordinator Boston, MA MS Human-Computer Interaction and Computer Science candidate with a keen eye for details who is passionate about crafting elegant, intuitive and robust applications. Currently looking for full-time opportunities as a Software Developer, UI/UX Engineer.    http://linkedin.com/in/rohanspatel  https://patelrohan.github.io/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graduate Coordinator RIT FoodShare - Rochester, NY July 2016 to Present • Oversee the operations of on-campus food pantry with 20 employees which saw over 7500 visits in 2018.  • Train the staff, volunteers for food safety protocols, devise marketing strategies, establish partnership with on- campus organizations and corporate sponsors. Front End Developer & UX Engineer RETAIL BUSINESS SERVICES, an AHOLD DELHAIZE COMPANY - Quincy, MA January 2018 to August 2018 • Collaborated with the development team to develop customer facing web & kiosk apps for online ordering system (React.js).   • Worked closely with a design team to gather product requirements, conduct user testing, create hi-fi & lo-fi prototypes and ensured all deliverables adhered to UX principles. Software Developer Intern Ahold Delhaize - Quincy, MA January 2016 to June 2016 • Worked in a team of 2 developers responsible for developing native iOS apps (Objective-C, Swift) to facilitate in-store ordering system for store-associates and customers.   • Collaborated with design team to brainstorm and conceive the interface design that met user needs. Mobile Developer Mobileaware USA - Boston, MA August 2014 to December 2014 • Delivered improved performance of iOS applications by enhancing client-facing features and bug fixing for a major telecom carrier in Canada.   • Carried out regression and smoke testing on Android and iOS apps. iOS Developer Modern Industrial Marketing - Syracuse, NY June 2014 to August 2014 • Responsible for developing iOS applications using Objective-C and Cocoa Frameworks. Education Master's in Human-Computer Interaction Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY August 2016 to August 2019 Master's in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY August 2013 to December 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology - Surat, Gujarat June 2007 to May 2011 Skills Mobile, Web Development, Usability Testing, Prototyping, Javascript, Agile, Scrum, UX Design, Javascript, HTML, iOS, Git, React.js, Java, Python, User Centered Design Methods, Research Methods, CSS, Android, Qualitative Research, IoT, MYSQL, Wireframe, Information Design Awards MIT Hacking Medicine Best Epilepsy Hack 2017-05 • Proposed a novel solution leveraged by user research to benefit epilepsy patients and their loved ones. Contribution: mockup designs, software development, conducting qualitative interviews. Outstanding Community Service Award 2017-04 By International Student Services and Center for Residence Life at RIT for contribution to RIT and the Greater Rochester community through service. Publications Speed Dial http://goo.gl/MxQgX 2012-07 Ideated, designed and developed a simple, intuitive quick dial app for iPhone that allows users to call or text favorite contacts instantly. Rated 4.5/5 on the App Store.