Front End Engineer / Full-time <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer / Full-time Front End Engineer / Full-time San Francisco, CA Work Experience Front End Engineer / Full-time Bloombox August 2017 to May 2019 Developed innovative software solutions for the legal cannabis space throughout California and Oregon; utilizing componentized development via Polymer, Redux for state management, gRPC  web for the API layer, and Webpack for development and bundling.  ? Front end contributions included the design and engineering of interfaces for several user-centric  web applications - including a customer dashboard, fully custom e-commerce solution, TV menus, and check-in stations for retail lobbies. Front End Engineer / Contract noah.digital November 2016 to August 2017 Consulting and contract work for various agencies and clients. Duties included scoping, resourcing, and prototyping for web applications, as well as development.  ? Prepared completed projects for subcontractors and internal development with training, documentation, and an emphasis on coherent code. Front End Developer / Full-time One Rockwell January 2016 to October 2016 Ground up development of Magento eCommerce applications using Require, Backbone, and SASS for luxury fashion brands.  ? Engineered modules and functionality to address client business goals.  ? Maintenance and feature builds for existing sites and applications. Tutor The People (Lead Front- End Engineer / Contractor) April 2015 to November 2015 Consulted client from the ground up to properly assess business and technological needs for a new  web application.  ? Translated client needs into a detailed scope and feature list to outline development requirements.  ? Built layouts for web application using the Meteor.js templating system as well as HTML5, SASS, NEAT semantic grids, and jQuery. UX/UI Design and Development / Contractor ProExam May 2015 to August 2015 Wireframed, prototyped, and built elegant user experiences for internal applications using  HTML5, SASS, and JavaScript within a Rails environment.  ? Implemented responsive design and user interface design to adhere to intraorganizational branding  and styling. Front End Developer / Contractor ChatUpward April 2015 to July 2015 Cleaned, organized, and validated messy code from previous contractors.  ? Translated designer assets into fluid layouts on a bootstrap grid.  ? Implemented Java Play Framework objects using the scala templating engine.  ? Connected the front- end to a RESTful API service using AJAX to allow users to create, update, and delete content. Front End Developer / Contractor Merck & Co July 2014 to February 2015 Developed modular HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for web applications, with a heavy focus on responsive design and UX/UI design.  ? Built out pages for an IT community application from wireframes using SCSS, Foundation, and Ember connected to a Rails API.  ? Created styleguide and development principles for future onboarding front end developers. Front End Developer / Full-time Cyber-NY August 2013 to May 2014 Sliced photoshop layouts and developed into interactive websites.  ? Added responsive functionality to websites for mobile and tablet viewing.  ? Adhered to strict policy of clean, validated code and cross-browser functionality.  ? Developed front end functionality and styled for websites on frameworks including Drupal, Wordpress, Zend, CakePHP, and Cyber-NY CMS.  ? Created table based e-mail templates and Facebook page tabs.  ? Utilized jQuery to efficiently display content and media using sliders, accordions, progressive  disclosures, modals, animation, etc. Developer and Webmaster / Freelance Kyniko February 2011 to April 2013 Worked closely with clients and project manager to provide the best web solutions available.  ? Wireframing and framework initialization for new web projects.  ? Led development for all front end work.  ? Oversaw completed websites, servers, and CMS for each client. Skills Front end, Prototyping, Ux design, Javascript, Typescript