Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Around 7+ years of experience as a Fullstack in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML4.0/5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, ReactJS, Angular.js and Angular2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0,Angular 6.0  • Having experience in developing JavaScript MVC frameworks like Backbone.js, Angular.js, Require.js (AMD), HTML Templates, JavaScript Unit Testing (Jasmine, Karma) and CSS, SASS pre-processors.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using Angular.js, Backbone.js, node.js, handlebars and mustache.js.  • Valuable experience in creating services as classes in typescript importing into the Components in Angular 4.0.  • data between two different components and controlled sharing of the service instances using the Dependency Injection  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Typescript in Angular 2.0 reformation, by using the System JS we convert the Typescript files to JavaScript files, as a default extension with the help of reference libraries.  • Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular 2.0 Components.  • Worked on D3 Libraries and Having Good Knowledge on EXT.js and d3.js.  • Good Knowledge in automated test tools such as Chai, Mocha  • Worked on Routes in Angular 2.0 creating the base route and extensions by using RouterConfig as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page in Angular 2.0.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Expertise in developing Macros in C/C++, templates  • Good Experience in of java 1.7, java 1.8  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.JS, React.JS, Node.JS and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Knowledge in developing user-facing features using React.js.  • Experience with popular React.js workflows such as redux and flux.  • Expertise in developing applications using Node.js and React.js for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) and Grunt as task manager.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced with JIRA, AGM for bug tracking and issue tracking and daily stand up to sync up with Team for current sprint status Implementation and Maintenance with extensive experience with agile methodologies. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, and React.JS.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, React-Bootstrap, Node.js, express.js, Mongo DB.  • Involved in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front- end solution.  • Used HTTP methods extensively to retrieve the data from the Rest API and used that data to update the page dynamically.  • Used Smart Trade API to get client data and display using JSP.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  • Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used React Flux architecture to create the data layers in the application and to bring the Model View Controller architecture for the application.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database with react.  • Primarily using Node Js, Express JS, Backbone.js and NPM packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Designed and implemented server-side RESTful web services using Node JS and handled communications to the client side (React JS) using JSON.  • Involving all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Application Design, Development, Debugging and testing the applications.  • Was extensively involved in AB testing. Developed and tested AB features using Optimize tool.  • Worked on Karma and Jasmine for unit test cases.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari).  • Involved in agile software methodologies and followed SDLC life cycle.  • Designed and developed client's website screens and front- end widgets using React.js.  • Built the internal tool and maintained with React JS along with Flux and Redux.    Environment: Java 8, React.js, Redux, Flex, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Node JS, Express JS, Mongo DB, NPM, GitHub, AB Testing, Karma, Jasmine, SOAP, Restful, SDLC. UI Developer /React JS Developer Terex Corporation - Westport, CT April 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS , LESS , React.js, Redux, Flex , Mongo DB,  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, J Query, React JS, Redux, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins. Sr. Front End Developer Ally Financial - Philadelphia, PA May 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • The project main Idea was to use CplXpress platform that enables lending institutions to take their services mobile, and automatically issue approved loans for various loan products based on their own credit and risk criteria, and customer information.  • Developed a new 1-Click Digital Lending Automation website which is more user interactive using latest technology Angular 4.0.  • Constructed webpages that provides consumer lending solutions for financial institutions using HTML5, SASS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 4.0, Typescript, Node.js and JavaScript.  • Designed animated webpages by importing the @angular/animations which is the latest animation package in Angular 4.0.  • Developed animated pie by using the d3.js.  • Used Pipe Title Case in the development of each webpage to write the titles that changes the first letter of each word to uppercase.  • Created Angular 4.0 parent and child components in the application by using the angular-cli command ng g component.  • Extensively used @Ng Module to import different modules, to declare different components, to describe the providers and services that are used to develop the Angular 4.0 application.  • Designed animated pie charts in different webpages using the ngx-charts and D3 charts.  • Worked with the team to develop model form controls by adding the ngModel directive where ever needed in the application.  • Used Ng2AutoComplete for the development of user friendly auto complete forms in the Angular 4.0 webpages.  • Developed different forms using Angular 4.0 forms by importing the FormsModule from @angular/forms and use the same in the imports array.  • Built the Angular 4.0 forms by importing Forms Module from @angular/core to application module.  • Imported many dependencies such as @swimlane/ngx-charts, angular2-wizard, angular2-ui-switch, @jaspero/ng2-confirmations, etc. for the development of the webpages.  • Involved in creating TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.0.  • Assisted team to use the CSS preprocessor SASS and implemented the custom stylings for the entire application by creating style.scss as a common stylings file to the whole project.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and Angular 4.0 to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Imported Bootstrap modules such as Accordion, BsDropdown, Collapse, Modal, Progressbar, Tooltip and Popover for the user attractive Angular 4.0 application.  • Used Angular 4.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Worked with NPM commands and using Package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Responsible for the migration of the entire project from Angular 4.0 to Angular 5.0.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings, Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code version control.  Environment: Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0, D3.js, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Node.js, Jasmine, Karma, SASS, Bootstrap, jQuery, WebStorm, Visual Studio, TFS, Agile. Junior Web Developer Ratiocination - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front- end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, JavaScript and CSS to the requirements of the client.  • Coordination of project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and properly documented.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI Architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS and jQuery in ongoing projects.  • Model building by hand in HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality using jQuery.  • Learned all necessary front- end skills, a mastery of CSS, HTML.  • Created different Carousels using jQuery Carousel, and Accordions with the help of jQuery UI for different product categories.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extensively involved in the discussions and design sessions user experience to provide input to designs  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Involved in implementing the UI to support all the major browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XHTML, DHTML, SVN, Apache, Windows XP/7. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science SRT University 2012 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, SVN, AJAX, DREAMWEAVER, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, ECLIPSE, jQuery, FRAMEWORKS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, CVS, React, Angular, UI, Front-End, Front End, Java, CSS3, HTML5, Node, Bootstrap, Angularjs, User Interface