Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Advantage Software Charlotte, NC Being a creative problem solver has always been a part of my life. When I was younger, I was always building my most innovative buildings with Lego cities - no building was created equal. Now, I build interactive experiences for the digital world, from the ground up. First, I laid the foundation with wireframes then I create the design, and finally the front- end code. I am passionate about building and creating noteworthy digital experiences no matter what industry it is. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Advantage Software February 2018 to Present Created a new user experience for the Advantage web application  ? Provided UX accessibility and usability expertise on multiple applications within the Advantage product  ? Created and maintained user flows for all Advantage's Applications  ? Researched and created new designs and introduced new functionality to Advantage's applications.  ? Concept and design new features for our applications and document them for hand-off to developers  ? Created and maintained architecture documents for all applications updated in Advantage  ? Refactored old UI into a lean modern design for better performance  ? Maintained all CSS/LESS/SASS stylesheets and created a style guide documenting it.  ? Worked with developers to fix any roadblocks they possibly have and communicate them to management.  ? Design and Develop our new expense report application ( Html, CSS, JS, Angular 7-8, Sass, npm, command line)  ? Design and Develop Advantage's new website (ux mockups using balsamiq wire-frames(like sketch), create new branding and overall look and feel for the website)  ? Fix any bugs that come up within our application Front End Developer / UI / UX Designer The Jason Lewis Company June 2010 to Present • MiRagen - Designed and developed a rebranding of their logo and website. Lead the design and front- end development of an internal software. Worked with stakeholders and company executives to create and design an application to help their staff with clinical trials across the globe.  • Noodle Markets - One of the industry leaders in K12 Procurement software. Responsible for leading the design and front- end team to deliver multiple projects for the software. Noodle Markets uses HTML, CSS, jQuery, and SASS structure for the application and worked within a Laravel, PHP, and MSQL backend. Collaborated with the Director of UX Design to work on mockups using Balsamiq, design, and UX research.  • CMS Dental Pro - Designed and built the front end application for CMS Dental Pro. In charge of building out the front end structure and the design of the application. Worked and managed an overseas team to make sure the project deadlines were met and executed correctly. Spearheaded the responsive framework testing and bug fixing. Technologies used were HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, PHP, Laravel, Jquery, bower, docker, and git.  • Broker Savant - Built a PDF viewer using pdf.js. Designed and implemented the frontend for using HTML, Bootstrap, LESS, Jquery, Angular.js, and pdf.js. The framework of the application was angular.js and Python.  • Gnossem - A high fashion clothing store based out of Singapore. Responsible for designing concepts and updates for their online store. Communicated with the CO and COO business way to increase sales and create a unique shopping experience for their clientele. Redesigned their look and feel with other high- end retail stores to help create a better user experience for customers on mobile and desktop. Worked within a Ruby on Rails framework. Design and build the front- end application for the company. Technologies utilized were HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, git, bower, and Ruby on Rails.  • Keystone Technologies - Designed and developed a responsive application targeting Senior Citizens for company stakeholders and lead the design and ux/ui effort for the application. The application has features like video calls, check your stocks, and get any medical information needed. The front- end was comprised of Javascript, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML, SASS, and used many different AJAX Apis built for the system.  • Aria Energy - Designed and developed a new company identity for their merger. Created a new company website and identity from the ground up utilizing HTML,CSS, SASS, jQuery, and PHP/Wordpress.  • Baldwin Hardware - A leading hardware provider needed a new website. Tasked with building and extracting a psd and building out the responsive and front- end framework with HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, and jQuery.  • Sano - Built the company website utilizing HTML, CSS, jQuery, bootstrap, and greenhouse api to import their jobs and display it on their site in a user friendly way.  • My Core Cash - Performed as a lead designer and front- end developer and worked with an overseas team building a payment software system for the alternative medicine industry and other practitioners using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and within a MVC .NET platform.  • Loxo - Worked as a full stack developer helping build features for recruiting platform such as email and in application phone calling using bandwidth.js. The tech stack was Ruby on Rails, Python, Knockout.js, Coffeescript, LESS, CSS, HAML, and Git.  • Oceanworks Media - Worked with clients to design and build multiple small business websites using Wordpress.  • Regional Small Businesses - Helping small businesses achieve their online goals through web development, social media, developing brand identities, design, and search engine optimization. Senior Software Developer Think Power Solutions October 2016 to February 2018 • Created UX wireframes for Think Power's inspection applications  • Created architecture documentation for Think Power's products  • Worked with stakeholders to create a vegetation management application for mobile applications.  • Maintained a styleguide for all of Think Power's products.  • Designed dashboards that visualized data from field inspection reports.  • Lead the design and development of software solutions for Think Power Solutions Clients such as substation inspection forms, vegetation management software, line and transmission inspection forms, and drone inspection line and transmission station inspection applications.  • Revamped Think Power Solutions's LOGS email platform  • Created mockups and designs for Think Power Solutions's new website and branding.  • Worked with stakeholders to create and develop pitch decks and a new brand and company persona  • Technologies used: Mysql, AWS, Javascript, jQuery, Html5, SASS, Bash, Sisense.js, Google Maps API and Leaflet.js Lead Developer November 2013 to February 2016 • Worked in a start-up environment part-time to develop software that will help power hotel industries using cloud technology  • Worked independently to deliver app and code updates to stakeholders  • Utilized Angular.js to create a custom concierge experience for all devices Software Architect, Showpitch April 2014 to August 2015 • Helped manage the design and front end of the application with the lead front end architect.  • Built out the front- end structure for the newest social network to hit the market.  • Mockup designs utilizing Bootstrap and LESS  • Working with MVC, Knockout.js, MongoDB, Bootstrap, Jquery and LESS  • Worked with offshore teams to deliver multiple features for the application UI Developer, Active Network April 2013 to April 2014 • Worked closely with project managers and the Director of UX Design to deliver significant application updates and new ux experiences for customers created and registering for fitness events on Active.com  • Coordinated and developed a style and coding standards guide to be used throughout the division.  • Performed code reviews for our overseas teams on front- end tasks  • Performed front- end tasks for the RegOnline site  • Reviewed all markup and styles being created for Regonline outside of my scrum team Freelance Front- end Dev, Leopard an Ogilvy Company February 2013 to April 2013 Built and re-skinned Motorola Solutions Insite website using HTML, CSS3, and jQuery Interactive Developer, TDA Boulder April 2012 to January 2013 • Developed interactive experiences for Muir Glen Tomatoes, Cascadian Farms, Larabar, Firstbank, Webroot, Outdoor Research, and Sir Richards Condoms  • Designed, built, and executed concepts for clients  • Built mobile and responsive websites using HTML,CSS,and jQuery Interactive Development Intern Crispin Porter + Bogusky January 2012 to April 2012 • Worked on projects for their clients on their roster such as Old Navy, Belvita, Domino's,and internal applications for their company.  • Designed and developed internal projects and prototypes for the company  • Learned how to write and maintain clean code for optimized site performance Associate Interface Developer, VML Atlanta Taubman Properties, Beggin' Strips, and First Citizens Bank June 2011 to December 2011 • Created and maintained mobile websites and applications for multiple devices for clients such as Kleenex, Taubman Properties, Beggin' Strips, and First Citizens Bank  • Converted desktop websites to mobile and tablet optimized experiences  • Maintained mobile SMS programs and performed analytics research  • Developed a mobile IOS application using jQuery mobile and phonegap for First Citizens Bank Education Bachelor of Science degree in Digital Media East Tennessee State University - Johnson City, TN 2005 to 2009 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Amazon web services, Api, C#, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Jenkins, Php, Laravel, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Ui design, Xml Links http://www.thejasonlewis.com Additional Information Primary Creative Skills    Balsamic, Sketch, inVision, Photoshop, Illustrator, Copywriting, Style Guides, Creating Mockups, Application Design, Adobe Creative Suite, UX and UI Design  Primary Technical Skills    HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, SASS,LESS,XML,HAML, jQuery Mobile,Javascript, jQuery, GIT, TFS, Terminal, Actionscript 3.0, Bootstrap, Jira, Trello, Scrumworks, and Typescript    Other Skills    Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, Ruby on Rails, Node.js, C#, Phonegap, Facebook Javascript SDK, Knockout.js, Angular CLI, Material Design, MVC, Grunt, Gulp, Laravel, Angular, Bower, QA, Wordpress, Docker, Babel, Amazon Web Services, Jenkins, Google Maps API,Yarn ,and PHP