RPA Developer-Research Assistant RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span>-Research Assistant RPA Developer Dallas, TX • 3 years of overall experience in IT involving in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in different projects including 1 year 6 months of experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) using RPA products like Blue Prism, UiPath  • Experience in design, development, testing and deployment of bots using UiPath, Blue Prism  • Extensive experience in designing Flow Charts for automating business processes in UiPath.  • Experience in automating Desktop, Web and Citrix applications using UiPath Studio.  • Experience in recording User events using automatic Recorder in UiPath to generate automated sequence.  • Extensive experience in scheduling UiPath robots in Testing and Production Environments.  • Experience in creating Email Alerts in UiPath.  • Expertise in managing Queues and Jobs for UiPath Robots.  • Experience in structured Table and pattern-based Data Extraction in using Web Data Extraction and export the data to CSV, Debugging and identifying the errors by using Error Handling.  • Good Understanding on usage of various UiPath Orchestrator functionalities - Bots, Processes, Assets, Jobs, Schedulers, Logging, Recovery Methods and Application Credentials.  • Automated text in PDF's using Screen Scraping to calculate the invoices and store them into a Data Table using UiPath.  • Automated numerous routine tasks using UiPath thereby reducing manual intervention and helpful in Error Handling and maintenance of robots.  • Hands on experience in developing BOTS using Blue Prism and managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Working on Queue Configurations, Monitoring, Internal Blue Prism Work Queue Actions, Exception handling, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flow charts using RPA tools.  • Expertise with Control Room Resource, Session Management, Blue Prism Calculation functions and debugging of Process Solutions.  • Knowledge and good understanding of SQL and experience working with databases like SQL Server and My SQL.  • Proficient in building websites using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery that follow W3C web standards  • Experience in CSS pre-processors such as SASS, LESS and SCSS.  • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing React components. Used Axios with React Js for making AJAX Calls.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the server to fetch data  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for single webpage applications Work Experience RPA Developer-Research Assistant University of North Texas - Denton, TX December 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design of UiPath Robot to automate report generation.  • Used Flowchart for integrating small parts of sequence action to build an automated process.  • Used Desktop recording for generating the sequence of entering details into target application.  • Used Try-Catch blocks for exception handling at each possible activity.  • Used Invoke workflow activity to integrate all workflows into flow chart.  • Used Type secure text activity to secure the confidential data in workflow.  • Used Data tables to store the data and pass the data through arguments.  • Used various Excel activities to get input data from Excel Workbook and export the output data to Excel Workbook.  • Automated Tableau for generating daily reports and weekly reports as per requirement.  • Used SMTP/POP3 Activities to send an automated email with the updated policy information to policy holder.  • Used Orchestrator scheduler for scheduling the process and assigning the job to UiPath Robot daily.  • Used Email Alert activity in orchestrator to notify the admin about the process alerts.  Environment: UiPath, Tableau, MS Excel, Windows 10. RPA Developer Inflow Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to May 2017 • Developing and configuring automation processes as per the technical design document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements   • Involved in identifying the opportunities to automate manual tasks using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) technology, and established Commercial-wide RPA program    • Participated in daily scrum meetings to report daily progress of automation activities and sprint planning for test planning activities  • Configuring new Blue Prism processes and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand for further requirements   • Worked on task migration process from development to production systems through Control room.   • Broke down processes into reusable objects using Object studio and utilized them to build processes in Process Studio efficiently.    • Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.    • Automated data transfers, including importing/exporting data between applications or files.    • Created process model for browser-based application using Blue Prism and testing it in the inbuilt control room provided by blue prism  • Involved in system design and development using collections and multithreading for the action classes    • Experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.    Environment: Blue Prism, Excel, Windows, HTML, CSS, jQuery, bootstrap Front End Developer Predera Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to March 2016 India  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, Grid CSS and JavaScript  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the users.  • Gathered data from API web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets  • Involved in developing presentational and container components using React and JSX  • Created a state management in react application using redux for the data flow within the application  • Configured reduxStore, reducers and actions. Used redux-thunk for handing middleware and axios to fetch api's for rest calls  • Configured webpack and trans pile react and JSX to ES5 using Babel and react-loaders, added CSS-loader and SASS plugin for pre-compiling SASS to CSS.  • Called the RESTFUL web services for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Redux Dev tool to inspect the state and action payload  • Worked on creating user google log-in authentication modules using React JS and OAuth2  • Worked on project using Agile SCRUM methodology and involved in daily meetings.  • Utilized package manager to manage front end dependencies  • Used Firebug, chrome developer tools to view and debug errors  • Worked in an Agile environment with scrum methodology  Environment: AJAX, JSON, ES6, Grid CSS, HTML, JavaScript, React JS, Redux Student Web Developer GRIET - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to November 2015 India  • Drafting the site architecture documentation like wireframes and site-maps  • Managed and Created Campus Department Sites via Drupal, HTML, Zurb Foundation  • Examine the working of web sites designed by the team and gave a detailed report on their performance Education Master of Science in Information Science in Information Science University of North Texas Computer Engineering Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology(GRIET)