UI Engineer UI Engineer UI Engineer Seattle, WA Frontend/UI developer of 8 years with a passion for building solid interfaces that look good  while staying usable. Strong attention to detail and effort taken to maintain consistency in  both the UI and code. A unique balance between frontend developer and designer. Experience  building a UI library to promote consistent use of components and styling. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Engineer PORCH - Seattle, WA May 2014 to March 2019 • Initiated and championed an internal UI component library to maintain consistency using Storybook for live dev examples and Lingo to hold Sketch symbols for designers  • Worked alongside designers to build polished, user-centered experiences  • Developed frontend apps in React using evolving techniques and various utility addons in an industry standard environment with tools such as NPM, Webpack, Node.js, and Gulp Front End Web Developer PROMETHEAN - Seattle, WA March 2013 to March 2014 • Extensive use of client side MVC and MVVM JavaScript frameworks AngularJS and Kendo UI in creating highly interactive single page apps.  • Worked with structured groups in an agile development pattern including some projects that required international communication and correspondence.  • Learned and implemented the latest techniques and solutions found in HTML5 and CSS3. Web Developer & Designer CLOCKTOWER MEDIA - Kirkland, WA June 2011 to March 2013 • Built front end of new projects using latest techniques and technologies including HTML5/CSS3, responsive CSS, and up to date practices.  • Worked closely with back end developers to create dynamic and data driven sites using MVC structure and AJAX.  • Designed several websites from scratch working with clients to achieve the look and feel they were after. WP7 DI & Web Developer MICROSOFT - Redmond, WA February 2011 to May 2011 • Integrated "screen" redlines from designers into Windows Phone 7 mobile OS.  • Worked on front end of corresponding site www.windowsphone.com. Web Developer NCSOFT - Seattle, WA April 2010 to October 2010 • Modi?ed HTML/CSS of Movable Type templates to ?t new design and functional requirements.  • Implemented and modi?ed JavaScript/jQuery scripts.  • Updated several game franchise sites with new content or ?xes. Education Web Developer Program Strategy Computers - Bellevue, WA February 2009 to January 2010 Web Design SKAGIT VALLEY COLLEGE 2003 to 2007 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, HTML5, ANIMATION, PHOTOSHOP, CSS3, React, Front End, UI, Front-End Links http://www.zrichards.com Additional Information SKILLS  HTML5 - CSS3 (grids, animation, variables) - LESS - Javascript (ES6) - React - Git - Bootstrap -  Photoshop - Sketch - Storybook - Lingo