RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - AIG Houston, TX * Over all 4+ years of experience in the field of Information Technology with a very good emphasis on Robotic Process Automation (RPA), Blue Prism tool.  * Proven ability to partner with cross-functional teams to develop & execute project plans to deliver high impact results.  * Extensive experience on RPA Blue Prism tool handling the client requirement using the various elements of Development and Web Control Room.  * Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation (Blue Prism tool).  * Deployed the bots in Blue Prism Control Room and scheduled their execution.  * Performed planning and execution of code deployment by executing the work breakdown structure to ensure smooth and successful Go-live.  * Worked closely with Process SME's to understand the requirements and achieve the results.  * Proficient with a wide array of scripting languages and multimedia web tools.  * Designed automation solutions using Blue Prism RPA platform.  * Ability to understand a Business process from a workflow diagram and to conceptualize it as an automated solution.  * Experience providing automated solutions for mainframe, Windows and Browser based applications.  * Excellent blend of technical expertise with astute leadership, strong communication, negotiation & team building skills. Work Experience RPA Developer AIG - Houston, TX September 2017 to Present AIG is a leading global Insurance organization. AIG member companies provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products and other financial services to more than 80 countries and jurisdictions.    * Working on solution diagrams, solution descriptions and object model diagrams for end to end Robotics design.  * Designing RPA process solutions in accordance with standard RPA design principles and conventions.  * Upgraded the bots from Blue prism version 5 to latest version 6.4.  * Responsible for deployment of Packages by creating a release from Development to UAT and later to Production.  * Gathered and wrote the user stories/requirements as discussed with the business or client.  * Mapping out efficient Robotic process handling at the RPA development level.  * Interactions mapped for mainframe, Browser based and Windows based applications.  * Developing Automation processes as per technical design documents to meet the defined requirements.  * Reading technical user stories/requirements, process diagrams or business logic to create a Robotic Processes in Blue Prism.  * Building "Object" based actions within the Blue Prism tool.  * Connecting "Objects" within the overall process as created in the solution design.  * Troubleshooting issues that arise within the objects and processes and creating exception handling features.  * Utilizing technical background and education to identify any additional non-Blue Prism solutions to apply to the automation.  * Working in collaboration with test teams during the product testing and user acceptance testing phases to fix assigned bugs.  * Completing bug fixes post testing phases.  * Participating in deployment activities.  * Completing technical release documentation and submitting requests following required process.  * Employing the Agile project methodology and working within a Scrum team to complete technical robotics development that supports core business processes.  * Participate in ongoing Scrum sessions with fellow Scrum team members.  * Providing support in writing user stories/requirements, defining backlogs and engaging in iterative development. RPA Developer at MSR COSMOS, New Jersey August 2016 to September 2017 * Designed Bots based upon the requirements, including Input parameters, exception paths, error handling and generating results.  * Designed automation solutions using Blue Prism RPA platform.  * Experienced in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  * Participated in online meetings to demonstrate the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and potential clients.  * Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  * Created Solution Design Document (SDD), Operational Impact Document (OID), Process Design Instruction (PDI) as per templates provided by Blue Prism tool for Robotics Process Automation.  * Designing Rapid Automation process solutions in accordance with standard design principles and conventions.  * Excellent accomplice at linking business and technical needs, worked closely with IT and application managers for gathering requirements.  * Developing, configuring programs, scripts and objects that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand.  * Worked with designers to create mockups for the client screen according to the provided wireframes in Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop.  * Used Bootstrap Grid System and CSS Media Queries to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop, tablets and mobile devices.  * Developed applications using Angular.js single page applications (SPA) to improve page performance.  * Generated Model View Control design pattern which is implemented by Angular. Created database tables, stored procedures for CRUD operations using HTML5, AJAX, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON for presentation. Google API January 2015 to July 2016 * Worked on responsive websites using SASS technology, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  * Developed Android Applications using Java and Android Studio and also performed testing of the applications using the emulator.  * Developed Ionic applications using Ionic, Typescript, CSS3, Angular JS.  * Worked on an application called "Map Out" using Angular JS. It is a web application that plans your day explicitly. In this Google API was also used.  * Planned, developed and tested online website to detect and diagnose errors and bugs. It's a shopping website where users can create new account, browse or shop for various products. Front- End Developer Piquor Technologies Pvt. Ltd December 2013 to November 2014 * Collaborated with Back End Developer to implement designs and meet the business requirements.  * Handled Front End Development of the projects HTML, JavaScript also used CSS and SCSS to make websites responsive.  * Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design and Analysis and code development.  * Responsible for implementation of web design based on CSS3 and other Frontend frameworks.  * Maintain, enhance and recommend solutions for business and technology requirements from UI standpoint.  * Involved in analyzing and solving the problems and developing the enhancements to resolve the bugs/issues.  * Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Photo booths, Videos and reviews using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  * Delivered thorough QA testing reports that determined product quality and release readiness. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in NY Pace University August 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Punjab Technical University May 2014 Skills Android studio, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, HTML