Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Autoliv, Brigham, PA Philadelphia, PA Over 8+ years of extensive experience in IT industry as Front- End UI Developer with web-based applications and UI applications in various domains. experience in application and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, JSON, DOM, DOJO, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Angular2, Angular 4, react.js, redux, Node.js, Express.js, Babel.js, Webpack, Java, MongoDB, Oracle and Java Technology.    SUMMARY:  • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3and MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS etc.  • Extensive experience in developing Web based applications and Client/Server applications using XML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS, Kendo UI, Adobe Photoshop, etc.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular2/4, React.js, EXT.JS, Action Script, JSF and JSP.  • Experience in enterprise technology with ability to contribute to typical JEE stack (spring, Spring MVC, spring Data, spring Boot, spring Batch, spring JMS, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, SOAP Webservices JAX-WS, JAXB, XML) and web service-based solution  • Good experience in working with Team Development for Sitecore (TDS) for check-in and working with multiple developers together.  • Extensive working experience in Sitecore platforms like Web Content Management.  • Developed ANT scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Used High charts and d3.js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Provided SharePoint best practices and advice regarding site set-up, site security, maintenance, and future needs.  • Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front- end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Using Spark-Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra  • Good understanding knowledge in installing and maintaining Cassandra by configuring the Cassandra. yaml file as per the requirement and performed reads and writes using Java JDBC connectivity.  • Worked under AWS management tools such as (EC2, EBS, ASG, RDS, R53) Developed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups.  • Developed Ansible scripts for an automated server provisioning and Docker images for app isolation, reducing the time between provisioning and deployment.  • Good knowledge on Dockers components like Docker swarm Engine, Docker Registry, Docker Notary.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Design and implement security system for GIS data access  • Experienced in developing web applications using MVC & MVVC Architecture.  • Following Test-Driven Development (TDD) programming technique to write clean code and test the functionalities.  • Experience in using testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Gherkins, and Jasmine.  • Setup Drupal environment for local, QA, Dev, staging.  • Extensive Drupal experience and active in the Drupal Community attending and presenting at conferences and camps, developing new modules, and offering support to other users and developers.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3and in making web pages cross browser compatible and resolving cross browser compatibility issues.  • Ability to develop optimum and user-friendly web solutions and provide web, graphic and interactive programming.  • Effective problem-solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Motivated to produce robust, high-performance software  • Proficient in adapting and applying new technologies.  • Ability to work independently and in a team environment. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Autoliv, Brigham, PA August 2017 to Present Description: Autoliv Inc. is the world's largest automotive safety supplier with sales to all leading car manufacturers worldwide. Together with its joint ventures, Autoliv has over 70,000 employees in 27 countries, of whom 8000 are involved in research, development and engineering. Autoliv Inc. is incorporated in Delaware, USA and headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden    Responsibilities:  • Used AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS for front end web designing.  • Programmed standards complaint HTML5 and CSS3 working with jQuery library modules and JavaScript framework libraries.  • Responsible for designing and implementing the web tier of the application from inception to completion using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP.  • Java Service Layer Implementation using Spring (CORE, DATA, REST, BATCH)  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework while developing the UI modules.  • AngularJS ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Involved in a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based approach to UI Development.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Worked on Docker open source project by automating the deployment of applications inside software containers.  • Built application service layer using AngularJS Dependency Injection.  • Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, ECMA script 6, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Created Dynamic web pages using forms, filters, expressions and data binding. Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • JSON model objects are used as request/response content type for server communication.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Enabled validation on forms across application and notify users of invalid input.  • Collaborated Sass to keep large stylesheets well-organized, and to generate aggregated stylesheets.  • Developed various generic Component, Directive, Pipes and SASS classes to use across the both project. Including generic Module and Service Provider.  • Developed SQL Queries to run against database in Microsoft SQL Server for the application.  • Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data driven websites.  • Developed application in PaaS environment.  • Extensively used NPM and Bower to manage JavaScript dependencies.  • Worked on Frontend development tools such as Babel for the Application development.  • Used ECMAScript 6 for JavaScript rules  • Designed and developed effective mechanism to automate existing processes using PostgreSQL pSQL.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc. from Spring Boot admin console.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Knowledge in using version control systems Subversion such as (SVN) and GitHub.  • Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects.  • Experience in Unit testing and implemented test cases for applications using testing frameworks like Jasmine, Junit etc.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Designed, developed, tested and certified GIS applications software and systems functionality.  • Created interactive web applications based on the ESRI JavaScript API. The  application fused finished geospatial products with underlying vector data.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop CS6, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating web services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.js.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers includingIE9.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript Angular.js, Typescript, Angular2/4, Bootstrap, Maven, Hibernate, AJAX, jQuery, MySQL, NPM, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, JSON, Rest Web Services, Apache Tomcat, SASS and PaaS, SVN and GitHub Front End Developer Tangoe Inc - Shelton, CT, US March 2015 to July 2017 Description: Tangoe was founded in 2000, a time when IT industry veterans were coming together in search of a better way to optimize technology expenses. Tangoe and the solutions which we provide better experience that have evolved over the time to help organizations increase productivity, reduce costs, and drive predictable results.    Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, Development, Implementation, Testing and Support.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed front end with object-oriented JavaScript framework using EXT.JS.  • Involved in the creation of an interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using EXT.JS and jQuery.  • Developed reusable EXTJS components Such as Viewport, Panel, and Grids etc.  • Worked on the creating different screen using EXTJS, and also worked on writing some EXTJS Plugin  • Experience in client-side languages & frameworks like JavaScript, jQuery, React.js, Redux server-side languages like Node.js.  • Efficiently and sustainably transferred state throughout app using unidirectional data flows with Redux.  • Worked in an Agile environment and also Installed and Configured Drupal on a Linux server and other servers.  • Developed Model View Controller (MVC) architecture-based Web Applications in Ruby on Rails, BackboneJS and ReactJS.  • Implemented Spring Batch and Spring Task Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from client into DB2 database.  • Experienced in Standard authentication protocol OAuth 2.0  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines, performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Coded Rest API for Product service using spring boot.  • Used Spring MVC to develop application architecture and JDBC to interact with Database. Also used Ajax to communicate with DB for certain functionalities  • Extensively used Debugging Cascading Style Sheets to change the styles now and in the future.  • Developed web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Designed and implemented the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Worked extensively with HTML5/HTML in designing and updating web-based applications  • Good exposure to MongoDB, it's functionality and Cassandra implementation.  • Utilized NPM scripts for build and test environments in a Node.js application.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers  • Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  • Utilized Sitecore CMS solutions to design .Net application features.  • Used Qunit to call unit test assertions.  • Ingested data from RDBMS and performed data transformations, and then export the transformed data to Cassandra as per the business requirement.  • Strong skills administering and supporting; Active Directory, SharePoint, and Migration projects. Strong skills in collaborating with the business and technical team members, project documentation, meeting timelines/deadlines to achieve enterprise goals.  • Creating SharePoint Web Application, Site Collections and different types of Sites creating and designing SharePoint Sites (limited designing experience.  • Installation of Mongo software 2.9 thru 3.4 versions and setting up of Mongo replica Sets with 3 node architectures.  • Written and used Stored Procedures, Tables and Views, Triggers, Functions for maintaining and interaction with Database using SQL server 2012.  • Used Web Services like REST and SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used JSON format in web services and API's to provide public data.  • Used GIT for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Experience in working with open source automated testing tool such as Selenium and Qunit.  • Created and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application's GUI and in the testing, environment using Selenium WebDriver.  • Design and build UIs on Server Platform in team environment.  • Participate in the team on Agile development cycle.  • Constantly refine and stay current with emerging themes in larger Agile community.  • Followed SCRUM methodology.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Ext JS, React.js, Node.js, Agile, QUNIT, Selenium, SharePoint, SQL server 2012, MongoDB, Cassandra, GIT. Web Applications Developer The Vanguard Group - Malvern, PA, US November 2014 to March 2015 Description: The Vanguard Group is an American registered investment advisor based in Malvern, Pennsylvania with over $5.1 trillion in assets under management. It is the largest provider of mutual funds and the second-largest provider of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in the world after BlackRock's iShares. In addition to mutual funds and ETFs, Vanguard offers brokerage services, variable and fixed annuities, educational account services, financial planning, asset management, and trust services.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constrains.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, NODE.JS, EXTJS and jQuery.  • Worked with a team of graphic designers to create compelling web site user interface.  • Excellent experience in implementing Web Service, WCF, REST service which communicate data in a both XML&JSON.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js and node.js to develop User Interface of web pages.  • Use "mixins" to share functionality amongst many other classes and easily extend existing classes for increased customization in dojo.js.  • Developing web pages by using CSS processors such as SAAS and LESS.  • Made custom directives to show bar and pie graph for dashboard using d3 JS.  • Used Web Services like REST and SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Experience with Container based deployments using Docker, Working with Docker images, Docker hub and Docker registries.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases (SQL) using C#.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed data formatted web applications using JavaScript.  • E2E Testing with Cucumber, Protractor frameworks.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility issues for application supported browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS2.1/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, DOM, JSON, XML, backbone, Webpack, Dojo, node.js, SQL, Cucumber, MySQL. UI Programmer FREEMAN - Dallas, TX, US September 2013 to November 2014 Description: FREEMAN is the world's leading provider of integrated services for face-to-face marketing events, including exhibitions, conventions, corporate events, and exhibits. Invoice system maintains the customer accounts information received from Customer Billing System, which crossed the billing due date.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in discussions with the System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  • Involved in team meetings with corpclete Webmaster's UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Implemented various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques as metadata, building inbound link, and outbound link text, meaningful title while designing web pages.  • Responsible to create DAO CRUD methods using Hibernate & Spring framework.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Involved in designing Spring MVC application and Hibernate to design module structure.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS &JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Used Spring AOP terminologies to handle transaction management and logging. Wrote Rest-Controller w.r.t RESTful standards in Spring MVC to connect model with view.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  • Created a robust and user-friendly CALL CENTER APPLICATION based on client requirements.  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Used Spring MVC with Hibernate framework.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Tested the developed front- end code using Chai/mocha Testing unit.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.    Environment: Java, MVC, Spring Hibernate, HTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, XHTML, Angular.js, Dreamweaver CS3 and Chai/Mocha. UI Developer/admin Werner Enterprises - Omaha, NE, US January 2012 to September 2013 Description: SMART (shipment management and resource tracking) System is a Web-based supply chain management system that offers a customized shipment platform that is delivered to customers, suppliers and carriers through a secure, Web-based application. The SMART System provides shipment validation, visibility and optimization and provides a tool for comprehensive data collection. We offer the services for different customers like intermodal, international and domestic for shipping their Freight or managing their Freight using our Value-added services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing all the User Interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed CSS3 Media Queries to make the application compatible with desktops, mobile phones and tablets (Portrait and Landscape) for implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Used CSS preprocessor SASS, to make CSS more efficient by reducing lot of repetition and used Compass a lightweight SASS tool set which helps to write more efficient style sheets.  • Integrated Bootstrap into several applications for fastening JavaScript development.  • Developed interactive web applications using AJAX and Data validations using JavaScript.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send requests to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Designed sandboxes and maintain checkouts and check-ins by using GIT version control software.  • Created the Node JS Express server to build MVC framework from front end side Angular JS to back- end database, to provide broadcast and chatting service.  • Developed code to call Restful web service/API to fetch data and populate on the UI.  • Involved in Agile development to develop web application on time.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS, SASS, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap. UI Developer SBI Life Insurance - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN July 2010 to December 2011 Description: SBI Life Insurance is a joint venture life insurance company between State Bank of India (SBI), the largest state-owned banking and financial services company in India, and BNP Paribas Assurance. SBI Insurance Calculation service is a product developed to provide calculations for the products sold by SBI. The calculation service is a portable, platform independent collection of calculation routines    Responsibilities:  • Using Microsoft Technologies for the project development such as Visual Studio, Java, J2EE, SQL Server.  • Design & Develop application using MVC architecture, jQuery, Html 5, Java Script and CSS.  • Design and implement AJAX service call using Angular JS http.  • Design layouts and icons with Photoshop for technical specification documents and converts them to HTML prototypes with Web 2.0 standards with compatibility to different browser, platform and accessibility guidelines.  • Involved in development and deployment using tomcat web server.  • Used UML diagrams Use Cases, Object, Class, State, Sequence and Collaboration to design the application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  • Designed and developed dynamic menus using DHTML and CSS.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Involved in Unit testing.    Environment: Visual Studio, java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, MVC, jQuery, WebLogic, photoshop, SQL, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSON (6 years), AJAX (8 years), jQuery (8 years), MVC (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Development HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML and PHP, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSTL, Struts 1.x/2.0, SOAP, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Oracle  Frameworks  Spring MVC, AWS, Docker, AngularJS (versions 1.5, 16.), Angular 2/4, Typescript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, BackboneJS, NodeJS, Struts 1.2, MVC Architecture.    Application Servers Tomcat Apache Server, Oracle WebLogic Server, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Databases SQL Server2012, Oracle 8i,10g/11g, MYSQL, MSSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  IDE's and Tools  Photoshop CS6, Dreamweaver CS6, Flash CS6, Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Web Strom, Firebug, Developer Tools, Edit Plus, WebStorm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Apana, Notepad++    Programming Languages Java, J2EE, JSP 1.2, SQL, JavaScript  Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS-DOS, Unix  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP, and SOAP.  Version controls TFS, Git, SVN, Visual Source Safe.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports.  Testing Tools Selenium, Gherkins, Nunit and Junit