.Net Developer .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer - Northmarq Capital Eagan, MN Work Experience .Net Developer Northmarq Capital - Bloomington, MN July 2018 to Present Maintained existing Desktop that consisted of Window Services, integrations with sharepoint and other finance software. Also maintained internal Web Products that provided functionality to each of our departments and also provided support for our external website built with WordPress and PHP. Provide expertise with the conversion of On-Premise Team Foundation Server to Azure Dev Ops and created an integration extension to automate maintenance work items. Introduce DevOps by setting up automated builds and pipelines with a on-premise Team Foundation Server and Azure Dev Ops. Front End Development with Vuejs for generating financial related documents. CTO and Front End Developer Iron Moose Development - Milwaukee, WI July 2018 to Present Put in charge of the design and development of the UI For MooseTracks, a service that allows developers to test their APIs. Used React and a API backend to retrieve data. Automated Builds with a Docker Container in our pipeline using Azure Dev Ops. Provide input and feedback for Design, Marketing, and Technology Decisions. Software Developer Computer Integration Technologies - Woodbury, MN March 2016 to Present Managed, designed and developed a custom content management system (CMS) including user management and product catalog modules. Integrated automated builds, unit tests, and deployments, and developed mobile apps for iOS and Android. Collaborate with a third-party software development company to create views and improve UI for a WPF project. Xamarin Team Lead First Choice Delivery February 2019 to June 2019 - Part-time  * Jump started delivery mobile app as an architect and team lead with off shore team. Setup process for code quality with code reviews and pull requests. Setup builds, releases and integrated with app center for deployments for test groups. Independent Contractor Xamarin Development January 2017 to July 2018 Johnson Controls January 2018 to June 2018 January 2018 - June 2018)  * Assisted on the Xamarin mobile development as a member of the GLAS Mobile Team. Use Visual Studio Team Services for work management, source control, pull requests, builds and releases. Utilized Prism and Dependency Injection and integration from custom nuget libraries with other teams. Developed custom controls and functionality in the mobile app, functioning alongside the GLAS Smart Thermostat. Spok November 2017 to January 2018 Tested app life cycle states using a POC in Xamarin (iOS/Android), and used automation tests in Appium and Kobiton, all in an agile environment. Researched and provided ongoing recommendations. Planned Parenthood Federation of America August 2017 to October 2017 Integrated notifications and pushing data into app, updated existing Xamarian app's functionality and appearance, kept track of work items using Jira and Bitbucket, and coordinated app deployment to Apple Store. subject matter expert Serve January 2017 to September 2017 SME) on Xamarin, providing development services and key project support to key clients:  AT&T - (January 2017 - September 2017)  * Supported design and development of a framework for cross-platform mobile applications on top of Xamarin Forms using the built-in Xaml Engine to create dynamic view with the Jint JavaScript interpreter to process business logic, created .net core console applications serving as developer environments for mac, windows and linux, setup TFS integrating with GitHub Enterprise with a pipeline to Hockey App, and developed a Visual Studio Code Extension providing syntax highlighting, code completion, and debugging. Software Engineer Rice Lake Weighing Systems - Rice Lake, WI March 2012 to March 2016 Developed and implemented a web app scheduling trucks (logistics) and maintain a database of transactions. Upgraded the standard indicator programming language editor, created and maintained modules for our indicator configuration WinForms application, developed Android apps, and created a java application that redefined our custom software process that speed up lead-up times.    Previous positions include Point of Sale Intern Programmer with Menards. Education Bachelor of Science in Information and Communication Technology University of Wisconsin Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology Programmer Analyst Chippewa Valley Technical College Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Winforms, Php, Svn, Vb.net, Xamarin, Xml, Wpf, Angularjs, Html5, Mongodb, Mstest, Nunit, Linux Links http://linkedin.com/brianaball Additional Information Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, UNIX, MacOS  Databases: SQL Server, MySQL, NHibernate, Entity Framework, SQLite, MongoDB, Azure Table Storage  Languages:  C# .NET, Xamarin, Xamarin Forms, WPF, WinForms, ASP.NET, Java, VB.NET, Progress 4GL, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NodeJS, AngularJS, PHP, JQuery, Bootstrap    Source Control: Visual Studio Team Services, TFS, Git, SVN, Source Safe  Other: Azure Functions, Unity, Moq, MSTest, NUnit, XUnit, Prism, MvvmLight, MvvmCross, React, React Redux, Vuejs