Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - United Health Group Eden Prairie, MN ? Over 6 years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements Analysis and Debugging, Applications Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  ? Experience in Client Scripting language and server side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ECMA6 features, TypeScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular1.x/2/4/5, React, Redux, Backbone.js, Express, Node.js.  ? Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Experience with Gulp/Grunt task runner and combined with Node, Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries.  ? Experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using D3.js with Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  ? Experienced in collaborating with Design team/UX team/ business stack-holder to understand and translate the requirement into web applications.  ? Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX with rich features like deferred, promises, pipe, and callback functions.  ? Experience in creating user interface widgets using jQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Rich experience with development using AngularJS extensive features for loading views in a Single Page Application, MVC structure for JavaScript files, data-binding using Angular JS directives and also building custom directives.  ? Experience with Gulp/Grunt task runner and combined with Node, Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries.  ? Experience in the developing applications for different platforms like web browser, iOS, Android, and Chrome OS.  ? Strong expertise in the iterative Agile and Scrum development methodologies for software development.  ? Extensive experience using JSF, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL and JNDI.  ? Experience with Jasmine and Karma for Unit Testing.  ? Experience using JIRA for defect tracking.  ? Excellent communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's and also during the sprint meetings for Agile as well as Scrum development methodology.  ? Great ability to write clearly, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Experience in using revision control systems CVS, Git and Jazz.  ? Working experience on tools like Sonar and Jenkins.  ? Experience working with a wide range of applications in all phases.  ? Known for ability to multi-task and work on different applications at the same time.  ? Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  ? Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Hard- worker, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM) and TDD Development.  ? Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex , Node JS, Mongo DB,  ? Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  ? Setup production dependencies for application are Redux JS, Webpack, Grunt, Babel, Polyfill.  ? Used React concepts like JSX (JavaScript Syntax Extension), components, state and props.  ? Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using D3, React JS.  ? Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid using Reactstrap.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phones.  ? Designed and implemented the Mobile Application on android platform.  ? Used Redux middleware to handle asynchronous events/ Side effects and maintain functional paradigm.  ? Used WebPack, Babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  ? Used Express.js on the top of Node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database.  ? Used GitHub repository to submit code changes that are in turn reviewed by the dev leads before they are merged to the Head Master branch before production.    Environment: ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS, MongoDB, ExpressJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, TypeScript, React-Router, Bootstrap, Restful Web, AJAX, JSON, NPM, ES6, WebPack, GitHub, JIRA, Jenkins, AGILE, Visual Studio Code. Sr. UI Developer FirstData - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap,and Angular 4/6.  ? Involved in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background,positioning,text,border,margin,padding,andtable.  ? Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience usingsprites.  ? Experience in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2/4.  ? Used Angular 4 to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  ? Migrating some of the applications from AngularJS 1 to Angular 2 and componentize the code as per the Angular recommendations for better testability.  ? Experienced in developing web applications using latest JavaScript ES6 features.  ? Design and implement innovative strategies for maximizing storage space using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular 2/4/5.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  ? Developed Single Page Applications using Angular4 ng-route module.  ? Implemented .ng-if with new else statement and used separate animation package using Angular 4.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  ? Used Node JS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  ? Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements  ? Involved in using excel builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  ? Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  ? In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  ? Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015(ES6) used Babel, webpack.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Added dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Created social login using gigya. Integrated the social accounts with the express account.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Used HP Quality Center as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  ? Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  ? Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  ? Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9, FF, Safari and Chrome  ? Knowledge on Node.js environment set-up and interacted Node Service team to get the Service.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues  ? Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  ? Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Angular 2/4/5/6, Bootstrap, Ajax, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, Mongo DB, HP Quality Center, Jasmine and Web Strom Sr. UI Angular JS Developer Wheels Inc - Chicago, IL May 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Created Short URLs Using Ionic framework and SASS.  ? Brief experience on implementing the Angular 2.0 in creating animations based on ionic classes.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standard.  ? Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  ? Used jQuery plugins to insert calendar in Short URL Page.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery.  ? Used NodeJS application in Express JS framework to create URL shortening service.  ? Used SASS for styling URL'S.  ? Created Node.JS backend for creating RESTful Web Services using the Express Framework.  ? Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  ? Extensively used Angular, JavaScript, jQuery UI and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, Typescript, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  ? Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap and used LESS pre-processor.  ? Handling cross browser compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac. Also, used fall back codes.  ? Done testing for cross browser functionalities to confirm the application consistency across various browsers.  ? Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Used VideoJS framework for HTML5 video player.  ? Built responsive admin portal using BootStrap.  ? Updated and maintained the internal code base (tested code before deploying to live site) using GitHub.  ? Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the client program manager and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements  ? Involved in complete User Interface designing and coded the web site in XHTML, CSS and Java Script.  ? Extensively used Angular 2.0 & Typescript, ionic framework and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  ? Used Cassandra NoSQL  ? Database for storing the transactions on all the services for asynchronous writes and fetches.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js1.x, Angular.js 2.0, Node.js, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Underscore, JSHint, NPM, SASS, Gulp, Rally, Agile methodology, SVN, Jenkins, TypeScript. Front End/UI Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX November 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design& development for the project  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, JQuery and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards and are browser compatible.  ? Used HTML5 elements like video, audio and canvas in making the website interactive.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Reactjs and JavaScript(ES6/5).  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS in ongoing projects  ? Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  ? Developed React JS pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application  ? Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  ? Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual  ? DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  ? Created custom component to use with different module using React Flex, JavaScript(Es6/5), Material Design.  ? Worked on Mongodb database design and indexing techniques. Good knowledge on MongoDB write concern majority.  ? Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set. Configured hidden members in replicaset.  ? Installed and configured MongoDB for an enterprise application to analyze the big data requirements  ? Configured replication and high availability for MongoDB instances  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and React resources.  ? Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow  ? Integrated with backend through service layer using AJAX to fetch page data  ? Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Redux).  ? Worked on developing separate react and redux components so it can be reused.  ? Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flex concept.  ? Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  ? Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  ? Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  ? Worked on Github to maintain the repository.  ? Worked with agile technology.  ? Managed projects with Grunt task runner.  ? Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.  ? Complex data modelisation and DB lock management (MongoDB).  ? Have used testing frameworks like jest and enzyme.  ? Responsible for developing and maintaining web application, using Node JS  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React.js, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Node.js, JQuery UI, JSON, Atom, JavaScript, Jest, Enzyme, Webpack, Grunt, Agile methodology, Mongo DB, GIT, JIRA, Eclipse and Windows. Web UI Developer EDATA Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MongoDB database as the backend.  ? Used HTML and CSS in the development in front end of the application.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS in ongoing projects  ? Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Extensively worked on ES5 new features such as Arrow functions, Classes, Iterators and Generators.  ? Developed application pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  ? Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side code and also implemented a callback function to handle the results.  ? Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  ? Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  ? Developed the JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  ? Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development.  ? Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  ? Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more interactive.  ? Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  ? Created Storyboard & Sprints in Jira, configured Confluence for Project management  ? Monitor and support daily activities of multiple scrum teams to keep process aligned with Agile manifesto. Conduct iteration planning, daily scrums and retrospective.  ? Setup Continuous Integration environment using Jira, Git and ant python  ? Contracted to serve as the JIRA Systems Administrator fortheinternational JIRA/Confluence infrastructure, including all associated programs, plugins and systems  ? Worked with javascript testing frameworks like jasmine.  ? Frequently met with the project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design.  ? Worked with the team of architects, back- end Developers and Sr Front- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3 ,JQuery, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Rest Web Services, Jasmine,Gulp, npm, JIRA,Git, JSON, XML, Eclipse and Windows. Education Master's