UI Front- End Developer and UX UI <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and UX UI Front- End Developer and UX - NYC Department of Education ? Dynamic, innovative, skilled and experienced Frontend Developer around 7 years in IT industry with Java and JavaScript.  ? Experience in Software life cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the timelines for the project.  ? Expertise in working on Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, ReactJS, Angular4/6, Kendo, Bootstrap Framework, AJAX, JSON, and XML.  ? Worked on multiple government projects both internal and public facing, implementing latest technology like Angular4/6 along with Kendo UI and bootstrap for responsive application.  ? Used SASS to keep minimal CCS3 along with bootstrap and kendo stylesheets.  ? Created accessible web pages to support all users.  ? Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  ? Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts in JavaScript and DOM.  ? Skilled in functional programming in JavaScript, front- end design patterns, agile methodology, working with team, solving difficult UI problems, enterprise grade code quality, UI component architecture.  ? Good Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Using JavaScript and jQuery for user interactions in pages creating a responsive web applications integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  ? Expertise in Designing and Developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS, and with other UI technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery ,Bootstrap, CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Experience in working of MVC Architecture based frameworks like AngularJS.  ? Expertise in developing front- end of the applications using JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML and AngularJS  ? Expertise in creation of angular custom directives Filters and Services.  ? Expertise in Angular modules like Angular-animate, Angular-Cookies, Angular-Filter, Angular-Mocks, Angular - Recourse, Angular- Route, Angular-Sanitize, Angular-Touch and Angular-UI-Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in AngularJS structural framework for dynamic web apps and profound knowledge in concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  ? Experience of responsive web design using Bootstrap framework and CSS3 media queries.  ? Worked with JavaScript validations and developed Object oriented code.  ? Extensive experience in jQuery, jQuery plugins, AJAX, dynamic HTML, JSON, JS with Bootstrap and Node.js.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Internet Explorer.  ? Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application  ? Extensively used the repositories like GitHub.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  ? Involved in daily Stand-up meeting discussing the progress of project.  ? Worked in various development methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM).  ? Experience using modern JavaScript tools like jasmine and karma.  ? Excellent skills in programming using wide variety of languages and ability to adapt new latest technologies & work in Multi-platform environment. Work Experience UI Front- End Developer and UX NYC Department of Education February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed prototypes for internal applications using HTML5, CSS3, Kendo UI along with JavaScript, JQuery, SASS and Bootstrap4.  ? Worked on different projects/ portals for UX and UI according to the requirement on both Internal and Public facing applications.  ? Collaborated Kendo and Bootstrap v4 styles for better responsive designs while using Kendo controls.  ? Used Kendo controls to create drag and drop files into an email box.  ? Worked on different Kendo grids with JavaScript and JQuery for designing prototypes e.g. Multi columns, Detail rows/cell, filter row, pagination, selected rows, modified headers, combined columns in one using style sheet etc.  ? Smartly using Kendo controls to avoid unrequired extra functionalities by choosing specific properties and details and than modified styling with bootstrap.  ? Responsible for Front- End integration with dotnet core 2.  ? Worked on Kendo + Angular6 grids along with Bootstrap for responsiveness to match with the prototype designs.  ? Created individual reusable components for different users and their selective roles using Angular, Kendo, Bootstrap, CSS3, SASS, npm NodeJs and Dotnet Core 2.  ? Implemented Kendo Angular grid to display user data for several different user dashboards while selecting specific angular directives and using only required kendo properties to avoid extra load on the application.  ? Overcoming challenges like choosing different components based on the technology being used e.g. Datepicker, File Upload, Combo Box, Dropdowns etc.  ? Used Angular directives along with Kendo properties for better controls and functionalities.  ? Responsible to create routing and modules with Angular e.g. navigation.  ? Rendered toggled components using ngClass based on different conditions with ngIf e.g. disabled links or buttons, user specific data-rendering etc.  ? Testing applications for accessibility using WAVE, AXE and SortSite to make web pages accessible with W3C AA standards, to make our applications accessible for all users and using ARIA and other requires attributes, taking care of color contrast and smartly planning application structure for both prototypes and application (based on requirement).  ? Using TFS and GIT to manage application repositories and user stories and tasks.  ? Worked with both Waterfall and Agile Environment based on different applications.  ? Regularly testing cross-browser compatibility and making sure the application components are rendered properly on all supported browsers.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap3 and 4, SASS, GIT, TFS, Kendo, Angular, Node.js, Webpack, Agile, Photoshop, Visual Studio etc. UI Developer One America - Indianapolis, IN November 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the administrative UI using React.js version 15.2.0 along with Web pack and Node.js.  ? Responsible for creating front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS and Bootstrap.  ? Worked on different Components including Checkbox, Button, Input, Icons, Dropdown, Toggle Button etc.  ? Worked closely with the UX Team to create a Custom Components Library using React Js.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using React- router.  ? Used Bootstrap for Responsive Web design.  ? Used Webpack for code compilation and watch for file changes for automated build, code quality check.  ? Created Action dispatch to deploy Actions to add Dynamic Functionalities.  ? Used Node.js and Npm modules.  ? Used AngularJS to bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Implemented responsive design & templates using css and media Queries.  ? Extensively used inbuilt Angular JS directives and filters to add functionalities to the web pages.  ? Used Sass CSS extension to adds power and elegance to the CSS basic language and also used inline styles to build the React Components.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap, Reducers, GIT, WebPack, React JS and Redux. JavaScript /UI developer International Trademark Association October 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on building React Component Library.  ? Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery and Angular Js as per the requirements and provided the client side using jQuery validations.  ? Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  ? Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams.  ? Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js and Bootstrap.  ? Experience in consuming RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JS and displayed on the front- end using jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Developed reusable custom directives using AngularJS transclude, restrict, event handlers and templating.  ? Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  ? Build responsive application using AngularJS and Node JS. Application compatible with mobile devices and different web platforms and browser.  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Used SOAP UI for testing the web services by sending a SOAP request.  ? Used AJAX for server communication and seamless user experience.  ? Worked with Web Logic Application Server to deploy the Application(s).  ? Experience in developing scalable solutions using NoSQL database.  ? Used Agile Scrum process.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, GIT, Gulp, SASS, MVC, Photoshop, AJAX, MySQL. UI developer Hyundai - Delhi, Delhi June 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on multiple projects simultaneously.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML4/5 and CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Worked with CSS Selectors, classes, id's, pseudo classes, Inheritance and cascade concepts, Box model with fixed width.  ? Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal portals.  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  ? Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  ? Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML 4.01/ 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular Js, SASS/LESS, AJAX, Java IDE, Agile methodology. UI developer Wipro - Gurgaon, Haryana April 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Built pages using HTML and CSS.  ? Actively participated in design and technical discussions.  ? Designed and developed client side UI using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used java core concepts Collection Framework Interfaces like List, Set, Queue and Map Interface.  ? Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser.  ? Worked on JDBC to connect to MySQL for implementing CRUD operations.  ? Used Visual Studio IDE to develop the web pages.  ? Reviewing test cases and bug fixing.  ? Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.    Environment: JDK, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, Visual Studio IDE, MySQL. UI developer IBM - Gurgaon, Haryana July 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developing pages using HTML 4.01  ? Responsible for the process of UI design for Internet sites and applications  ? Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  ? Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  ? Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  ? Worked with CSS Selectors, classes, ID's, Pseudo classes, Inheritance and cascade concepts, Box model with fixed width.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  Environment: HTML 4.01, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop and WINDOWS. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Punjab Technical University 2010 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JSON, OBJECT ORIENTED, XML, XSLT, ANGULARJS, MVC, SASS, UI, AJAX, DHTML, ECLIPSE, jQuery, ORACLE, SQL, Front End, React, Front-End, CSS3, Angular