Sr Front End Developer Sr <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Front End Developer - AT&T Dallas, TX ? Around 8+ years of extensive experience in IT Industry developing the web-based applications and UI applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular, React JS and Redux.js, AngularJS and Node JS.  ? Knowledge and experience in working with SASS/LESS as CSS preprocessors and modern techniques such as Flexbox.  ? Experience on working with CSS backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and Elements.  ? Experience on developing Responsive web application using Flex, Grid Layouts and Bootstrap.  ? Extensive knowledge on HTML 5 features like local storage, GEO api location, multimedia canvas ? Worked on performance related tasks using CSS sprites, Avoiding CSS expressions, Reusable UI components and Reducing number of HTTP requests.  ? Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as AngularJS.  ? Experience in AngularJS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  ? Pleasant experience in developing various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications.  ? Pleasant Experience in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Have used JSON for retrieving data.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Experienced with implementing unique features of Bootstrap this includes responsive web design ? Experience using different angular version including AngularJS, Angular 2 and Angular 4 extensive features for loading.  ? Expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Knowledge on Typescript, Angular2 for mobile applications, web API and browser clients.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by 2.  ? Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS).  ? Used Angular 2 framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (Controllers) and model values.  ? Worked with Angular.js routers, forms, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Knowledge in testing/building tools like Grunt, Jasmine, Karma and Jenkins.  ? Experience with Grunt, Gulp and Bower modules of NodeJS.  ? Experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN and GIT.  ? Involvement in using various IDE's, Sublime Text Editor, Notepad++, Eclipse, WebStorm.  ? Extensive experience working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions that includes Analyzing, Designing and Coding. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Front End Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX February 2018 to Present Responsibilities ? Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, LESS, AJAX, REST ? Implemented new features using CSS3 such as Flexbox, CSS Sprites and Media Query with Grid System in Bootstrap to achieve Responsive Web Design.  ? Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  ? Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  ? Extensive experience using the AJAX features using JavaScript and Angular.  ? Used third party components for pagination, date-picker etc.  ? Extensively used Gulp task runner and Bower for scaffolding application development.  ? Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2.  ? Consumed RESTful web services using Angular http services, Observables and promise objects to make GET, POST, PUT and DELETE requests.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development and progress of the application.  ? Used JSON for data transfer between front end and back end.  ? Experience in using the Bit Bucket for Source Repository.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Angular 2/4 TypeScript, CSS Flex, Web Pack, Gulp, GIT. UI Developer CDK Global - San Jose, CA October 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities ? Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, ReactJS, Redux, Node JS.  ? Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  ? Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML5 tags.  ? Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Props, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Implemented stable React JS reusable UI components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Responsible for ReactJS UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  ? Developed the ReactJS container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  ? Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express.  ? Implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the Node JS server.  ? Designed and implemented the MDR (Missing Data Re filler) module by using MVC 4, jQuery 1.9, Razor, SQL Server 2012, AJAX to provide a process to fill in the missing Data in the database.  ? Experience in Restful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  ? Written unit cases for JavaScript code by using JASMINE test framework.  ? Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React, Redux, Restful web services, NodeJS, Jasmine, JIRA, NPM, GIT, Agile methodology. UI Developer MetLife January 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities ? Responsible for creating HTML prototypes using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS.  ? Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JavaScript events ? Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  ? Consumed all the Restful web services using Angular http services and promise objects. Used Angular $resource for API calls to Backend.  ? Created user friendly and reusable UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax. Developed HTML Helper classes in MVC for reusability.  ? Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in Angular.js.  ? Worked on Front end by using Angular.js and JavaScript.  ? Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js http service ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Angular.js & JavaScript ? Created few custom directives to extend the functionality of HTML.  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Used Firebug to debug the application and traverse the documents. Manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Developed tabbed pages by using AngularJS directives. Developed custom directives, factories and Services AngularJS.  ? Implemented various $scope methods $watch (), $digest () and $apply () to implement two-way data-binding by using AngularJS.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using, Angular.js and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Played a team member role by providing individualized instruction based on observation on project.  ? Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  ? Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  ? Attended wire frame review, design and code walkthrough meetings.  ? Took part in manual testing and unit testing.  ? Experienced in providing application support to resolve production issues and make enhancements.  Environment: JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, REST APIs, Windows, Eclipse, MS Excel, MS-Access, MS Word. Web Developer Value Labs Solutions August 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and Bootstrap to display products list on the website.  ? Designed the front- end applications using web technologies such as HTML and CSS.  ? Used Bootstrap to decorated navigation bars, buttons, and display menus.  ? Used Bootstrap implemented autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and used jQuery templates for mark up.  ? Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget based application.  ? Used jQuery template for markup.  ? Used jQuery plugins autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  ? Used backbone.js as Model, Widgets as Controller and jQuery templates View.  ? Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Involved in daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  ? Used AJAX, JSON with jQuery to request data and response processing ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, jQuery, and JSON.  ? Worked on cross browser testing in IE, Firefox and Chrome.  ? Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  ? Debugged and tested the application using Jasmine and Chrome develop tool.  ? Maintained the code based and source code check in and check out with Git.  ? Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  ? Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  ? Used JIRA to deal with the agile development environment. Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Ajax, Jasmine, JSON, JIRA, Bootstrap, Windows, Eclipse, MS Word. Education Bachelor's