Front- End Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Front- End Developer/Designer (React) San Diego, CA I am a pixel-perfect Front- End Developer/Designer, that specializes in React, and is passionate about UI/UX. I have nearly 10 years of experience working for large corporations and award-winning digital advertising agencies. I also have a background in design, which has carried over and shown in my development work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer RMS - The Hospitality Cloud - San Diego, CA March 2019 to Present Freelance    • Completed the total rebuild for the main corporate website of the North American headquarters using the Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify stack to modernize their web presence.  • Used React to build custom components and page templates that are delivered data via GraphQL from the Contentful headless CMS source.  • Created the best possible content creation experience for the company by modeling the content itself within Gatsby + Contentful to their specific needs and requests.  • Ensures that website qualifies as a Progressive Web App (PWA).  • Audits and maintains that website has high performance, accessibility, best practices, and SEO.  • Leverages JAMstack along with React, HTML5, CSS3, SASS (SCSS), GraphQL, and Bootstrap. Front- End Developer/Designer Mitchell International - San Diego, CA February 2015 to Present Freelance    • Developed an internal news portal and brand guide with simple asset management using  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and WordPress.  • Assisted in the development of the current corporate website from within DotNetNuke.  • Regularly works on various projects and tasks when requested. Front- End Developer/Designer Lee & Associates Consulting Services - San Diego, CA February 2014 to Present Freelance    • Currently working on the campaign website of a 2020 candidate for the San Diego City Council using the Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify stack.  • Leverages JAMstack along with React, HTML5, CSS3, SASS (SCSS), GraphQL, and Bootstrap.  • Develops websites for clients using the Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify stack. Web Producer Guild Mortgage - San Diego, CA January 2018 to February 2019 Full-Time    • Produced digital assets as requested by multiple corporate departments.  • Regularly maintained the pre-existing corporate website which consisted of working heavily with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and WordPress. Front- End Developer/Designer AV Concepts - San Diego, CA July 2017 to January 2018 Freelance    • Developed the new corporate website using WordPress and a custom built WordPress theme.  • Worked heavily with HTML5, CSS3, SASS (SCSS), and Bootstrap.  • Provided consultation and support for various new and ongoing projects. Front- End Developer/Designer Hollis Brand Culture - San Diego, CA February 2014 to November 2015 Freelance    • Updated the websites of multiple clients including Monello, Tavern Bowl, and Prado Group.  • Developed the website for Love Boat Sushi (loveboatsushi.com) using WordPress. Web Designer Competitor Group - San Diego, CA June 2014 to July 2014 Contract    • Created and updated assets for various campaigns for the Rock 'n' Roll Marathon Series brand. Interactive Designer Captura Group - San Diego, CA February 2014 to April 2014 Contract    • Provided support on UI/UX, production, front- end development, and responsive design for campaign websites of the Kellogg's and Unilever brands. Web Designer Experiences For Mankind - San Diego, CA April 2013 to February 2014 Freelance    • Created Flash banners for multiple clients including ACTIVE Network.  • Built Gmail advertisements for The Mirage Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas. Web Designer FTD Companies - San Diego, CA June 2013 to January 2014 Contract    • Provided creative insight and direction for the front- end design and development of the Shari's Berries (berries.com) website.  • Created assets for weekly site updates, emails, social media, and other promotional mediums. Web Designer LEWIS (formerly Piston) - San Diego, CA January 2011 to February 2013 Full-Time    • Created multiple creative deliverables for various well-known clients including Oakley, Ray-Ban, Cars.com, Vertu, OpenX, Armani, L'Oreal, and TVG, among others.  • Types of creative deliverables included landing pages, newsletters, emails, Flash banners, static banners, and print advertisements. Education Bachelor's in Biology San Diego State University - San Diego, CA August 2006 Skills React (3 years), Redux (3 years), Gatsby (1 year), Javascript (7 years), HTML 5 (4 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (4 years), CSS (10+ years), SASS (SCSS) (7 years), Bootstrap (7 years), GraphQL (1 year), Netlify (1 year), Firebase (2 years), Git (5 years), npm (3 years), Webpack (3 years), Contentful (1 year), Wordpress (7 years), Adobe (10+ years), RESTful APIs (1 year), AWS Amplify (Less than 1 year), AWS S3/Cloudfront (Less than 1 year) Links http://github.com/jokokoloko Additional Information The project that I have most recently completed is the total rebuild for the main corporate website of the North American headquarters of RMS - The Hospitality Cloud using the Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify stack, which can be seen here:    https://www.rmsnorthamerica.com    NOTE: The addition of the external Zoho chat widget/script, which was required and provided by the client (RMS - The Hospitality Cloud), has significantly dropped the Google Lighthouse audit scores. Prior to the addition of this widget/script, the audit scores were near perfect/100.