UI/ Front End Developer UI/<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/ Front End Developer - Busey Bank Roseville, MI ? 5+ years of experience in the IT industry working with Web Based Applications and UI applications in various domains.  ? Extensive experience in developing web and web 2.0 applications using Ajax, OO Java Script, jQuery, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3 and MVC framework.  ? Experience in creating services as classes in typescript importing into the Components in Angular2.  ? Rich experience with development using AngularJS extensive features for loading views in a Single Page Application, MVC structure for JavaScript files, data-binding using Angular JS directives and also building custom directives.  ? Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 1.x, Angular 2, Angular 4, Typescript, JSON, XML and Bootstrap using Web storm, Visual Studio Code.  ? Experience in build and deployment process of Angular 4 applications using Angular CLI.  ? Experience in Typescript language with ECMA 6.0 programming standards.  ? Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  ? Experience in writing structured markup, CSS and JavaScript/ jQuery and keeping up-to-date with the latest developments in web technology.  ? Having Knowledge in Implementing the Web Applications with Responsive Web Design.  ? Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using Angular.JS and Node.JS.  ? Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  ? Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  ? Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  ? Proficiency on Responsive Web Design using Custom CSS, Bootstrap, cross browser and adapt to the changing environment.  ? Experience in the developing applications for different platforms like web browser, iOS, Android, and Chrome OS.  ? Good understanding of developing responsive web design using Bootstrap, media queries and viewport.  ? Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  ? Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  ? Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  ? Strong analytical and problem solving skills, self-starter and good team player.  ? Managing smooth implementation and testing of application.  ? Excellent ability in communicating designs through scenarios, prototypes, and UI specs as well as Liaising with Business Analysts, Designers, and Developers in order to create functional specifications.  ? Comfortable working with a team (Scrum, Customer facing etc.)  ? Proven ability to transfer knowledge and stay aware of current trends and technical advancements. Work Experience UI/ Front End Developer Busey Bank - Champaign, IL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Implementing the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology.  ? Used Model View Controller framework such as Angular JS framework for creating Single Page Application.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Single page applications are developed using Angular 4, Typescript and RXJS.  ? Implemented the caching of the get requests using the Interceptors of HTTP Client Module provided by Angular 4.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Involved in building Angular 4 application on NPM packages.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries, using technologies like Bootstrap, Foundation.  ? Developed and designed using Adobe Dreamweaver, HTML5, Javascript, XML, Angular JS, JQuery and Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  ? Developed components using Adobe Experience Manager to make them global using JQuery and JavaScript which can be used by all the maintenance applications.  ? Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Implemented MVC architecture by applying Angular JS framework.  ? Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5 and Bootstrap.  ? Successfully performed the Restful APIs Integration using XML and JSON.  ? Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  ? Mastered the GRUNT and GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  ? Involved in development converting the static HTML mark-ups to JSP's.  ? Brought the HTML and CSS of an existing web site to the latest web standards.  ? Used Polymer JS to build web applications using web components.  ? Used SASS Preprocessor for CSS preprocessing.  ? Responsible to gathering requirements and creating the right solutions with our Marketing SAAS Cloud products.  ? Used JQuery & Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX, cross-browser.  ? Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, Angular 4, TypeScript, Node.js, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, AJAX, GIT, Adobe Dreamweaver, Web services, XML, XSLT, Agile Methodology, Windows. UI Developer Carhartt - Dearborn, MI October 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3as per company standards.  ? Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Developed the front- end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits like YAHOO USER INTERFACE (YUI). Used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  ? Interacted with the Graphics design team in the use of Photoshop CS3, MS Visio, PowerPoint, Dreamweaver and Flash.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Angular.js, Node.js, Ext.js, and JQuery.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  ? Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Used ng2-pdf-viewer from Angular2 npm package to preview the pdf files  ? Created many components with Angular2 for each single page application.  ? Used Angular2 camelCase syntax for built in directives.  ? Used router module from Angular2.0.  ? Used Angular2 npm packages like ng2-datepicker, ng2-pdf-viewer, ng2-auto-complete etc., to meet the requirements of the project.  ? Created different single page applications using Angular2.0 for users, sponsors, reviewer, and publisher.  ? Created Angular 2 components, Implemented angularJS 2 such as Bindings/interpolation, Pipes, Input variables, Bootstrapping, ngClass, bind to the click event, Component decorator, bind to the hidden property, bind to the href property, *ngIf, ngModel, *ngFor, bind to the src property, ngStyle and ngSwitch.  ? Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 &JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  ? Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations.  ? Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? Used JQuery plugins validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  ? Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  ? Discussed various ideas/suggestions for the ongoing web sites regarding the page layout and creative design.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3,JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular 2, Node.js, DHTML, Agile methodology, Responsive Web Design, YUI, DOM, Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Windows. UI/Web Developer Afcons - Kochi, Kerala September 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Committed to the web UI designing/web development activities and produced navigation flows, site maps, storyboards and wireframes.  ? Management of a Portal application with the use of Angular JS and backbone.js  ? Developed application by implementing the Single Page application template using Angular JS Route Providers.  ? Played an active role in all stages of application development- requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology of software development thereby satisfying the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  ? Constructed and designed web pages and templates, including layout and navigation for the complete web application using HTML, HTML5, XML, and XSLT.  ? Developed web user interfaces and Graphical User Interfaces utilizing JavaScript, Ajax etc to provide real time control in a separate program.  ? Fabricated stylesheets to manage the look-and-feel of the complete site using CSS, CSS3, bootstrap, XML, and XSL.  ? Expertise in using Grid Framework  ? Created several webpages using Node.js  ? Developed pages that support advanced client-side technologies, such as JavaScript, Flash and ActionScript.  ? Worked with jQuery Widgets, Interactions, Effects, Widget factory.  ? Validated the client-side applications using jQuery Validation Plugin.  ? Called REST services from client side using JQUERY.  ? Integrated UI changes in JSP files.  ? Used Ajax to call the Java functions from the webpage via JavaScript.  ? Created data entry and data drill-down applications with wizards.  ? Involved in development, maintenance and enhancements to the application.  Environment: HTML5, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, PHP, DOJO, Dreamweaver, MVC, GIT Web Developer Tech Basil IT Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  ? Worked on the functionality using Angular.js.  ? Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  ? Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance.  ? Used the Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  ? Involved in up gradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  ? Developed web applications using Restful and SOAP protocols.  ? Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  ? Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  ? Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA section 508(c) standards.  ? Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach to UI development.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Gulp, GIT, Code Cloud, JIRA, Quality Control Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Anna University Skills VISUAL STUDIO, GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP