Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Cognizant Technology Solutions New York, NY Creative Front- End Developer with 4+ years of experience designing, developing, and managing  complex web applications. Specializing in React and responsive design. Adhering to best practices in  the industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions November 2016 to Present • Upgrading multiple web applications to the new web stack such as React, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, Bootstrap and others. Wrapping these applications to serve as desktop application for financial organization to help users to manage their investments. Deploying these applications to the cloud infrastructure to enable ease of scaling and management.  • Using Bitbucket as a collaboration and source control tool on daily basis. Interacted with Project Manager and back- end developers to resolve software bugs and issues. Working on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular enhancements and communicate updates to business team and project managers.  • Assisting other team members with back- end related tasks when necessary. Consultant Developer ASO systems March 2015 to October 2016 • Worked on different web application using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, and various frameworks.  • Developed new features, expanded existing functionality and fixed numerous issues.  • Worked with project managers to identifying requirements and to plan features. Citywide Administrative Services NYC Department September 2014 to February 2015 • We have converted paper based application process for student internship applicants to a web based process. Allowing students to apply online for internships. To serve and manage student information .NET with C# was used to develop a backend service. To display information HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, and jQuery were utilized.  • The application displays list of students who applied for internship with status of their application, allows for students to manage their application and for supervisors to review the applications.  • Interacted with project manager, business analyst and back- end developers to establish requirements for UI and API.  • Developing this application made easier for students to apply for internship and helps project managers to review applications with ease and with less paperwork. This application helps reduce paper usage and keeps the history of applicants for streamlined audit. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Technology City University of New York - New York, NY Skills React, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS3, ES6, Bootstrap, Redux, Ag-grid, NodeJS, NPM, jQuery, LESS/SASS, Jest, Enzyme, Cloud Foundry, Git, Front-End, HTML5, Front End, Node, UI, User Interface, Angularjs