Sales Associate Sales Associate UX / UI developer Eden Prairie, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Associate The Home Depot - Eden Prairie, MN May 2019 to Present Customer Service, Sales, Retail Web Specialist Scales Advertising - Saint Paul, MN November 2017 to March 2018 HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, SASS, Bootstrap.js, Wordpress, GIT, Web standards and accessibility (W3C and s508)    • Worked on implementing .psd designs into marketing email blasts.  • Developed and maintained user-facing Wordpress marketing websites and ecommerce sites.  • Converted Photoshop design specifications into functional, standards-compliant websites.  • Implemented browser-independent designs, was fixing cross-browser issues on all platforms. UI Web Developer UnitedHealth Group - Eden Prairie, MN August 2016 to November 2016 HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Bootstrap.js, Angilar.js, AEM, Eclipse, SVN, GIT, Scrum    • Translated fully functional HTML/CSS/JS prototypes into Adobe Experience Manager web pages.  • Was a member of a large agile team working on redesigning Live and Work Well portal.  • Adjusted graphics, created and optimized graphic assets as needed to complete designs.  • Used source/version control software. Web developer contractor Celarity - Minneapolis, MN May 2016 to August 2016 HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Sketch, OmniGraffle, GIT, Bootstrap.js, GULP, Basecamp, Modular CSS, SASS    • Built new User Interface for the web portal redesign using Sketch mockups, JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.js.  • Worked closely with UX and graphic designers to ensure usage of best practices, web standards and accessibility (W3C and s508) creating User Interface / User Experience.  • Create production-quality CSS, SASS, and HTML for web applications with support for mobile and tablet devices. UX / UI Developer Randstad Technologies - Bloomington, MN February 2015 to November 2015 HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, CSS, APIs, DOM, Bootstrap.js, Angilar.js, CQ5    • Designed and developed fully functional HTML/CSS/JS prototypes for a new proprietary software product.  • Built and designed the User Interface (look and feel) for the new software product using JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.js.  • Used Font Awesome, a scalable vector icons library, that can instantly be customized to deliver responsive design and consistent look and feel across multiple platform.  • Integrated RESTful Web Services connecting Java backend to the User Interface through AJAX /JSON request responses.  • Worked for Optum Technology UHG IT department, one of the largest largest heath care providers. Front End UI Developer Contractor Best Buy Mobile - Richfield, MN January 2013 to April 2014 HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, GIT, PHP, APIs, DOM, Axure, Modular CSS, SASS mixins and functions    • Worked with Carrier Activation Platform team of designers, informational architects and developers maintaining and developing new features for CPC Mobile and CPC Home Connections internal one page JS applications.  • Was a part of a large agile team working on Home Connections Project, a web based in-store and call center JS/ PHP application for comparison, shopping and selling home connectivity services.  • Worked with designers, information architects and a team of developers to define HTML markup and create custom CSS stylesheets for complex, information-rich web and mobile applications. Front End Developer Contractor Best Buy dot Com - Richfield, MN April 2012 to June 2012 XHTML / HTML, JavaScript, JSP, CSS, APIs    • Worked on the project implementing Google Ads on bestbuy.com.  • Maintained / Updated bestbuy.com website.    • Adjusted image sprites, optimized graphic assets as needed to complete designs. Interactive Developer Take it to Eleven, Inc - Minneapolis, MN November 2010 to April 2012 HTML5, JavaScript, ActionScript, Jquery, CSS, PHP, Wordpress, DOM, APIs    • Maintained the existing Cummins Power Generation and Cummins Onan sites: http://cumminspower.com/en, http://cumminsonan.com, http://cumminsgdrive.com, www.cumminspowersource.com  • Worked on the consolidation project for Cummins Power Generation and Cummins Onan.  • Worked on the team with other developers and designers on various projects from clients like Cummins Power Generation, Hot Dish Advertising Alumacraft boats, Lake Minnetonka Dental, Capital Advisory Group, The Cobra Society. Web Intern Public Radio International - Minneapolis, MN October 2008 to August 2010 XHTML / HTML, JavaScript, ActionScript, Jquery, CSS, PHP, APIs, PHP myAdmin, SQL    • Designed widgets, developed user interfaces for various application  • Customized php-based CMS templates for specific functionality  • Maintained B2B website built with ColdFusion  • Created audio sideshows  • Generated weekly and monthly newsletters using ExactTarget  • Created motion graphics  • Edited videos  • Designed various graphic materials including web and print ads, promotional posters, podcast graphics Education Bachelor of Science in Interactive Media Design in Art Institutes International Minnesota Saint Paul Technical and Community College - Minneapolis, MN March 2010 Associate in Computer Science in Computer Science Minsk State Linguistic University - Minsk, BY May 2003 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Xml, jquery, CSS, SASS, Wordpress, CMS, Adobe Creative Suite Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/obudzilovich http://vb-portfolio.com/