Sr. UI Angular Developer Sr. UI Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Angular Developer - Freddie Mac McLean, VA • Around 7 years of experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML 5, CSS 3,  JavaScript (ES5 & ES6), Typescript, Angular2/4/5/6/7, JQuery and NodeJS.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery, Responsive WebDesign (RWD), Bootstrap.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Node.js, Angular.js, Require.js, bootstrap, Ext.js, JSF and JS  • Experienced in working with Angular7 and Single Page Applications.  • Experienced in using all Angular7 features like Template Driven and Model Driven Forms,  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3 , Bootstrap, DOM, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Strong experience in implementation and design of MVC architecture. Hands on experience on MVC frameworks such as Angular, Angular2, Backbone JS, Ember JS etc.  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Experience working on Angular 6 designing and developing modern Single Page Application and Develop reusable directives.  • Used the Node.js and Backbone.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications  • Expert in handling Twitter Bootstrap framework and experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Utilised Node.js, Socket.io, Redis, Supervisor, Grunt, Yeoman, and Angular for scalable  website architecture and realtime technology.  • Moved existing Angular JS controllers and services to Angular JS 2.0 components for more responsive and less dependency  • Proficient with CSS preprocessors such as SASS and LESS.  • Strong JavaScript & JQuery skills - able to write unobtrusive custom code as well as to implement existing JQuery plug-in.  • Strong debugging skills and thorough understanding of cross browser issues.  • Skills in optimizing websites for mobile phone using CSS media queries.  • Developed the web pages for sales force org. using APEX as well front - end frameworks.  • Understanding of W3C standards, accessibility, and usability.  • Efficient in using J2EE Frameworks: Spring, JSF, Hibernate and Web Services (SOAP and REST) Technologies.  • Strong in implementing the java application data access tier with JDBC, SQL etc.  • Extensive knowledge in database design and development using MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g.  • Hands on experience in using Node JS clustering to get maximum benefit of CPU resources.  • Knowledge on Atlassian tool suite and other third party tools like Bamboo and Docker for (CI) continuous integration.  • Ability to compose application from micro services between production environments and designed full cycle of CI, ability to deploy scalable services in Docker.  • Working knowledge on continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience on web debugging tools (Firebug, Fiddler debugging tool).  • Command on Angular JS 2 controllers, directives, creating custom services with factory and service methods, routing and handling animated events.  • Good knowledge on PHP, MySQL, SVN and Dimensions.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in writing client side code using React JS and used NPM & gulp directories to generate the server environments used browserfiy, flux to manage with targeted URL's (Uni-Directional data flows) and to monitor the application.  • Knowledge in Bootstrap.js, Moustache.js, Underscore.js and Responsive Web design.  • JavaScript with Ember JS to build a single-page app style front- end.  • Extensive experience in the field of Web Applications development using XHTML, OO-JavaScript, Ext.js, AJAX, XML, SQL and JSON.  • Worked on integrating webpages with XML and JSON data using XSLT, REST and SOAP Webservices.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Extensive hands-on development experience on charting library i.e. D3 Charts (d3JS).  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX, cross-browser compatibility and worked on safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Excellent in Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment.  • Experienced in working in AGILE and Waterfall based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Excellent communication skills, interpersonal, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a very good team player as a lead and ability to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customers.  • Highly motivated, strong analytical skills and ability to deliver in fast paced, high stress environme Work Experience Sr. UI Angular Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA February 2015 to Present Freddie Mac is a Housing Loan provider company. I worked on Redesigning a 30-year-old Web Appli- cation to give better UI experience to users who sells loans and contracts to Freddie Mac using an Appli- cation called Loan Selling Advisor.  Currently working on Message Manager project which is used by internal users to create/edit tokens and messages    Responsibilities:  • Redesigned and Developed a web application using Angular7 as front- end and using Web API  to receive and pass data to back- end.  • Completely redesigned Menu & Navigation to Angular7 and updated all the forms across Selling  System Application for a better user experience.  • Redesigned Selling System application using model driven approach by creating different Mod- ules, Components and by using these to make the code reusable.  • Redesigned Create New Loan form using Angular7 model driven forms module with a Sta- tus/Position bar on top of the page(fixed) that shows the status of each section to let the users  know the position they are in the form and the extent of the form filled.  • Created Angular2 components, implemented interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Out-let, binding the events, decorators.  • Created reusable Custom pipes and Directives for filter and sorting for table columns for Cus- tom Table component which is used to customize your own table to delete columns and create a custom view per user.  • Created Angular components like Controller, Directives, Services and Forms to collect the in- put from User.  • Implement Services to store shared data between sibling Components and inject in to it for pass- ing data purpose.  • Used Dependency Injection to communicate between Components.  • Used NgZone to make communication between Angular4 and JSP by creating global variables  and functions which can be used throughout the application.  • Used RxJS and Observables to create AJAX services in client side and to watch over a compo- nent to detect its changes.  • Transfer data between parent and child Components by using @Input and @Output.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and using ngIf to display custom validation and er- ror messages created for the forms.  • Implement Form group to pack data as an object and reduce the data trans times.  • Working with team lead to write Documentations and set standards for other projects and devel- opers Since we are the first to implement a new technology like Angular4 for Freddie Mac.  • Write code style guidelines for angular4 based on angular official documentations, formular- ize into simple 4-step procedure for fellow developer to follow.  • Follow angular best practice to ensure resource efficiency and low latency.  • Worked on project following Agile scrum methodology that includes iteration application devel- opment, weekly sprints, daily standup meetings and customer reporting backlogs.  • Designed and added custom UI Themes to the web page using SASS CSS pre-processor instead  of inline- styles or Less.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5  semantics new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design and CSS3  media queries.  • Worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the backend and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Interacted with the QA in order to identify bugs and make proper bug fixes.  • Worked on Jasmine Unit tests and End to End testing using Protractor.  • Collaborated extensively with my team in order to discuss and implement the Web Application Sr. Front End Developer/Angular js Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI July 2013 to January 2015 Description:  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery andAJAX.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jqueryUI and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box modeland HTML 5.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using AngularJS  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates in order to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 andAjax.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Developed AngularJS factories and services to handle REST APIs' and push data to the server.  • UsedJSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Developed application based on JavaScript, Angular JS and, NodeJS patterns along with handling issues on Application Servers.  • Create scripts including AngularJS modules using RequireJS for centralized point in distributing JavaScript libraries across the application.  • Used Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  • Built twitter bootstrap theme for admin dashboard for SAP Business Objects data KPIs using JQuery for DOM manipulation and AngularJS Factory services for REST APIs    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, XHTML, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, SVN, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010. Front End Developer / UI Developer UBS May 2011 to June 2013 Project Description:    • Involved in Requirements and Analysis, Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Fluent in creating dynamic web pages using JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML, D3.JS & CSS, as well as charting libraries like Highcharts.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5,D3.JS, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Worked on reactjs in order to provide a view for data render on the front end.  • Used Reactjs to update HTML document when data changes  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web design, UI using HTML5 Grid Layouts, CSS3 Media queries where it's an expression and can be used to either True or false.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and Angular resources.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS and LESS)  • Created the Application using Reactjs and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Used Grunt to create UI builds and run UI tasks like compiling less files to generate a CSS file.  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting.  • Worked closely with other senior developers, Business Analysts, product managers, UX designer, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations following MVC architecture.  • Experience with Amazon EC2 instances.  • Ensure that builds are properly deployed in Development and Production Environment using Jenkins  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, SOAP and JSON to update UI.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Used GIT for version control along with Source tree, JIRA for defect tracking.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Developed data visualization for different plugins using Highcharts JS.  • Developed the tracks and reports website traffic using Google Analytics  • Used ExpanDrive that facilitates mapping of local volume to many different types of cloud storage.  • Actively participated in daily standups to discuss the progress of the application also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Implemented the local front- end test environment on Centos-7.  • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOM, bootstrap, MVC, Eclipse, ExpanDrive, Cornerstone, SourceTree, Windows. WEB/UI Developer Disney - Burbank, CA November 2009 to April 2011 Project Description:  The Walt Disney Company, commonly known as Disney, is an American multinational mass media and entertainment company. The company also operated under the names The Walt Disney Studio and then Walt Disney Productions and started divisions focused upon theater, radio, music, publishing, and online media. Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University Los Angeles Campus Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, IONIC Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technology HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, TypeScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5/6/7,  Ionic, JSON, PHP, Bootstrap, Backbone.JS, ReactJS, Redux, Agility.JS, Knockout, ExtJS.    Web/App Servers Weblogic Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Node.JS, jBoss, Jenkins.  IDE & Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Brackets, Dreamweaver.    Version Control GitHub, SVN (tortoise SVN), Perforce, Bitbucket.  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Safari Web Developer,  Batarang.  Java Frameworks JSP, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, UDDI, Hibernate, Design Patterns, EJB, Swing, Servlets,  Web Services, Struts, Spring, MVC, ATG, Junit, Easy Mock, AJAX.  Other Tools/Libraries JUnit, Microsoft Office 2010, Bower, Grunt, GULP.JS, Karma, Jasmine, C++/C.    Database PL/SQL(oracle), MongoDB, MySQL, MSSQL, Shell-scripting.