Software Engineer Software Engineer Technical Project Manager/Software Engineer North Bergen, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Disney Streaming Services 2018 to 2018 Developed front- end solutions including an AWS commerce application with Angular and Node.js, JSP  commerce application with HTML, jQuery, and JavaScript, and an internal customer service tool with Angular and Node.js. Began conversion Process from Angular to React.  • Managed work assignments for front end consultants.  • Updated and maintained Commerce wiki front end sections to include new technologies.  • Served as the team Slack administrator, led the Runbook initiative, and monitored roadblocks.  • Tested NewRelic, pre-QA campaign/purchase flows, and performance improvements.  • Created on boarding documents and setup requirements for new hires. Software Engineer BAMTECH 2017 to 2018 Created front- end AWS and JSP commerce applications and conducted XML data imports. Developed,  implemented, and updated site builds for partner sites.  • Initiated the Runbook project to standardize support procedures in a wiki format to enable each  developer to author additions based on individual areas of expertise.  • Implemented a rotating support model to handle weekend, overnight, and special event work.  • Reengineered the team wiki to remediate gaps in institutional knowledge and to ensure the completion of irregular and infrequent tasks.  • Led projects and functioned as the team Slack and Outlook admin. Front End Developer MLB Advanced Media 2009 to 2017 Developed, implemented, and updated site builds for MLB and partner sites. Led the forms team, allocated  resources, and managed the work schedule for validation and production on MLB and partner forms.  • Resuscitated a struggling, chronically-late Forms team within just three months by Instituted a tracking system shared with business owners to avoid duplication and overlapping requests.  • Prioritized and managed projects in collaboration with Sponsorship teams.  • Built and maintained the forms team code libraries and wikis. Education Certification Drexel University Skills Aws (3 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Css (8 years), Cvs (5 years), Git (2 years), Html (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), Jira (9 years), Json (5 years), Jsp (3 years), Ms office (10+ years), Php (3 years), Sass (4 years), Subversion (2 years), Xml (5 years), Jquery (7 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Angular JS (2 years), New Relic (2 years), Angular 5 (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/donnabowers Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Web: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, Angular, JSP, PHP, XML, JSON, Bootstrap  Tools: Jira, Confluence, Git, Subversion, CVS, Slack, AWS, MS Office  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile