Tech Consultant Intern Tech Consultant Intern Software Engineer New York, NY Work Experience Tech Consultant Intern PricewaterhouseCoopers - Singapore May 2019 to August 2019 - Supporting team member in term of SAP SuccessFactors system configuration, data migration, and system testing  - Liaise with data migration lead for data collection, data cleansing and conversion, and data load as part of data migration activities  - Supporting project manager as part of project management office and change management  - Discuss and draw client's process map in order to analyze and align to SuccessFactors best practice Software Engineer DataSpring Inc - Shanghai, CN July 2017 to June 2018 China  - Reduced 20% financial expense by fixing system and finance mismatch.  - Increased 30% user loyalty by refactoring exchange process.  - Lead the development of API for mobile application mainly using PHP(Symfony)  - Maintained survey software and data collection platform providing high-quality online and mobile samples in Asia. Research Assistant, Advised by Prof. Kuan-Ta Chen Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica - Taipei, TW February 2016 to March 2017 Taipei, Taiwan  - Implemented Data Science Jobs Board for Taiwan Data Science Foundation using Slim Framework (PHP) and MySQL.  - Implemented a charitable article recommendation platform, helping matching the donors and someone in need. Built new  user interface, user experience and website flow, data collection for libfm training and recommended system. (PHP, MySQL,  Python, R, JavaScript)  - Reconstructed Smartdonor designed for financial transparency of NPOs in Taiwan. Web developer Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica - Taipei, TW February 2016 to March 2017 Taiwan  - Built the conference website (web) and landing pages for series activities (web) Registration and Reception Leader 2016 to 2016 Front End Web Developer eSkyGo Ltd - Taipei, TW July 2015 to November 2015 Taiwan  - Maintained crowdfunding platform Wuyouchou, responsible for the Front End part (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Java).  - Front End lead for WeChat application Intelliparking (HTML5 web app), used node.js, dust.js and other Front End  technology and responsible for Front End and Back End integration. Participated in product planning. Back End Web Developer Finpo Creative Design - Taipei, TW July 2014 to May 2015 Taiwan  - Used PHP with MVC framework (Zend) and MySQL to built customize e-commerce website, responsible for the Back End  programming with maintainable database. Created RESTful APIs for Front End development, including Travel goods  website, Maternal and infant supplies e-commerce website, Bakery website and Order Manage System for painting seller with online image editor for customers from eBay.  - Built Back End GUI with Ext.js.  - API integration including migrating Wow!News contents into MSN news and credit card payment gateway integration. Research Assistant, Advised by Prof. Zhao Language Technologies Laboratory, National Taiwan University - Taipei, TW July 2013 to July 2014 Taiwan  - Researched in natural language processing, language data processing and analysis, machine learning for National Science  Council plan, using R, Python, Perl. Analyzed likelihood-ratio test of Probabilistic Context-Free Grammars and lexical (web).  - Built elementary school textbook corpus using data from Kang Hsuan Educational (web).  - Developed software for language research by the Language Training & Testing Center (LTTC) and Graduate Institute of Linguistics at National Taiwan University (GIL, NTU) using data from General English Proficiency Test (GEPT). Rebuilt The  LTTC English Learner Corpus (web) with new search features including Collocation Search for understanding commonly  collocation usage mistakes, Keyword Search for understanding usage frequency and common mistakes of specific keywords and Ngram Search for searching phrases and idioms.    LEADERSHIP Volleyball Team Captain NTU CS Dept 2014 to 2014 Artist Director NTU CS Dept 2013 to 2013 Artist Director, NTU National Chengchi University Orientation Camp 2013 to 2013 Education M.S. in Information in System New York University - New York, NY May 2020 B.S. in Computer Science and Information Engineering in Computer Science and Information Engineering National Taiwan University - Taipei, TW June 2015 Skills C, Python, Java, PHP, Javascript, MySQL, HTML 5, Git, CSS3 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joanne-chou