Front- End Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Dynamic Web Designer & Developer Washington, DC Passionate about creating beautiful, dynamic, cross-browser functioning websites with a simple and user-friendly interface. Brings over five years of managing the design and development of large-scale websites, creating content and interactive tools, and optimizing the user experience with an emphasis of increasing website traffic. Well-rounded in front- end development technologies with a keen eye for design. One of my sites received a 2015 White House Award for Customer Service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer Aptive Resources - Alexandria, VA 2018 to Present Web Developer Hilton Hotels International - McLean, VA 2018 to 2018 Part of Hilton’s in-house creative agency, developing digital and print templates for on-property collateral in 34+ languages. All products are completed to client specifications, ensuring that hotel owners have access to all the resources they need to operate their hotels.  • Create UI pages and customizable document logic using a mix of scripting technologies and libraries like JavaScript and jQuery and front- end frameworks like Bootstrap.  • Work as part of a dynamic template development team; accurately test and correct projects completed by other members of the team through code repositories and bug tracking tools like Git, Target Process, and Jira.  • Collaborate daily with the business and project delivery teams to ensure content, campaigns, releases, and infrastructure are aligned with the development teams’ output. Front End Web Developer/Designer U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs - Washington, DC 2014 to 2018 Lead front- end designer and developer of easy-to-use and accessible UI pages with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery technologies. Created the award-winning Veteran Entrepreneur Portal that resulted in a 78% increase in user portal utilization. Generated 1713% more visits by Veterans.  • Introduced new web page concepts and developed web request forms to ensure productivity and that projects are completed to deadlines which resulted in 25% less errors during production.  • Followed design specifications to develop front- end responsive web applications accessible to a wide range of browsers, devices, and audiences.  • Built the web style guides to ensure high-quality web design and consistency, highlighting appropriate fonts and colors to tone of voice, photographic content, and key branding aspects. Quality assurance, A/B testing, adherence to Section 508, and troubleshooting web pages that led to significant user experience improvements. Web Content Specialist U.S. Department of Education - Washington, DC 2012 to 2014 Created content, managed, and maintained multiple high-traffic public-facing website publications.  • Collected and analyzed web site traffic statistics which improved customer engagement.  • Created and managed multiple social media accounts including Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter. Education Bachelor's in Economics West Virginia University - Morgantown, WV Skills PHP (Less than 1 year), Javascript (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), HTML (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Photoshop (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), jQuery, Git Certifications/Licenses Full-stack web developer 2017 to Present George Washington University