Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - Charter Communications Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Charter Communications November 2018 to Present Charter recently became a large company with a customer base of about 30 million people. I work at the Denver  campus with 3,000 other employees on a team of 7. We have been tasked with creating a number of apps that seek to integrate thousands of legacy customers from older companies acquired by Charter. It has been a great experience  working with professional architecture, design, accessibility and testing teams to deliver websites that millions of people can use easily. Front- end teams at Charter share their own libraries in order to meet ADA and brand criteria and I  have had my hand in contributing to those projects as well as troubleshooting them. Collaborating with other teams has  been a great opportunity to learn from different practices and problem-solving approaches. Web Developer November 2016 to Present Since graduating I have completed several projects for freelance clients and have an ongoing role with these sites and as hosting manager. I worked with a new startup to build a user-data tracking statistical database in MongoDB. I built a  platform for managing large groups that are traveling together for conferences or other destinations. This event  management site displays relevant information about the trip, itinerary, and also takes in preferences from all those  attending and posts these via API to a Google Sheet for the event planner. Each aspect of the site can be maintained by the event planner without working in code. I achieved this by building a custom Wordpress theme that the client uses.  In my free time, I also recently built a real-time voting app that utilizes Socket.io. Front- End Web Developer August 2017 to October 2018 The experience I am most proud of at this job has been creating a brand new cloud platform for a multinational client from scratch in Angular 6. I was responsible for developing the entire front- end for this application that served millions  of records that could be paginated, sorted, and filtered efficiently even on mobile devices. It also had the capability to  switch translations on the front- end by the user. Day-to-day I work on a team of 6 other developers on our flagship  software ServiceCore. This application handles the accounting, syncing with QuickBooks, scheduling, GPS routing, and reporting of various service businesses in the septic and portable toilet industry. The technology stack is  angular.js/Angular/Ionic hybrid and php. 1bg also provides contract-based projects as well as hosting for 22 wordpress  sites. Clients also have required various specialized solutions which led to me writing custom plugins and themes in php/Wordpress. Web Developer ProgressNow Colorado January 2017 to June 2017 I was brought in to help this non-profit in developing a platform for their followers to connect. Because it needs to remain editable to non-coders, the front- end is in Wordpress/LAMP environment. My role is to use user's location and  interests and connect them to several APIs, inform users of their elected representatives as well as schedule push  notifications for events and elections and also provide a personally relevant, local political news feed. This required me  to create a custom theme and to write custom PHP functions that communicate with the mySQL database. I also created administrative pages in the dashboard so the app can be managed by non-coders in the future. Web Developer DeveloperX.io 2017 to 2017 This is a new startup where my position had been to create brand content and take on all Wordpress client work. Most  recently I have worked with clients to wireframe, draft responsive mockups in Adobe XD, and execute their ideas from scratch. Also, I apprentice under the lead React.js/Native developer on small tickets. Student CodeCraft School of Technology September 2016 to November 2016 During this intensive 10 week course I learned how to program all aspects of web technologies. Starting with a basis in HTML, CSS, and Javascript, we learned the more specialized uses of Bootstrap, JQuery, Node, Express and Mongoose.  Aside from creating professional and exciting websites, we also set up databases that could take user logins, product  inventories or perform other backend functions. Lastly, we learned the powerful Angular 2 framework built by Google  that uses Typescript. I was on a group project team that built a web application that used psychological research on learning to take in data on users and propose hints and reminders to keep the user in their best work flow. In my final  project, I built an engaging browser platform for multiple people to record a song, story, or mixtape over the web. This  project utilized MVC design, the Web Audio API, native Javascript, Node, and a MongoDB database.gularjs angular 2 angular 4  angular php 5 php 7 laravel drupal cakephp wordpress mongodb wordpress REST json MEAN node node node mongoose angular.js react.js vue.js mysql nosql atlassian bitbucket  git github  Other Relevant Skills:  Proficiency in the Adobe Suite, Google APIs, Socket.IO, Git CLI, Heroku, Atlassian, Jira, Bit Bucket, Zapier Education Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Anthropology UNIVERSITY OF IOWA - Iowa City, IA May 2014 German Language LEUPHANA UNIVERSITY - Lüneburg, DE March 2014 Links http://linkedin.com/in/brendanokeefe96 http://brendan.okeefe.site