Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Work Experience Front end developer August 2016 to Present • Developing and maintaining the front end functionality of websites.  • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.    • Efficient in Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Website designing.  • Creating Responsive web design and Implementation on various desktop devices with different screen sizes.  • Have experience and good knowledge in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Jquery, and AngularJs.  • Have strong knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience of Designing the layout, UI while achievingCustomer user Friendliness.  • Experience building secure web applications, user authentication, and Uploading and Updating files on server.    PROJECTS  1. BEETRO  Responsibilities:    • Analyzing the use case scenarios and design.  • Developed navigation, animated buttons, layouts, and icons. Implementing functionality adhering to the coding standards.  • I have worked under designing and Validation part of User Panel, Admin Panel, Integrated websites with social Medias such as Face book Twitter YouTube and LinkedIn.  • I have worked under designing and Validation part of User Panel, Admin Panel, Integrated websites with social Medias such as Face book Twitter YouTube and LinkedIn.  • Worked on integrating with Payment gateway like Pay Money, Instamojo, The user can Pay billing amount through Online.  2. BEES24  Responsibilities:  • Used jquery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Developed websites using Html5 and Css3, Bootstrap as per customer guidelines.  • I have been largely working with html5, css3 and developing JavaScript solutions during my time here. Designing Creative Web page & UI Screens layouts for both Web & Mobile applications.  • Created and maintained website front- end functionality. Developed and wrote external and internal design specifications. Education S.D.M.T Polytechnic 2013 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    HTML5  CSS    Bootstrap    JavaScript    Jquery    AngularJS    ReactJS    GIT, SVN    Client facing skills    Web graphics, Photoshop    Building templates    Image cropping    Web application    development    Mobile applications    CAREER STATEMENT    "I feel that my greatest strengths are my skill at developing and maintaining a close working relationship with every company client, something which in turn helps me to gain an in-depth understanding of their individual needs. Thirdly my real passion for Web Development as a whole, an obsession which allows me to spot trends and develop best practise processes."    Devaraj    UI / Front end developer    PERSONAL SUMMARY    Working as a Front- end Developer with 2+ years of experience designing, developing, and managing complex e-commerce sites and internal frameworks. Specializes in AngularJS and responsive design.    PERSONAL SKILLS    Creative thinker    Imaginative    Energetic    Initiative    Reliable    Team player    Project management    Analytical