Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Redmond, WA Web Developer with 3+ years of experience in designing and developing websites, landing pages, email campaigns, and apps. I would like to be involved in projects I can be proud of, join a team who passionate about what they are doing and increase my development & design skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Wunderman - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present Working with email marketing team: developing email campaigns following the latest standards and practices. Web Developer Webmellow - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present Working directly with clients to define their needs and help with their online presence.    Main responsibilities:  • Outline website goals and gather specifications.  • Develop UI/UX strategies.  • Design and develop websites mainly using Wordpress CMS. Customize WP themes to meet the required needs.  • Maintain websites by updating content, applying new technology and monitoring performance.  • Perform compatibility testing across all major browsers to ensure quality and consistency throughout. Web Developer Webmellow - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present Working directly with clients to define their needs and help with their online presence.    Main responsibilities:  • Outline website goals and gather specifications.  • Develop UI/UX strategies.  • Design and develop websites mainly using Wordpress CMS. Customize WP themes to meet the required needs.  • Maintain websites by updating content, applying new technology and monitoring performance.  • Perform compatibility testing across all major browsers to ensure quality and consistency throughout. Web Developer MAD STUDIOS - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2016 to February 2018 Collaborating with project managers, art directors and designers to develop websites, landing pages, and emails.    Main responsibilities:  • Develop responsive websites & landing pages using HTML, CSS, Zurb Foundation & Bootstrap frameworks, javascript, jQuery.  • Build websites using WordPress CMS (including eCommerce). Customize WP themes to meet the required needs.  • Create responsive emails; perform testing using Litmus & EmailOnAcid.  • Perform compatibility testing using BrowserStack to assure pages look the same on the most popular devices and different OS.  • Maintain existing projects. Web Developer NOEL EVENTS - Miami, FL March 2016 to September 2016 Creating an online platform to help people plan & run their events.    Main responsibilities:  • Build responsive booking eCommerce platform using WordPress CMS.  • Improve UI/UX for better usability.  • Create a new design for the next development stage.  • Perform compatibility testing. Front End Developer VIADEN MEDIA - Minsk, BY March 2014 to December 2014 Developing an online application “Wild Spin Casino” for Facebook and iOS devices.    Main responsibilities:  • Convert design mockups to application UI using XML layout.  • Create responsive layouts for different devices.  • Create custom fonts for application.  • Perform compatibility testing.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Belarusian State University of Informatics & Radioelectronics 2014 Skills HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Foundation (1 year), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (3 years), BrowserStack (1 year), Litmus (2 years), Web Development (4 years), Web Design (1 year), Adobe (4 years), UI, React, Front-End, Front End, Email Marketing (3 years), Email On Acid (2 years) Links https://olgalipskaya.com/ https://www.linkedin.com/in/olga-lipskaya/ Additional Information TOOLS    Adobe Creative Suite  Sublime Text 3  Wordpress CMS  Coda2  Dreamweaver  Visual Studio  IntelliJ IDEA  Git  BrowserStack  Litmus / Email On Acid  MailChimp / Vertical Response  Trello / Ace / Asana / Jira