Web Developer II Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Front End Developer Pleasant Lake, MI https://github.com/matthewjhough Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer II Domino's - Ann Arbor, MI April 2019 to Present Software Engineer - Contractor for Domino's Mojo Trek - Ann Arbor, MI January 2019 to April 2019 Front end developer RSI Logistics - Okemos, MI November 2017 to February 2019 • Lead the architecture and development of the flagship client side re-write of RSINet using Webpack, React, and Apollo.  • Designed and Implemented front end testing strategies and methods with Jest, React-Testing-Library and Storybook.  • Implement a new deployment process with continuous integration, by creating a build pipeline with Docker, Azure DevOps and Github.  • Worked with Employees from headquarters to create new and useful solutions to orgranization pain points.  • Researched and prototyped mobile technologies / capabilities with React Native.  • Created the new design/standard for the old, and new flagship RSI Applications.    Skills used: JavaScript ES6/7, React, Apollo, Babel, GraphQL, CSS3, HTML5, LESS, Webpack, Jest, React-Testing-Library, Dotnet core, Dotnet mvc 5, SQL, Docker, Kubernetes Web Consultant Campaign of Steve Friday for US Congress - Dexter, MI February 2018 to August 2018 • Worked Closely with the client to implement a newer, more cutting edge design for his web presence..  • Created, and deployed a customized word-press application that was more cost effective, and efficient than his previous site.  • Styled and implemented more reactivity to increase user experience of the website.  • Consulted on web/design decisions on post-deployment.    Skills used : Photoshop, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, PHP Software Developer Chameleon Power - Novi, MI February 2017 to November 2017 • Implemented JavaScript solutions for in house Unity API as well as our RESTful API to tailor clients individual needs of web room visualizers.  • Utilized and created new C# services to expand API functionality for clients.  • Implemented and utilized Javascript/CSS frameworks to customize personalized home visualizers to various high profile clients.    Skills used: JavaScript, C#, SQL, HTML, CSS Front- end web developer Informa Exhibitions LLC - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to February 2017 • Managed and built upon large-scale web applications ranging from digital summits, to simple webpages using Sitecore, HTML and CSS.  • Worked in conjunction with the CIO, and development team to implement additional JavaScript functionality for new web applications as needed.  • Used SQL for product/conference exhibitor data pulls for show exhibitor lists, and indesign text-file formats, and to create efficient C# back- end functionality.  • Recent projects include centralizng legacy application ip-check functionality using classic asp, and adding onto functionality of our newer applications with c# and SQL server 2008.    Technologies used:   XHTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, SiteCore, PhotoShop, Tortoise SVN, C#, SQL,VB.NET Front- end web developer Randstad Technologies - Scottsdale, AZ November 2014 to March 2015 • Designed and developed HTML emails with our marketing team to create effective email campaigns, with a mobile-first approach.  • Developed HTML/CSS layouts using pixel perfect for company web pages, such as Sales highlights, or Digital Issues.    Technologies used:   XHTML, CSS, JQuery, SiteCore, PhotoShop Education Certificate in Web Technologies Washtenaw Community College - Ann Arbor, MI May 2014 to May 2014 Associate in Occupational Studies in Applied Science Washtenaw Community College - Ann Arbor, MI 2014 Skills Html5 (3 years), JavaScript (4 years), CSS3 (3 years), JQuery (2 years), PHP, SQL (2 years), Nodejs, C# (2 years), Lodash (2 years), React (2 years), Front-End (4 years), Python (1 year) Groups Meetup: SEM Javascript August 2016 to Present Meet and discuss the latest JavaScript trends/technologies. Progressive Coders Network August 2018 to Present An open source network of software developers, data scientists, and grassroots activists building open source, non-partisan software. Additional Information Open Source Project(s)  Lead Front End Developer  Clamor volunteer management applictaion  Remote  August 2018 - Present    • Lead the front end engineer of the implementation of a general purpose, open-source volunteer management application to assist political campaigns in their organization and efficiency. Project is intended to be a central point of integration for other already build open source political management tools.    Technologies used: React, Typescript, Webpack, Redux, Python, Flask GoLang, MySql, Docker