Senior Front End Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Legg Mason Philadelphia, PA I am a full-stack web developer seeking a challenging position to expand my expertise and impact users of substantial applications across multiple industries/fields. My ultimate goal for the work I do is to have it impact users in a positive, significant way. I am experienced in designing, developing, debugging, and testing applications for mobile and web platforms. Work Experience Senior Front End Engineer Legg Mason - Stamford, CT 2018 to 2019 Senior Front End Developer  • Created and maintained 3 separate codebases, one for a web application, one for an android and iOS application, and one for a web admin panel application. Interviewed and hired developers, mentored juniors, gave product demos, worked closely with the business team, inspired everyone to be more productive. Enforced a comprehensive code style along with best practices. Merged and reviewed my team's code. Led the whole application lifecycle. Front End Developer DriveWealth - Chatham, NJ 2017 to 2018 Designed and developed two applications for DriveWealth; an app for the in-house back office web application and the main mobile investment application for use on iOS and Android. Added enhanced functionalities and features for an app and service enjoyed by thousands of users interested in investing. Heavy use of React, Redux, and React Native. Contractor/Application Developer Chander Dhall, Inc - Pennington, NJ 2015 to 2016 for Bank of America  • Maintained a comprehensive JavaScript UI Framework and tested it end to end. Converted the Framework from ES5 JavaScript to ECMAScript 2015 and TypeScript, then into modular packages. Implemented framework features based on client needs. Taught and onboarded clients and developers. Programmer Softrip - Fort Washington, PA 2015 to 2015 Implemented mobile-first and responsive design on a web application for a travel company using JavaScript, C# Razor templates, HTML, CSS, and Less. Ruby on Rails Developer Intern AXU, LLC - Manhattan, NY June 2014 to August 2014 Used Ruby on Rails to develop a web application for a jewelry company through AXU, a consulting firm Education Computer Science Arcadia University - Glenside, PA 2012 to 2015 Skills .NET, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Links https://github.com/timurtu https://www.linkedin.com/in/timur-uzel-880a3b90/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript, TypeScript, Sass, Less, Java, C#  Frameworks  • React, Redux, NodeJS, Jest, Express, Angular, Angular 2, .NET, Bootstrap, Material Design Lite, Semantic UI, jQuery, Ruby on Rails  Tools  • Linux Terminal, Git, Chrome Developer Tools, Github, NPM, Gulp, Webpack, JSPM, Babel, Eslint