UI/ Front End Developer UI/<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/ Front End Developer - Canyon Community Bank • Around 5 years of experience in Web Application Development including client/server with proficiency in HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSP, JQUERY, AJAX, XML and JSON, Bootstrap, MongoDB.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) technologies like AngularJS, Angular 2/4, jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX and JSON.  • Extensive experience in web analysis, design and development and implementation in Client / Server technology.  • Strong experience in working on modern full stack JavaScript environment like MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular, Node)  • Experience with Responsive and Adaptive Design using Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap and jQuery Mobile.  • Strong knowledge of Responsive Web Design, responsible for checking cross browser compatibility on different browsers.  • Expertise in Client Scripting language and server side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ECMA6 features, TypeScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular 4+, Express JS, Node.js.  • Experience in developing Reactive Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular2, Angular4 with expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular.js.  • Experience in CSS preprocessor LESS and SASS for dynamically styling Developed HTML templates and performed client-side Validation using JavaScript  • Enhance the applications with new add-on features, using ReactJS framework on front- end and Node JS on back- end with ECMAScript 6 features.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS and XML.  • Extensive experience working with JavaScript libraries, especially jQuery.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code.  • Experience in designing various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widgets that support drag-and-drop, animated effects, data and time selector and many others using jQuery.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS 3 and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.  • Extensively used Node.js for server side scripting and Node Package Manager (NPM) for updating the application from codebase.  • Experiences on React JS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests etc.  • Experience in designing graphic objects, animated images (Vector, Bitmap), templates, presentations, banners, buttons, graphic objects, user interfaces, Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with using various multimedia technologies on Adobe Flash, Action Script, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator CS5, Adobe Fireworks and GIF Animator and other third party cutting edge tools.  • Worked in wide range of environments, with IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, and with SVN and Git.  • Experience with various SDLC models like Waterfall and Agile.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated. Work Experience UI/ Front End Developer Canyon Community Bank - Tucson, AZ May 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used MVC architecture of Framework for developing web applications and to simplify the code complexity.  • Developed end to end application with agile methodology and daily stand-up meetings.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular4 framework.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular4, Node.Js, JQuery, Webpack.  • Implemented SPA by using several in built core directives, expressions and modules in perspective of Angular4.  • Developed a component that varies content based on the user's navigation by using router- outlet directive in Angular4.  • Implemented Angular 4 services to communicate with Express.js on the server-side in-order to perform CRUD operations on database.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Developed Node JS Frameworks which will be interfacing with data stores as well as frameworks and services.  • Integrated modules with designs and requirements by implementing Node JS.  • Worked on Node JS to improve all server-side logic, maintain centralized database, and ensure high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front- end.  • Involved in developing UI pages using (Angular 4) calling the Rest API from Backend.  • Involved in developing the web pages using (Angular 4) which are powerful in building the Single page web applications.  • Used Typescript as compiler to compile typescript code into JavaScript, and used Typing to manage Typescript definition.  • Used MEAN Stack Methodology to develop a dynamic website from scratch.  • Created REST clients to consume data from other partner applications and involved in creating POC's using MEAN stack and enhancing existing REST API's developed using Angualr JS, Node-JS, Express-JS and Mongo-db.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MongoDB.  • Enhance the applications with new add-on features, using ReactJS framework on front- end and Node JS on back- end with ECMAScript 6 features.  • Developer server-side application using Express.js framework and followed MVC architecture  • Altered existing UI layouts and created new layouts with SASS (CSS Pre-processor) to oblige new modifications in website design.  • Used Maven for Build automation, GIT for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code.  Environment: HTML5, CSS, SASS, Bootstrap, Node.JS, Angular 4, Express.JS, MongoDB, Typescript, JavaScript, ECMASCRIPT 6, Ajax, Restful, Jenkins, Maven, Agile, Scrum, GitHub, XML, SOAP, JQuery, Windows. UI Developer Harsco India Pvt Ltd - Addison, IL September 2014 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designed multiple views using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Converted PSD image files into HTML templates.  • Used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML5 elements.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects.  • Developed page layouts, navigation and icons.  • Created images using photoshop.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 modules, components, dependency injection etc.  • Daily stand-up SCRUM meetings with the team, Used JIRA for Stories/Bugs/Create Tasks/sub tasks.  • Used Bootsrap for UI layout for web and mobile. Used w2ui for displaying Grid.  • Imeplented the Bootstrap Navigation.  • Created Template Driven Forms and Reactive Forms in Angular 2.  • Implemented Services to share logic across different components in Angular 2.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Created 10+ Views to provide Single Page Application [SPA] functionalities to the application.  • Created popup forms using Bootstrap Models.  • Create custom, self-contained, reusable, and testable controllers, directives and services to implement key functionalities in the system.  • Created MongoDB database schema design, store JSON format data, and retrieve data from database using Mongoose drivers.  • Using tools like GIT for version controlling, chrome developer tools for Debugging and Jenkins for deploying the code to different environments.  • Developed event-based Node JS to perform AJAX operations on the server side.  • Created RESTful APIs using ExpressJs and NodeJs.  • Utilized $broadcast, $emit and $on and $rootscope to pass data between the controllers.  • Utilized ng-modules such as ui-grid, ui-route, and ngsanitize.  • Developed custom-form validation using built-in angular form properties such as $valid, $invalid, and $dirty.  Environment: Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Express JS, Node JS, Mongo DB, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Dreamweaver, GIT, JavaScript, Windows.    Project #2:  Client: ProSight Specialty Insurance  Role: UI/ Front End Developer  Responsibilities:  • Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic and compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, ES6 and JavaScript Confidential and developer responsive interface using Bootstrap for CSS  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in Angular.js using Spring Tool Suit.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Applied jQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, Angular.js, and http calls to web-services.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, and performance issues with JavaScript/jQuery.  • Developer server-side application using Express.js framework and followed MVC architecture.  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created JSON objects on the front end to throw data on the server for storing the data into MongoDB.  • Responsible for parsing JSON data to & from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  • Used Local Storage to store & retrieve insensitive user data during transition between the different pages.  • Responsible for making builds & deploying the application to server.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team  Environment: HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JSP, MVC, Rest web services, spring, MongoDB. Skills AJAX (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CSS (4 years), DATABASE (4 years), Git (4 years) Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES:  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, Adobe Creative Suite, Restful.  Framework jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, MVC, Angular 2/4.  IDE & Tools  Spring Tool Suit, Dreamweaver, Eclipse2.x/3. x., Notepad++, Atom, Brackets, sublime, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Adobe Illustrator CS6, Adobe in Design CS6, Microsoft Visio etc.    Application Server Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0, WebLogic Application Server, Node JS, Angular CLI, Spring Tool Suite.  FTP Tools Cute FTP, Core FTP, Secure FTP etc.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS X.  Database My SQL, SQL Server, MongoDB.  Version Controls GIT, SVN.