Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Bank of America Work Experience Front End Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Typescript.  ? Created Single Page Customer side applications using Angular2 and CSS3.  ? Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standards. Spearheaded adoption of new principles such as responsive using Angular2 libraries using Typescript.  ? Setting up Angular2 framework for development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, JSON, and Typescript  ? Involved in the UI review with the UI architect and business units and developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups.  ? Used JQUERY AJAX via JSON and wrote the code to fetch the data and update the HTML page.  ? To get the data in JSON format used jQuery, Ajax plug-in and displayed on HTML page.  ? Used Ajax, jQuery to generate dropdown lists dynamically.  ? Used HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and Tyescript to design the dynamic and browser compatible pages.  ? Involved in complete System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for cross-browser compatibility for which worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  ? Designed dynamic client-side Typescript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Worked on Maintaining and testing the application on time intervals.  ? Worked under a pre mature Agile Methodology.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JQUERY, Angular2, Typescript, DHTML, AJAX, Bootstrap. Angular Developer Universal Studios - Orlando, FL May 2018 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developing the new version of UniversalOrlando.com Content (K2) & Commerce site (ICE) using as data source SDL Tridion CMS Angular/NodeJS.  ? Integrated ESLint and TSLint to the build process.  ? Refactored AngularJS application to John Papa's style guide.  ? Removing Hardcoded Ng-includes and converting them into directives.  ? Converting Directives to components in Angular JS 1.6.  ? Converting whole webpack to Typescript.  ? Converted AngularJS application to typescript.  ? Converting into TS to JS  ? Migrated AngularJS 1.6 application to Angular 5 using Angular CLI.  ? Migrated build process from Grunt to webpack.  ? UI/FrontEnd using AngularJS /Angular 4, NodeJS, Grunt, HTML5, CSS3 and GIT.  ? Consumed NodeJSRestFul API services.  ? Created Unit Tests using Jasmine and Mocha Karma.  ? Created End-to- End test using protractor.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Angular JS, Angular 5, NodeJS, Typescript, GIT. UI Developer North Dallas Bank - Dallas, TX March 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Design, develop and tests HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and React JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Integrating JavaScript libraries (React-Bootstrap, High charts, Data tables)  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Involved in using React JS components Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked closely with the back- end team to display data using the Custom components, Library components, and Redux.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used web services SOAP and RESTful for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from back- end REST API as a part of JSON.  • Maintaining parent and child elements by using State and Props in React.JS.  • Architected and Developed for large scale JavaScript application with React.js.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Experience in working GIT for branching, tagging, and merging.  • Developed unit tests with Mocha.  • Thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Interacted with Testing team, Scrum Masters, and Business Analysts for fixing the issues which are reported by testing team.  • Involved in Agile methodologies and full SDLC of designing, coding, testing, debugging, and support.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Node JS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Mocha, Firebug, Agile Development, JIRA, Mongo DB, Jasmine. UI Developer ALDI - Dallas, TX April 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Configured routes between ReactJS and Flask to render the templates from the server-side.  • Used jQuery in directly manipulating the DOM yet separating the ReactJS Components.  • Used ReactJS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Performed Unit testing on ReactJS applications using tools like Karma, Jasmine and worked with Gulp tool for build automation.  • Used various plugins on babel to compile JSX to create elements.  • Worked with NodeJS module making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Used React JS for building composable and reactive user interfaces.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and Redux library.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Experience in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, Node.js, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, colour scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and TypeScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery. Analyse the response of JSON in order to update DOM.  • Used GIT for Version Control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, ES6, React JS, Node JS, JSON, TypeScript, jQuery, AJAX, GIT, XHTML, Windows Front End Developer Lenovo September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using Java, JavaScript and CSS3.  ? Designed a number of HTML5 forms using the various html form tag, according to the requirement of the end user.  ? Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage.  ? Managing the use and development of the Traceability matrix and participates in design review ensuring that all requirements have been integrated.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Used the HTML tables to great effect to achieve page layouts.  ? Used CSS to great effect to design to design a number of pages in a dynamic fashion.  ? Used extensively AJAX concept of JavaScript using the XMLHttp Request object to connect to external services to send and receive data in SOAP format.  ? Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle, risk plan, project plan, issues and statuses.  ? Using tools like GIT for version controlling chrome developer tools for Debugging and Jenkins for deploying the code to different environments.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Usability Testing, and SO. Education Masters in Computer Science Texas A&M University Btech in Electronics and Computer Engineering K L University