Web Developer UI/UX Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/UX Front End Engineer / Web Developer Seattle, WA I am a front- end developer with experience in creating static and dynamic websites and web applications. Knowledgeable in front- end technology as well as the principles and techniques of website development and maintenance. Adept at conveying complex technical information to a variety of technical and non-technical professional audiences. Seeking employment in the Seattle area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer UI/UX Ilios Garden Supply Company - Seattle, WA October 2017 to March 2019 • Designed and Implemented all UI components for e-commerce website.  • Working with multiple clients on UX implementation of UI components.  • Experience with debugging and improving website’s load times and accessibility.  • Website increased client’s revenue and brand recognition. Company was recently acquired by one of the largest national distribution chains in U.S.  • Keen understanding of how to create easy-to-use, cutting edge websites and web applications utilizing HTML5, CSS3, CSS Grid System, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, NPM, Node JS, Webpack and JavaScript Frameworks/Libraries.  • Dedicated to utilizing best practices and web standards in order to support all users, including those with special needs.    SKILLS  HTML5  CSS3  Vue JS  AJAX  Wordpress  GIT & GitHub  API Usage  JavaScript  DOM Traversal  JSON  Angular JS  Gulp and Grunt  Progressive Web Applications  Mockup/Wireframing Prototyping  Responsive and Adaptive Design  User Science Testing and Accessibility Mobile Web Developer Front End Engineer Grow with Google / Udacity Web Application Developer - Seattle, WA January 2018 to August 2018 • Designed and implemented all UI components as well as offline capabilities for website.  • Google / Udacity Mobile Web developer for Restaurant Reviews Application.  • Created dynamic Progressive Web Applications for seamless offline experiences.  • Offline caching utilizing Javascript agents such as Serviceworkers as well as IndexedDB and Localstorage. ¬¬  • Google Chrome Devtools Lighthouse Audits proficiency for optimizing performance, progressive web app rendering and accessibility standards. Achieved 100% Lighthouse audit scores for performance, accessibility and progressive web application.  • Mobile first responsive and adaptive design for all screen sizes.  • JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS, Gulp, DOM traversal, UI design and implementation.  • Implementation of local development server for updating and extracting asynchronous data.    -- SKILLS  HTML5  CSS3  AJAX  GIT & GitHub  API Usage  JavaScript  DOM Traversal  JSON  Vue JS  Angular JS  React JS  Redux  Webpack  Heroku   Gulp and Grunt  Progressive Web Applications  Mockup/Wireframing Prototyping  Responsive and Adaptive Design  User Science Testing and Accessibility    RELEVANT COURSEWORK  • Unix Command Line Utilities  • SSH “Secure Shell” remote server systems  • Apache and LAMP stack configurations  • Digital Ocean web server infrastructure  • MySQL relational database management systems  • Indexing and caching utilizing Local Storage and IndexedDB  • Web Servers and Hosting  • Software Development Life Cycle  • User Science Testing, Accessibility and Analysis  • JavaScript ES5 and ES6 Programming  • JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks ¬-(JQuery, React, Vue JS, Angular JS)  • Github workflow  • Mobile Web Development  • Service Workers and precaching  • Offline-first ready applications  • Progressive Web Applications  • Agile and Scrum Methodologies Front- End Web Developer Seattle University Web Development Program - Seattle, WA January 2017 to December 2017 • Designed and Implemented all UI components for website.  • Mobile-first progressive web application that utilizes VueJS, Axios API, OpenWeatherMap API, AJAX, Webpack and Vue CLI.  • Mobile first responsive and adaptive design for all screen sizes.  • Offline caching utilizing JavaScript agents such as Serviceworkers as well as IndexedDB and Localstorage.   • Fetch API for accessing and implementing data from NewsAPI.org.    -- SKILLS  HTML5  CSS3  AJAX  GIT & GitHub  API Usage  JavaScript  DOM Traversal  JSON  Vue JS  Angular JS  Gulp and Grunt  Progressive Web Applications  Mockup/Wireframing Prototyping  Responsive and Adaptive Design  User Science Testing and Accessibility    RELEVANT COURSEWORK  • Unix Command Line Utilities  • SSH “Secure Shell” remote server systems  • Apache and LAMP stack configurations  • Digital Ocean web server infrastructure  • MySQL relational database management systems  • Indexing and caching utilizing Local Storage and IndexedDB  • Web Servers and Hosting  • Software Development Life Cycle  • User Science Testing, Accessibility and Analysis  • JavaScript ES5 and ES6 Programming  • JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks ¬-(JQuery, React, Vue JS, Angular JS)  • Github workflow  • Mobile Web Development  • Service Workers and precaching  • Offline-first ready applications  • Progressive Web Applications  • Agile and Scrum Methodologies Education Seattle University in Front End Web Development Web Development Graduate Certificate Program - Seattle, WA January 2017 to December 2018 Google / Udacity in Mobile Web Front- end development Mobile Web Specialist Nanodegree - Seattle, WA January 2018 to August 2018 BA in Telecommunications Indiana University-Bloomington - Bloomington, IN Skills Front End Engineering (2 years), UI (2 years), Javascript (3 years), React JS (1 year), Redux (1 year), HTML (3 years), Git (2 years), Mobile Web Applications (2 years), Github (2 years), Unix (3 years), User Science Testing and Accessibility (2 years), CSS3 (3 years), Vue JS (2 years), Angular JS (1 year), Progressive Web Applications (1 year), Unit Testing (1 year), Data Structures and Algorithms (2 years), Web Development (3 years), Responsive and Adaptive Design (2 years), Heroku (2 years), Front End (3 years), React (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Front-End (3 years) Links http://billvas.com https://github.com/bvasilop https://www.linkedin.com/in/bill-vasilopoulos/ Certifications/Licenses Seattle University Web Development December 2016 to Present Seattle University Web Development Graduate Certificate Program    HTML and CSS Fluency - (2017 - 2018)  As a student of the Seattle University Web Development Certificate program, I created appealing web designs using HTML, CSS, SASS and LESS. I also utilized best practices and web standards in web design by using mockups and wireframes to assist with developing static and dynamic websites.    Javascript Programming - (2017 - 2018)  Using concepts of Javascript programming such as progressive enhancement, DOM manipulation, detecting and altering content to enhance cross-browser support, improving usability of forms, validating data and pulling and utilizing data from external API sources. Also, using Javascript libraries such as JQuery to assist with event handling and DOM manipulation. Additionally, utilizing Javascript application frameworks like AngularJS, ReactJS and VueJS to create interactive webapps. I also utilized Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture patterns for implementing user interfaces in multiple Javascript frameworks.    Servers and Hosting - (2017 - 2018)  Utilizing command-line UNIX utilities to move files and accomplish tasks such as connecting to remote server systems via "Secure Shell" "SSH" technologies and successfully configuring server locations to be served at a specific URL for public web users resulting in functional websites. Also, utilizing static file servers such as Apache and LAMP/LEMP stack configurations, to run custom subdomains on droplets using the Digital Ocean web server infrastructure. Deployed dynamic content after installing webapps (PHP files for Wordpress) while utilizing mySQL relational database management systems. Implemented caching and site optimization with the assistance of Wordpress plugins to compress pages and utilize PHP to serve cached files.    User Science and Testing - (2017 - 2018)  Coursework and projects that included usability testing, search engine optimization and quality assurance for developing contemporary web content. Created usability journals that contained essays, studies, and descriptive analysis of websites while applying usability studies and user science to web sites and applications. Utilized Google Analytics while implementing web analytics, events and goals and content experiments to effectively track and analyze web user behavior. Google / Udacity Mobile Web Specialist Present Mobile web development curriculum that provides necessary tools to create responsive and accessible web apps by building mobile-first progressive web applications that have offline capabilities and are optimized for web app performance through rendering optimizations, leveraging local storage, indexedDB, service workers, IndexedDB and caching, ES6 syntax, default function parameters, destructuring, built-ins, classes and subclasses, array helper methods, promises, fetch generators, modifying sets and iterators, WeakMaps, proxies, polyfills and transpiling. Udemy Complete React with Redux Present Completed certificate that includes utilizing tools such as React, Redux, React Router, Jest, Enzyme, Webpack, Moment, Babel and deployment with Heroku. Udemy JavaScript Interview Prep Present Completed certificate that included JavaScript algorithm questions for software engineering interviews. LYNDA Compete Vue JS certification Present Completed course covering comprehensive Vue JS frameworks. LYNDA JavaScript Essential Training Present Completed coursework for JavaScript programming and implementation LYNDA Learning CSS Present Completed course for comprehensive CSS training and implemention. Web Development January 2017 to Present 1. Seattle University Web Development Certificate  2. Google/Udacity Mobile Web Specialist Certificate  3. Udemy Complete React / Redux Certificate Additional Information RELEVANT COURSEWORK for Udacity /Google Mobile Web Specialist Nanodegree  • Unix Command Line Utilities  • SSH “Secure Shell” remote server systems  • Apache and LAMP stack configurations  • Digital Ocean web server infrastructure  • MySQL relational database management systems  • Indexing and caching utilizing Local Storage and IndexedDB  • Web Servers and Hosting  • Software Development Life Cycle  • User Science Testing, Accessibility and Analysis  • JavaScript ES5 and ES6 Programming  • JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks ¬-(JQuery, React, Vue JS, Angular JS)  • Github workflow  • Mobile Web Development  • Service Workers and precaching  • Offline-first ready applications  • Progressive Web Applications  • Agile and Scrum Methodologies