Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - DADA Accounting Services Washington, DC • Dynamic and detail-oriented Junior Web Developer and GIS analyst with a passion for creating and delivering elegant, adaptable user interfaces effectively and efficiently.  • Highly motivated developer with strong front- end development skills.  • A self-starter, attentive to details, thrifty and resourceful in finding the right solutions.  • Soft skills include patience, perseverance, and teamwork   • Passion to realize ideas into real web and mobile applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer DADA Accounting Services - Washington, DC June 2018 to Present • Designed and implemented a fully responsive WordPress theme in collaboration with lead designer and project manager.  • Successfully developed and deployed a webpage using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript(ES6), React JS and Redux.  • Used React-Redux library to help application create Redux store as state container, actions to describe the events and reducer to handle actions.  • Developed back- end server using Node.js and Express.js.  • Set up MongoDB database using MLab and linked Mongoose to provide all the CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) interactions between backend server and database. GIS Analyst and Developer Anthropocene Institute - Menlo Park, CA September 2016 to August 2017 • Analysis of hydrological model data output from San Francisco bay watersheds for state pollution reduction strategies.  • Managed and analyzed remote sensing data; applied GIS software to earth science and environmental problems; provided support for research project development.  • Mapping and editing Marine Protected Areas (MPAs).  • Data gathering, analysis, manipulation and digitizing with Arc GIS. Intern San Francisco State University - Tiburon, CA September 2015 to August 2016 • Conducted research and verified the sources of pollution and prepared reports on findings.  • Conducted research on ecological environment and natural sciences.  • Advanced Geospatial analysis including seafloor and habitat mapping.  • Performed statistical data analysis and manipulation with R, SAS and Python to produce graphical presentation. Education Master of Science in Spatial Planning Universita lauv di Venezia August 2014 to May 2016 Master of Science in Marine Affairs Xiamen University August 2012 to May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Marine Science University of Asmara August 2002 to May 2006 Skills Arcgis (Less than 1 year), Auto cad (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Cad (Less than 1 year), coding (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Front end (1 year), Front end design (1 year), Front-end (1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Html5 (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), jquery (Less than 1 year), Mongodb (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Nosql (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), Sas (1 year), Serial attached scsi (1 year), CSS3, UI, Node, React Links http://petrosmelake.ga https://github.com/Petivip https://www.linkedin.com/in/petros-melake/