Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Bank of America / Merrill Lynch West New York, NJ Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Bank of America / Merrill Lynch April 2018 to Present Building an internal banking tool used to track and account for millions of dollars by traders. I led the user  interface and user experience design for the development of custom features built in React and Redux.  Currently, because of a limited server bandwidth offered by bank for this project, I am refactoring the application to utilize native node.js as a middle-tier server for processing data before hitting our window i9  server boxes. Senior Software Engineer at Robert Yarborough.com April 2017 to Present Negotiating contracts with startups and small businesses in the Spa Health and Wellness Industry. Yarborough.com April 2017 to November 2017 Designing and Developing proprietary booking application with Booking.com api.  React Native JavaScript ES6 Booking Api Integration  Features Not Deployed.    ? Building: Mobile workout application that integrates Samsung Health api features, in React  Native, ES6, Express, and MongoDB.    ? Learning: ( React and React Native )  Reading "Learning React Native by Bonnie Eisenmann".  Reading "Pro Mern Stack by Vasan Subramanian". Senior Front- End Developer WebMD July 2016 to March 2017 Developed cross-browser, fully functional and standards-compliant web apps used by millions of people.  Developed modular, object-oriented JavaScript applications using cutting edge JavaScript frameworks such as Node.js, ReactJS, Redux, Backbone.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, Handlebars, and Grunt.js.  While strictly adhering to accessibility and W3C web standards.  Worked with ad operations team to improve revenue integrations and ad-viewability across webmd.com and owned-and-operated sites.  Worked with business clients, internal and external, to scope, structure and deliver complex web  products. Collaborated with developers, product managers, designers, web publishers and back- end  engineers to support site operations and meet project deadlines.  Mentored other developers on best practices and group standards Senior Front- End Developer Bobby5 September 2014 to September 2016 Negotiated corp-to-corp contracts with startups and small businesses.  Built mobile application prototypes for clients such as Park Slope Media, Inc ., AIFS(April 2016), and Real Capital Analytics(September 2015 - December 2015) decoupled shopping cart widget, for Zola Books, Inc April 2015 to September 2015 Accessible to integrate with any backend relational database. Macys.com August 2014 to November 2014 Advanced the design aesthetic on macys.com while maintaining alignment with the national brand.  Assembled and conceptualized animation/functionality for interactive websites  Developed and incorporated social networking aspects to websites.  Native JavaScript OOP paradigm jQuery library JSON AJAX  Examples of Work: http://robert-yarborough.com/dist/projects/mensguidetostyle_2014/ipad.html Path Interactive November 2013 to February 2014 Daily maintenance and improvement of customer facing website and product focused microsites.Created  javaScript and AJAX interface interactions triggered by onclick event handlers retrieving user data from server via PHP/ mySQL / Wordpress CMS backend.  Developed jQuery UI widgets and jQuery plugin extensions, as well as implemented Responsive Design  best practices without the use of a CSS framework.  Examples of Work: http://www.keepinsurance.com/ http://www.woodbridgeinvestments.com/  http://www.zagat.com/ Blue Bite LLC 2014 to 2014 Market America 2014 to 2014 Iris Nation Worldwide ( April 2012 - June 2012 )  Programmed standards compliant HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 working with jQuery library modules and facebook javaScript SDK / PHP to build dynamic social platform apps.  Examples of Work: https://www.facebook.com/beyonceparfums/app_102841983145043 www.veet.com  http://www.androidcentral.com/sony-launches-xperia-unleashed-campaign-uk-win-stuff-finding-tiny-bots  MetroClick ( November 2011 - February 2012 )  Developed standards-compliant HTML5 / CSS3 / javaScript for corporate website. Used Wordpress to integrate client-side codebase with PHP/mySQL backend.  Created branding materials such as logo design, information architecture, and prototyping using  Fireworks Software.  Worked directly with designers and project managers to create pixel-perfect web application.  Example of Work: www.metroclick.com Front- End Web Developer Michael C. Fina October 2012 to September 2013 Refined user experience by designing and implementing new Javascript UI modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site environment.  Extension of Bootstrap and custom ajax events used exclusively for user shopping experience.  UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic e-commerce website through desktop, mobile and smartphone app interfaces.  Lead Front- End Developer on internal web application projects.  Responsible for creating graphical user interfaces, information architecture, wireframes and style guides.  As well as producing high-quality HTML5 prototypes.  Examples of Work: www.michaelcfina.com http://www.mcfrecognition.com/ Exent Technologies April 2011 to November 2011 Responsible for redesigning and development of companies sites. Also managed careers section by updating positions via html source code. Designed various assets and custom graphics for branding  purposes. Front- End Web Developer Robert-Yarborough LLC February 2009 to April 2011 Negotiated corp-to-corp contracts with startups and small businesses.  Clients include: Education Flatiron School Specialty School 2014 to 2015 A.S. in Design & Visual Communications Katherine Gibbs School Associate 2007 to 2009 Skills Javascript, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, CSS3, Bootstrap, Node Links http://robert-yarborough.com Additional Information Expertise:    Web Development:    Client-Side Technologies:  JavaScript ( language paradigms: Object-Oriented and Functional )  Current JavaScript Libraries & Frameworks ( React and Redux)    Server-Side Technologies:  NODE.JS ( NPM package manager and Express Framework )  MongoDB ( NoSQL )  PHP ( WordPress CMS )    Mobile Development:  React Native  HTML5 / responsive design