Senior Front- End Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer Senior Front- End Software Engineer - Fox Digital Consumer Group Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Senior Front- End Software Engineer Fox Digital Consumer Group - Los Angeles, CA February 2018 to Present • Created World Cup 2018 content pages that were consumed by more than 20+ million unique visitors on desktop, tablet and mobile viewports throughout the World Cup.  • Created CTA ad logic to be consumed on FoxSports.com by third-party advertisers, including Adidas.  • Created and maintained Google AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) content pages in order to improve page load  time and SEO visibility across all mobile devices.  • Created performant partial HTML content to be consumed on third-party partner sites.  • Implemented A/B testing for various functionalities, including advertisement pre-rolls.  • Implemented internal and third-party beacons and collaborated with various stakeholders to verify proper  reporting functionality.  • Improved the performance of foxsports.com by eliminating unnecessary code, which resulted in a 5%  improvement in overall page load time. Lead Front- End Engineer Sony Pictures Television - Culver City, CA April 2016 to March 2017 • Managed a combined team of 6-8 developers and QA testers, including off-shore resources.  • Architected and Developed the new Crackle.com website in collaboration with third-party vendors.  • Developed an HTML5 video player based on VideoJS framework using Castlabs Digital Rights Management  (DRM).  • Implemented Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) standards in order to take advantage of Single Page  Application (SPA) architecture.  • Enforced security best practices in order to prevent OWASP vulnerabilities, such as Injection, Cross-Site Scripting  (XSS) and Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF).  • Created a Grunt script to optimize page load time of the Crackle.com website by minifying, uglifying, sprite  creation and caching, which resulted in an average speed improvement of 30%.  • Devised a bash deployment script that takes the GitHub source code, packages it for various deployment  environments and deploys it to Microsoft Azure Cloud Web App instances for the respective environments.  • Collaborated with Akamai to ensure fast delivery of Crackle contents and assets.  • Collaborated with Akamai and Prerender.io to implement SPA caching for Crackle.com to be crawlable by search  engines for the purpose of SEO. Senior Front- End Engineer Sony Pictures Television - Culver City, CA December 2013 to April 2016 Created a multilingual User Interface (UI) for the search box with an auto-complete dropdown list that is  consumed by public end users at the top of all Crackle domestic and international websites (i.e., US, Brazil, Mexico, etc.).  • Connected the Crackle back- end to consume ThinkAnalytics search and recommendations engine results and developed a feed to be consumed by ThinkAnalytics engine via secure API calls.  • Created a public Crackle Search API to be consumed by internal and third-party clients.  • Revamped the Crackle.com header to a slimmer more robust and mobile-friendly user interface, configurable  through an admin interface.  • Implemented the Adobe Analytics data collection and reporting suite, formerly Omniture SiteCatalyst, on all  Crackle domestic and international websites. Senior UI Consultant Sony Pictures Entertainment - Culver City, CA January 2013 to June 2013 • Developed the public-facing UI components of the Sony's Ci Media Cloud solution.  • Brought business concepts into functional UI interfaces using ASP.NET MVC, jQuery, CSS and Knockout.  • Gathered and enforced business requirements using SCRUM methodology.  • Created a web service layer to consume REST API calls within the application to achieve a distributed  architecture.  • Ensured the delivery of final products as intended by the original concepts in a timely manner. Lead .NET Consultant Universal Music Group - Santa Monica, CA October 2012 to January 2013 • Provided a roadmap and architected a new internal company application on the UMG intranet.  • Facilitated the smooth transfer of third-party hosted applications to in-house company hosted intranet.  • Developed UI concepts into working products using SQL Server 2008, ASP.NET MVC 4, jQuery, CSS and jQuery UI. .NET Consultant City National Bank - Los Angeles, CA May 2012 to August 2012 • Contributed to centralizing the development efforts and created a roadmap for future UI development cycle.  • Managed the gathering of requirements and handling the communications between the middle-tier and front- end developers.  • Provided direction and mentored junior developers.  • Created functional UI components and interfaces using ASP.NET, jQuery, CSS and jQuery UI.  • Created a web service layer to be consumed by the internal application. Senior .NET Consultant Live Nation - Los Angeles, CA December 2011 to April 2012 Created a Java single sign-on application to connect users between two disparate system, using LDAP and SSL  handshake.  • Improved and developed company's internal web application using ASP.NET MVC, jQuery and AJAX.  • Coordinated efforts with third-party vendors. Successfully installed and tested third-party products.  • Worked under minimal supervision and ensured all deadlines were met. Senior .NET Developer Baseline, Inc - Los Angeles, CA March 2011 to September 2011 • Architected and developed plans for a product conversion project from ColdFusion to ASP.NET MVC and jQuery.  • Organized the data structure to be consumed by the internal and client-facing company products.  • Created an n-tier WCF data access layer to provide content from various databases to various applications.  • Gathered Awards data from the publicly available published sites by creating a web crawler.  • Provided technical assistance and direction to other team members. Software Developer Myspace - Beverly Hills, CA April 2010 to January 2011 As a Senior member of the Ad Monetization Team, I implemented and maintained various third-party  advertisement services, such as Google AdX, GFeed, AFC, AFS and FAN (Fox Audience Network).  • Implemented A/B testing on various portions of the site, including data-driven development in collaboration  with Google engineers.  • Created a Monetization data access layer using various design patterns to be used throughout myspace.com.  • Refactored legacy code to conform to company's new coding standards.  • Responded to day-to-day ad hoc requests and swiftly resolved production issues using C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, XML, HTML, and CSS.  • Created and embedded various internal and third-party beacons on many pages throughout the myspace.com.  • Implemented logging for various modules in the code base.  • Developed Microsoft Web Slices for various verticals at Myspace. Education Computer Science California State University Electrical Engineering University of California - Los Angeles, CA Skills Asp, Css, Asp.net, Web services, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Wcf, Php, Python, Java, jquery, Mvc, Knockout, Soap, Sql, Rest, Front-End, Node, UI, HTML5, React, Front End, CSS3 Links http://linkedin.com/in/raminjacobson Additional Information • 10+ years of experience in designing and developing small to large scale internet and intranet applications.  • Comfortable with a range of technologies, programming languages and open source projects.  • Knowledgeable in software architecture, front- end, middle-tier and back- end development.  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience, including information gathering, solution design,  development planning, code review and merging, Quality Assurance (QA), production release, maintenance  planning, and documentation.  • Experienced in various development methodologies, such as Agile (SCRUM), Kanban and Waterfall.  • Experienced in leading and managing development teams (onsite, remote, offshore) and providing direction.  • Experienced in working with third-party vendors, remote and offshore teams.  • Ability to take ownership of projects and managing with minimal supervision.  • Familiar with product management and project management.  • Passionate about technology.    NOTABLE TECHNICAL SKILLS  (advanced): C#, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, ASP.NET/MVC  (proficient): Java, SQL, LINQ, Bootstrap, React  (prior exposure): PHP, C++, C, Python, Classic ASP, Node.js, Web Services, REST, CORS, SOAP, VideoJS,  WCF, jQuery, Knockout among many others.