PHP & Drupal Developer PHP &amp; Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP & Drupal Developer - Queens Library, NY Long Island, NY • 6 and half years of experience in layout designing and coding of websites specifically using PHP4 and PHP5, Angular, HTML5, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, DHTML &SEO technologies.  • Proficient working with web technologies such as PHP, AJAX, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, and MySQL.  • Extensive experience in MVC architecture frameworks.  • Experience in popular Control Management Systems like WordPress, Drupal.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing client-side JavaScript, JQuery, proficient in HTML, Angular 2/4/5 and CSS  • Proficient in developing web applications using Node.js.  • Designing and implementing complex Front- End features using JQuery JavaScript framework, Nodejs, Angular, CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap.  • Experience working with RESTfulAPI using JSN, XML.  • Excellent in using GIT and SVN Version Control System  • Expertise with online repositories such as GitHub, Stash  • Experience using JIRA and Agile Methodology  • Experience with various IDE tools such as Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver, Note Pad ++, Brackets, NetBeans, Eclipse.  • Hands on experience on MySQL database.  • Highly experienced using Drupal, and Word Press Content Management Systems (CMS)  • Excellent experience in Design, Maintenance, Content Management, System administration of Websites, and professional familiarity with various local servers such as LAMP,XAMP, WAMP, MAMP.  • Good in using UNIX and SSH commands.  • Experience in using Oracle Virtual Box  • Knowledge of best practices, W3C standards and securing for building web applications  • Involved in the Unit and Integration testing  • Versatile and adaptable to emerging technologies and processes  • Adept at working individually, in group settings, and as a team leader with the ability to collaborate with graphic designers and company management to create and enhance web sites while being able to handle responsibilities and new protocols.  • Worked with Quality Assurance Testing to appreciate and understand the risks of software development and thorough understanding of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in application design, programming architecture, and software lifecycle Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP & Drupal Developer Queens Library, NY June 2017 to Present • Worked on Library site rebuild using technologies like Drupal Content management system, HTML, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Php.  • Worked on local Environment with XAMPP, Apache 2.2, PHP 7, and MYSQL 5.5 on both windows and MAC OS.  • Used Gulp for the compilation of SASS code, minify the code, for live reload etc. Worked with stripe a third-party library for payment processing.  • Mostly worked with JavaScript for the effective functionality of site.  • Basically, the site is built on top of Bootstrap based theme. Worked with different bootstrap classes.  • Developed a web application that connects vendors with library review committee where they evaluate the forms submitted thorough the application.  • Created different kinds of content types, custom blocks, views and installed number of contributed modules like views accordion, work bench moderation, better exposed filters.  • Worked with twig files (template files) for to create various kinds of templates as per requirement.  • Used Angular built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Developed different REST APIs for modules such as bus tracking, requests, and checkout.  • Created custom module to create, auto update, carousels for programs and activities at Queens's library.  • Designing and building complex UI/UX scenarios using angular.  • Created Program Proposal single page application using angular and Drupal.  • Created admin configuration forms to maintain the configurations of carousels created using custom module.  • Created Cron jobs to automatically execute some functions every hour. Also updated the node fields automatically as required.  • Worked on exporting and importing dev database once a day with SQLPro and Drush.  • Developed custom module like QLform which is used to create different kinds of forms throughout the site using render arrays.  • Used jQuery for fancy client-side form validations to save server resources.  • Worked with Slick library for creating different kinds of carousels for site.  • Also tested the functionality of developed modules and UI across various kinds of browsers and various devices.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments using JIRA.  • Documented the whole project for future purposes.  Environment: Mac OS X, Apache, PHP, MySQL, Drupal, Ajax, Node JS, Angular 2/4/5, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap 3.2.0, Jira, Agile. PHP Developer Mayo Clinic, MN September 2016 to May 2017 • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL 5, and PHP 5.4) architecture.  • Worked on Mayo clinic job posting website using WordPress Content management system.  • Created Child theme using One of the WordPress default theme as Parent theme.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming in PHP - inheritance, encapsulation, and polymorphism - Data Structure/Algorithms knowledge.  • Involved in the development using Drupal and PHP. Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Worked on stored procedures in MSSQL DB. Worked on the queries to retrieve the data from the database.  • Worked on Mayo medical laboratory Registration module.  • After logging into the module user can perform many things like order tests, make appointments etc.  • In this module I have queried database based on user and display test results along with the pricing details.  • I have added the advanced interaction controls like search functionality, filtering, pagination functionality, sorting functionality to those tables using data tables library.  • Extensively used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack; Developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  • Developed WordPress Widgets whenever necessary and created and registered the regions for theme.  • Developed some WordPress plugins according to requirement.  • Implemented Third Party Payment Gateway stripe for secured transactions.  • Provided the support for the applications and website developed for Human resource work team at mayo clinic.  • Write software technical documentation as needed.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Used CSS and Bootstrap to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3. Modified the source code according to the requirement.  • Ability to communicate effectively, both written and verbal, with technical and non-technical cross-functional teams.  • Worked with the business analysts and back- end developers to gather requirements, improve application functionality, and add new features.  Environment: Mac OS X, Apache, PHP, MySQL, Data Tables, Ajax, Angular JS 1.6, Node JS, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap 3.2.0, Jira, Agile, WordPress PHP & Drupal Web Applications Developer Macy's - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built responsive website using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Developed application using Angular.JS connecting to MySQL on the backend  • Created Middleware for user authentication and used Blade Templating Engine for rendering dynamic views.  • Used the Twitter API to grab latest 10 tweets and displayed it on website.  • Content must be continually updated when it comes to web app development, so used Drupal as content management system (CMS).  • Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting  • Worked on customizing modules and themes for web applications using Drupal.  • Using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Designed whole application using XAMPP and Angular CLI  • Designed theme using HTML/XHTML, CSS, used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on Google maps API to represent different store locations with custom pointer on the map. Also worked on geo location services.  • Processed large data logs to create visual representation of data with pie charts and bar charts using high charts JavaScript library.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used SVN to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code and web pages.  • Worked closely with the business partners, business analysts on the team to develop code and deliver technical solutions adhering to business requirements.  • Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Fixed Bugs with the help of Jira (Bug Tracking System).  Environment: Mac OS X, Apache, PHP, MySQL, Google map API, Drupal, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap 3.2.0, Jira, MVC, Linux, MS Word, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio, XML, Agile. Front End Developer Binary Folks - Kolkata, West Bengal October 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation layers using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, and AJAX etc.  • Designed different front- end forms for various catering services using PHP, JavaScript.  • Worked with other Software Engineers for better understanding of software methodologies.  • Created responsive web pages using bootstrap classes.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP concepts in PHP5.  • Worked on documenting the work to present it to the project manager.  • Modified the search engine so that the user can find the relevant data as per the requirement  • Developed PHP code and static HTML pages.  • Built some interactive user interfaces using JQuery.  • Creating new snippets of JS code to enhance current functionalities.  • Build new web pages using various content management systems like Drupal, Word press.  • Tested the responsive design of websites in multiple cross platform browsers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, JQuery, Drupal, Word press, XAMPP, Bootstrap. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, Drupal (5 years), PHP (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages PHP 5 and 7 with OOP, Java, C, C++  Web Technologies XHTML/HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular  CMS Drupal, WordPress  PHP Frameworks Laravel  Database MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle  MySQL Administration Tools Php MyAdmin, SQL Pro, MySQL Workbench  Web Services REST, SOAP  Version controls GIT, SVN  Operating Systems Ubuntu, Windows XP/7/10, Mac OS X  Applications Adobe Photoshop, Gimp  IDE Eclipse, PHP Storm, Sublime Text, NetBeans