Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - DFA Corporation Tehran-IR Experienced Developer with a demonstrated history of working in the  telecommunications and banking industry. Skilled in User Interface Design, Client-side  development in ASP.NET Core, jQuery, and Bootstrap, JavaScript , HTML/CSS, React.js,  Full Stack Roles with MVC using c# and entity framework, Customer Relationship  Management (CRM). Strong engineering professional with a Master’s Degree focused in  Computer Software Engineering.  Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience Full Stack Developer DFA Corporation February 2019 to Present Faradis Alborz Company (shortly known as DFA) has begun its activities by operating its VSAT,  VNB and additional equipment's as the first company manufacturing and supporting centralized  bank systems in Iran since 2004.  Design and implement new UI for all the web projects in the company such as Payment  Systems monitoring, Kiosk Terminals, ATMs and etc.  One of the most important projects in the DFA is IRMA that provided to monitor the ATM's around the country and I'm working as a full stack developer with .NET Core MVC for this  project.  Implement offline map for monitoring the ATM's status around the country, in this project  Docker was used to implement the map server and Leaflet.js was used to show the ATM's with different status around the map.  1  Behpardakht Mellat (Dec 2019- February 2019)  Designation: Front End Developer  Behpardakht Mellat is a PSP (Payment Service Provider) of Mellat Bank, which is founded in  2005 in order to improve payment solutions.  I have worked as a part-time Front end developer for 3 months and I did one of the most  important national projects about Fuel with Bootstrap4, css3, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5,  handlebars.js. Front End Developer MobinNet January 2016 to December 2018 Project: my.mobinnet.ir  MobinNet Telecom Co. as the only nationwide wireless broadband (4G-WiMAX) operator with More than 750,000 subscribers has already provided the wireless internet service in IRAN.  I worked on a lot of projects like call reason, smart spot, and my.mobinnet.ir as a Front End  Developer & UI Designer, I and my colleagues implement our project in ASP.NET Core platform,  my projects were implemented by using Bootstrap4, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Razor,  handlebars.js, React.js, View components in ASP.NET Core and Bundle, minify to reach good  performance. Teacher Tehran Institute of Technology May 2013 to January 2016 Taught all these courses:  • CIW (Certified Internet Web Professional) • Bootstrap  • jQuery • Asp.Net  • C# • C++ Full Stack Developer ParsFanavarn March 2011 to April 2013 Engineering web development, all layers, from database to services to user interfaces.  Develop web applications using ASP.NET web forms. Education MSc Degree in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Azad University 2013 to 2015 BS Degree in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Sadra University 2007 to 2009 Associate Degree in Software in Software Valiasr University 2005 to 2007 Skills .net (4 years), Ajax (5 years), Api (1 year), Asp (7 years), Asp.net (7 years), Back end (10+ years), Bootstrap (4 years), C# (8 years), Crm (1 year), Css (10+ years), Customer relationship management (Less than 1 year), database (2 years), Front end (3 years), Git (2 years), interface design (4 years), Javascript (5 years), Jira (Less than 1 year), jquery (5 years), Mongodb (2 years), Leadership Development (2 years), ASP.NET Core MVC (3 years), React, Docker (1 year), NET Publications On Complexity of Persian Orthography: L-Systems Approach https://www.complex-systems.com/abstracts/v25_i02_a03/ 2016-06 To understand how the Persian language developed over time, we uncover the dynamics of  the complexity of Persian orthography. We represent Persian words by L-systems and calculate  complexity measures of these generative systems. The complexity measures include degrees of  nonconstructability, generative complexity, and morphological richness; the measures are augmented with time series analysis. The measures are used in a comparative analysis of four representative poets: Rudaki (858–940 AD), Rumi (1207–1273), Sohrab (1928–1980), and Yas (1982–present). We find that irregularity of the Persian language, as characterized by the complexity measures of L-systems representing the words increases over the temporal evolution of the language.