Insurance Agent Insurance Agent Insurance Agent Nesconset, NY A Bachelor of Science graduate in Health Sciences from NYIT. An organized, detail oriented, caring and motivated individual who works well independently, as well as in a team environment. A reliable and quick learner who is dedicated to their role, as well as helping others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Insurance Agent New York Life - Lake Success, NY May 2019 to Present • Sales agent specializing in whole life, term life and long term care insurance.  • Helping people plan financially for their future.  • Licensed to sell life and health insurance in the state of New York. Freelance Front End Web Developer Self employed January 2018 to Present • Assisted Graphic Designer in front end website development using markup languages such as in HTML, CSS and Javascript.    • Assisted website development on Wordpress, while maintaining Paypal, marketing and email app services.    • Proficient in file formatting, uploading photographs, and all Microsoft Office programs. Technical Team Leader Island Technology - Ronkonkoma, NY March 2012 to May 2019 • Performed duties such as manufacturing electrical wiring for contract customers such as Con Edison.    • Led technical team in precise measuring, cutting and assembling of metal wiring housing components.    • Soldered components for different contractors such as the military.    • Delivered manufactured products to customers across Long Island, NY.    • Assisted owners in warehouse and building maintenance, as well as the organization of the company work floor. Intern Professional Physical Therapy - Huntington Station, NY 2016 to 2017 • 100 hours of shadowing a physical therapist.    • duties consisted of: greeting patients, organizing workout equipment, making heating and ice packs, and wiping down massage benches. Solar Panel Installer Solar Dad and Sons - Islandia, NY 2010 to 2012 • Installed solar panels both commercially and residentially. Education Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY 2014 to 2017 Associate's in Criminal Justice Suffolk County Community College - Selden, NY 2008 to 2012 Skills HTML, CSS, Javascript (1 year), Life Insurance, Health Insurance, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses Life and Health Insurance