Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - MBS Highway Toms River, NJ I love to code. Philosophy <--> Tech.  https://lii41333733.github.io/mark-fisher-portfolio/ Work Experience Front- End Web Developer MBS Highway - Holmdel, NJ February 2019 to Present MBS Highway is a cutting-edge digital platform that helps industry professionals to interpret and forecast activity in the mortgage rate and bond markets.  - Collaborating in a team environment through GitHub, VSCode, .NET, Vanilla JS, jQuery  - Built Social Studio, a teleprompter desktop app that provides loan officers a way to record themselves reading  marketing scripts provided by MBS Highway on insight they could provide their clients about the current market to use on social media platforms. Build with the webRTC API.  - Maintained market research pages with calculators, displaying data through charts and graphs.  - Mobile-responsive stylesheets  - Resolving hotfixes, bug issues IT Application Implementation Specialist Realtime Information Technology, Inc - Toms River, NJ March 2015 to Present Realtime is a Student Information System software company that provides accommodations for nearly 20% of New  Jersey school districts. Realtime maintains all aspects of scheduling, grading, discipline, nurse's office and medical  records, IEPs, 504s, rankings, transcripts, student and staff attendance, enrollment and records for NJ state reporting.  - Trained districts throughout New Jersey on Realtime software functionality and implementation  - Reviewed programming requests for software development from district administration  - QA Testing new functionality and software features  - Coordinated with our programmers to resolve software bugs and errors  - Created and updated support documentation for Realtime functions  - Experience with Mantis Bug Tracker and Salesforce Customer Service Cloud  - Responsible for school district account maintenance (support and inquiry resolution) Lead Bank Teller Wells Fargo Bank - Lakewood, NJ December 2013 to March 2015 Coordinated with the Service Manager to assemble and lead a teller team with sales, customer service and operational objectives in a fast-paced business environment while sustaining compliance regulations.  - Sales: Responsible for selling the financial products of the bank and discovering the financial needs of the customer. Achieved aggressive sales goals. Awarded quarterly incentives for meeting sales milestones.  Organized appointments for consumer and business accounts.    - Customer Service: Delivered excellent customer service standards by implementing a customer service program  which emphasizes the following key drivers: valuing the customer, displaying a want for the customer's business, going out of the way to please, doing everything right the first time and following through with kept promises.    - Operational: Maintained daily high-balance cash drawer. Monitored reports and logs of all of the bank's  operational activities such as currency circulation, account maintenance and cash verification. Earned role of ATM  Custodian assuming the responsibilities of servicing the store's system for consumer use. Operational duties  include account management and light fraud surveillance. Education Bachelor of Arts in Law and Society The College of New Jersey, School of Humanities and Social Sciences - Ewing, NJ May 2012 Rutgers Coding Bootcamp - Immersive Full Stack Web Development Education Rutgers University - Somerset, NJ Skills Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Javascript Links https://lii41333733.github.io/mark-fisher-portfolio