Chief Digital Officer Chief Digital Officer Web Developer/Web & Graphic Designer New York, NY I build mobile-first, responsive and accessible websites. I believe websites should look just as beautiful—and be as easy to use—on the smallest screens as they are on the largest.  I enjoy making the complicated simple, long walks on the beach, and thinking creatively. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Digital Officer Blackfoot Hospitality - New York, NY 2017 to Present I design, develop, and launch company websites from scratch. I host and manage  company websites, domains and email addresses. I redesign websites inclusively with  a focus on usability and accessibility. I audit and test for compliance with WCAG 2 AA  standards. I manage the online presence of each brand. I strategize and deploy digital  marketing campaigns using organic social media, on-page and off-page SEO and  branded, marketing emails. I pioneered eCommerce solutions for each business and  created systems to manage the online gift shops at each location. I improved the efficiency  of work flows by transitioning company away from antiquated analog systems.  Project implementations include: VoIP phone system, wireless POS systems, plastic  and electronic gift card systems. I train colleagues on using work apps/software by  creating How-to Guides, slideshow presentations and providing hands-on training. Chief Creative Officer Blackfoot Hospitality - New York, NY 2015 to Present I develop and maintain style guidelines for each brand. I oversee and approve the  work of in-house creative team. I train and mentor aspiring designers, providing  feedback and technical guidance. I design and redesign print and digital products  including websites, marketing emails, logos, packaging, press kits, presentations and  business cards. I fill in for various roles on the creative team as needed including  photography, copywriting, and copyediting. Front- End Web Developer & Designer, Freelance Self Own Business - New York, NY 2014 to Present • Blackfoot Hospitality (www.blackfoothospitality.com): Branding, Website Design & Development, WCAG 2.0 AA Compliance  • Oeste Oakland (www.oesteoakland.com): Logo Redesign, Website Redesign & Development  • Little Owl (www.thelittleowlnyc.com): Branding, Website Redesign & Development, WCAG 2.0 AA Compliance, eCommerce, HTML Email Design & Development  • Little Owl Events (www.littleowlthevenue.com): Website Design & Development, HTML Email Design & Development  • Get Lit with Paula (www.getlitwithpaula.com): Branding, Logo Design, Wordpress Website Design  • Mahalo (www.mahalogives.com): Website Design & Development  • Market Table (www.markettablenyc.com): Branding, Website Redesign & Development Director of Social Media Blackfoot Hospitality - New York, NY 2012 to 2015 I created Instagram, Twitter and Facebook accounts for each business. I managed the social media schedule, photographed content, wrote copy and engaged with followers.  I created and maintained a Tumblr blog for the company events department. Education Bachelor's in Fine Arts New York University - New York, NY 2007 to 2011 Skills Web Design (5 years), Web Development (5 years), Graphic Design (8 years), SEO (3 years), Web Accessibility (3 years), Email Marketing (4 years), Copy Editing (8 years), Social Media Management (7 years), Digital Photography (9 years) Links http://luminessencecreative.com