Sr AEM Developer/Administrator Sr AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Sr AEM Developer/Administrator - FCA Raleigh, NC • 8 years of experience in analysis, design and implementation of web applications using Java and Adobe CQ.  • Worked on developing and delivering end-to- end CMS infrastructure to many large organizations.  • Have knowledge of the object-oriented programming, object-oriented analysis and development using J2EE technologies.  • Experience in developing Content Management System based using Adobe CQ 5.5, CQ 5.6, AEM6.0 and AEM 6.1.  • Hands on experience in developing Templates, components using JSP, OSGI bundles, sling services, custom workflow process and customizing out of the box widget and components.  • Worked on Adobe CQ/AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM.  • Excellent work experience in CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, Template development, Component Development and installation of author and Publish instances.  • Design develop and support CMS components, integrations and applications.  • Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting AEM/CQ 5.5+ installations.  • Implemented Adobe CQ templates, components, workflow, style sheets, and Meta tagging and performed CMS administration tasks.  • Strong knowledge on employing Java Content Repository (JCR) for developing applications on Adobe CQ.  • Experience in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, unit testing, integration, code review, implementation and support activities.  • Experience of Front- End Technologies like HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON.  • Experience in using jQuery and JavaScript libraries.  • Experience working in Agile Methodology development environment.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM/CQ5 using ApacheMaven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Knowledge on the Adobe Experience Manager /AEM administration activities such as User permissions/creations with LDAP synchronization  • Knowledge of web technologies/configuration (IIS, AEM dispatcher, Apache configuration (i.e. http.conf) in UNIX/LINUX platform).  • Able to discuss relationships between HTML, CSS and JavaScript Experience with the Linux operating system.  • Experience with LDAP  • Install the Dispatcher module in (LINUX platform) on your web server and configure the web server accordingly.  • Configure Dispatcher (the dispatcher. Any file).  • Configure AEM so that content updates invalidate the cache.  • Experience in developing applications using Java IDE tools like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experienced in Databases like Oracle and SQL Server and writing SQL Queries.  • Self-motivated team player with and ability to learn new technologies and tools quickly.    AEM EXPERIENCE  Hands on experience on:  • Designing templates and overall site structure  • Custom Workflows  • Custom Widgets  • Personalization  • UI customization Content Finder, Side kick, Welcome page  • Component development  • Translation MSM concepts  • Replication Agents    • Dispatcher and server management  • JCR event handling  • Sling Scheduler  • DAM  • CRXDELite  • OSGI  • Adobe Search and Promote  • And other concepts Work Experience Sr AEM Developer/Administrator FCA - Auburn Hills, MI December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • AEM application and Apache Web server installation on Linux servers with all the necessary requirements and delivering the environment on time.  • AEM Application data refresh from one environment to another environment.  • User and group management on AEM application.  • Worked on AMS environment.  • Involved in migration of AEM 6.3 to 6.4  • Creation, Building, Installing/Deploying new packages on AEM  • Configured Dispatcher 2.0 according to Adobe recommendation  • As part of Dispatcher 2.0 improved the security and reduced vulnerabilities  • environments and automated deployment through release management tools.  • Involved in Performance and load testing and Implementing Adobe recommendations wherever required to configuration files.  • Various system performance optimization, stability and scalability efforts in Adobe Platform.  • Response time, initial analysis of Heap dump and Thread dump to prevent abrupt environment slowness.  • Proactively Monitoring of both Author & Publish Environments as well as activation/replication queues.  • Developed custom components for all the FCA Brand websites.  • Configured replication agents and disabled some of the OOTB agents as per the customer's request and configured sling mapping and created flush users.  • Supported Apache Solr servers for implemented on Azure cloud.  • Root cause analysis of recurring defects and incidents. Resolving environmental and Configuration issues related to application  • Adobe AEM6.3/Hot Fix patches/CAB management.  • Handling errors in a customized way for errors related to server and their individual error messages like 403, 404, and 500 errors.  • Adobe Experience Manager /CQ5 application installation and configuration in WINDOW/UNIX/LINUX platform and dispatcher configuring on apache and apache configurations, deploying modules, configuration updates, including monitoring of website servers front end and back end performance and functionality  • Knowledge on the Adobe Experience Manager /CQ5 administration activities such as Automatic deployment, User permissions/creations with LDAP synchronization.  • Did content sync using Grabbit tool and Vault rcp tools from Prod to UAT and TEST environments.  • Performed ACL's migration using ACS commons from AEM 6.3 to 6.4  • Knowledge of web technologies/configuration (IIS, AEM dispatcher, Apache configuration (i.e. http.conf) in UNIX/LINUX platform).  • Experience with Jira installation and connecting to LDAP users and creating project groups  • Install the Dispatcher module (In LINUX platform) on our web server and configure the web server accordingly.  • Configure Dispatcher (the dispatcher. Any file).  • Configure AEM so that content updates invalidate the cache.  • Support of AEM/CQ5 infrastructure with load-balanced and fail-over capabilities.  • Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting Adobe CQ5 installations.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.    Environment: Adobe CQ 6.3,6. 4, Java (jdk1.5), J2EE, AWS, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, SVN, log4j, Apache Maven, Windows and Linux, Apache Solr. Sr AEM Developer Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN December 2017 to November 2018 Description: AEM developer for theOpen webProject currently working on requirements using AEM Content Management tool. ThomsonReuters has 4 Ecomm sites and 20 marketing sites. This is Agile based model of 2-week sprints. Contributed significantly in Design, Development & Delivery of the user stories.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Sprint Planning, Development, Component creation, Testing & Delivery of User stories in every 2 weeks sprint.  • Developed CQ components, Workflow and Integrating CQ with other applications.  • Development components using slightly.  • Worked on versioning CSS and JS files  • Worked on SEO url's setting the URL's according to the best practice  • Worked on setting the Apache rules for the SEO URL's to redirect according to the requirement  • Created a custom component to track order forms on Google Analytics  • Worked on canonical tags and checked whether tags are correctly assignedso that external sites using OpenGraph protocol, recognize the canonical.  • Created a promotional banner component, including an image, time and link.  • Developed custom widgets wherever required.  • Fixed an issue of creating multiple customers when the user login as guest user and navigate through the site it's creating multiple calls as per the flow.  • Participated in Code migration and resolving code conflicts while moving to different environments.  • Developing Pages/Templates/Components in Eclipse/CRXDE Lite.  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles.  • Export/Import of Content via package manager.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  • Worked on Author instance to help authoring complex components on pages.  • Developed OSGI Services and Components.  • Participated in meetings related to application architecture, designing and development.  • Performed Unit Testing on developed modules and involved in trouble shooting the components and Interacted with the testing team to track the defects.  • Give backend production support when there is any deployment.  • Tested the changes in Development, QA, Stage environments thoroughly before going to production.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, XML, AEM 6.2, CRXDE, WCM, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Windows, Maven, Jira,Adobe Search &Promote,Hybris. AEM Developer Capital Group - Irvine, CA March 2017 to December 2017 Description: Senior AEM developer for the Learning Portal Project Currently working on requirements for Learning portal (intranet of company) to design and implement it using AEM Content Management tool. Contributed significantly in Design, Development & Delivery of the user stories. Objective of the project is to simplify the content that the users need and use on a daily basis.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile based model with 2week Sprint Planning, Development, Component creation, Testing & Delivery of User stories in every 2 weeks sprint.  • Well versed with SCRUM & Agile Methodology and have significant experience leading small to medium size teams.  • Been responsible for Gathering Requirements from Business and providing Technical Solution using AEM. Fully involved in end to end delivery of Business requirements.  • Analyzing, designing and layout of the components.  • Developed Custom functionality in Search and Promote.  • Hands on working with Granite UI  • Modified the standard Tagging functionality  • Worked on Lucene Indexing for developing Custom Index rules for minimizing the search queries response time and for improving the performance.  • Implemented custom java classes and used Apache Maven for build  • Used Sightly and Use API for presentation.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing page html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Built and deployed OSGI bundles. Configured SMTP server settings  • Developed Dam folder structure and uploaded DAM assets frequently  • Developed custom workflows and workflow steps  • Registered customized applications, created responsibilities, customized menus, attached menus to responsibilities and assigning to users.  • Designed and developed the organization of client libraries and created template components using inheritance.  • Experience with backup & restore of CQ instance.  • JIRA/Bitbucket was used to handle the production/ET tickets and bug reporting Issue tracking tools  • Used GIT and SVN versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven.    Environment: Java (jdk1.6,1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AEM6.1&6.2, Apache Sling, Sightly, CRXDE, JIRA. AEM Developer Verizon Wireless - Hilliard, OH July 2016 to February 2017 Description: Senior AEM developer for the KMS/AEM simplification project this project is to simplify the content that the users need and use on a daily basis. This project will migrate content that is currently being maintain in documentum into CQ5.The project will include new formatted templates to ease the writing of content and UI for the display of content to the end user  Responsibilities:  • Installing author/ Publishing instances.  • Gathering business requirements and converting them to technical solutions  • Involved in preparing the Business and Functional documents  • Analyzing, designing and layout of the components  • Implemented Adobe WCM, CRX, JCR, Sling, OSGI, CRXDE, WCM, and DAM  • Developed custom components that are reusable in Adobe CQ across all three sites  • Worked on Sling servlets to handle POST and GET requests.  • Configuring replication, reverse replication agents and Dispatcher cache.  • Developed OSGI components/services, sling Servlets, and AEM components/templates.  • Used Sightly and Use API for presentation.  • Configured Replication and Dispatcher Flush in the AEM.  • Experience in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers  • Involved in SDLC stages including Requirements analysis, Implementation, Design and Testing.  • Worked with DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication, JCR, XPath and other AEM APIs.  • Experience with backup & restore of CQ instance.  • JIRA/Bitbucket was used to handle the production/ET tickets and bug reporting Issue tracking tools  • Used GIT and SVN versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven.  Environment: Java (jdk1.6,1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, Sightly HTML, CSS, jQuery, Adobe CQ5.6.1, AEM6.1, AEM 6.2 Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, Forms, Team Forge, Cloud Forge Jackrabbit, JIRA. AEM Developer Country Financial - Bloomington, IL June 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded all the current AEM 6.0 instances to AEM 6.1.  • Developed CQ components, Workflow and Integrating CQ with other applications.  • Development components using slightly.  • Developing Pages/Templates/Components in Eclipse/CRXDE Lite.  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles to deliver OSGI Services and Components.  • Participated in Code migration and resolving code conflicts while moving to different environments.  • Worked on Author instance to help authoring complex components on pages.  • Developed web applications in CQ5 systems in coordination with software development teams.  • Conducted detailed analysis of user requirements and formulated technical requirements.  • Test changes in Development, QA, Stage environments thoroughly before going to production.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, XML, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.0, CQ5, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Windows, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services, Tomcat, Maven. Junior Front End Developer Irus InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed Templates and Components.  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Performed XML Transformations from value objects to XML and from XML to HTML data.  • Implemented Design patterns for recurring problems.  • Responsible for the process of UI design for Internet sites and applications.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.    Environment: Windows, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS Education Master's computer science Sacred Heart University (CT) 2014 Bachelors in Electronics and communication Engineering in Electronics and communication Engineering JNTU 2009 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  Content Management System: Adobe CQ5/AEM, JCR, Sling, Apache Jackrabbit, WCM, Sightly,Adobe Search and Promote, DAM, Package Manager, CRXDELite, Workflow, OSGI  Languages: C, C++, Java, SQL  Web Development: XML, HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, PHP  Technologies: Servlets and JCR, XML, DOM, SOAP, RESTful  Database: [ ] SQL Server [ ] My SQL  Web Servers: Apache Sling, Apache Felix, IHS  Application Servers:WebSphere Application Server  Build Tools: Maven, Apache  SDLC Methodology: Waterfall, Agile  IDE: CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad ++, Edit plus  Operating Systems: Windows 7/Vista/NT/XP, Unix and Linux  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Google Chrome Web Debugger