Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Minneapolis, MN I am Innovative web developer with a passion in web applications and 5 plus years of experience. Experienced in creating logical and innovative solutions to complex problems, My favorite editor at the moment is Visual Studio but i also us sublime. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer ASDAL Inc - Minneapolis, MN November 2017 to Present At ASDAL Inc, I work as one of the lead front end developers. ASDAL  is a startup that provides operation teams with a software that offers a robust Infrastructure with automation and reporting that allows retail brands to streamline management on Amazon.     • Role:  UX and UI Integration, Front End Development   • Technologies Used: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, Github, Visual Studio, .NET   • Collaborated with test users to improve GRIT UI IT Director Alliance - Golden Valley, MN February 2011 to February 2019 This is where I got my feet into web development. Alliance is a nursing services agency located in the twin cities with more than 300 employees serving VA clients across the metro.     • Some of my responsibilities include. Managing all nursing mobile laptops, workstations and mobile.   • Updated and monitored all their workstations   • Updated and improved their in-house software. Co-Founder / Developer Heliq LLC - Minneapolis, MN July 2013 to November 2018 I Co-founded Heliq LLC out of my love for the web. Heliq was a marketing agency located in Golden valley.  During this time I was the lead developer and also did a lot of management work. Unfortunately we had to close shop summer of 2018.     • Role: Management, Developer / Project Management   • Technologies Used: HTML5, CSS, Photoshop, Wordpress, Angular, Microsoft Visual Studio, Illustrator, JavaScript, React   • Notable Projects:  N1 Motion, Apex Machine Company, UMN BSU Education Computer Science University of Minnesota-Twin Cities - Minneapolis, MN December 2014 to August 2017 Generals North Hennepin Community College - Brooklyn Park, MN January 2011 to December 2013 Skills React (3 years), Angular (2 years), Javascript (5 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS (7 years), Wordpress (7 years), Git (5 years), Github (5 years), Woocommerce (5 years), Apple OS (6 years), Google (8 years), Twitter (6 years), MS Office (10+ years), MySQL (4 years), Windows OS (10+ years), Adobe (7 years), Node JS (4 years), Stripe (5 years), CSS3, Front End, UI, Bootstrap, Front-End