Manager, Business Intelligence Manager, Business Intelligence Manager -Business Intelligence/ United Health Services Hospitals, Inc Jersey City, NJ Leading a team of highly skilled developers by utilizing principles of excellence to deliver high quality dependable systems and analytical services in business intelligence department Work Experience Manager, Business Intelligence United Health Services Hospitals, Inc. - Vestal, NY February 2019 to Present ?       Manage business intelligence team and projects focused on quality and data analytics  ?       Define, analyze and report standard hospital quality measures and use them for a variety of projects, including but not limited to, physicians incentives, pay for performance and meaningful use of Electronic Health Record.   ?       Present quality dashboards to board members and provide insights related to improved quality of patient care  ?       Work closely with team members to ensure data being presented to internal and external leaders is audited and validated.  Team Lead BI Solutions / United Health Services Hospitals, Inc - Binghamton, NY September 2018 to February 2019 • Leading projects inline with organizational goals, including improve in care, financial performance, patient satisfaction and growth in market share  • Implementing various software applications utilized by employees and customers to enhance the workflow efficiency.  • Managing departmental IT projects by providing authentic data, checking software quality, collaborating with vendors and ensuring deadlines are met  • Maintaining and enhancing applications to improve user experience and quality of patient care while streamlining the software development process System Analyst BI Solutions / United Health Services Hospitals, Inc - Binghamton, NY September 2016 to September 2018 • Developed high quality software solutions for Business Intelligence department at UHS. Aggregated and analyzed data from multiple sources to identify trends and figure out anomalies.  • Utilized best practices for software development and LEAN principle to implement comprehensive business logic for various reports, data extracts and dashboards mainly for service line and physician incentives measures to improve quality of care.  • Designed and implemented various user interfaces; business and data layer using T SQL, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Webix, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, CSS, PHP and ASP. • Involved in software design and development efforts for user interface, database management systems, quality measure development and work-list applications  • Created and maintained approved specification documentation and SOWs for each project Web Application Developer / CCUREIT Islamabad, PK November 2012 to October 2013 Experience working all phases of the software development lifecycle, including use of a variety of Web-based products and designing relational databases Front End Developer / ABQA Systems Rawalpindi, PK October 2010 to October 2012 Developed and maintained dynamic websites Education Master of Science National University of Sciences & Technology - Islamabad, PK 2014 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Fatimah Jinnah Women University - Rawalpindi, PK 2011 MBA in Management Information Systems School of Management Information Systems, Binghamton Univ - Binghamton, NY Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (2 years), Asp. (2 years), Css (2 years), documentation (2 years), Etl (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Extract, transform, and load (Less than 1 year), Javascript (2 years), Jquery (2 years), Json (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Logging (Less than 1 year), Microsoft access (Less than 1 year), Microsoft ssrs (Less than 1 year), Ms access (Less than 1 year), Ms excel (Less than 1 year), Ms visual studio (Less than 1 year), Php (2 years), Sql (2 years)