Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - Aperture Group * Senior UI Developer with 7 years of UI development experience with HTML5, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs, JSON and AJAX.  * Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  * Extensive experience with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters; working with animations, routing and states. Working experience on Backbone.  * Strong experience in Search engine Optimization (SEO) techniques in order to develop web applications.  * Used the latest HTML5elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  * Hands on experience CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  * Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using JavaScript and related technologies.  * Worked on experience in writing jQuery code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  * Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  * Solid expertise in developing Html pages based on DIV layout and Cross browser platform.  * Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  * Working knowledge on JavaScript library JSON.  * Experience in using the jQuery libraries, AngularJs, BackboneJs, KnockoutJs.  * Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  * Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  * Experience in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Eclipse, and VisualStudio MS Visio.  * Well experienced in debugging websites using Firebug, Fiddler, Developer tools.  * Experience in using the latest approaches, including MVVM in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, and JSONP.  * Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control (SVN)  * Great ability to write clearly, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development  * Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  * Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Hard- worker, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Work Experience Senior UI Developer Aperture Group - Chicago, IL August 2014 to Present Aperture Group is a business advisory and consulting service firm in professional finance and accounting management consulting and corporate development services and helps client in reducing risk and increasing value.  Responsibilities:  * Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  * Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS.  * Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  * Extensive experience using Bootstrap for layout.  * Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  * Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  * Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  * Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar, Firebug.  * Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  * Followed SCRUM methodology.  * Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  * Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  * Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  * Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard.  * Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework, which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  * Version control through CVS.  * Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  * Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  * Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  * Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, NPM. Senior UI Developer Amway - Grand Rapids, MI June 2013 to July 2014 Amway is a company that uses direct selling model to sell variety of products, primarily in health, beauty, home care markets, nutrition dietary supplements, insurance etc. Amway conducts business through a number of affiliated companies in more than hundred countries.  Responsibilities:  * Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  * Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  * Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  * Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  * Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  * Experience with jQuery, backbone.js  * Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  * Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  * Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  * Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  * Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  * Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  * Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  * Integrated different social networking site like Facebook, twitter.  * Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  * Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  * Used agile methodology for the software development.  * Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  * Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  * Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  * Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  * Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  * Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  Environment: HTML 5, JavaScript, backbone.js, AJAX, CSS 2/3, JSON, Jquery, XML, Apache, JBoss UI Developer Assurant Solutions - Wayne, PA January 2012 to May 2013 Assurant is distinguished by its leading positions in specialty insurance businesses. Although each business is unique and diverse. The project involved creating the entire website with open source initiative. The website uses AngularJs, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX features extensively. The Website has rich HTML5, CSS3.  Responsibilities:  * Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  * Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  * Converted PSD mockups into pure hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  * Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  * Involved in implementing the Rest API integration in Service Studio.  * Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  * Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers.  * Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  * Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRE.  * Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  * Designed web pages and used applications that meet business and user goals through a positive user experience.  * Used Angular JS Framework to develop applications.  * Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, XHTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  * Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, SVN. UI Developer Actavis, Jersy City April 2011 to December 2011 Actavis is a unique specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing, manufacturing and commercializing high quality affordable generic and innovative branded pharmaceutical products for patients around the world. The Company is an industry leader in product research and development, with one of the broadest brand development pipelines in the pharmaceutical industry, and a leading position in the submission of generic product applications  Responsibilities:  * Requirements gathering from business and defining specifications for the system.  * Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  * Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) from wireframes  * Work on website related implementation flow of the project using wireframes and prototypes  * Developed mockups and prototypes using VISIO.  * Extensive involved in coding of project related wireframes and prototypes.  * Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  * Redesign the website using technologies of HTML5 and CSS3.  * Used JQuery-Ajax plug-in to GET the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  * Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  * Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jquery and Angular JS.  * Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  * Working with Bootstrap twitter framework to Design single page application.  * Used SQL in server side code to fetch the JSON format of data.  * Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  * Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality Using CSS layouts  * Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Develop HTML and CSS template using Photoshop.  * Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  * Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  * Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  * Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  * Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS framework, MS VISIO, Photoshop, Bootstrap, MVC, Web API. Front End Web Developer Medicare, India August 2010 to February 2011 This product currently being used by the hospital personnel for handling patients, moving stock across different stores in the hospital. It has features like module restriction based on user group automatic user logoff, restricted user logon on more than one node, automated allocation and de-allocation of tasks to the logged in users. It also includes various modules like Registration, Billing, Pharmacy and Nursing desk.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in Software Development Life Cycle.  * Involved in developing design specifications, website architecture and web application based on the provided functional and requirements and design layout.  * Developed the web application using HTML and JavaScript.  * Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  * Developed the front end of the portal using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS3.  * Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for styling and to achieve uniformity used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  * Designed and Developed Database using MY SQL. Extensively used select, insert, update, delete, join and between queries while maintaining the database.  * Written stored procedures and triggers for improving the security, speed and efficiency of the website by using them in several situations like updating tables, adding new member, tracking of modifications database transactions etc.  * DOM is used to parse the xml documents.  * Performed unit testing.  * Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  * Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  * Creation of various levels of users for system with preferences.  * Involved in setting up the environment, installing the application and web servers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Eclipse, SQL, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. UI Developer ICICI Bank Ltd June 2008 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  * Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  * Generated UI mockups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  * Wrote JavaScript and JQUERY to make sites interactive.  * Used JQUERY extensively to implement the AJAX driven application used internally.  * Fixed Cross browser issues in Internet Explorer 7+ (including IE9), Safari, Chrome, and Firefox and contributed bug fixes.  * Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  * Worked closely with backend JAVA team who integrated the rich and intuitive UI with JSPs.  * Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY, AJAX calls and update the DOM.  * Worked with testing team to fix the reported bugs and defects from front- end standpoint.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript/AJAX, XML, JSON, Photoshop, Linux, Apache Tomcat, Java. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra Skills HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, NPM. (7 years), HTML 5, JavaScript, backbone.js, AJAX, CSS 2/3, JSON, Jquery, XML, Apache, JBoss (6 years), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, SVN. (5 years), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS framework, MS VISIO, Photoshop, Bootstrap, MVC, Web API. (6 years), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Eclipse, SQL, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. (5 years), HTML, CSS, JavaScript/AJAX, XML, JSON, Photoshop, Linux, Apache Tomcat, Java. (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  HTML, XHTML, HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, DOM, jQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE 3.x, Netbeans, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Edit plus, Firebug, Junit 3.0/4.x, Java, SOAP, Restful, SVN, GIT, TFS, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, Windows Movie Maker