Level 2 Advisor Level 2 Advisor Remote Adaptable, creative and skilled computer / technical professional. Extremely resourceful, practical, detail and data-driven expert. Strategic, with a desire to understand the causes and solve problems scientifically.    Competencies include: CRM • Email • Help desk TMS • VPN • Teamwork • Inter/Intra-personal Communication • Organizing and Streamlining Workflow • Project Management • Cross-functional Leadership • Delegation Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 2 Advisor North American Bancard - Detroit, MI 2018 to 2019 ? Install and configure computer hardware operating systems and applications  ? Devise and build effective solutions for older and new issues as they arise working alongside peers, mentors, and company knowledge base  ? Complete level 2 requests when team was short-staffed  ? Experience in systems crash reconfigurations and troubleshooting  ? Solve inconsistencies with virtual image-based OS  ? Talk clients through a series of actions over the phone, support tickets, chat and webcam to help resolve system issues Freelance Application Developer Alnoor Virani - Detroit, MI 2016 to 2019 ? Design, code, test, troubleshoot, and document Android mobile applications  ? Utilize the Java programming language with the clear understanding of gradle, and Java frameworks and libraries  ? Follow proper software development process including familiarity with industry's best practices for software development  ? Keeping up-to-date on current technologies, application software development, Agile and iterative development methods Wireless Store(s) Manager Boost Mobile - Detroit, MI 2018 to 2018 ? Direct and supervise employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking, & performing services for customers  ? Monitor sales activities to ensure that customers receive satisfactory service and quality goods  ? Confer with company officials to develop methods to increase sales, expand markets, and promote growth  ? Instruct staff on how to handle difficult and complicated sales  ? Plan and prepare work schedules and keep records of employees work schedules and timecards Front End Server McAlister's Deli - Atlanta, GA 2013 to 2016 ? Consistently achieved the highest guest check averages among all full-time servers through suggestive selling and dessert-to-go orders  ? Recognized as Lead Server with responsibility for overseeing opening / closing and coaching and mentoring new servers regarding menu items, company policies and procedures  ? Frequently assisted colleagues during rush periods to foster teamwork while providing exceptional service and guest dining experience.  ? Significantly increased guest check averages by promoting appetizers, specialty items, and dessert selections Education Associates of Applied Sciences in Information Technology Macomb Community College - Warren, MI Skills Java