Administrative Assistant/ Front End Developer Administrative Assistant/ <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Administrative Assistant/ Front End Developer Jacksonville, FL I’m looking for work. Also a college graduate. I have my own transportation, and can work any shifts any time. I am a hard worker and have had jobs in about every Field I stopped working to pursue my own business due to my background and I need more income to survive. I would like to not waste anyone’s time so I choose to be forthcoming. If your interested in having a hard dedicated worker for your open position please consider me if you can. Work Experience Administrative Assistant/ Front End Developer David Gray Heating Air Company 2015 to 2017 Inbound /Outbound calls Scheduling Appointments Tracking jobs in database Working Excel spreadsheets Invoicing customers Verbal Communication with customers and vendors. Packaging Developer Remedy Staffing - Jacksonville, FL April 2013 to November 2014 Knowledgeable technical partner for the multifunctional teams. Operated in an agile and changing environment, working very closely with internal and external partners whilst maintaining operational/technical discipline to assure high quality packs delivered on time with best value/quality to the company. Embrace execution with excellence culture and delivered passion for excellence and strong ownership to deliver projects.  •ERC Customer Service Agent January 2010 to November 2013 Provide customer service and collection efforts to clients regarding financial assistance and loans based on credit approval. Ensure that each customer receives outstanding service by providing a customer friendly environment, which includes greeting and acknowledging every customers, maintaining relationships, outstanding standards, solid product knowledge, and all other components of customer service. Accurately and efficiently complete all sales transactions and maintain proper accountabilities. Education Associates of Arts in Business Administration Florida State College - Jacksonville, FL 2010 to 2013 Diploma First Coast High School - Jacksonville, FL 2007 to 2010 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, INVOICES, CUSTOMER SERVICE, DATA ENTRY, BOOKKEEPING, Javascript, Front End, React, Front-End Additional Information Skills & Abilities  I embody strong data entry skills, data analysis, production and manufacturing skills. I poses excellent oral and departmental communication skills, and customer service expertise. I am experienced presentation and advertising, I also have extensive experience in productivity and manufacturing, and meeting deadlines and efficiency. I also have outstanding bookkeeping skills, In addition to various repository and stockroom skills, I am also accustomed to interaction and coping with management and vendor request, to meet invoices and work order request and proofs of purchase follow up reviews. I thrive as a quick learner with intent to lead and produce quality results individually or within a team.