Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Experienced as a User Interface/ Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Good experience using HTML5/CSS3 development.  • Good experience writing Sematic HTML Markup for Accessibility and SEO Best practices.  • Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks Backbone.js and AngularJS.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web design using CSS3 Media queries and Bootstrap.  • Experience developing highly interactive web applications utilizing JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, JSON, AngularJS1.4/1.5 and Bootstrap and integrating Restful API's.  • Good understanding of NodeJS nodejs, koa.js, express js, hapi js, rest web services, graphql, apollo, promises, async await, microservices, Strong foundation in JavaScript along with AngularJS1.4/1.5  • Good knowledge on Angular 4, Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, React JS, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Performed Client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Built React components from UI mockups for web.  • Worked closely with customer's development team to identify APIs, define data schemas, and document workflows, business requirements, and domain knowledge.  • Created POC for web apps using React  • Created POC backend REST API services using Node JS and Mongo  • Setting up and configuring CI/CD on Jenkins and React apps with web hooks on GitHub  • Integrated React based web app to multiple services using REST API  • Used Babel transpiler to convert ES6 to ES5 for browser understanding.  • Designed & developed mobile UI components using JSX, Flexbox and Dumb components  • Configured web pack and other bootstrapped many Node applications  • Created compatible and standards-compliant flexbox layouts  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design &themes using front- end development frameworks including Bootstrap and media queries.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  • Worked on team to convert jQuery to React components  • Implemented proof of concepts to demonstrate and evaluate cutting edge frameworks like Angular2, React.js etc Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Van Nuys - Van Nuys, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Effectively involved in coordinating with BA group for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements.  • Followed Agile Methodology & Iterative Development throughout the project and participated in daily scrum and Sprint meetings.  • Redesigned Vanilla JavaScript to Angular 2component structure.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Vue.JS.  • Created responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap 3.  • Used REST clients like Postman to test and debug REST API's.  • Created a crypto currency wallet and a blockchain based reward engagement platform built with React/Redux/Sagas, Node/Koa,  • Used backend frameworks Nodejs, Koa (Express), Sequelize ORM, GraphQL, MySQL Database and AWS Stack.  • Worked on full-stack development, with a focus on react/redux on the front- end and nodejs/koa on the back- end  • Worked on Server frameworks like Express.js, Socket.IO, Koa.js, Hapi JS.  • Microservice API development using NodeJS, KOA, Docker, and Kubernetes.  • Backend development done using Node.js, Koa, Cassandra, and Redis.  • REST API Development (C# Web Services, Node.js/Express/Koa and PHP/Laravel).  • Use Node.js, Express, and Koa for building services.  • Developed the backend by using Node.js, Express and MongoDB.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP request with the help of Babel and developed the backend by Webpack.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to create a Restful Mock API  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Implemented Mock API using Express framework in Node.js.  • Used Express.js on the top of Node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database.  • Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular.  • Used Webpack, Babel and gulp for transpilation (compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Developed SPA project using Angular Typescript for frontend, Node JS and Postgres for backend.  • Developed Interfaces using Typescript.  • Hands on Experience with Angular CLI and the strong typing in TypeScript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular.  • Developed Angular modules, routers and services using typescript.  • Implemented mock backend, in Angular JS using Typescript for testing purposes.  • Implement new Front- End features with Typescript/ JavaScript and other RESTful APIs.  • To interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database, uses Express.js on the top of Node.js.  • Implemented Angular services to interact with Express.js on the server-side in-order to perform CRUD operations on database.  • Working as a developer using Node JS (Express and Hapi), Java and Angular JS.  • Used MEAN stack for application development: Mongo DB, Angular 2.0, Express JS, and Node.js v4.  • Used React.js with Redux to separate data and presentation layer.  • Utilized Redux stores to handle the states.  • Used Angular 2 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back- end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Developed Oracle ADF UI Components ( Task flows, Pages, Page Fragments, Menus ) for the UI. Worked on Binding between ADF BC & UI.  • Developed and modified PL/SQL code to make new enhancement or resolving problems as per client's requirement.  • Coding & development using Struts, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC Template and Web Services.  • Excellent knowledge on Complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. Expert in benchmarking and load testing a Cassandra cluster using a Java-based stress testing utility called Cassandra-stress tool.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot, hosted all micro services on PCF.  • Designed interface to re-use existing components, which averted re-writing them for new platform - a JNI-COM bridge between Eclipse plug-ins (Java) and PowerBuilder editors and libraries (C++). Implemented Eclipse plug-ins as wrappers for these components.  • Experience creating multiple domains, clusters and migration of domains from one data center to other data center in Weblogic  • Migrate RTC from version 5.X to 6.X; Migrate Linux Build servers (Build up of GEN2 server from OS layer with all necessary software); Migrate from RTC to GIT.  • Working Experience on Rest API, Selenium web driver, Protractor and Test NG frame work in many projects  • Skilled in Agile Methodologies including ATDD, TDD, pair programming, daily scrum and show & tell presentations.  • Worked on React Router for developing single page applications.  • Extensively developed React components.  • Utilized Node.js for backend support with API's and also to implement, deliver User-facing solutions.    Environment: UI, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, React.JS, CSS, Html5, Oracle, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git,GitHub, Protractor, Jasimine, Agile, MAVEN, CSS3 Media Queries & Bootstrap 3, MongoDB, ExpressJS, Sr. Frontend Developer Freddie Mac Mortgage - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Excellent Experience to develop complex web page layouts with Rich UI and responsive design including various sections like headers, footers, content area, side bars and checked the cross-browser compatibility with various browsers like google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari.  • Proven ability in developing a User Interface applications by writing server side code with Node.js, Express framework, for database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front- end web pages designing with ReactJS.  • Experience in developing mobile and desktop UI applications using new technologies like ECMA Script 5/6, ReactJS, Redux, Angular2, TypeScript, CSS3 media queries, SASS, LESS, and implementing Model View Controllers (MVC), Single Page Applications (SPAs) using IDEs like Eclipse, Brackets, Aptana Studio, Sublime Text, Net Beans 5.0 and Visio.  • Proficient to work with XML HTTP, AJAX, JSON serialization to communicate with SOAP /Restful web services and JSON data for storing and exchanging information to handle $http request and $http response from services for creating reusable components using React JS and REDUX framework, which helps to relate different components each other on Single Page Application.  • Worked closely with QA team performing Unit testing using Jasmine, karma to fix bugs and experience on Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Incremental development, and Automate test using tools like Selenium, Junit, LeanFT, protractor.  • Knowledge on Build Tools Like Grunt, Gulp &Experience using NPM, NPM scripts, and Web pack, Bower to install and manage different packages.  • Architected production enterprise migration from VMWare SQL Server to AWS based MongoDB.  • SOAP and Plugin integration of PC and BC application.  • Diverse experience in implementing N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, AWS, Cassandra, My SQL, SQLServer, Restful Web Services.  • Build and deployment of eclipse plugins.  • Configured WebSphere Application Server and WebSphere Portal Server with Tivoli Access Manager. Setup the application in WSAD/Eclipse.  • Create, maintain, and administer GitHub and Subversion repositories as source code managements.  • Developed JUnit test classes using Mockito for web service classes  • Served as a key liaison between the management, design and development team. Conducted Scrum Training workshops and user story writing workshops to familiarize stakeholders with Scrum process skeleton and concept.  • Create use case, UML diagrams, data flow diagrams, and business process and data process models for various documents.  • Experience in working with build & deployment tools like Maven, Ant, and Jenkins.  • Use JSF to design web application. Including DB connection, pom.xml file for Dependency Injection, java and XHTML File, MVC model  • Experience on total software development life cycle (SDLC) with programming advancement models like JIRA, Agile Scrum Model, Prototype demonstration and RUP, Waterfall display.    Environment: UI, JavaScript, CSS, Html5 , Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, ReactJs, backbone.js, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL , MongoDB, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, WebSphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Subversion (SVN), Junit, Jasimine, Scrum, UML, MAVEN, Xml, JIRA Sr. Frontend Developer Mercy Health System - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Extensive Experience with JavaScript MVC framework AngularJS and familiar with other frameworks/libraries such as Backbone.js, Node.js, Underscore.js.  • Experience with Advanced JavaScript (including prototype-based inheritance, AJAX, JSON).  • Strong working experience with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQuery.  • Strong knowledge of building and architecting Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Expert in developing enterprise-level JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, JSONP, RESTful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, AngularJS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap CSS  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Strong Web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC, DHTML, table less XHTML and good knowledge of W3C standards  • Expert in implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD) using CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap.  • Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles, Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web and capable of handling Responsiveness.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experience in developing ANT scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Hands on experience with tools like SVN, CVS, GIT-Hub, Clear Case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Worked on MySQL Database with expertise in online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP) on multi-user systems involving large databases for clients.  • Created new tables and their structure. Queries were written in Oracle 11g using TOAD and SQL developer.  • Developed a SQL Server Database, coupled with an Access Data Project front end, which would utilize GPS data available from fleet tracking companies in conjunction with federal tax regulations established for transportaion workers, to maximize travel deductions for long haul truckers. Additionaly, various "proof of concept" SSIS packages were written, as well as a skeleton for a larger package which was to be used for ETL to a SQL Server back end for further processing.  • Integrate Oracle Scheduler with CC&B cluster mode batch using Coherence.  Environment: CC&B, Oracle Coherence.  • Modelled MESI snooping cache coherence protocol backend controller in C  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, apache rewrite rules for routing the calls to CQ5.  • Designed WSDL and exposed SOAP based web services for chase subsystems.  • Expertise in configuring a domain, deploying applications, configuring data sources, logging and web subsystems in JBOSS and EAP.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Administer ClearCase license server and FLEXlm, provide licensing audition reports and analysis, monitor company wide licensing usage, and needs.  • Utilized Selenium IDE to Record and Play minor web based application fixes.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum Master role for specific projects/requirements as appropriate. Used Rally for Agile project management  • Documented Architecture and Functional designs using Star UML to prepare Use case, Sequence, Class, Collaboration and Component Diagrams  • Identified and documented business needs and created detailed use cases using UML, and collaborated with production team to identify and map detailed existing processes, identify system gaps and developed functional requirements documentation (FRD) that supported overall strategy, goals and objectives.    Environment: JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Spring, IBatis, Struts & JSF, EJB, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP & SERVLET, ANT, Xml, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper report. Frontend Developer [UI] Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience, Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, React.JS and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.js, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • High-level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Skilled in architecting and automating the build process for production, using task runners or scripts  • Proficient documenting the code inline using JSDoc or other convention.  • Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, Angular.js, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, DOM, Gulp, Python, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Good experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS).  • Expert in working with cutting edge front- end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype,(X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  • Expert in resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js and AJAX.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL Web Services  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups.    Environment: Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, Angularjs, JavaScript, React JS, JQuery, Spring MVC, Chrome Developer Tools, Restful Web services, JSON, Advanced Rest Client, SVN, Maven, Eclipse, Tomcat. Frontend Developer [UI] SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using JQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single page applications (SPAs) using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Strong design aesthetics for Typography, Usability concepts, Layout, Branding, Representing content and data in wire frames, and web user interface.  • Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  Ability to apply W3C web standards to ensure best cross-browser user experience, long-term user retention, and engagement.  • Experience in working on Routes in AngularJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page in Angular.  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications.  • Command in React JS for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts. Worked extensively on Angular 2, Typescript SPA domains.  • Sound understanding of RESTful services and APIs.  • Extensive knowledge in developing dynamic Interactive graphs using D3.js with JSON data and use of D3.js for charting and rich interactive widgets.  • Familiar with Gulp or Grunt task runner to manage project and Bower package manager to install libraries.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA.  • Worked on different Package docs like Web Pack and BABEL as transpiler, Good Knowledge on Deployment in AWS services such as EC2, S3, and Deployment on multiple Database.  • Sound knowledge in JavaScript and ES6 concepts like prototypes, Scope chains, Closures, Promises and Arrow functions. Designed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular 2 and Backbone.js.  • Knowledge of Performance testing in web-based, Client -server applications using JMeter.  • Experience in software configuration management using version controls like SVN and GIT.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach (TDD).  • Good understanding of quality assurance testing methodology relative to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Design, Architecture, Implementation, Release, Unit testing, refactoring and maintenance    Environment: HTML, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone JS, AJAX Controls, Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Web Services and SQL Server 2008, Macromedia Flash MX, JQuery, JavaScript, MXML, Ajax, Home Site, Java, JSP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and MY-SQL. Frontend Developer [UI] CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing React JS, Angular JS and JavaScript API.  • Created mock services and data to accelerate front- end development while awaiting Restful APIs to be developed.  • Created Mock Services and data to accelerate front- end development while awaiting RESTFUL APIs to be developed.  • Successfully performed the RESTFUL APIs Integration and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Created Angular2 Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as to build the custom filter.  • Highly used Angular2 Router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular2 Components.  • Worked on Webpack as module builder for build workflow for Web Application.  • Created unit test cases of Angular2 components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Developed reusable style sheet partials using Sass Processor.  • Involved in Writing jQuery-based Ajax Requests.  • Developed Custom input elements using components.  • Analyzing and resolving issues found during the testing or pre-production phases of the software delivery lifecycle; coordinating changes with project team leader and cross-work team members.  • Every technical detail has been documented in the confluence Wiki.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronized data with server.  • Using Jenkins for continuous integration of builds.  • Performed Unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Generated the Istanbul report on NPM test.  • Followed best practices and standards for accessibility and cross-browser compatibility.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository.  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  • Exposure to new features and issues addressed in Angular 2.0.  • Utilized the Dependency Injection mechanism for simpler way of managing the controllers and scopes.  • Worked on Angularjs features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture, React JS features like Components, Lifecycle methods, and unidirectional data flow using the Flux Architecture.    Environment: Java, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Java, IIS, Adobe Dreamweaver MX, Macromedia Flash MX, Adobe Fireworks MX, IIS and Oracle. HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere. Education Bachelor's