Software Engineering Manager Software Engineering Manager Software Engineering Manager Portland, OR Motivated self-starter who is passionate about constructing code, is continuously seeking knowledge, and is always finding new ways for improvement.     Able to exceed client expectations in creative ways to produce original and artistic websites and applications. Focused on growing my skillset as an engineer and a leader.    My personal open source projects on GitHub have over 1000 stars, 80000 downloads, 1 sponsor, and are actively used all over the world.    https://github.com/jeremykenedy  https://packagist.org/packages/jeremykenedy/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineering Manager FocusVision Worldwide - Portland, OR February 2019 to Present • Manage, mentor, and advance the development team of 9 engineers and 2 project managers.  • Manage remote engineers in Portland, California, Texas, and India.  • Oversee 5 major applications scoping, development, QA, and deployment.  • Hold weekly 1 on 1 with every engineer to discuss workload, expectations, goals, and any issues.  • Work closely with project managers, product managers, stakeholders, and engineers to manage expectations and plan projects.  • Collaborate, work closely, hold regular meetings, and monitor outsourced engineering team in India.  • Attend and run Agile Scrum ceremonies and maintain two week sprints.  • Write Jira stories for feature development and application issues.  • Write, implement, and enforce various company and engineering policies and procedures.  • Communicate regularly with stakeholders to manage expectations, scope of projects, and provide estimations to be shared out.  • Assist QA Manager with release management and incoming bug reporting triage.  • Build a network of outside talent to help recruit and grow the engineering teams.  • Conduct engineer screening, interviews, organize team interviews, and make hiring decisions.  • Build employee action plans when necessary and enforce additional actions if needed.  • Foster technical decision making on the team but will make final decision when necessary  • Provide goal-based performance reviews for each engineer. Web Engineering Manager & Lead Developer Sq1 Portland (owned by Ansira) - Portland, OR November 2017 to Present • Manage, mentor, and advance the development team.  • Design and lead development on various RESTful API’s and custom VueJS projects.  • Design and have product ownership of Learning management portal for major national clients.  • Design and lead development of Laravel and PHP based projects.  • Design, manage, and maintain various VPS server environments in AWS, Vulture, and Media Temple.  • Manage and implement Git workflow with code reviews and continuous integration services.  • Provide company Lunch and Learns to team and other departments on various development topics.  • Work closely with 2 project managers to handle all department projects, resource allocation and planning,  projections, and project estimations.  • Attend Quarterly Business Reports (QBR) and client meetings to speak to the technical side of projects.  • Teach and provide training in OOP PHP MVC patterns, TDD, ES6 JavaScript, VueJS MV* patterns,  Gulp/Web pack builds, NPM/Node, SASS, systemic principles, and other methodologies.  • Utilize Asana for project management, NetSuite and Pay Com for employee time tracking, Browser stack  for testing, Invision for mock-up handoffs, and many other web and custom internal tools. Sr. Software Engineer Rubicon International - Portland, OR September 2016 to November 2017 • Built, maintain, and write endpoints for the Rubicon API using Laravel.  • Built, maintain, and write endpoints for the Secure Students API using Laravel.  • Frontend and backend development, support, and design for Atlas Education Curriculum Planning App.  • Write and complete stories tracked in Atlassian Jira using 2 week sprints.  • Complete sprint planning, sprint retro, and sprint demonstrations every 2 weeks.  • Write and complete code review in Atlassian Fisheye.  • Set up multiple successful automated deployment pipelines in Jenkins.  • Optimize, update, and provide ongoing assistance with the Rubicon website.  • Heavy design involvement and direction in Pleiades which includes an interactive style guide.  • Heavy Pleiades development and product groundwork development involvement.  • Frontend and backend development, support, and design for Flight School Intranet.  • Provide support and development for the Rubicon Underground internal website.  • Provide support and development for the Identity Angular 2.0 Codebase.  • Provided mentorship and assisted with the CNN website as a mentor in a Rubicon Internship.  • Develop in applications using but not limited to the following tools: PHP (OOP) / JavaScript / Laravel /  Node / Schell Scripting / Angular / React / Vue / jQuery / HTML5 / CSS3 / SASS / SCSS / LESS /  Bootstrap / Foundation / Material Design. Sr. Web Developer GTS Services, A Solara Company - Tigard, OR May 2016 to September 2016 Prototype custom billing applications and signup forms using the Chargify API and Laravel 5 for GlasPac  LX and Ritty Point of Sale Software products  • Utilize Git, Bower, Composer, NodeJS, GulpJS, SCSS, LESS, bourbon.io, Bootstrap, Google Material Design,  Angular, and Polymer JS  • Create and Implement custom Google analytics event, cross domain, conversion, and ab testing and tracking code using the Google Analytics API and JavaScript  • Use Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to create custom web backgrounds, web graphics, digital marketing and remarketing advertisements for GlasPac LX and Ritty Point of Sale Software  • Create and update custom WordPress plugins and themes Contract Front End Web Developer Vernier Software & Technology - Beaverton, OR May 2015 to April 2016 • Provided font- end web development for WordPress and custom PHP based templates  • Prototyped responsive designs and executed cross browser/device development with SCSS and  JavaScript  • Converted fixed web templates to update responsive web templates/pages  • Provided QA for 4000+ very detailed generated web pages  • Provided design ideas and feedback for Vernier.com  • Identified potential improvements in design and development and present solutions with estimates  • Worked closely with marketing team lead to develop and execute regular e-mail and newsletter  campaigns that are sent to over 38,000 subscribers  • Created custom responsive e-mail templates for the Campaign Monitor API  • Formatted copy and data into responsive HTML, optimized assets, improved SEO, and increased web  performance Web Developer, Designer, Owner Jeremy Edgar Kenedy Consulting, LLC - Phoenix, AZ November 2012 to April 2016 • Design and develop interactive user-friendly responsive and non-responsive websites  • Research and integrate web trends and new web developments  • Contract Web development and design services through Creative Circle.  • Offered and maintained client hosting and database management solutions Web Developer Graybox - Portland, OR December 2014 to May 2015 Develop custom WordPress themes and child themes with WooCommerce and WooCanvas support from  Photoshop CC and Sketch 3 files  • Utilize Beanstalk for GIT repository management and multiple environment deployments  • Set up and manage LAMP, VPS hosting, and shared hosting environments using SSH and various cPanels  • Use Sifter to work with project managers and clients for QA and User Acceptance Testing  • Estimate development time for new projects, project updates, additions, and maintenance Digital Services Manager, Web Developer, Designer Turtledove Clemens, Inc - Portland, OR May 2014 to December 2014 • Provided back end development of custom MVC style SQL driven CMS' for front end code  • Developed custom templates and themes for WordPress, Drupal, and Joomla  • Integrated APIs such as Google Maps (geocoding), Facebook, YouTube, Vimeo, and SalesForce  • Designed PSD website mockups in Photoshop CC and designed vector logos in Illustrator CC  • Set up and monitored Google Analytics, Google Webmaster, Bing Webmaster, and SEO-MOZ accounts to assist with providing organic SEO. Generate readable detailed statistical reports for the marketing team  • Created animated segments in Flash and video editing segments for clients in Adobe After Effects.  • Collaborated with marketing team to prepare online banner ads, coupons, and animated gif ads in  Photoshop Front End Web Developer ParaCore Web Development - Tempe, AZ June 2013 to February 2014 • Created responsive websites with responsive frameworks such as Foundation and Bootstrap  • Developed MVC style websites on Laravel, Smarty, and Cake PHP frameworks  • Worked with large scalable sites that utilized SQL tables and custom content management systems  • Produced HTML emails, templates, and surveys compatible across all web browsers and devices Contractor, Data Center Operations Choice Hotels International - Scottsdale, AZ June 2012 to February 2013 • Assisted with planning and migration of the network infrastructure to a next generation data center  • Provided support to data center operation's director and senior administrator during data center move  • Collaborated in the development of new operational policies and procedures Education Associate of Arts in Distinction Paradise Valley Community College - Phoenix, AZ 2012 Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice & Criminology Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2007 Associate in Arizona General Education Studies Curriculum Phoenix Community College - Phoenix, AZ 2004 Skills API (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PHOTOSHOP (2 years), Laravel (5 years), PHP (7 years), AWS & Linux Server Management (4 years), Node/NPM (4 years), SASS/SCSS/LESS (7 years), VueJS (3 years), Angular (2 years) Links https://github.com/jeremykenedy https://stackoverflow.com/story/jeremykenedy http://jeremykenedy.github.io/ http://jeremykenedy.com/ https://packagist.org/packages/jeremykenedy/