Sr. Business System Analyst/ Product Owner Sr. Business System Analyst/ Product Owner Sr. Business System Analyst/ Product Owner San Ramon, CA Looking for opportunities as a Business System Analyst/ Application Support in San Francisco East Bay (Alameda, Contra Costa Counties). Work Experience Sr. Business System Analyst/ Product Owner Iotied Inc - Sunnyvale, CA June 2017 to April 2019 Executed UAT system and functional tests to identify defects in the software against product specifications and revised user requirement documentation for tool development (Web Application).  • Preserved proper communication with the developers and ensured that the modifications and requirements were addressed and monitored.  • Interviewed business clients to analyze their business requirements and recommend and design technological improvements to their business processes and operational processes.  • Involved in special projects and provided ad hoc / special analysis as required (e.g. revenue recovery efforts, review of business practices). Front- End Engineer/Systems Analyst Verizon Wireless - Walnut Creek, CA June 2016 to December 2016 Created an UI application with HTML5, CSS, Javascript, and HTML5 Canvas, which can load an image onto a canvas and let the user draw on top of it with mouse click and drag. The mouse click points are picked up as co-ordinates and a json array is created in a corresponding text-area.  Attended meetings for understanding user requirements and change requests.  Supported the unix server systems by installing software and changing permissions for files systems.  Wrote technical documentation for internal user comprehension.  Pulled files from one server to another using ssh and scp commands.  Used JSP, HTML5, CSS, JQuery and AJAX to build an UI application to populate various drop downs (<select>) with data from database tables.  Debugged UI applications with Firebug add-on for Firefox, and Google Chrome Developer Tools.  Worked on Macintosh HD mini.</select> Server Engineer Funmobility Inc - Pleasanton, CA April 2013 to June 2013 Designed and developed web UI with HTML5, CSS3, and Javascript/jQuery.  Worked with various AJAX, jQuery, etc., to enhance web UI experience.  Developed Controllers, Views and Models for new functionality in the already existing code base.  Extensively worked with Java Spring and REST wiring the different modules with annotations in the various bean.xml  files.  Debugged the mobile application through operating the client app on a mobile device.  Built jars and wars and mobile client with jenkins.  Created, updated tables and inserted data in Microsoft SQL and Mongo DB.  Created and managed Stored Procedures to work with MS-SQL  Worked extensively with MongoVU to manage data in Mongo DB.  Worked extensively with json for managing data.  Create test plans/strategy, test cases, and identify the data scenarios required to perform testing.  Liason with cross functional teams consisting of business, engineering, QA, support, marketing, project  managers to deliver highest quality products and deliver projects on time. Sr. Java Developer Oracle Inc - Redwood City, CA October 2012 to April 2013 Designed, implemented, and coded many different modules of the Marketing System with java 7. Worked independently on projects with interactions with subject matter experts situated offshore.  Responsibilities and Achievements:  Designed and implemented an https streaming application with java 7, which connected to the Datasift API to receive  social data and statistics related to oracle products.  Designed and coded an application which calculated the shortest distance between two given points on the geographical map of North America, with core java.  Worked extensively with JSON parsing and handling.  Worked extensively on the unix environment, for setting up projects on servers.  Expertise on Unix commands and shell scripting.  Worked with UI technologies like HTML, DOM, CSS, Javascript, AJAX.  Expertise in Windows 7 command line operations and system enhancements.  Designed and coded an application with java which recieved a csv file with phone numbers and country codes as input and produced an output of a csv file which had complete metadata on those phone numbers, utilizing the Google LibPhoneNumber jars.  Extensively worked on NetBeans and Eclipse IDEs, as well as Oracle JDeveloper.  Worked on implementing and integrating third party APIs with internal applications like Gson, GoogLibPhoneNumber, etc.  Developed test plans, test cases, and identified various data scenarios required to perform testing. Java Developer Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA March 2012 to September 2012 Worked on the IPhone Systems API extensively. Integrating carrier interactions with Apple's internal system. Resolved existing issues as well as developed a number of enhancements to the API.  Responsibilities and Achievements:  Analyzed and developed changes and enhancements to the Iphone Systems API to integrate it with the carriers with extensive Core Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5+, Web Services(SOAP), XML.  Translated technical requirements into code and test plans.  Worked extensively in Oracle 10G database, retrieving and updating data with PL/SQL.  Worked with JDBC and PL/SQL in the procedure of making changes to the API.  Resolved existing issues in production.  Wrote technical documentation for internal use.  Integrated Apple's internal performance measurement tool IST-Hubble with the iPhone Systems API.  Mapped key performance indicators for itierations and web service calls in the iPhone Systems API to Apple's  internal performance measurement tool IST-Hubble.  Used JMS, Log4J, Hibernate(Object/Relational Mapping), Java Spring when resolving existing issues in the API.  Extensively worked with eclipse 3.4 and 3.6 as the IDE and used its standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, and formatting.  Used Versions for version control (SVN).  Led the development team during one of the releases and drove the release to completion, being involved in the entire lifecycle - scoping, development, QA, upto deployment into production. Interacted extensively with Project  Managers, QA Leads, and Build Management.  Provided production support after deployment, identifying issues from the logs and resolving them.    Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, J2EE 5, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10G, PL-SQL, Apache Ant, Maven, Core Java, JDBC, Hibernate, Java Spring, XML, WebObjects, MAC/UNIX, OS-X Lion as Operating System. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2010 to March 2012 Bank OF America (BOFA) Transactional Services: BOFA transactional services included archival, retrieval and viewing of transactional details of each and every BOFA user, both personal and corporate.  Responsibilities and Achievements:  Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to understand the existing architecture.  Front end development using HTML, CSS, Javascript.  Extensively used Javascript frameworks such as JQuery for enabling Ajax.  Developed the application using Eclipse 3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, and version control (SVN).  Provided Production Support for the application after deployment.  Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC  model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  Used JMS for messaging and communication between various modules of the application.    Environments: Java v1.5, J2EE 5, EJB 2.0, JSP, JSF 2.0 , Servlets, webservices, XML, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g, MYSQL, Apache ANT, Unix Java/J2EE Developer Citizens Bank - Providence, RI May 2009 to September 2010 Citizens State Bank is a well known financial corporation. Online Banking was devised for the implementation and maintenance of the online account management system that provides secure online access to customer accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, deposits, and facilities like inter-bank money transfer was provided by the application. It also provides service to the customers to pay the bills.  Responsibilities:  Responsible for developing Use Case, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  Used Spring Framework for dependency injection with the help of spring configuration files.  Developed the presentation layer using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, CSS and client side validations using JavaScript.  Worked extensively on AJAX.  Transformed XML content into HTML.  Involved in Dynamic form generation, Auto completion of forms and user validation functionalities using AJAX.  Involved in writing DAO layer using Hibernate to access the Oracle database.  Involved in the configuration management using CVS.  Developed Ant scripts to bundle and deploy application.  Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating.    Environment: Spring Framework 2., JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, JDK1.5, Oracle9i, JDBC3.0, AJAX, Java Script, Hibernate, Web Logic 8.1, ANT, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, CVS, Eclipse, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Windows Education Bachelor Of Engineering in Engineering Dr.B.C.Roy Engineering College - Durgapur, West Bengal Skills Apache, Testing tools, Mac, Mac os Additional Information Seasoned Business Systems Analyst with a strong Core Java background with 9+ years of IT experience with a focus on complex projects through all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle, utilizing Waterfall, Rational Unified Process(RUP) and Agile(Scrum) methodologies, with emphasis on Business Systems Requirements Gathering, Business Process Flow, Business Modelling, System Analysis, Quality Assurance and Product testing.    • Experienced with all phases and methodologies of Software Development Life Cycle including Waterfall, Agile/Scrum and RUP.    • Exceptional conceptual and technical skills to create Business Requirements Document, Functional Specifications Document, Process Flow Diagram and Detailed Design Document.    • Thorough understanding of relational database, object-oriented programming, data modeling, data mapping and data warehousing.    • Results-oriented Joint Application Development (JAD) Facilitator and meetings coordinator with excellent interpersonal skills.    • Experienced in Test Plans Development, Test Conditions, Test Cases, Test Data Creation and analysis.    • Well-versed in preparing Test Strategies, Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scripts, Defect Reports using HP Quality Centre and other testing tools.    • 6+ years of experience in Core Java, integration, testing and analysis of highly transactional and scalable applications using Object Oriented Analysis and design (OOA/OOD) principals.  • Expertise in front- end technologies like HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS.  • Experience in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, PL/SQL, Servlets, JSP, Spring 2.0, Hibernate, XML, Ant, Maven, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, MAC/UNIX, Log4J.  • Experience in designing user experience web pages with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and Javascript/Javascript Libraries.  • Experienced in system re-engineering, process automation, system enhancement, data migration and system integration projects.  • An excellent communicator - expresses self clearly in writing and speech. Adapts effectively to changing situations, reacts positively to challenges and quick to embrace change.  • Experienced with system development life cycle and system test life cycle (SDLC and STLC), and participating from requirements stage to deployment stage.  • Experienced in conducting a GAP analysis, cost-benefit analysis, root cause analysis.  • Experienced in conducting highly interactive JAD sessions with the project managers, project stakeholders, development and QA teams, as well as other stakeholders in identifying and resolving issues and setting project direction.  • Experienced in using tools such as MS Visio and Lucid Chart for creating Use Case Diagrams, Business Process Models, Data Flow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Swim Lane Diagrams & Work Flow Diagrams.  • Expert in documenting Business Requirements (BRDs), Functional Requirements (FRDs), Non-Functional Requirements, Systems Requirements Specifications (SRS), Data Mapping Document, Use Cases, Test Cases, User Interface Prototypes(wireframes) and Annotated Screen Specifications.  • Tracing requirements through Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) throughout the development process.  • Expert in Project Management support (Level of Effort Estimation, Status Update), Change Management & Prioritization, Root-Cause Analysis, UAT, and Scheduling.  • Experienced working with different types of testing approaches such as Integration, User Acceptance Testing, and Functional testing among others. Experienced in GUI/IDE Tools like Eclipse.  • OS experience in Windows, UNIX/LINUX, and Macintosh OS-X Lion.  • Excellent knowledge of standard industry methodologies like Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Iterative Software Development Life Cycle Process as per RUP, Agile and Waterfall.    Technical Experience  Data Processing Ms. Excel, SQL, Ms. Access, Ms. Word, Minitab  Presentation Business Modeling Ms. Visio, Ms. PowerPoint, Mock Flow  Requirement Management Rational Req. Pro, Ms. Projects, Ms. Word, TFS, SharePoint, Version one    Operating systems Windows, Mac OS  Testing tools Quality center, Apache JMeter, SoapUI, HP ALM