Sr. Web Developer Sr. Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Actively seeking Springfield, IL With extensive and specialized academic background, reliable, highly motivated person, seeking internship to gain valuable knowledge ambitious and focused whilst appreciating the need to remain flexible.    • Around 7 years of experience as a Front end web developer in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML, CSS, XTHML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Good knowledge in Bootstrap and Responsive Design, CSS3 Media Queries.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks jQuery, AngularJS 1 and 2.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Built the client side front with Angular.JS models, controllers and views and using angular directives, custom directives to build re-usable components as part of the development standards.  • Learned and used Bootstrap framework to build a responsive website that is capable of displaying webpages on various screen sizes.  • Experienced in using various tools such as Notepad++ and IDEs such as NetBeans, Visual Studio, Eclipse, LIVERELOADER, GULP, WEBPACK etc. for development and design.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving cross browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border and Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Good experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking. Used SVN, GIT for version control.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Experience working on both UNIX and Windows Environments.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Southern Company - Birmingham, AL January 2017 to Present Project Name: Online Support service zone  Project Description:  Online Support (OLS) is a web portal for providing facilities like Support, Trouble shooting, Registration, Site Administration and Products information to EMC customers. OLS is implemented on a SOA based platform with Rich UI. System allows user to perform activities like Chat, Content Search, Service request Creation and tracking directly from dashboard without going through the normal process of executing it from power link which is now decommissioned. OLS project has aimed to help users to identify and overcome their business challenges, while reducing risk and speeding time to value of their information infrastructure implementations.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development, and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used agile software development methodology to develop project plans.  • Involved in developing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed GUI with HTML, HTML5, XML, XSLT, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used server side spring framework and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping of the database structure created in SQL server.  • Involved in design and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Handled long running calls to XML web services and SQL Server stored procedures using multi-threads.  • Installed configured and deployed the applications on WebSphere Portal and Application Server.  • Experienced with SOAP/WSDL and have designed as well as developed SOAP interfaces in Java.  • Used IBM mq Queuing mechanism to send messages to clients and interact with other systems.  • Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and inline views to retrieve data from the database.  • Involved in producing and consuming annotations of SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  • Responsible for developing the full stack ( front- end development, application logic, services, data persistence) as well as server setup and maintenance.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and Mockito. Used RSA integrated SVN Repository to maintain version controlled source code.  • Implemented Cross cutting concerns like logging and declarative transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Developed custom tags to simplify JSP code.  • Designed UI screens using JSP 2.0, CSS, XML, and HTML.  • Built AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Extensively used AngularJS (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components. Custom node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Used SQL server as the backend database.  • Involved in design of the database schema and development of stored procedures.  • Used IBM WebSphere as an application server.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JDK 1.5/1.6, SOAP, Servlets, JMS 1.2, Spring 3.2.3, Hibernate 4.3.0, Maven 2, SVN, JavaBeans, IBM mq, Eclipse 3.4, Web-Services, AWS, SQL, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL server 2005, XQuery, Linux, Unix, Angular JS, Node.js, JQuery, IBM Web sphere Application Server. Web Developer Verizon Wireless - Westlake, TX August 2015 to January 2017 Project Name: M2M Operations  Project Description:  The M2M Operations Center is a systems platform designed to automate the M2M onboarding process. The platform will provide visibility into the M2M onboarding process by enabling users to submit, manage and track onboarding requests from a central user interface. The platform will assist with driving the process through SLAs and notifications to process workgroups to reduce manual dependencies. Reporting will be provided to enable teams to proactively monitor onboarding performance and identify bottlenecks early-on. Finally, the Verizon M2M Operations Center will serve as a foundation that may be easily expanded to support additional processes and integration opportunities to ensure our M2M operational processes are scalable, are able to support future growth and ensure a best-in-class internal and external customer experience.  Responsibilities:    • Participated in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Implemented the editor component with spell-check using AJAX, JSON.  • Integrated jQuery Grid View for all Data View for the product.  • Created cross browser UI components using various jQuery.  • Integrally designed and implemented the entire Security Administration UI that has 15 screens which is a major attraction of the product.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, jQuery, Ajax, and CSS.  • Displayed on demand data to the user using Ajax.  • Extensively used jQuery plug-ins like Image Light box, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plugin, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Written and implemented CSS throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Written and implemented Object Oriented JavaScript throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Created role-based DHTML navigation menu, menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database.  • Timely delivery of the assigned projects.  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously.    Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Core Java, Require-js CSS, AJAX, JSON, HTML, DHTML, XML, DOM, Photoshop 5, PHP, MySQL and Eclipse IDE. UI Developer AT&T - Austin, TX September 2013 to May 2015 Project Description:  As a part of business requirement I worked on the U-verse Module. The U-verse landing page allows the user to select the Digital TV Packages. In addition the page lists all the plans in a comparison chart listing the details of all the packages. User will be able to customize the packages. If the user selects this option he will be redirected to customization page, where he will be able to select and customize different packages in the plan.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node-js, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  • Utilized Waterfall Methodology (SDLC) to manage development lifecycle.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Monitor site for any UI inconsistencies and fix all the UI bugs reported in the test track.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, Node-JS. Front End UI Developer Wels Fargo - Houston, TX August 2011 to June 2013 Project Description:  The project addressed financial services and products including retail banking, business, capital markets and corporate e-banking, mobile banking and web based cash management of universal banks worldwide. Front end includes web pages such as login, user profiles, user accounts, bill payment and viewing transactions.  Responsibilities:    • Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS, JSP's, Node-js and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT and ANGULAR JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating and implementing Master Classes in Action script 3.0 (based on MVC) for the application.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari,  • Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed 10 Unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, Angular-js, Require-js, Bootstrap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Information Architecture, Selenium IDE, Flash, SQL and Tomcat. UI Intern Developer JP Morgan chase - Houston, TX May 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:    • Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS, JSP's, Require-js, Node-js and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT and ANGULAR JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Creating and implementing Master Classes in Action script 3.0 (based on MVC) for the application.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Designed 10 Unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, Angular-js, Require-js, Bootstrap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Information Architecture, Selenium IDE, Flash, SQL and Tomcat. Education Master's in Computer Science University of karachi - Karachi January 2007 to December 2008 Skills AJAX (10+ years), JQuery (9 years), JSON. (9 years), SQL (5 years), XML (6 years), HTML (8 years), CSS3 (7 years), javas (7 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS (6 years), Git (7 years), Photoshop (6 years), PHP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Web Technologies HTML5,CSS3, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, SASS.  Frameworks Angular Js, Ext Js 3.4.  Web services REST, SOAP, WSDL, JSON.    Operating Systems UNIX , MS Windows 8/7/XP, LINUX  Web/Application servers Websphere 8.0, Web Logic 10.0, Tomcat 5.0, Oracle8i/9i, MySQL, DB2  Programming Languages Java 6.0 and above, J2EE, C, SQL