Sharepoint Support Analyst Sharepoint Support Analyst Seattle, WA Work Experience Sharepoint Support Analyst The Boeing Company - Bellevue, WA April 2017 to Present April 2017 – Present  - Enabled continual business improvements dependent on Sharepoint by providing quality end user support and evangelize system best practices.  - Resolved significant technical hurdles experienced by Sharepoint end users on daily basis to eliminate roadblocks to critical business operations and documented all findings into enterprise knowledge base.  - Recommended numerous content updates on Sharepoint end user support website in order to maximize effectiveness and encourage users to build self-sustaining capabilities over costly tier 3 support. Security Analyst The Boeing Company - Information Security - Bellevue, WA June 2016 to Present - Protected the Boeing enterprise from unauthorized access through risk analysis of network architecture changes.  - Verified security of network architecture changes to allow authorized users and systems to securely access network resources and minimize data leaks.  - Consulted as security focal for customers in order to ensure network changes follow industry best-practices. Front End Developer The Boeing Company - IT Training & Development - Bellevue, WA June 2015 to Present - Created Java program to pre-format large lists of user data into HTML elements reducing work time by 3 hours per update cycle.  - Redesigned IT training web front end with Bootstrap in to support expanding mobile devices usage.  - Reduced manual webpage maintenance by implementing reusable code structure saving an estimated 18 work hours per year.  - Maintained and developed new content for training and development web portal providing IT training and career development resources across enterprise. Front End Developer The Boeing Company - IT International - Bellevue, WA June 2015 to June 2016 - Fully redesigned organization web portal to enable a growing and global mobile device population to quickly find services and information. Worked daily using new and inherited code in order to enhance site readability and update content for internal partners.  - Created reusable code repository to drive productivity improvements saving an estimated 10 work hours per month.  - Led project to introduce automated reporting of financial data into an online repository and eliminating a manual process saving an estimated 49 work hours per month.  - Planned and developed web newsletter to provide visibility of business initiatives and to engage a diverse and globally dispersed audience. Project Manager The Boeing Company - Global Collaborative Services - Bellevue, WA January 2015 to June 2015 - Ensured integrity of external partner access to proprietary software and systems through audits and verification checks.  - Enabled Boeing cross-organizational teams to securely release software to external suppliers.  - Researched and developed knowledge transfer material in support of upcoming new hires. Project Manager The Boeing Company - Release Management - Bellevue, WA June 2014 to December 2014 - Coordinated baseline deployment process requirements & schedule.  - Executed and communicated status of event plans to incorporate change and work requests into deployments within test and production environments.  - Negotiated and scheduled system outages with environment owners. Functional Analyst Intern The Boeing Company - Supply Chain Systems - Bellevue, WA June 2013 to September 2013 - Created critical user documentation for launch of new software to track equipment inventory.  - Organized, updated and maintained documentation during launch period.  - Tested system during development-to-maintenance transition verifying system stability. Content Strategy Intern Content Insight LLC June 2012 to August 2012 - Analyzed and proposed creation of web content before public preview.  - Identified target audience & determined user experience improvements.  - Researched & recommended search engine optimization strategies.  - Created storyboards & video tutorial to advertise & explain product. Education B.S. in Informatics - Information Architecture University of Washington - Seattle, WA June 2014 Skills Information Security - Risk analysis, Network Traffic Auditing (1 year), Object Oriented Programming - Java (2 years), Web Programming - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, XML, Bootstrap (2 years), Database Software - Working knowledge of MySQL, Microsoft Access, PL/SQL, Postgres (Less than 1 year), Usability Techniques - Prototyping, Wireframing, Heuristic Analysis, Personas, Use Cases, Usability Testing (1 year), User Research - Stakeholder Interviews, Surveys, Data Analysis, Contextual Inquiries (1 year), Project Management (1 year), Sharepoint Designer (1 year) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 February 2015 to Present Additional Information BUSINESS QUALIFICATIONS    Thinks analytically for practical and flexible solutions.    Committed to structured & well-documented completion of target objectives.    Demonstrated leadership initiative.    Work well independently & in team.