Global Support Software Developer Global Support Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Global Support Software Developer Compton, CA To obtain a challenging, rewarding position in the technical industry offering responsibility and opportunities for advancement  where my software development skills can be utilized and enhanced.    AREAS OF FOCUS    Operating Systems-Windows XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10, Mac OS X, Ubuntu, Linux/Unix, FreeBSD, iOS, Android, and Raspbian.  Development Tools and Frameworks-Sharepoint, AWS Serverless, Lambda, WPF, VB.NET, Sass, Swift, Javascript, Agile Development, jQuery,  CSS3, Git, Wordpress, VirtualBox, Ionic 3, Angular2.0, Node.js, PhoneGap/Cordova, Facebook API, and Firebase, SQLite, WSF, VBA, Macros. Work Experience Global Support Software Developer Calance - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to May 2019 Utilized Full Stack with Restful APIs to create applications is Angular 2.0, Angularjs, Node.js, Ionic 3 &4; incorporating front end design  with HTML, CSS, Sass, and javascript for functions; while using Git version control to sync progress with fellow practice support  developers for the attorneys.  ? Programmed WPF applications in Visual Studio using C# and VB.net for analyzing data for the practice support along with providing  clear and concise technical documentation to accompany all applications development.  ? Analyzed and interpreted data feed sources from the relational SQL databases while developing WSF Scripts to batch export Databases  into archives to prepare for server migrations.  ? Designed Sharepoint reports including creating new items and report rules for generating documents, customization and creation of new  subsites and site components for site optimization and Macros for batch operations.  ? Fulfilled primary duties while providing support to senior management with a proficient knowledge of strong analytical skills, and the ability to comprehend, communicate, and manipulate data in vb.net and MVC techniques. Software Developer Parcel Pending - Irvine, CA July 2017 to August 2017 Gained a deep knowledge of the mean stack using Angular2.0, Node.js, Mongodb, and json databases providing various API calling  including asynchronous image downloading and displaying URL in a collection view.  ? Utilized the platforms provided to create WPF applications in Visual Studio 2015 and deployed, debugged, and tested other web services  used in the system.  ? Designed and built data collection using AWS serverless architecture with Lambda to handle real time processing of 100+ events per day  with npm commands.  ? Experienced building the infrastructure for the front- end app, creating configuration, builds, and deployments through the Android and iPhone mobile app markets while integrating Objective-C methods to Swift Code.  ? Implemented the multi-language support features of Apples SDK to improve app accessibility while pushing notification implementation  through Firebase, customizing login verification and storage. PHP Consultant Web Developer Parcel Pending - Irvine, CA June 2017 to July 2017 Promoted and communicated new ideas to team and Leadership while processing improvements to technologies and maintaining code.  ? Designed maintainable, scalable, responsive, and Cross-browser code with a creative and development team on the execution of project.  ? Utilized cutting edge Javascript, Html, Css, Php, Angular2.0, Wordpress frameworks, and MVC libraries while modifying the existing code.  ? Executed and monitored standards for user interface page design and graphics development and complex interfaces to support third  party systems and the coding of custom Wordpress themes and template files using HTML, CSS, Php, and Bootstrap frameworks.  ? Customized Wordpress installation, editing php files through MAMP server and MySQL workbench to develop locally on desktop  environment and commit changes using Git and SourceTree. Front End Developer Bell's Branding, Inc - Long Beach, CA January 2013 to June 2017 Founded a tech consulting firm where I provided clients with premium front- end services further sharpening my entrepreneurial skills.  ? Developed Wordpress websites and Mobile apps for various freelance clients using HTML5, CSS3, Ionic, Node.js, Angular2.0, and Firebase.  ? Provided marketing and customer service for businesses and clients who needed a website and/or mobile app developed and redesigned.  ? Specialized in marketing techniques, SEO, and social media marketing with Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook ads and other techniques  ? Installed and configured operating systems, desktop applications, web environments, command line tools, and software frameworks.  ? Perform debugging and testing with Apache JMeter to load test functional behavior and measure performance of applications.  ? Deployed mobile applications in iOS( Ionic, Swift 2.0, Xcode), Android(Java, Eclipse, Ionic), and Windows (C#, .NET, Visual Studio). Junior Web Developer Windsor Gardens - Anaheim, CA October 2013 to January 2015 Worked with groups of senior developers to maintain a large, complex database for a facility of over 100 patients with use of MySQL.  ? Completed detailed development tasks for web based projects using Asp.Net, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Restful APIs.  ? Oversaw scheduling of project milestones and coordinated with clients on any proposed changes or challenges to be overcome.  ? Created clean WPF graphic user interfaces and simple, intuitive interactions using MVC frameworks to enhance the user experience.  ? Participated with teams using version control such as Github and collaborated with key stakeholders using Agile Project Management. Recreation Service Leader Los Angeles County - Los Angeles, CA September 2006 to August 2008 Co-supervised 40 students ages 5-12 and maintained the safety of the children enrolled in the program.  ? Supervised staff including youth, summer, and temp workers showing leadership and growth within the company.  ? Assisted students with homework assignments, ensuring the children were given assistance with their educational pursuits.  ? Led the students in group activities providing them with physical exercise and enhancements of their mental capabilities. Education B.S. in Engineering California State University - Long Beach, CA August 2010 to May 2016 High School Diploma Bellflower High School - Bellflower, CA September 2004 to June 2008 Skills .NET, FRONT-END, OAUTH, SCRIPTING, MVC Links http://www.bellsbrandinginc.blogspot.com http://github.com/elbsoftinc Assessments Social Media — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/l21bat-17-xupxa4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Office Skills-75 wpm, Multi-Line phone and fax, Front- End Development, Web Design, Graphic Design, .NET MVC, oAuth and Tokens, XCode.  Graphic Design Skills-Video Editing, Cropping, Adobe Creative Suite, ScreenFlow, Movavi, Audio Production, Logo Design, and Illustrator,  Video Editing Skills- Youtube Management, Social Media Marketing, Strong Knowledge of Adobe Premiere Pro and Photoshop, Screen recording  with ScreenFlow, Audio and Video Editing Frames, Chroma Key Effect with green screen, Canon Film Recording and noise reduction, Scripting.