Junior Front- end developer Junior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Junior Front- end developer - Polyzen Inc Morrisville, NC Seeking a Software Developer position with a reputable Company where I can get more experiences while developing and contributing to the growth of the Company. As a Current Graduate Full Stack Web Developer at Udacity School of Computer Science, I aim to achieve my goals developing web applications using the latest technologies such as Modern JavaScript, Python, NodeJs, Angular 2, 6 and 7, TypeScript, ExpressJs, and HTML5 for the Front- End as well as the Back- End (using REST API) and MEAN(MongoDB, ExpressJs, Angular and NodeJs). Excellent conceptual and working knowledge of RDBMS (Oracle Database 11g, Postgres, DB2, MySQL, and SQL, PL/SQL).    technical Skills summary    Project: CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) application using Angular 7    This project consisted of developing a CRUD application using Angular 7 to build a recipe menu for a Restaurant. The app will allow a user to build his/her own recipe. This project used persistent data storage to create a RESTful web application that allows users to perform Create, Read, Update, and Delete operations.    Responsibilities:    • Created all the Components, Services, Directives and Pipes use in the app.  • Tested the templateUrl to fix all the bugs.  • Created modules and Components and coupled them together into a functional app.  • Writing tested, idiomatic, and documented JavaScript, HTM5 and CSS.    Project: Linux Server Configuration    This project was about securely configuring a Linux Server and deploying a Flask Web application.    Taking a baseline installation of a Linux distribution on a Virtual machine and prepared it to host  your web applications, to include installing updates, securing it from a number of attacks vector  and installing/configuring web and database servers.    Steps Descriptions  1- Adding a user  2- Allowing a user to run commands as root (sudo)  3- Updating system software  4- Setting up SSH keys for user login  5- Disable root login  6- Setting time zone and automatic time setting via NTP  7- Changing SSH port to non standard port  8- Configuring the Uncomplicated Firewall (UFW)  9- Install and configure Apache to serve Python WSGI web applications  10- Install and configure PostgreSQL database  11- Automatic security updates  12- Banning IPs if they are the source of repeated failed login attempts.    Project: Item Catalog    The Item Catalog project consisted of developing an application that provides a list of items within a variety of categories, as well as provide a user registration and authentication system. This project used persistent data storage to create a RESTful web application that allows users to perform Create, Read, Update, and Delete operations.    A user does not need to be logged in order to read the categories or items uploaded. However, users who created an item are the only users allowed to update or delete the item that they created.    This project uses third-party OAuth with Google or Facebook. Some of the technologies used to build this application include Flask, Bootstrap, Jinja2, and SQLite.    Skills used for this project  1- Python  2- HTML  3- CSS  4- Bootstrap4  5- Flask  6- Jinja2  7- SQLAlchemy  8- OAuth  9- Facebook/Google Login    Project: Student Academic Courses Record.    This project consist of recording student personal information along with his/her grades in an Academic grade form and display the student result in a Report Card for student form.    Skills used for this project  1- JavaScript  2- JQuery  3- Regular Expression  4- NodeJs ( Express framework )    Project: Logs analysis    In this project, a large database with over a million rows is explored by building complex SQL queries to draw business conclusions for the data. The project mimics building an internal reporting tool for a newspaper site to discover what kind of articles the site's readers like the most. The database contains newspaper articles, as well as the web server log for the site.    Skills used  1- Python 3  2- SQL queries  3- Git - An open source version control system    * Experience developing web applications using the latest technologies for the front- end as well as the back- end(using REST API)  * Ability to quickly solve problems using the most optimal algorithms.  * At least 4 years experiences in JavaScript ( NodeJS, JQuery, AngularJS, HTML5, PHP, Java, C#) as well as Scripting Languages such as Shell/bash and PowerShell.  * Good working knowledge of GitHub.  * 6 + years of SQL programming. Experience with hands-on data modeling skill, SQL Server 2012.  * Excellent knowledge of Oracle PL/SQL programming such as developing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, Cursors, and Script.  * Designed and developed applications using Angular 2, 6 and 7 frameworks along with HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, JavaScript, Bootstrap, NodeJs, NPM and JSON.  * Hands on experience on Angular 2, 6 and 7 technologies.  * Good working knowledge of Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, Pipes, Directives, Templates and Injectors.  * Good amount of work done on Angular 7 and TypeScript  * Experience developing UI applications with Angular 6 and 7, TypeScript and RxJs/Observables/HttpClient to access Rest end points. Work Experience Junior Front- end developer Polyzen Inc - Apex, NC May 2019 to Present Develop JavaScript, NodeJs, Angular 7, HTML5 and CSS. Entry-level web developer Sulzer Metco - Durham, NC August 2016 to April 2019 Designed, developed and maintained web-based applications written in bootstrap /html/css/JavaScript.  Troubleshoot page performance issues.  Identify and eliminate website bugs to improve user experience.  Created RESTful API endpoints.  Developed application using NodeJS with Express Servers. Freelancer 2014 to 2015 Web Design    Improve, modify and upgrade the designs and functionalities of websites as requested by the clients.  Fixed software bugs via JavaScript and CSS.  Solved problems using a combination of JavaScript, JSON, and JQuery. IT Specialist Foxconn, NC 2013 to 2014 Configured and maintained Client PC. Junior Database Developer SENECA5, NC 2011 to 2013 Developed database applications in MS Access and SQL Microsoft Server accelerating insurance claims processing  Developed Stored Procedures, tables, Views, Scripts for processing data.  Created and Maintained Relational Database queries and Stored Procedures. Security Officer GLAXOSMITHKLINE 2010 to 2011 Work with Office management and the designated Agency Official (DAO) to enhance overall safety and security of Federal office suites. Monitoring federal facility through CCTV'S. Network Administrator CREE RTP 2009 to 2010 Internship    Managed LAN and WAN communications infrastructure, including T1 communication services; Diagnosed and solved hardware, software problems; served as team lead for an Exchange migration project, migrating from cc: Mail to Exchange 5.5. Developed and implemented disaster recovery procedures for the Microsoft BackOffice. Education Udacity School of Computer Science Database Management Systems Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC Diplomat Stratford Career Institute - Washington, DC BS in Mathematics and Physics in Lomé, Togo University of Lome Skills C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, PHP, Git, MYSQL, CSS Links http://www.gitHub.com/stephanedadjo