Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - University of Washington Advancement Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer University of Washington Advancement - Seattle, WA July 2018 to Present • Build directives for peer-to-peer fundraising platform that allows stakeholders and the public to create and graphically enhance their own fundraising web pages.   • Implement web tool for fundraisers to calculate gift assessments made on upcoming gifts to clarify to donors.  • Participate in designing and standardizing existing solutions for mobile deployment.  • Restructure aging report developed in PERL by rewriting it in AngularJS and redeploying in an ASP.NET framework.   • Present UX design mockups based on user stories to stakeholders for review and feedback.  • Collaborate with 7 team members in an agile environment for sustainable development and rapid deployment. Able to improve best practices for maximizing productivity and value of work. System Analyst / Programmer University of Washington Advancement - Seattle, WA July 2014 to June 2018 Apart of a highly integrated support team that helps other departments work efficiently and make informed decisions. Team goal consisted of providing compatibility, automation and analytics. Compatibility between internal and external data sources to connect and use a greater array of data for business insights. Automated current processes to boost efficiency reducing repetitive common tasks, validations, and data integrations. Use deep domain-specific knowledge in Finance and HR systems to provide clean data and analysis for internal and external stake holders.    • Developed customized tools, reports, and forms in Microsoft Access to track University Advancement’s employment, position, budget, and payroll information.   • Architected CRM database in Microsoft Access to help recruiters expand requisition management and reporting.   • Automated reporting and analysis tools by pre-filling most of the data using unique IDs as reference for annual salary, fundraising cost, and benchmarking surveys.  • Improved data processing speeds by 60% through rewriting outdated code and redesigning forms and reports to enhance user interface.  • Handled troubleshooting of graphical user interface applications for data entry, verification, and reporting.  • Collaborated with FTMA’s managers and coworkers to evaluate, analyze, and refine business practices, policies, and procedures. Education Bachelor's in Geology University of Washington-Seattle Campus - Seattle, WA September 2009 to June 2014 Skills Javascript (1 year), HTML 5 (2 years), HTML (2 years), Visual Basic (4 years), C# (1 year), CSS (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), JQuery (2 years), Java (2 years), MySQL (2 years), T-Sql (2 years), Git (2 years), Visual Studio (2 years), Python (1 year), ASP (1 year), AngularJS (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Agile (3 years), Balsamiq (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CSS Fundamentals February 2018 to Present Java Tutorial February 2018 to Present Querying with Transact-SQL May 2015 to Present SQL Fundamentals January 2018 to Present JavaScript Tutorial January 2018 to Present HTML Fundamentals January 2018 to Present C# Tutorial January 2018 to Present jQuery Tutorial February 2018 to Present Assessments Data Analysis — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t2tonrrhdljw1lgo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.