Senior PHP Developer Senior PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior PHP Developer Denton, TX Work Experience Senior PHP Developer LinuxAcademy November 2016 to December 2017 November 2016 - December 2017  LinuxAcademy is at the forefront of the e-learning movement providing training across a broad range of cloud technologies. My role as a Senior PHP Developer has been to help maintain existing legacy  products as well as to develop new products. Have worked on projects using Laravel, Angular, and a custom PHP CMS. Senior Developer WeScanFiles November 2015 to November 2016 WeScanFiles provides document scanning and archival services all over the metroplex. I've helped them with desktop and command-line scripting using Python to handle complex file manipulations on large  data-sets. Senior PHP Developer Total Management Inc September 2015 to October 2015 TMI works in the personal loan industry and needed a LAMP-stack developer with experience with Symfony. I helped to finish and launch a Symfony and BootstrapUI website during my time. I also helped  them to move their workflow/process online using tools such as Slack and JIRA. Some of the other tools I worked with were Docker, Vagrant, Codeship, and third-party APIs. Sr. Developer SportsDigita June 2015 to June 2015 Worked as a Sr. Developer on a custom built framework which used a   combination of Zend Framework, MongoDB, and jQuery. Helped to analyze application performance and coding standards as well as add features and maintain existing code. Full-Stack Developer ATVEscape October 2014 to February 2015 ATVEscape is a website, magazine, and mobile app targeted at ATV users. I helped them upgrade and update their Joomla site including database and plugin management. I also worked on their custom API for their mobile app to add and edit features in coordination with their mobile developer. Full-Stack Developer BringingUp July 2014 to December 2014 BringingUp is the newest product by ReadyRosie targeted at a different demographic. The application required a custom-built Laravel CMS integrated with the MailChimp and Vimeo APIs. The Mailchimp integration includes full management of lists, subscribers, list columns, etc. The CMS also includes in-depth MailChimp analytics tracking. Full Stack Developer ReadyRosie March 2014 to December 2014 ReadyRosie is a local Denton education startup. They wanted to add a reporting/statistics feature for their clients. I built a plugin that gathers MailChimp API information, sorts/calculates what is returned, stores  that into a Wordpress database, and then displays that information dynamically through a Wordpress admin screen. This project involved interacting with the MailChimp API, data conversions, manually written PDO SQL, Linux CRON jobs, and integrating all of this within Wordpress. Front End Developer 70kft May 2014 to July 2014 70kft is a Dallas based creative agency offering design, marketing, and web solutions for clients such as Haier and Verizon. I worked on UI/UX for a very large enterprise-level application utilizing newer technologies such as Node.js, Angular JS, and Sass. Most of the work was done in Angular creating custom modules, components, and directives. For this project I worked with several development teams utilizing Git and Rally for project management. Full Stack Developer Denton Community Theatre February 2014 to April 2014 Denton Community Theatre, a local Denton historical theatre, needed a new website. I modified a premium Wordpress theme and created a new site. This involved some custom graphics, migrating ~20 pages of existing content from a previous site, and creating a new design/style. Front- End Developer PetroCloud November 2013 to January 2014 PetroCloud offers cloud automation to the oil and gas industries for their on-site equipment. I was tasked with re-designing and implementing an entire new front- end for their web application. This involved working with jQuery and Bootstrap heavily. It also involved creating several custom front- end features using Javascript and interacting with back- end services. Mobile Developer DentonRadio.com September 2013 to November 2013 A local organization which provides an online radio station for local artists needed a fool-proof mobile solution for their online radio player. Using Phonegap, HTML5, and MediaElementJS a mobile app was created for both Android and iOS. The app can be found on both the Google Play and Apple iTunes app stores. Full Stack Developer DFW Document Scanning June 2013 to August 2013 A local document scanning business that needed an easy and secure way to give their clients access to documents as they were being scanned. A custom web application built using the Laravel PHP framework provided the basis and integration with the Google API provided the online document storage and access. Full Stack Developer Mabak Directional Drilling June 2013 to August 2013 A local drilling company needed an in-house solution to keep track of their jobs, expenses, and other internal metrics. A custom web application was built utilizing the Laravel PHP framework. The entire application was built from scratch and included many complex intertwined metrics. Integration with the Google and Mandrill APIs was also required. Full Stack Developer El Creative June 2013 to August 2013 An advertising/design agency located in downtown Dallas with many small to medium sized clients. They had three sites that needed to be created using Wordpress. Their designer provided design assets that I used to create custom Wordpress themes. Wordpress customization and custom plugins were also required. Front End Developer Apollo Interactive September 2012 to November 2012 A media/ad agency working for several national brands; I worked on front- end components for several of these including, ExtraCo Banks, StageStores, Visionworks, and Wingstop. I created several landing  pages for ad campaigns, did various front- end maintenance, and created several Facebook campaign pages utilizing Modernizr, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, and mobile responsive design. Most of my time was spent completing the design and mobile aspects of the Wingstop.com re-design which is currently live. Mobile Developer Custom Payroll Associates September 2012 to November 2012 Used HTML5 and Phonegap to create an Android tablet application to be used by CPAi's salespeople. Features included presentation materials, product/service demos, testimonial videos, client profiles, ability to create quotes on-the-fly, and the ability to sign a contract. Signing a contract involved taking pictures with the device camera, filling out forms, using a stylus to provide a digital signature, and then processing all of this information on a server then emailing out documents and images reflecting the information gathered.  APK available upon request. Front End Developer Primcogent Solutions June 2012 to August 2012 I began by coding HTML site templates based upon PSD design files and then was asked to create custom Wordpress themes based upon those templates. In addition to the themes, they want custom plugins to facilitate custom functionalities which involved integration with Google Maps and Google Docs. Full Stack Developer Cargill March 2012 to May 2012 Assisted in updating and maintaining a company-wide internal web application written in Java utilizing Struts, Hibernate, and Oracle. Jumped into an enormous code-base with no documentation and began extending and adding primary features as well as updating many minor blocks of logic. Full Stack Developer American Airlines Publishing September 2011 to November 2011 Worked on a small web development team to build a Facebook application and an internal web application. The Facebook app was featured on the American Airlines Facebook page for several weeks as a part of a contest. The Facebook app utilized jQuery-based AJAX and XML parsing, eventually reaching well over 25,000 entries during its existence. The internal app utilized similar technologies to assist in maintaining a database containing several million objects. This maintenance geolocation and reverse geolocation functionality using the Google Maps API. Front End Developer Prism Media Group June 2011 to August 2011 Provided with PSD files and a basic application framework, I created the front end for an application geared towards search and user/business profiles. This was written using jQuery, CSS, HTML5 and was rigorously checked by a QA specialist until it was standards compliant, worked in every browser (including IE6), and even had accurate print styling. Education Computer Science University of North Texas - Denton, TX August 2009 to May 2011 Skills PHP (8 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Laravel (5 years), Git (5 years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (8 years) Links http://davidmyers.name Additional Information Languages/Libraries/Tools that I use  Git  Bash  HTML5  CSS3  Bootstrap  Foundation  JavaScript  AngularJS  NPM  jQuery  PHP  PHPUnit  MySQL  Laravel  Symfony  Doctrine  MySQL  Apache  Nginx  Redis  Memcahed  Docker  Vagrant  Joomla  WordPress  Facebook API  YouTube API  Titanium SDK  Phonegap  Python  C++  Photoshop