Sr. Business Analyst & Project Coordinator Sr. Business Analyst &amp; Project Coordinator Sr. Business Analyst & Project Coordinator - Key Bank Columbus, OH • 7 Years of Business Analysis and IT experience in Banking, Financial and Insurance Domains.  • Extensive experience in gathering and documenting System Requirements for functionalities. Proficient in preparing functional specifications (FS), workflow, process re-engineering, business rules, use cases, Software requirement specification (SRS)  • Experience in implantation and upgrading of CRM applications such as salesforce.com CRM.  • Excellent technical writing and documentation skills, Documented Functional Specification Documents (FSD) and Functional Requirement Documents (FRD)-UML methodology (Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration diagrams, Activity Diagrams) respectively.  • Strong Knowledge of SDLC and project life cycle and extensive working experience in AGILE, Scrum, RUP and Waterfall methodology.  • Competent in Unified Modeling Language (UML) for developing use cases diagram, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagram for system design using Magic Draw, MS Visio and IBM Rational Rose tools.  • Adept at creating and transforming business requirements into functional requirements and designing business models using UML diagrams - Context, Use Case, Sequence, Activity diagrams in MS Visio and Rational Rose.  • Organized many Joint Application Developments (JAD) sessions and Joint Requirement Planning sessions (JRP), walkthrough, Interviews, Workshops and Rapid Application Development (RAD) sessions with end-user/clients/stake holders and the IT group.  • Prepare presentation slides in MS Power Point, which was extensively used in different JAD sessions and to track progress.  • Assisted the project manager with activities like effort estimation, resource management, issue/risk analysis, milestone tracking and associated documentation.  • Conducted Business Reviews, User Interviews, weekly/ Monthly meetings with Business Users, SME's.  • Developed/executed test scenarios, Test Cases, Test Plans and use cases to support the development team and business groups.  • Involved in development and execution of detailed system and user acceptance test plans, test cases and test scripts for manual and automated testing.  • Assisted the project manager in conducting code review meetings, change request meetings documented meeting notes, conducted functional walkthroughs, conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) sessions, and also assisted the development of User Manuals for customers. Work Experience Sr. Business Analyst & Project Coordinator Key Bank - Cleveland, OH February 2017 to Present KeyBank, the primary subsidiary of KeyCorp, is a regional bank headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest financial services companies offering retail and commercial banking, consumer finance and investment banking. KeyBank provides products and services such as checking accounts, savings accounts, credit and debit cards, direct deposits, online banking and loans.    Project Description  The bank needed to implement new IT solutions for the current issues on its core banking business lines with advanced user friendly end-to- end functionalities and powerful CRM system. Many of their business systems such as loan origination system, loan servicing system, etc. collect minimum amount of information from customers and markets. With the current market competition and high demand of services such business/information systems are needed to be upgraded to support its various channels. The existing CRM system must be upgraded/reconfigured in parallel to support such improvements. I was mainly involved in loan origination and loan servicing business lines. Under this project, many business process were re-engineered as a solution to the current process issues.    Responsibilities  • Worked with the Product Owner (PO), Loan Origination/lending SMEs, and Salesforce CRM SMEs to understand the current business problems and gather specific requirements for improvements with a powerful CRM.  • Worked with the PO, CRM SMEs, loan origination and loan servicing SMEs, and IT leads to analyze the current and future business needs on banks' loan origination and servicing operations in terms of data, reporting, technology, and user productivity and linked them to CRM capabilities for better customer service and opportunities to improve the business. Also discussed the potential integration issues with CRM and LOS.  • Worked with the PO and the LOS team to analyze the current and future needs on banks' Loan Origination operations in terms of data, technology and user productivity.  • Worked with the PO to finalize the requirements and convert them to user stories and make sure that they all satisfying the INVEST categories. Assisted the PO to prioritize the user stories and create then product backlog.  • Worked with the scrum team to discuss the user stories in the product backlog and breakdown the EPICs to manageable user stories. Involved in estimation and assisted the scrum team to create the sprint backlogs.  • Worked with scrum team on mortgage related data format issues come under Uniform Loan Delivery Dataset (ULDD). Used Data Lineage to track data movements and for data provenance. Involved in ETL processes.  • Engaged in project initiation activities such as developing the Project Scope and assisting the management in resource and budget estimation.  • Identified all the CRM use case and business rules and prepared the use case list. Assisted the Salesforce CRM Admins on configurations based on the new requirements.  • Performed Gap analysis to develop detailed current business process flow diagrams and use those as the base to develop more efficient system.  • Documented Functional Requirements and communicated them across various project teams  • Conducted brainstorming and JAD sessions with the clients and other business groups to propose future business processes and documenting project shareholder's requirements.  • Amassed detailed business requirements and effectively document them using various documents such as the BRD, FRD, RTM (Requirements Traceability Document), Screen Mock-Ups and develop detailed use cases and information flows.  • Assisted in database design (ER diagrams) and UML and activity diagrams.  • Prepared graphical depictions of use cases via activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, use case diagrams, wire frames, etc.  • Created application-training manuals, UAT Test cases and manage UAT sessions.  • Used Various IT tools such as DOORS Visio, HP QC for various purposes ranging from quality management, business modeling and project planning Business Analyst SUNTRUST BANK - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to February 2017 SunTrust Bank is owned by one of the largest American bank holding company established in 1891 having it's headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. The bank's primary businesses include deposits, lending, credit cards, trust and investment services. Through its various subsidiaries, the company provides corporate and investment banking, capital market services, mortgage banking, and wealth management.    Project Description  Many enhancements projects to the current core banking systems were in placed and I worked on web application enhancement to secure the all information flow through the web portal. The new enhancement further secures the customer information on the web when customers check the monthly loan payment, select the mortgage plan, applying for a loan or pre-qualifying process. That application was also upgraded to update the factors such as interest rates in real-time for latest quotes. So, it was basically an upgraded UI where the customer could choose or pre-qualify for mortgage and made your future plan with a help of loan calculator. All updates, services, application for mortgage, interest rates and mortgage plans were kept up to date    Responsibilities  • Under the Agile-Scrum approach, worked with the Product Owner (PO) to understand the business needs configurations needs from the SMEs. Prepared the user stories based on the requirements as necessary.  • Assisted the Product owners on prioritization and creating the product backlog.  • Worked with the Scrum team to make sure all the team members were clear on the user stories and related functionalities. Involved in estimations, breaking down/spit the EPICs, and creating the sprint backlogs.  • Worked with the Product Owner and the Scrum Master on user story grooming sessions.  • Helped the Scrum Master to facilitate Sprint planning, Sprint review, and daily scrum meetings. Assisted the Scrum Master follow up all the issues/impediments raised in the daily scrum meetings.  • Helped the Scrum team in creating the test cases and test procedures for testing.  • Worked extensively with many Marketing SMEs and business users in understanding their requirements/user stories pertaining to CRM and how the Salesforce CRM features will help to improve their daily operations.  • Worked with the Salesforce CRM team and the business SMEs to review the specific business needs and map them to the cloud based Salesforce CRM application capabilities. Involved in the Salesforce CRM configurations after finalizing the features and mapping.  • Worked with the Digital Marketing team and actively participated in Digital Marketing campaigns and managing website content as well as social media promotions including Twitter and Facebook pages of the client.  • Used Adobe Experience Mgr. (AEM) and Google Analytics. Worked on the Web Contents Mgmt. (WCM) for eye catching and rich web contents. Collaborated Search Engine Optimization (SEO) services with the developers & designers to increase site traffic. Performed web analytics with Google Analytics for improvements.  • Coordinated extensive communication networks (interviews, written correspondence, reports, implementation requirements, project status reports, oral presentations, e-mails, etc.) to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts.  • Supported IT units and the scrum team to clearly understand the Functional Specification for the design, development and implementation of strategic projects. Also worked with developers on APIs and API testing.  • Created wireframes for GUIs (web screens) based on the new user requirements and suggestions.  • Performed gap analysis and created BPM diagrams for As-Is and To-Be situations when necessary.  • Together with the PO conducted review sessions and walkthroughs with the designers, developers and stakeholders. Actively participated in Systems testing, UAT, bug fixes and coordinated QA efforts with the scrum team, PO and the users/SMEs. Business Analyst HUDSON INSURANCE GROUP - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to December 2015 Hudson Insurance Group Inc., founded in 1996 and is headquartered in New York, provides property and casualty insurance products to corporations, professional firms, and individuals. It's products include alternative risk solutions, auto-commercial, commercial binding authority, crop, financial products, GL/package, healthcare, marine, personal umbrella, professional liability, specialty casualty, specialty property, and surety insurance.    Project Description  The objective of the project was to enhance the functionalities of the existing web portal for personal business lines (Auto & Home owners Line of Business) to revamp user experience. The old system runs on Mainframe needed to be upgraded with back end Oracle database and web-integrated front- end with Guidewire (billing and claim centers). This involved incorporating additional services into the Quote generator and addition of the quote retrieval functionality. The features such as claims office and agent locator needed to be upgraded/improved with better search engines. Also, the customers' ability to learn/study about insurance, get a quote, retrieve a quote or buy insurance policy online needed to be upgraded. All those improvements to the web application helped the customers to get an online quote, pay the bills online, report a claim, view policy, view the claim status and verify the account balances etc. easier and efficient than ever.    Responsibilities  • Conduct market research (bench marking) and brainstorming sessions with P&C Insurance, Guidewire, & other SMEs to find the best solutions to solve the current issues.  • Under the Agile-scrum approach, worked with the Product Owner (PO), Personal Insurance SMEs, Business Liability SMEs, Guidewire, claim and Billing SMEs to identify the current issues in the process and gather the business requirements, business rules, and non-functional requirements on identified problematic areas.  • After finalizing the requirements converted them to user stories and make sure that they all satisfying the INVEST categories. Assisted the PO to prioritize the user stories and create the product backlog. Defined the acceptance criteria for each user story/functionality. Used JIRA to manage the user stories/product backlog through testing.  • Worked with the scrum team to discuss the user stories in the product backlog. Broke down/split the EPICs to manageable user stories when necessary. Assisted the PO on backlog grooming with new user stories or changes.  • Involved in estimation and assisted the scrum team to create the sprint backlogs.  • Assisted the Scrum Master (SM) to facilitate the sprint planning, daily scrum, and sprint review meetings and led the scrum team for end-to- end delivery within strict timelines.  • Also, assisted the SM to maintain the Burn-down charts to monitor the sprint and overall project health.  • Created a business requirements document (BRD) in parallel as a reference document for current and future use.  • Worked with the scrum team on billing and claim handling process and the relevant user stories to smooth out the billing and claim handling issues with the current enhancements.  • Prepared Business Process Models (BPM) for As-Is, To-Be and ad-hoc situations to further understand the scenarios in claim handling and billing processes.  • Worked with the User Interface (UI) Engineer team to create the UI screenshots as requested by the business.  • Involved in analysis for the modules in production, conducted feasibility study and performed impact analysis for proposed enhancements. Verified the functional aspect as per the Business Process and validated the interfaces with the other systems and data conversion from the legacy system.  • Performed Impact Analysis on the system with variations in Stress, Load, and Performance and documented it. Performed GAP Analysis from the old system to the new and created a separate document for it. Performed Data Analysis, created data mapping and data interface documents and kept the documents updated with changes in requirements and functional specifications.  • Assisted Data Modeler in designing the System. Validated data in terms of its Completeness and Correctness (evaluating data's integrity, accuracy and range). Assisted the ETL Developers to extract the data from various sources and loading them to data marts.  • Assisted the UAT team in developing the Test Cases, executing them and summarizing it for final sign off.  • Worked with the Sr. Project Manager and coordinated the project tasks for end-to- end smooth operations such as scheduling, resource balancing, budgeting, change mgmt., risk analysis, monitoring and control, etc. Developed the project status reports. Maintained all the project artifacts on MS SharePoint server with version control. Business Analyst INDIANA FARMERS INSURANCE - Indianapolis, IN March 2013 to April 2014 Indiana Farmers Mutual Insurance Company provides auto, home, farm, and business insurance solutions in Indiana. It serves customers through a network of its insurance agents. The company was founded in 1877 and is based in Indianapolis, Indiana.    Project Description  The project involved in developing an application for underwriters, aiming to provide online tracking of the accounts, claims, automatic reminders for renewals, etc. The application tested was a web-based Claims application. The application provided claims solutions as well as documentation management for Indiana Farmers.    Responsibilities  • Conducted highly interactive JAD sessions with projects stakeholders such as users, QA analysts, and project management team, identifying and resolving issues.  • Performed Gap analysis by identifying existing technologies and subsequently documented the enhancements to meet the end state requirements.  • Prepared High Level Logical Data Models and BRD supporting documents like the use case, sequential diagrams containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships between the actors to analyze and document business data requirements using MS Visio.  • Worked with the business teams and Salesforce CRM SMEs/Admin to analyze the business needs and understand the Salesforce CRM capabilities for possible improvements. Studied the Salesforce CRM features.  • Various versions of the documents generated during the project were maintained and managed.  • Extensive data mapping documents were created to do Source to Target Transformation between Indiana Farmers Insurance data warehouse and third parties.  • Wrote ETL mapping document to create Claims Center data warehouse.  • Used TOAD to query the backend database for the data analysis and data validation.  • Created Reports Mapping document for Analytical and Control reports which were developed using Business Objects.  • Participated in Code and Design Reviews for the ODS project for backend Data population and reporting system.  • Bugs that would enhance the usability of the application were logged using Rational Clear Quest.  • Involved in writing Test Cases and developing strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement them. Efficiently responded to client inquiries and resolved discrepancies. Identified, prioritized, tested and proved essential business functions to assure compliance with vendor and internal auditing  • Worked with development and testing teams to accomplish timely release objectives.  • Used detailed knowledge of application features and functions to assess the scope and impact of business needs throughout analysis.  • Sent daily UAT status email to all stakeholders and involved teams outlining the UAT progress, issues and unresolved defects.  • Participated in status meeting and walkthroughs. Business Analyst ICICI BANK - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2010 to July 2012 ICICI Bank Limited (Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India) is an Indian multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in Mumbai, Maharashtra with its registered office in Vadodara, Gujarat. ICICI Bank is the second largest bank in India. It offers a wide range of banking products and financial services for corporate and retail customers through a variety of delivery channels and specialized subsidiaries in the areas of investment banking, life, non-life insurance, venture capital and asset management    Project Description  The project for ICICI bank was to develop an interactive user interface for their mobile application. We worked on the enhancement of their current features that included Bill Pay and Fund Transfers (Internal and External) and created a system which let the users carry out a variety of transactions where they can access their savings account, checking account, and credit card account through the Internet. The customer has the option to transfer funds between different accounts, check transaction details, schedule payments, pay bills, and send online requests to banks. The project aimed to make these features more efficient and interactive for the end users. We also worked on upgrading their security features for the application.  Responsibilities    • As a Business Analyst, I was involved in complete software development life cycle. The methodology used for this project was Agile, Scrum.  • The primary responsibility was to gather requirements, documentation, follow-ups and coordination between my business and technical team.  • Assisted Project Manager to identify Project Scope and create Project Plan.  • Conducted user interviews with the stakeholders and end user to determine the business requirements and needs. Conducted brainstorming sessions with the SME to groom the user stories. Conducted one-on-one interview sessions and surveys with end users, internal in this case.  • Developed BRDs, User Stories and Use Cases using MS Visio and Word. I documented the minutes of meeting details and did follow-ups with the members as discussed in the brainstorming sessions. I created process flow diagrams for better understanding and review. I created the Requirement Traceability Matrix for the Developers and Testers.  • As a part of UAT team, I developed Test Cases and executed them. I summarized the details of UAT, sign-off and forwarded to production. Education Bachelor's Degree in Commerce in Business Administration University of Mumbai - MMK College - Mumbai, Maharashtra