Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer Beaverton, OR Work Experience Front end Developer TekSystems - Beaverton, OR January 2017 to March 2019 • Built an internal tool to assist and improve the sales and merchandising team's ability to filter, sort, select, and group products according to client needs for upcoming seasons.  • Full Stack Developer working on a 30 person agile team using primarily React, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and Node.  • Built reusable web components for reuse throughout the application along with other, unrelated, applications within the department.  • Helped create and update style-guide for UI development.  • Worked closely with UI/UX designers to help communicate the complexity, risk, and effort of each feature they brought to us.  • Created an easy to use UI experience for users with features like complex filtering and sorting, user profiles with in-depth customization options, and displaying products in different ways to better present data to the user.  • Worked partially remotely, several days a week. Communicated almost exclusively through Slack and via phone when needed.  • Released application to Alpha and Beta then to full release and then continued to do maintenance till end of contract. Angular Developer Choice Hotels - Beaverton, OR January 2015 to October 2016 • AngularJS Developer on an agile team working to an internal hotel reservation system from scratch with features based off of their legacy application.  • Worked with AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Less, HTML, Jasmine, Protractor and Gulp.  • Main focuses included creating responsive UIs for various mobile devices and adhering to strict ADA standards.  • Released complete reservation system from initial hotel search all the way through payment via credit card. Software QA Lead Choice Hotels - Portland, OR July 2014 to January 2015 • QA Lead on a large agile team which developed the web shopping experience for individual health insurance through BridgespanHealth.com.  • Worked with testing technologies such as TestNG, Selenium, Maven, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Grunt, Sass, CSS3, HTML.  • Assured quality of features and reported bugs to developers.  • Worked closely with developers to demonstrated bugs, performance issues and verify big fixes. Software Development Intern Choice Hotels - Beaverton, OR March 2013 to August 2013 • Completed a five month internship with Catalyst DevWorks which included extensive training on software development fundamentals as well as web design and basic website creation.  • Completed training projects that involved technologies such as Java, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, Maven, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML, MySQL, RESTful web-services, JSON, and Agile/SCRUM. Education Diploma West Salem High School - Salem, OR September 2004 to June 2008 Skills Android studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Android, Angularjs, Sass, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Jira, Junit, Selenium, Css, Maven, Photoshop, Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, Node, React, UI Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: JavaScript, Java, HTML, CSS    Frameworks/Libraries: React, AngularJS, VueJS, Sass/Less, Nodejs, JQuery, Bootstrap    Tools: Git, Gulp, Grunt, Relay, Maven, JIRA, JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, SQLWorkbench, New Relic, PostSQL, Webstorm, Eclipse, Android Studio, Inkscape, Photoshop, GIMP, Godot