Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer - The Hartford Hartford, CT ? 8+ Years of extensive IT experience which includes the experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, Node JS, MONGODB, Express JS, Angular JS, JSON and XML, developing Client/Server and Distributed applications using JAVA/ J2EE.  ? 3+ years of Strong experience in building ecommerce application using the JavaScript MEAN stack: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express.js and Node.js.  ? Expertise in developing single page applications (SPA) using Angular JS, Backbone JS, VUE JS, React JS and Redux.  ? Implemented bootstrap CSS in Angular JS for developing rich and responsive UI.  ? Good experience on working with CSS Background, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors including the Box model.  ? Worked on backend using Node.js and MONGODB.  ? Experienced in using web services like SOAP, REST.  ? Strong knowledge in Designing dynamic user interface for web forms using SPRING MVC, HTML and implementing the business logic using JAVA, J2EE.  ? Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with Jasmine, karma.  ? Proficient in client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks, J-Query.  ? Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  ? Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, Github.  ? Familiar with Grunt task runner to manage project and Bower package manager to install libraries such as J-Query and Bootstrap.  ? Well experienced in using version control systems subversion (SVN), Visual source Safe and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Designed reusable web components using Google Polymer JS.  ? Collaborated with UX and design teams, translating complex design mock-ups into high quality, accessible, W3C standards-based code  ? Created Mobile Web Applications with Responsive Web Design, through uses of Twitter Bootstrap, J-Query Mobile and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using handlebars, backbone.js and Node.js.  ? Diagnosed and debugged a variety of cross-browser and cross-platform interface compatibility issues with Modernizer and CSS Polly fills.  ? Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, Atom, Sublime text, Visual Studio code, Microsoft Visual studio, and Brackets.  ? Extensive experience in designing and developing enterprise applications for J2EE platform using MVC, JAVA, JDBC/ODBC, JSP, Servlet, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, Java Mail, JNDI, Apache Ant.  ? Experience in maintaining, building and deploying Java application servers like BEA WebLogic 7.0/8.x/9.x, Bea WebLogic Portal Server7.0, IBM Websphere 5.x, JBoss 4.0.3, Tomcat 5.0.25/6.x and Oracle application server (OAS).  ? Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g/11g, PL/SQL, SQL Server and MySQL 4.0.18/5.0.  ? Experience in all phases of SDLC like including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, and documentation, and extensive experience in Agile Development, Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Experienced in interacting with clients to understand their needs and propose design to the team to implement the requirements.  ? Possess excellent verbal and written communication, organizational and administrative skills for project management. Work Experience Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer The Hartford - Hartford, CT January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, Angular Js, Bootstrap, CSS, and JSP.  ? Java Stack development from scratch including Apache Tomee server setup.  ? Writing RESTful APIs in Java and return logic on Angular data binding.  ? Used HTML5 functionalities such as Local Storage, Web Sockets and Canvas.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, J-Query, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  ? Writing unit tests in mocha, chai on server side and karma, jasmine on the client side.  ? Writing deployment scripts in NgInx and PM2 to get the project up and running on dev sandbox.  ? Using angular directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table's grids.  ? Made use of GRUNT CLI for minification, uglification on both server and client and running local server for client.  ? Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  ? Developed GUI using Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT with GitSwarm as Repository.  ? Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  ? Primarily using Node Js, Express JS, MONGODB, Handlebars.js and NPM packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React Js.  ? Migrated existing codebase from JSP to JS and HTML5 and rebuilt react components in ES6.  ? Implemented a custom Node JS script to act as a PROXY for connecting to the server.  ? Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project  ? Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Defined custom HTML elements for API browsers using Google Polymers.  ? Responsible for developing a front- end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  ? Designed and developed client's website screens and front end widgets using React.js.  ? Built the internal tool and maintained with React JS along with Flux and Redux.    Environment: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux, NgInx, PM2, Mongoose, Azure AD JWT, HTML5, CSS3, Materialize, JavaScript, Angular Data-tables, Grunt, Bower, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma, WebStorm, Chrome, Firefox, IE 10+ Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer Fannie Mae, Virginia July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Handled UI with Angular JS (MVC framework) to control the page layout.  ? Used Scrum methodology for the software development process.  ? Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and AngularJS.  ? Developed the application using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Developed AngularJS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models.  ? Used AngularJS Directives: ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller and ng-route.  ? Involved in design and development phases of SDLC.  ? Involved in daily scrum meeting, sprint review meeting and agile release planning.  ? Worked with project managers to update the project daily.  ? Also, created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  ? WebStorm to develop User Interface source code and debug the application.  ? Understand executing accessibility and progressive enhancement presentation.  ? Add to engineering team's culture of high code quality.  ? Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  ? Designed and developed User Interfaces by using JSP, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Performed unit testing with Junit and DB unit.  ? Using Eclipse IDE for development.  ? Used WebSphere application server.  ? Interacted and co-ordinate with clients    Environment: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux, NgInx, PM2, Mongoose, Azure AD JWT, HTML5, CSS3, Materialize, JavaScript, Angular Data-tables, Grunt, Bower, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma, WebStorm, Chrome, Firefox, IE 10+ Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN August 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback. Worked on the MVP architecture for the GWT.  ? Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  ? Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MONGODB, Express JS, Angular Js and Node.js.  ? Used SASS and LESS extensively for Rich UI experience.  ? Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  ? Communicating with a Node.js backend under MONGODB.  ? Experience In designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  ? Worked with mongoose.js for database communication with MONGODB.  ? Responsible for parsing JSON data to & from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Supporting and implementing web application built on MEAN Stack.  ? Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript.  ? Worked on Node.js and NoSQL data stores.  ? Designed and developed the front end using HTML, DHTML, and XML.  ? Used ng-view directive to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  ? Used filters like date, JSON, uppercase, lowercase to arrange the data that is to be displayed in a particular format.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin padding, table Pseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  ? Good understanding of Node JS, understood how to configure, create server, manage routes and connect database.  ? Developed multiple POCs to create a user transaction grid in Angular JS.  ? Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS/CSS3, GIT, Bootstrap, J-Query, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Node.js, Angular Js, MONGODB, Express JS, Oracle DB, Jasmine, Dreamweaver. Mean Stack Developer/UI Developer CalPERS - Sacramento, CA February 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Followed the overall application MVVM architecture to create MVC layers in Angular JS and Node JS layers.  ? Involved in building MEAN full stack ecommerce web application by using MEAN JS.  ? Created modular single page sub applications that can be incorporated into other projects.  ? Created front- end web Layout using Sublime with HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Created JSON objects on the front end to throw data on the server for storing the data into MONGODB on mLab (formerly Mongo Lab).  ? Implemented responsive design for different size of devices by using Bootstrap Grid System.  ? Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.  ? Implemented searching and sorting functions with Angular JS system-directive ng-filter.  ? Used Angular JS expressions to implement two-way data-binding to update information between view and model.  ? Designed and implemented multiple views and controllers for listing, editing, deleting CRUD operation.  ? Designed and implemented customized Angular JS services and directives for reusable functions.  ? Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON.  ? Implemented real-time updating of the user status, according to deleting and editing operation.  ? Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MONGODB.  ? Utilized infinite-scrolling to load data information in the view.  ? Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JSON, Node.js, Express.js, MEAN.js, MONGODB. UI Developer/ Front End Developer Nokia - Naperville, IL November 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML4, DHTML, DOM, CSS, JAVA, JDBC, JSON, JavaScript, Node.js, J-Query, Ajax, Adobe Creative suite.  ? Designed and implemented an E-Commerce Website with Node JS, Angular JS.  ? Used Angular.js multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, child scope, modal, template, state etc.  ? Implemented Angular.js client side validation and Implemented Angular.js modules.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox (Firebug).  ? Used Source Tree, GIT for version control and ALM for defect tracking.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Developed Browse and Checkout modules of the application for different mobile and tablet versions using Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS3, SASS).  ? Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Used Agile Methodology for Software development.  ? Used Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  ? Created various interactive plug-ins, widgets or design UI/UX.  ? Involved in writing various SQL Queries stored procedures to satisfy various business requirements of the application.  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  ? Implemented MVC architecture developed custom directives, controllers, views and filters using Angular.js.  ? Unit testing is done using jasmine with karma by using karma-jasmine test runner.  ? Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  ? Used J-Query for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS/CSS3, GIT, Bootstrap, J-Query, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Node.js, Angular Js, Oracle DB, Jasmine, Dreamweaver. UI Developer/ UX Designer Mahindra Satyam June 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  ? Performed Client side validations using JavaScript. Implemented the complete workflow logic for the various modules. Played a key role in the project requirements analysis.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  ? Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  ? Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Driven multiple component design sessions parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application. Tested and debugged web browser using Firebug.  ? Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery and Used SVN for Version Control and analyze the response of JSON to update DOM.  ? Ensured that all components of the application are platform and browser compatible.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Eclipse, AJAX, XML SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), JSON (6 years), AJAX (6 years), CSS (8 years), MONGODB (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML4/5, DHTML, CSS (2/3), Bootstrap, JavaScript, J-Query, Angular.js, Express.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, React.js, Ajax, JSON.  Tools and IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, Atom, Sublime text, Visual Studio code, Microsoft Visual studio, and Brackets.  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla  Version Control SVN, GIT  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, Dreamweaver CS5, FrontPage Wire frame, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Image Ready CS5 Fireworks, Adobe Captivate 3  Operating System Windows, Unix/Linux, MAC OS X  Programming languages C, JAVA/J2EE, python  Database MONGODB, SQL Server, My SQL, ORACLE 11g