Web Developer - UX/UI Designer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> - UX/UI Designer Woodinville, WA Enthusiastic and creative design/ developer capable of:  * Designing 2d assets, redlines, and high definition comps in Azure, Balsamiq, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and XD.  * Creating 3d assets in 3dStudio, Maya and Z-Brush for Unity applications.  * Composing production-ready code in HTML, CSS, XAML, C# and JQuery for mobile, web, and application development.  * Presenting and supporting design direction for production meetings and team presentations.  * Researching trends and techniques for design standards, code implementation and accessibility requirements. Work Experience Web Developer - UX/UI Designer Wireless Applications Corporation - Bellevue, WA July 2018 to Present Hired to redesign web presence, core site, social media branding, internal documentation and presentations.  • Created redlines and style-guides for reskinning of web based software as a service.  • Introduced reskin of software as a service web-based applications including custom css, jquery modules and production ready code.  • Redesigned and developed web and social media presence consistent with company branding.  • Created unique shopping cart, games and jquery modules used throughout site redesign.  • Oversaw social media initiatives that elevated the company profile as a brand.  • Created promotional documentation and presentations for industry expos and demonstrations. Web Designer / Front End Developer Inter-Cultural Communications - Shoreline, WA January 2017 to June 2018 Hired to design branding, web-portal, graphics, and content editing for an assortment of web and print medium.    • Web and graphic work for Retro Images, Graphic studio, HippyBook.com, interculturalcommunications.org.  • Publication and web graphic work and content editing for Denny Sargent (CEO) and Eric Clarke of NWCulligan.com (CFO). Developer UWP Applications Studio H - Redmond, WA August 2015 to December 2016 Hired for Universal Windows Platform code creation and implementation in compliance with Accessibility standards.    • Code testing, implementation and fixes for (UWP) applications in XAML, HTML, CSS and C#.  • Creating functional UWP prototypes in XAML and C# code, Web prototypes in HTML, JQuery and CSS.  • Writing and integration of production-ready code for a variety of applications.  • Bug monitoring and fixes for various UWP mobile, desktop and XBOX applications.  • Training new teams in standards implementation for accessibility requirements in various UWP apps.  • Researching various needs and methods of implementation for extensive variety of product needs.  • Creating 3d model assets for Neon OS UI integration using Maya and Unity.    P: (561) 543-1437 E: operative42@gmail.com LI: linkedin.com/in/peter-carr-09099b22 UX Designer Lifeform Entertainment - Bellevue, WA May 2015 to August 2015 * Creating 3d assets for Warhammer 40K: Assault Dice official dice roller in Maya.  * UV mapping and texturing for 3d assets in Maya, Z-Brush, Photoshop and Illustrator.  * Providing creative and design direction for dice skins and UI elements to project directors.  * Creation of 2d UI elements for logo creation and look-and-feel of UI interface and marketing materials. Front End Developer / Accessibility Tester Microsoft - Redmond, WA March 2014 to August 2014 Hired for site review, testing code creation and implementation in compliance with Microsoft Accessibility standards.    * Key player in CFIT accessibility team bringing internal and external sites and portals up to 503 accessibility standards.  * Researching and documenting of accessibility standard violations across internal and external web sites and portals.  * Providing and implementing suggested fixes and code implementation to resolve accessibility violations.  * Presentations supporting and explaining accessibility and critical information to development and design teams on fixes and validation.  * Training of new accessibility testers and creating assessment tools and documentation. UI Designer / Prototyper Microsoft - Redmond, WA April 2013 to August 2013 * Designed visual elements and user interaction for SOS Financial Consumer Dashboards, Online Repair and Service Portals for web and mobile applications.  * Developed and implemented methods of displaying financial and consumer metrics for multiple audiences.  * Redefined site portal through Photoshop and Illustrator high-definition comps and style guides.  * Creating a variety of PowerPoint presentations and HTML 5 and CSS 3 prototypes.  * Integrating Design into existing innovative code.  * Development, implementation, monitoring and bug fixes for Android, iPad, Surface, Windows 8 and mobile devices.  * Creating HTML 5 and CSS 3 prototypes and working sites with Javascript/JQuery layouts for web and mobile development Education Associate of Arts in Computer Animation Fullsail University - Orlando, FL 2006 Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Arts University of Florida - Gainesville, FL 2003 Skills C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, CSS, SEARCH ENGINE, jQuery, UI, UX, OPTIMIZATION, FRONT END, FRONT END DESIGN, PROTOTYPING, BRANDING, MARKETING, SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION, SEO, SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING, TRAINING, User Experience, Wireframe, Sketch, User Interface, Adobe, Omnigraffle Links http://linkedin.com/in/peter-carr-09099b22