Senior Ruby on Rails Developer Senior Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Ruby on Rails Developer San Luis Obispo, CA In the nine years I have been working in web-based platforms I have steadily increased my abilities and maintained relevance with regards to the latest technology stack improvements that have been made in the industry. My experience began as a front- end developer creating static layouts based on designed documents. I then progressed into more dynamic projects utilizing CMS platforms and OAuth integrations. This lead to experience in back- end technologies where I created and maintained RESTful endpoints across several applications. My latest position was the lead Ruby on Rails developer for a SaaS Platform working directly with the Chief of Product to prioritize and architect new feature improvements for the platform requested by stakeholders. I am now ready to apply my experiences and knowledge as embark on the next step in my career. Work Experience Senior Ruby on Rails Developer Unanimous AI - San Luis Obispo, CA June 2018 to July 2019 As the senior Ruby on Rails developer for Unanimous AI, I was tasked with reconstructing the existing monolith platform from an open social environment to a multi-tenant SaaS platform to help groups come together in making important decisions.  Duties:  - Reduced the number of authorization access points from over a dozen to a one  - Created access code on-boarding access for guest users  - Reduced unnecessary admin pages by 80%  - Added IP based security for API endpoints  - Enabled background processing for complex mathematical calculations  - Updated workflow pipeline to reduce cost and increase efficiency  - Took initiative to utilize CI/CD in pre-deployment strategy  - Created endpoints and infrastructure to support DevOps efforts  - Upgraded technology stack to latest version  - Facilitated upgrade of core product to latest version  - Designed and implemented tools to improve user experience  - Performed code reviews ahead of UAT  - Lead scrum meetings for bi-weekly release cycle Full-stack Ruby on Rails Developer Suntoucher Software LLC - San Luis Obispo, CA March 2015 to June 2018 My position at Suntoucher Software LLC started as a junior Ruby on Rails developer at which I soon blossomed into a full-stack Ruby on Rails developer within my first year. While at Suntoucher Software LLC, it was my responsibility to write and update several Ruby on Rails projects based on the requirements supplied by the CTO and Project Manager. By my second year I was creating requirements based on feedback from clients and stakeholders for three major applications. Before leaving Suntoucher Software LLC, I my duties included managing a project and maintaining the relationship with the CTO of our largest client. I also had taken on a majority of the project management responsibilities for our other clients to allow for a shift of resources to help bootstrap and support an internal SaaS product. I also had taken on the responsibility of managing and training the junior developers in the organization.  Duties:  - Prioritized and scoped requirements for product updates on multiple client projects  - Maintained relationship with stakeholders of clients including CTOs, CEOs  - Held daily stand-up meetings within consultancy agency  - Delegated duties to fellow developers  - Trained and managed junior developers  - Architected core updates with CTO  - Performed security audits on existing infrastructure Front- end Developer StudioGood/Kompolt - San Luis Obispo, CA March 2011 to March 2015 My duties at StudioGood and Kompolt had a diverse range. I began as a front- end developer building static HTML layouts for use in a niche market. I was responsible for translating fully designed documents from a design agency into working, cross-platform compatible static layouts to be embedded in a custom CMS platform. As I progressed in my role, I was also trained on how to update and maintain the custom CMS enabling a better user experience for our internal users. I also had the opportunity to understand how to set up IT components such as wireless networks, on-site server storage, and IOT devices.  Duties:  - Built and maintained static layouts from designed documents  - Participated in company meetings to plan strategy and execution of products  - Implemented cutting edge front- end technologies  - Served as a key member of the development team  - Performed valuable quality assurance on new products  - Managed client owned Facebook Apps  - Provided input for user experience improvements  - Implement pixel-perfect results based on direction from Project Managers Education Bachelor of Science in Web Design & Interactive Media Art Institute of California - Hollywood, CA Skills FRONT-END, Git, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, VUE.JS, Json, Javascript, Rspec, Jquery Links https://github.com/calicanadian Certifications/Licenses The Complete Ruby on Rails Developer Course July 2019 to Present 43 hour course covering the fundamentals of beginner to expert Ruby on Rails development. The purpose of this course was to update my knowledge on Ruby on Rails which I had accumulated over the past 5 years.     ude.my/UC-IU0ERABX Ruby on Rails REST API: The Complete Guide July 2019 to Present A 7 hour course that reviewed the fundamentals of RESTful APIs in Ruby on Rails and how to write REST APIs using TDD in RSpec.    ude.my/UC-5XNB3BIL Vue.js 2: From Beginner to Professional (includes VueX) August 2019 to Present In this course, you will learn how to build reactive web applications at any scale with Vue. You will learn the theory that you need to know about Vue.js, and we will be building several example applications as we go along, demonstrating the explained concepts in practice. The course lectures include examples when going through new material, followed by exercises that you can optionally choose to solve - and we walk through the solutions together.    ude.my/UC-J56EAJTS Additional Information SKILLS  Deployment  Git, Git Flow, Heroku Pipeline  Back- end Development  Ruby on Rails (v3, v4, v5)  Front- end Development  jQuery, React.js, Vue.js, Backbone.js, CoffeeScript, HAML, ERB, SCSS, CSS, HTML  Layout & Frameworks  Bootstrap, Material Design, Semantic UI