UI/UX Developer UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/UX Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • UI Developer with an experience of around 6+ years in designing, developing web pages and user interfaces using HTML5, DOM, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON across various platforms.  • Strong experience in working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML.  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, ECMA Script 6, JSON and XML.  • Developed a Data Visualization dashboard using React.JS and D3.JS.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS, Backbone.JS, Ionic and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Extensively used MVC frameworks like Angular JS for creating Single-Page Applications(SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives.  • Created GET/PUT/UPDATE request and response using RESTful web services.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Implemented Responsive Web Design for compatibility with different user behaviors.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Extensively used Node.JS tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web Pack.  • Have knowledge in designing, building, and deploying a multitude of applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack.  • Good knowledge in Mobile Web App Development and Responsive Web Design.  • Worked on MVW (MVC, MVVM) frameworks like AngularJS along with UI Bootstrap.  • Developed services for fetching website traffic statistics via Google Analytics API.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Experienced in using CSS preprocessors like SASS/LESS.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Chrome or Safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar  • Experience in using Karma, Mocha, Chai and Jasmine for JS Unit Testing.  • Developed applications for cross browser compatibility.  • Extensively used source code control systems such as TFS, GIT, JIRA and SVN.  • Worked on complete Agile/Scrum Methodology and User Interface web development in accordance with requirements.  • Experience working extensively on both UNIX, LINUX and Windows based Environments.  • Involved in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Work Experience UI/UX Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on an internal application which was focused to provide booking and reservation services to customers through contact center agents.  • This is a single page application and was developed mainly using JavaScript frameworks like Knockout.JS and AngularJS.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using AngularJS as per business requirements  • Worked on implementing unit test cases for every workflow and executed those test cases using Jasmine.  • Used Fiddler as a proxy and debugging tool to verify the data retrieved from the server  • Used TFS and GIT as version control tools to handle pull requests and manage user stories.  • Used task runners like gulp and grunt to bundle CSS-preprocessor SCSS files into CSS for populating the styles on prototyping server.  • Used Flex CSS and bootstrap to implement styles across the application  • Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5.  • Implemented component based architecture using AngularJS for our latest feature in the application which provided the advantage of using input bindings, output bindings, importing and exporting components and Angular services, string interpolation, injecting dependencies and services into components etc.,  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters, and directives in AngularJS.  • Developed reusable components across the application  • Developed cross-browser compatible and CSS compliant standards for page layouts.  • Followed TDD by developing the test cases for small amounts of code in multiple workflows of the application.  • Implemented HTTP and AJAX request to retrieve data from API which in-turn would call CSL (Common Service Layer) to gather large amounts of information.  • Used Babel for backward compatibility of JavaScript code (ES6 to ES5).  • Implemented state machine by developing guards and rules for transitioning between the pages across the application using vanilla JavaScript  • Interacted with the RestfulAPI services frequently to populate data on the UI using multiple API call types like GET, PUT, POST  • Developed a methodology for communication and passing of data between AngularJS and Knockout.js services  • Imported JSON data from an Angular service and populated data on the template  • Used WebPack to compress and bundle the application during runtime.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap 4.0, Flex CSS, AngularJS (1.7), Node.js, AJAX, Knockout.js, jQuery, Jasmine, Gulp, Grunt, Webpack, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Agile, Team Foundation Server, JNative Sr. UI/UX Developer Allstate Insurance - Northbrook, IL April 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, React.JS, Backbone.JS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XHTML, jQuery.  • Worked with server side and client side MVC frameworks such as React.JS or Backbone.JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Developed jQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side code and implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on Express framework in Node.JS to develop the business logic code to get the data from the database and to bind the response data to the HTML5 using React.JS.  • Used React.JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Implemented client side Interface using React.JS (Redux and JSX).  • Trans pile JSX back to JavaScript by using Babel, and make them compatible with ES5 and ES6.  • Used React.JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Heavily used Prop Types in React.JS to create custom controls actions.  • Effectively used CSS3 features, such as creating multiple column, borders and background, etc. and used LESS/SASS.  • Used High charts to show the Data on the Graphs.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high quality software.  • Created cross browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used polymers to create web components and developed browser API's to custom HTML.  • Specialties in Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, and Section 508 accessibility.  • Strong experience in Search Engine Optimization techniques in order to develop web applications.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Developed API back ends using Node.JS to allocate access to data in MySQL.  • Regular interaction of RESTful API design calls to populate the UI on the app using GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  • Debugging web pages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Used JIRA for issue and bug tracking.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, DOM, JavaScript, React.JS, Bootstrap, RESTful, SOAP, JSON, Node.JS, High charts, AJAX, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, JSP, Grunt, LESS/SASS, JUNIT, JIRA, GIT, IntelliJ. Front- end Developer Intuit - Plano, TX June 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Knockout.js, jQuery validations and JSON.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.  • Implemented routing to allow for the use of a Single-page-application (SPA) with different content using route provider in the AngularJS Module and ng-view in the HTML5.  • Implemented Client side validation using AngularJS, required field, currency, number Custom Form Validation with ng-show and ng-hide.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch etc.  • Used AngularJS in developing single page applications.  • Implemented Angular UI router and replaced ng-route internal angular module.  • Used DOJO framework for recording transactions and used dependencies and DOM elements for migrating to React.JS.  • Coded AngularJS controllers and directives for application functionality and filters for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Used Routing in AngularJS to do proper routing of the different modules in the application.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Backbone, Bootstrap, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used D3.JS for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Used AngularJS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Worked with the Systems Analyst to develop POC to understand and discuss with the business teams.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Used Node.JS to run Web pack tasks and setup the local host for the project.  • Used Gulp JS along with Node.JS to perform watch on unit tests, minification and live reloading to apply the changes made.  • Worked closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Responsible for consuming the RESTful services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Used Pivotal Tracker to track the Issues and bugs.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT, Stash.    Environment: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Backbone, D3.JS, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, NPM, Node.JS, Agile, Gulp, Pivotal, GIT, Jasmine, Karma and IntelliJ. UI/UX - Web Developer Asurion - Nashville, TN February 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Converted mockups into pure hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  • Developed web application to replace the existing and legacy website using Angular JS framework and implemented the statement module by using AngularJS.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using AngularJS and jQuery.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS for effective design of Web pages.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu.  • Implemented various $scope methods like $watch, $digest and $apply to implement two-way data binding by using AngularJS.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in webpages. Creating a responsive web application by integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  • Developed server side REST style web services and called them from backbone collections.  • Experience in testing AngularJS applications using Protractor on end-to- end Angular JS application framework.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Used SVN repositories for branching, merging, and tagging.    Environment: AngularJS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap, REST API, JSON, XML, CSS, SASS, Firebug, SQL, Windows Platforms, IDE- Eclipse, Agile, SVN. Jr. UI Developer SBI Insurance - Pune, Maharashtra August 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups created by our team.  • Developed front- end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript. Extensively did client side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Enhance existing web pages, implement new/change existing functionalities in the web application.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  • Conducted unit testing with Firebug, IE Tester and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers and devices.  • Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JUnit, Firebug, IE Tester, Agile, Windows Platforms. Education Master's Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION SERVER, C++, Git, React, Front End, UI, Javascript, Angular