Sr. Java Developer / Lead Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Lead Sr. Java Developer / Lead - UBS(ICPM) • Total 7.5 plus years of experience as a Software developer in Application Development using Java/J2EE with experience in Oracle SQL and PL/SQL.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in Web application development with Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate technologies using IDE tools like Eclipse.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts and worked on Core Java using Java 8 features such as Functional Interfaces, Lambda Expressions and Java Stream API.  • Expertise with frameworks like jQuery/JavaScript and Ajax in web presentation layer, Servlets, JSP, Spring MVC at the web controller layer and Used Mybatis at the persistence layer.  • Working experience on developing applications using Spring Boot RESTful Web Services.  • Hands on experience with build and deployment tools including Maven, logging and Debugging using Log4j.  • Expertise in unit and integration testing using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Good hands on SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle databases.  • Developed database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Exception handling using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Participated in Architecture/Design review meetings.  • Have done extensive code reviews and mentored junior team members.  • Provided technical overview to functional team.  • Experience in writing Technical design documents and developing unit test documents.  • Experience working in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Enhancement, Production Support and Change Management of business applications.  • 2 plus years of experience in Agile (IC Agile certified professional)/Scrum methodologies.  • Experience working in an Agile and Waterfall development environment for Finance and Health & Public-Sector Domain projects.  • Used SVN/GitHub as version control tool.  • Good UNIX experience with hands on experience in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Extensively worked with third party database tools like TOAD, Sql Developer.  • Excellent Team player with a positive attitude.  • Excellent problem solving and debugging skills. Willingness to learn and master the latest cutting-edge technologies.  • Strong interpersonal skills, ability to interact with people at all levels. Good communication and presentation skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer / Lead UBS(ICPM) September 2018 to Present Company: ACCENTURE, New Jersey  ICPM is a strategic centralizes platform for data to support Finance core CCAR Processes such as consolidating the various actual and forecast data sets, capturing sign off (template data providers), calculating projected RWA's, produce interim FRY 14A reports, provide PPNR NIR NIX data for modelling.  Responsibilities:  • Part of the Web Service and ETL team.  • Spring Boot MVC Architecture is used for developing the project.  • Developed RESTful Web Services to expose data to the front end.  • For the persistence layer used Mybatis framework to create object relational mapping with the oracle database.  • Extensive use of Java 8 features such functional interface, lambda expressions and stream API to implement business logic.  • Implementing all the components following test-driven development methodology using Junit and Mockito framework.  • Extensively Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and understanding of business processes and coordinated with business analysts for preparing Functional Specifications, and Technical Specifications according to their requirements.  • Used GIT as version control tool.  • Followed Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing this project with monthly release and each SPRINT lasting a week.  • Participated in the daily stand up meetings as part of AGILE process for reporting the day to day developments of the work done.  • Used Apache Maven to build projects.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Participated in Architecture/Design review meetings.  • Have done extensive code reviews and mentored junior team members.  • Provided technical overview to functional team. Senior PL/SQL and Java Developer UBS(ICPM) August 2016 to August 2018 Company: ACCENTURE, New Jersey  Zues is a combination of a massive database along with a suite of application processes that load, store and distribute Credit Risk Information (referred to as Credit Risk DataHub) for Investment Banking and Wealth Management Applications.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on ETL application which used Executor Framework to write Batch Jobs in a multithreaded environment for parallel processing of loading data feeds.  • Developing the objects packages, views, functions and indexes, stored Procedures in PL/SQL based on functional description to process the data.  • Loading data from feed files and Db links into Oracle Tables and extensive usage of Table Partitioning for maintaining historical data in Oracle.  • Wrote Unix Shell Scripts for data loading by executing Batch Jobs.  • Involved in understanding of business processes and coordinated with business analysts to get specific user requirements.  • Created tables, constraints, index, DTO's, and views in Oracle.  • Automated Batch Jobs using AutoSys.  • Handled errors using Exception Handling extensively for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application.  • Extensively used for all and bulk collect to fetch large volumes of data from table.  • Analyzed and Created Partitions on the tables to improve the performance and enhance parallel processing.  • Participated in the production deployment schedules.  • Attend Sprint plan meetings every two to four weeks to review the user stories and deliverables. Java/J2EE Developer The City of New York - Gurgaon, Haryana January 2013 to April 2016 India  HHS Accelerator is an online-system used by the City of New York to simplify and speed the contract process for Client and Community based Services providers. The System provides centralized access to the City's Human Service funding opportunities and the ability to complete financial transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development and maintenance of the Web Application using the Spring 3 Portlet MVC and Mybatis Framework.  • Extensively involved in understanding of the High-Level Design document, direct interaction with business to clarify the requirement and then implementing the solution accordingly.  • Created Technical Design Documents in accordance with the business requirement.  • Worked on the Presentation, Service and the Data layer of the Application for end-to- end development.  • Extensive use of JSP, JSTL, Ajax, jQuery, and HTML for Front End screen development.  • Used Mybatis as the persistence framework and wrote SQL queries for fetching and data manipulation in Oracle.  • Used SVN as the version control tool.  • Performed Unit testing through JUnit framework.  • Used Code Analysis tools such as PMD, check style, find bugs to find and correct programming flaws.  • Handled Production and Support tasks on daily basis.  • Extensively involved in analyzing the codes for any bugs, trouble shooting of issues of production environment within the give SLA, server monitoring and other Application support functions. Front End Developer Disney - Gurgaon, Haryana June 2012 to December 2012 India  Project details: Disney Movie Club is an online commerce site that sells Disney Movies DVD's and Blu-Rays.    Responsibilities:  • Key work responsibility was Front End UI designing of the application.  • Understanding of requirements from BA and implementing the solutions in accordance with the wireframes provided.  • Designed and developed UI pages using JSP, Jstl, jQuery, ajax, JavaScript and CSS.  • Worked on designing key Product and Pricing pages for the application.  • Worked on bug fixing. Junior Developer Thomas Cook - Gurgaon, Haryana August 2011 to March 2012 India  Project details: Thomas Cook is a Traveling website. It is a web-based application which supports Search, costing and user booking journey.    Responsibilities:  • Was part of the enhancement team of the Application.  • I was majorly involved in the enhancement of the existing modules, adding new functionalities and bug fixing.  • Worked on the Presentation, Service and the Data layer of the Application.  • Part of the web-based development, I worked on the jsp, servlet, JavaScript and Sql.  • Creation of Unit Test Cases using JUnit Framework. Education Master's Skills Spring, Java, Java J2Ee Certifications/Licenses IC Agile Certified professional Present