Software Systems Engineer Software Systems Engineer Software Systems Engineer - Verizon Wireless Piscataway, NJ Versatile Front- end Engineer with 3 years of experience designing, developing, maintaining and managing complex e-commerce sites and internal application. Work Experience Software Systems Engineer Verizon Wireless - Piscataway, NJ February 2017 to Present Project:  1. One Digital (1D): Verizon Wireless custom account application, used React, Java Spring Boot, work with 1D project from project design to project release and every Enterprise Release (ER) and Modified Release (MR), now working with 5G new feature and accessibility defects in One Digital.  Project URL (need Verizon custom account): https://myvpostpay.verizonwireless.com/ui/hub/secure/overview?flow=1D#/  2. Opal: Verizon Wireless internal project, used Angular 2, Java Spring Boot. Previous version used jQuery for front end, update to Angular 2 front end side.  • Created components library (Vz-react) about 30+ components, using React, Redux, AJAX, scroll-magic, media query, Styled-component, react-transition-group and Chart.js.  • Designed, developed and maintained front- end for 10+ pages such as Verizon overview, my device, my billing, support, notification and offers page.  • Communicated with 11 teams from One Digital project, such as back end team, network support, UI and UX team,  • Created my POC project, used jQuery and node.js, demonstrated to direct manager.  • Used Git with GitLab and Bitbucket for version control and simultaneous code implementation.  • Tracked release tasks, QA and Product environment defects for JIRA, using JAWS to fix accessibility defects, handled Jenkins build and deploy for QA environment.  • Experienced with SDLC working environment, Agile methodology, attended DTP/ SCRUM meeting to access the current progress in a sprint. Front End Engineer Marlabs Inc - Piscataway, NJ August 2016 to February 2017 • Built single-page applications with JavaScript framework Angular 2. Used JavaScript third part library as Angular Material UI and D3.  • Used with the Bootstrap 3 Grid structure and the CSS media queries to make the application responsive.  • Worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of modules been built. Used various technologies Spring Boot, Postman, Jenkins, Firebase, Angular 2, TypeScript, Material UI and AWS. Web Developer NYTweb - Long Island City, NY February 2016 to July 2016 Built and design clients website, used web content management system WordPress and created client template used PHP, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS. Created client website and meet client requirement, deployed client status website in Digital Ocean and GoDaddy. Web Developer Literati Group Housing LLC December 2015 to February 2016 Used Python Django framework create customer application, used CSS, HTML, JavaScript to create Banners, Navigation Menu, follow responsive design and fix cross-browser issue. Graduate Assistant University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT December 2015 to February 2016 Education Master in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT 2014 to 2016 Bachelor in Computer Science Shanghai Dianji University 2012 to 2014 Skills Git, Bootstrap, Redux, Webpack, Javascript, Front End, React, Front-End, UI, java, Python, node.js Additional Information SKILLS  Frameworks/Library: React, Redux, Angular2, jQuery, Bootstrap, Material UI, Chart.js, Node.js.  Testing: JAWS, Jest.  Tools: Webpack, JIRA, Bitbucket, GitLab, GitHub, Git, Chrome Extensions (Redux Devtools, React Developer Tools, Augury), Charles, Postman, Jenkins, JIRA, Slack, Jabber.  Cloud: AWS, GoDaddy, digital Ocean