Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Harte-Hanks New York, NY • 10+ Years of Experience in Web applications design and development, Good understanding of HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JQuery, Bootstrap and advanced JavaScript frameworks.  • Strong understating of HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strong understating of JavaScript, its quirks, and workarounds.  • Good understanding of Node JS and javascript frameworks such as Angular 2, Backbone JS, React JS and Redux.  • Good understanding of CSS pre-processing platforms, such as LESS and SASS.  • Good understanding of asynchronous request handling, partial page updates, and AJAX.  • Good understanding of cross-browser compatibility issues and ways to work around them.  • Strong understanding of features and utility functions of jQuery.  • Strong understanding of RESTful APIs.  • Experience with templating engine like Handlebars.js.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Strong knowledge of algorithms, design patterns, and componentization approaches and security protocols.  • Good understanding of Linux or Unix operating systems.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN to manage and control software development.  • Experience working in an Agile development environment (SCRUM).  • Expertise in all phases of the software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, and documentation.  • Experience with Grunt to perform minification, compilation and linting.  • Experience in UX design with a good knowledge in Wireframes, Prototypes, Mock-ups, Storyboard and User Flows.  • Excellent skills in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS, also creating the responsive Webpages for mainstream browsers and portable devices (mobile, tablet, laptop) using Bootstrap.  • Experience using Adobe tools - Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator and Flash.  • Strong experience in SEO (Search Engine Optimization) and Progressive Enhancement.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Harte-Hanks January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience in development of Front End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and React.js.  • Translated designs and wireframes into high quality code.  • Built reusable code for future use.  • Developed high performance grids using DHTMLX.  • Developed chrome extension for an internal tool.  • Solid understanding of Linux or Unix operating systems  • Strong knowledge of algorithms, design patterns, and componentization approaches and security protocols.  • Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders of varying design and technical proficiency adhering to Agile development methodologies  • Added many styling features to the application using CSS preprocessor LESS.  • Integrated front- end elements with back- end logic.  • Used SASS CSS pre-processor for writing reusable and maintainable codes in CSS.  • Involved in unit testing, and integration testing.  • Involved in product review meeting with product manager and product owner.  • Participated in peer code review for quality control.  • Participated in architectural design meeting.  • Analyzing requirements from product manager and implementing low level design.  • Developed user-facing features using ReactJS.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, LESS, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Node.js, RESTful API, AJAX, JSON. Sr. Frontend Developer Capital One March 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Angular.JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development and used Angular 2 to bind HTML to JavaScript Object.  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Used CSS Transforms, to manipulate the visual appearance of the entire page's content.  • Experience in Building Responsive Mobile Friendly Websites using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies.  • Work closely with mobile app teams to design and optimize client/server interaction model  • Used AngularJS and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Worked with SASS to build better and optimized Stylesheets.  • Created animations that bring our Web content into view (or remove it from view) in interesting ways.  • Developed data visualizations using D3.js.  • Ability write unit tests (TDD practices) for backend and frontend services  • Custom node.js proxy is used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs.  • Used Mobile Angular UI, which provides essential mobile components that are missing in Bootstrap 3: switches, overlays, sidebars, scrollable areas, absolute positioned top and bottom navbars that don't bounce on scroll.  • Demonstrated expertise with design tools such as Fireworks and Illustrator.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Agile, JSON, Mocha, illustrator, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, Express.js, Adobe Photoshop CS. Front End Developer Reancloud - Herndon, VA September 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, JSON.  • Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization and geo-clustering for market targeting  • Created website designs using CSS media queries, that are adaptable to a lot of different screen sizes.  • Involved in multimedia production including logo animation, advertising & graphic design, video editing and special effects etc.  • Using Media Queries, created stylesheets for Mobile devices.  • Developed a prototype for a web application using Node.js and AngularJS 1.5.  • Used AJAX with JQuery 2.0 controls for Listing all scripts in a grid and can edit it in the grid which will reflect in the database table as well (like margins).  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration.  • Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  Environment: HTML 4, DHTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, GIT, D3.js, AngularJS 1.5, Jasmine, karma, JSON, NodeJS, jQuery 2.1, AJAX. Web Developer CenutryLink - Denver, CO October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Utilized jQuery UI Controls to assist in implementation of GUI per client specifications.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Adhered to corporate standards with respect to problem, change and configuration management.  • Responsible for maintaining the websites that included updating the web pages, uploading new content/changes etc.  • Worked on XHTML, CSS and assisted development with integration of User Interface into Java Application.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Developed Web Interface using Java Script, HTML, AngularJS 1.2 and CSS.  • Developed different GUI screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Coordinated with QA for testing, production releases, application deployment and integration.    Environment: HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2, AJAX, JSON, Java, JSP, Apache Server, RESTFUL Web Services, Hibernate, Servlets, ANT, JSTL SOAP, Adobe Flash, JUnit, JavaScript, AngularJS 1.2, JQuery 1.7, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON. Jr Web Developer HAVI Global Solutions - Chicago, IL May 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and stimulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQuery components for CRM application for customer service.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Created custom JavaScript objects, using jQuery for fetching data from API's.  • Used Adobe Photoshop to create different banners and designs.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML, JAVA, CSS, JQuery, XML, XHTML, Adobe Photoshop, AJAX. Skills Adobe Photoshop (3 years), AJAX (9 years), Angular.JS (5 years), Apache (1 year), Bootstrap (5 years), DHTML (3 years), HTML5 (4 years), ILLUSTRATION (1 year), Java (3 years), JavaScript (9 years), jQuery (9 years), JSON. (7 years), JUnit (1 year), Linux (2 years), Photoshop (5 years), testing (7 years), UI (9 years), Unix (2 years), User Interface (9 years), XML. (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI/Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSX, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML, ES6, Typescript.  UI Frameworks: ReactJS/Redux, AngularJS 1.5.7/ Angular 2, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Express.js, D3.js,  Programming/Database Languages: C, Java, ASP.NET SQL  Database: MYSQL, Oracle9i/10g, SQL Server, MongoDB  Web servers: WebSphere, Tomcat, Apache  Version Control: SVN, GIT  Testing tools: Jasmine, JUnit, Karma, Mocha.  Design tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, sketch, Adobe Illustrator CS5, Dreamweaver.  Operating Systems: UNIX, WINDOWS, Linux  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile  IDE/Programming editors: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio 2013/15, Sublime Text 3.    PROJECT INFORMATION