Software/DevOps Developer III Software/DevOps <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Software/DevOps Developer III - Jeppesen/Boeing Denver, CO Work Experience Software/DevOps Developer III Jeppesen/Boeing April 2019 to Present Represented the organization by providing solutions to difficult technical issues associated with specific projects. Developed Computer Software Units (CSUs) software requirements and algorithms. Defined internal interfaces. Performed requirements allocation between hardware, software, and operators. Participated in requirement team and peer reviews as a presenter and evaluator. Performed CSCU requirements change assessment and provided a technical interface to requirement change-assessment meetings.  Key Contributions  • Developed, documented and maintained architectures, requirements, algorithms, interfaces and designs for software integration environments for CICD and test automation pipelines.  • Provided data, recommendations, and estimates for software component level project planning including corrective action plans.  • Coordinated and participated in project management reviews and compliance audits.  • For all phases of the software life cycle: developed, selected, tailored and deployed processes and tools; establishes metrics; and utilized regulations and industry standards.  • Participated in process reviews.  • Interacted frequently with inter-organizational personnel and external customers while represented the team by providing solutions to difficult technical issues associated with specific projects. Site Reliability Engineer Email on Acid February 2018 to October 2018 Utilized Amazon Web Services and Microsoft office365 to implement software solutions to a mid-size startup with a high focus on email development solutions. Lead a team of developers and infrastructure while writing automated solutions using Ansible and Docker connected with Amazon Web Services and Azure.  Key Contributions  ? Team Lead of developers, QA, and Product Manager on the implementation of applications, features, and bug updates  ? Directed the planning and scheduling of maintenance for VMs in both Azure and AWS  ? Provided 24/7 support for all infrastructure on a call rotation  ? Established a corporate intranet and enterprise communication center utilizing office365 and SharePoint Online  ? Integrated SSO with Azure Portal connecting systems such as Zoom, LucidChart, Jira/Confluence, GitLab and SalesForce.  ? Created web applications for Capital Improvement Project, Performance Improvement Project, Implementation Plan, and New Hire Process  ? Maintained legacy SMTP image processing procedures for customer screenshots  ? Implemented a screenshot process utilizing AWS services such as Redis and ec2 and IMAP  ? Developed automated jobs with third party companies utilizing SwaggerHub, Amazon's API Gateway with Lambda functions written in Python to transfer data.  ? Database architectures including MySQL, Microsoft SQL 2008, 2012,2014 MongoDB, PostSQL, Elasticache, and RDS Nurse Family Partnership November 2016 to February 2018 Software Developer    Utilized Amazon Web Services and Microsoft office365 to implement software solutions to a non-profit organization that helped to grow the technology department. Offered a key contribution to the development of a new data warehouse and migration from Microsoft CRM to SalesForce. Implemented version control and code development contribution while leading a team transitioning to DevOps. Implemented AWS Cloud Services, including Route53, Certificate Management, ELB, VPC, S3, API Gateway with Lambda Functions written in Python and Node.js  Key Contributions  ? Developed automated jobs with third party companies utilizing SwaggerHub, Amazon's API Gateway with Lambda functions written in Python to transfer PHI data  ? Built workflows in node.js creating functions with AWS Lambda service to communicate via SNS that would post user uploads to an S3 bucket  ? Established an intranet utilizing office365 and SharePoint Online  ? Lead the development of migrating the public facing site from Kentico to Wordpress  ? Created web applications for Capital Improvement Project, Performance Improvement Project, Implementation Plan, and New Hire Process  ? Maintained legacy Classic ASP applications while strategizing their migration process  ? Lead multiple cross-department projects that helped nurses, mothers, and internal staff with more efficient processes that created more effective business measures Programmer/Analyst City of Thornton January 2014 to July 2016 Senior Interactive Web Developer ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corporation January 2013 to January 2014 Engineered multiple applications and migrated various classic ASP programs to ASP .NET 3.5 framework. Worked on a 10 person team within the marketing department developing and supporting external online collateral while maintaining internal support for the global intranet.  Key Contributions  ? Developed several MVC .NET 4x applications from existing business requirements utilizing HTML5 compliant standards incorporating existing legacy .NET framework and Drupal.  ? Architected a migration strategy and subsequent implementation of a ten-year-old in-house Oracle based content management system to a Microsoft 2010 SharePoint platform.  ? Developed several standards based SharePoint templates to support the global initiatives for Microsoft Office Collaboration and integration.  ? Project lead for the corporate integration of existing customer front end and new blogging functionality through UX and responsive design.  ? Integrated Eloqua CRM with existing customer facing framework and Drupal 7.22  ? Integrated Active Directory from several locations to a new centralized framework supporting Portal access to HR and Marketing Departments.  ? Developed an e-Commerce site for Team Store, Brochure Ordering and PC Purchasing Portal within the Marketing Support Department  ? Intranet Administrator supporting Microsoft Sql Server databases and updating internal web content for company store.  ? Managed over 20 different domains supported by the marketing department using external Apache servers and Windows IIS servers.  ? Developed online marketing campaigns utilizing Eloqua to capture leads. Level III Support IT/ Front End Web Developer TNT Dental January 2012 to January 2013 Front End Web Developer proficient in Adobe Creative Suite for web design and development. Assists businesses, organizations, and individuals in using the World Wide Web and other online technologies to promote their ideas, products, and services more effectively. Integrated content management platforms including WordPress, Drupal, SiteCore & Joomla.  Key Contributions    ? Employ the latest technologies, such as structured XHTML and cascading style sheets (CSS), while ensuring compliance with W3C content and enterprise guidelines.  ? Translate user requirements into universal accessible information, design requirements, web architecture, and user interfaces.  ? Collaborate with cross-functional project teams, and train others using Internet technologies, industry standards and best practices.  ? Supported over 2000 clients through conversions from HTML Strict or Transitional templates to HTML5 standards  ? Designed and developed efficient ways of implementing CSS3 designs by creating user-friendly tools and widgets.  ? Organized content repositories and created effective collaborative Web based documentation along with policies and procedures for all technical support groups    ADDITIONAL ATTRIBUTES  ? Fluent in French  ? Intermediate in Spanish  ? Beginner in Russian and German User Technical Support 2007 to 2010 Conceived multiple in house applications utilizing SharePoint and ASP.Net MVC framework while migrating legacy Classic ASP applications. Worked on a 9 person team within the IT department and supported the rest of the City with over 500 employees. Participated in the implementation of application software and systems across the city. Designed and maintained various web, desktop and middleware software applications, databases and reports for City Departments, including analyzing, designing, testing and documentation with Microsoft SharePoint Services including 2007, 2010, 2013, Online, Office 365 and Windows SharePoint Services, Excel Services and InfoPath.  Key Contributions  ? Provided End-User Technical Support  ? Improved processes and documentation  ? Developed a new intranet utilizing SharePoint 2013 while migrating existing data from SharePoint 2010  ? Assisted in the development of a new public facing internet site for the City  ? Created web applications for Community Services, Victim Advocates, and Risk Management through MVC 5 with Knockout JS.  ? Upgraded and supported the City Clerk's Document Management System using OpenText.  ? Assisted the IT department with research for a new fleet of printers  ? Created an Employee Classifieds forum utilizing SharePoint 2013  ? Developed a Time Off request calendar through SharePoint  ? Assisted with the development of the City's Council Packet process  ? Created a SharePoint site for the Finance department to track budget changes Education Bachelors Degree in History in History University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL January 2011 to Present Acquired Associates degree of Science Brevard County Community College/East Florida State College - Cocoa, FL December 2010 Skills Security, C#, Software development, Devops, Sql, Machine learning, Nosql, Deployment, Rollout, Client-server, Go live, Java, Integration, Architecture, Continuous improvement, Mitigation, Program management, Portfolio management, Product development, Documentation, Linux, Javascript, Spring, Golang Additional Information COMPETENCIES  Software Development Technology Expertise Program Management Product Development  Agile/Scrum    DevOps    Quality Assurance    Continuous Improvement    Cross-functional team building    AWS Cloud Practitioner    Microsoft Azure Cloud    Google Cloud    Client-Server Side languages (NodeJS, Java, C#)    SQL / NOSQL  Databases    Service Oriented Architecture    Cloud and Proprietary hosting combinations    Complex legacy and custom systems    Portfolio Management    Project Management    Risk Mitigation    Integration and Delivery    Go Live/Rollout    Acquisition Integration    Cyber-Security    Roadmap and Vision    Development/ Enhancement/ Deployment    Operations and Support    Integration and Migration    Automation / Machine Learning    Internet of Things    ? Collaborate with teams as a lead to drive process improvement aimed at increasing throughput, reducing time to market while maintaining high quality.  ? Accountable for the day-to-day deliverables for all local and virtual project teams.  ? Communicate strategies across numerous IT teams and foster collaboration within IT and external business areas.  ? Build relationships with business partners to define and execute business strategies through technical delivery.  ? Demonstrate a capacity to implement innovative solutions that drive awareness, decrease exposure and strengthen organizations.  ? Adept to developing effective high-level project documentation and milestones from technical / business specifications.