Consultant in UX/UI Design / Web Development, Animations Consultant in UX/UI Design / Web Development, Animations UI/UX Designer / Web Dev / Web Analytics Dev Redmond, WA A multi-talented Visual/Graphics/Web/Interactive Designer, Web Developer, UI/UX expert with experience including but not limited to – web/ front end design and development, 2D and 3D graphics, hand and engineering drawing, publishing, print, video editing and effects, and motion, photography, office automation and scripting, product/software testing.    · Tactical and strategic digital experience – creating digital marketing plans, designs, interaction diagrams, wire-frames, test plans, managing project timelines, and utilizing hands on tools mentioned below.    · Proficient in Web Analytics, Adobe Analytics development    · Experience working in diverse environments including - large corporate environments.    · Renowned for attention to details, work ethics, and artistic touch.    · Companywide award-winning projects, acknowledged as the best; winner of website speed and performance optimization competition. Acknowledged as a go-to source for web related technologies (HTML, CSS, DOM, JavaScript etc.).    · Good grip on contemporary graphics and image processing methods, publishing, modeling, office and content creation tools. Highly skilled in Adobe Creative suite (Photoshop and multiple plug-ins, Illustrator, XD, After Effects, Ulead, Bridge, Premiere, Acrobat, Muse, etc.) and others (GIMP, Art Rage, Inkspace, 3D Max, Element 8; CorelDraw, Flash, Visio, Balsamiq, etc.).    · Detailed understanding of UI/UX, modern Web technologies and strong web design skills - HTML/CSS/XML, SASS, JASON, Flash, JS, Ajax, JQuery, VB, C#, ASP.NET, PHP, WAMP, WordPress, table/table-less/fluid/responsive layouts, etc. using both low level hand coded approach (“Notepad”) and high level design tools such as Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, etc. Owning production end 2 end including testing products and final software/web.    · Very tech savvy and handy with office automation (MS Office tools including scripting of thereof), also experience in gaming and writing simple games, designing and developing databases (Access, SQL, MySQL).    · Good IT and scripting experience – developed game in Visual Basic, implemented office automation (e.g. Excel macro programming, Word scripting), databases (SQL, MySQL, VBA, Access), office and other software scripting, Photoshop macro scripting, UI design experience, etc.    · Excellent knowledge of office automation and word processing tools -. MS PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Outlook, Publisher. Both as a user and developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant in UX/UI Design / Web Development, Animations 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing end to end projects of high interest in the field of web applications following current trends of social media.  • Researching technologies, APIs and possible development for editing online video content. Working with Adobe XD for UX/UI prototyping of the project.  • Working with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Adobe Creative Suite, Bootstrap, Font Awesome and other APIs, frameworks, and tools to finalize and deliver the project.  • Researching AWS and other optimal services for hosting the projects. Using Adobe Creative Cloud for hosting design works and other content.  • Working with web animations, video animations in Adobe After Effects CC, Adobe Photoshop CC, Adobe Animate CC and Mobile Device Packaging, Adobe Character Animator CC, Audition CC, Media Encoder CC, and opening a YouTube channel (taking classes, passing exams to become a YouTube partner).  • Partnering with children books authors worldwide to suggest new and interesting content on YouTube for younger generations.  • Constantly self-educating to keep up with new technologies and/or changes and updates in old technologies, such as JavaScript ECMA 6, CSS Grid, Angular, React, Adobe XD, Computing Cloud, AWS etc.  • Gained more proficiency with WordPress helping to fix some issues related to front- end and back- end of the website developed with WordPress.    Results:  • Researched and made an initial development for online video editor. Received a great feedback and a green light to start the UX/UI design for the project from the stakeholders.  • 80% of the design is ready for the stakeholders to review.  • Fixed multiple issues relating to the WordPress plugins and multiple other development issues which lead the stakeholders to benefit greatly from it by concluding a desired contract with third parties.  • Created graphical and 3D content for a lightweight casual animation, animated and uploaded to YouTube as a part of the research for future successful channel creation. Animated a musical children story authored by one of the children poem writers in three languages which will be included to the new channel.  • Made branding designs including company logo that won a competition and was recognized as the best by stakeholders.  • Learned multiple new technologies and techniques such as Lottie, chroma key, CSS Grid, Adobe XD and improved skills in HTML Canvas by creating web animation contents.  • Broad knowledge and skills in multiple technologies, fields, and programming languages, as well as great researching skills, allow diving into any technology regardless of experience and familiarity to get the best out of them and develop new and revolutionary ideas and techniques.  • Person to go for the client-side tips such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Responsive Design etc. as well as design tools such as Photoshop, Illustrator, XD, etc. among friends and former colleagues. Web Analytics Development Lead Lowes 2016 to 2018 Responsibilities:  • Defining and documenting web analytics best practices, code review requirements, release practices  • Participating in defining of KPIs and data collection requirements and Use Cases  • Consulting on defining new projects, their design and all other technical and strategical aspects  • Defining issues resulting in data discrepancies, consulting on possible resolutions  • Defining scope of work for better estimates  • Navigating and implementing high demand projects  • Working with BI leads, product leads and program management to define and deliver to schedule  • Consulting other analytics development teams  • Introduction, knowledge transfer and training Analytics concepts, best practices, tools to developers  • Conducting releases: creating playbook template and archiving releases, approving, merging, publishing, release announcements Web/ Front End Software Development Lead Lowes 2015 to 2016 Responsibilities:  • Defining and documenting development best practices, code review requirements, release practices  • Conducting design and code reviews  • Navigating and implementing high demand projects  • Training techs in transitioning to new development roles  • Helping team to meet their needs and to overcome any challenges for successful and timely delivery of projects  • Helping team with the most challenging technical questions and delivering code  • Liaison between product owners and team members  • Working with product leads and program management to define and deliver to schedule UI/UX Designer, Graphics Designer, Web/ Front end Developer Lowes 2013 to 2016 Responsibilities:  • Front end design and development: Architecture, design, implementation/coding, reviews, debugging, bug fixing and testing overall product for the company main deliverables  • Cross browser compatibility  • Speed and performance optimizations  • New team members onboarding and new hires training  • Determining business requirements and user needs  • User acceptance tests, user research, researching and defining user personas and use cases  • AB Testing (Optimizely, eyequant, etc)  • Prototyping and presenting of Web prototypes and designs for executive leadership team  • Research and onboarding of new technologies  • Creation of the company's Style Guide and it's continues updates and improvement  • Evaluating designs with team members as well as colleagues from other departments, presenting work to stakeholders to meet success criteria  • Defining and applying visual, interface and user experience design, creating sitemaps, sketches and wire-frames, producing low-fidelity paper and interactive prototypes (including for usability studies). Defining, designing, producing and modifying low and high fidelity: graphics, web (both static and dynamic), application UI, UX and content (also motion and effects)  • Responsive design targeting multiple platforms    Results:  • Designed and implemented multiple projects of high importance meeting required deadlines both single handed and in collaboration with other team members  • Improvement in the top Navigation lead to > 50% performance improvement on the main and other pages of the main company product  • Pioneered usage of SASS, Compass, driving both design and implementation, resulting in increase of developer productivity, improvement of overall site consistency and performance, lowering cost of maintainability  • Established and documented engineering best practices on the team resulting in higher consistency and quality of designs and code  • Pioneered responsive design for the main company product. Application of responsive design and development led to a sizable increase in a customer base: http://finance.yahoo.com/news/home-improvement-retailer-atgstores-com-110530910.html  • Lowes.ca exceeded entire Y13 revenue by the middle of Y14, well above forecasted - due to a number of improvements implemented  • Lowes.ca was voted as the best commercial website in Canada (Y13)  • Designs are frequently chosen and recognized as the best by users  • Developed and implemented multiple reusable UI components such as cross-browser dynamically resizing pop-boxes, flyouts, tables, scrollers, galleries, static and floating navigations and other components  • Gave start to Lowesforpros.com ProServices by designing and implementing the workflow, UI/UX functionalities of Pro Services console, navigation and landing account page  • Redesigned and implemented the workflow, UI/UX functionalities of other platforms web services consoles, navigation and landing account page  • Participated in design, integration and implementation of multiple other web services for multiple platforms Web services are serving both for corporate and customer needs  • Navigated and participated in the integration of multiple analytics solutions, the reintegration and re-architecture of the Adobe Analytics on multiple web properties to increase data reliability that allowed BI and other business partners to make more informed decisions to support corporate online marketing strategies  • Re-architected and redesigned the Analytics feeding digital data layer using JS, C#, ASP.Net, JSON, Ajax, XML, SQL, Nuget Packages, DLL which lead to > 30% data reliability improvement across the conversion funnel  • Researched, fixed the underlaying issues causing 40% analytics revenue discrepancy  • Participated in the ATGstores.com rebranding to TheMine.com; integrated Analytics digital data layer, data tracking, Adobe Analytics library  • Implemented multiple Adobe Analytics projects of high importance meeting required deadlines both single handed and in collaboration with other team members  • Won respect and trust of product owners thanks to quick responses and on timely manner delivery of features, as well as consulting on challenges they experienced in defining of optimal approach and scope of work    Projects:   ·        Designs, redesigns, CI and implementations:  Multiple Web Platforms Responsive Design, Top and Bottom Navigations, Store Locator, Recently Viewed and Recommended Items, Image Matchmaker, Show Room, Project Manager, Articles, Catalog filters, Product Compare, Product View Page swatches, product view, sale banners, product description, Add to Cart, Q&A, Account Login, Wish List, Homepage, Digital Data Layer and many others  ·        Integrations, implementations:  Facebook, Google Customer Reviews (GCR), Bloomrich, SOASTA Impulse, Source Lab, Webcollage, Google Floodlight, Live Chat, Scaffold, Adobe Analytics, Criteo and many others internship iSoftStone - Kirkland, WA 2011 to 2012 Software design and development, project management and testing classes - internship. Education Bachelor's in Linguistics Skills HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (6 years), JQuery (6 years), SASS (5 years), JSON (6 years), Ajax (6 years), Asp.Net (6 years), PHP (2 years), Responsive Design (6 years), XML (10+ years), C# (2 years), SQL (10+ years), VBA (2 years), Visual Basic (2 years), After Effects (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe Creative Cloud (4 years), Adobe DTM (3 years), Adobe Analytics (3 years), Adobe Marketing Cloud (2 years), Adobe XD (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (2 years), UX, User Experience, Wireframe, User Interface, UI, Adobe, Axure, Git, Atlassian Jira, Atlassian Bitbucket, Atlassian Confluence, Ecommerce, Wireframe, UX, User Experience, User Interface, UI Links https://www.thejasdesign.com Certifications/Licenses Software Testing Present Adobe After Effects Present Graphics Design Present Engineering Drawing Present Corel Draw Present