Program Manager and Content Developer Program Manager and Content <span class="hl">Developer</span> Program Manager and Content Developer Pasco, WA Work Experience Program Manager and Content Developer Amazon.com June 2010 to July 2019 June 2010 - July 2019  Worked my way up in the company from a front-line associate to taking escalations from customers and then into management where I created trainings, wrote HR policies, and performance managed. Most recently, I was a Program Manager and Content Developer where I was responsible for creating, coding (HTML, XML, DITA, and graphics), and launching internal and external content for associates and customers, respectively. Front- end and pro-contractor cashier, trained The Home Depot March 2010 to June 2010 in lumber services.    Achievements:  * Created, coded, and published customer facing and internal content for customer service needs.  * Managed a team of 15-60 agents at any given time. This included performance, conduct, and personal and professional development. I was responsible for staffing levels, coordination with other departments, scheduling, disciplinary actions, and working with upper management on emerging issues.  * Experienced and proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, Publisher) and Adobe programs.  * Worked in both office and remote environments for various roles, including management, individual contributor, and data analysis roles.  * Consistently communicate professionally, using proper grammar, spelling, and punctuation.  * Proficient in HTML, XML, and DITA coding languages.  * Provided my expertise on bettering the customer experience on company-wide Customer Experience Contact Reviews.  * Worked alongside Program Management and Device Business Teams to escalate emerging issues and develop a solution plan to communicate to customers and assist customers on incoming contacts.  * Composed SOPs for technical troubleshooting for devices and digital services such as e-books, music, videos, and online cloud storage.  * Alpha and beta tested services and devices prior to consumer release to ensure quality.  * Opened a call center in Manila, Philippines where I trained and coached leadership and agents.  * Provided real time updates to upper management and business teams regarding status of service level failures, contact drivers, and emerging issues. Education Associates of Arts and Sciences in Arts and Sciences Columbia Basin College 2016 Skills Program Management (3 years), Apple (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Management (5 years), Interviewing (1 year), Human Resources (5 years)