Front End/UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/UI Developer - Bank of America Pennington, NJ • Around 5 years of professional experience in User Interface and Web development as a Front- end User Interface Developer.  • Strong domain understanding in Banking, Retails and healthcare.  • Significant experience in designing and developing Single Page Applications (SPA) by using Angular router with multiple views.  • Good experience supporting multiple browsers for cross browser compatibility using poly fills  • for Both CSS and JavaScript.  • Hands-on experience in consuming RESTful Services using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.  • Proficient in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS3 Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Strong experience in using JavaScript libraries like jQuery and jQuery UI.  • Experienced with CSS3 preprocessors SASS and LESS to archive writing reusable, maintainable and extensible codes in CSS.  • Worked with CSS preprocessors tools like SASS.  • Good experience on working with CSS Background, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors including the Box model.  • Extensive experience in using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and Angular.  • Solid Experience of web service using Ajax for processing JSON/XML between front- end and back- end.  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS.  • Hands-on experience in server side programming and using server side environment Node.js.  • Good experience in handling Unit testing using Jasmine and Karma along with TDD methodology.  • Expertise in integrating visualization libraries like D3.js, jQuery Fusion Charts and Angular JS Fusion charts.  • Experienced in creating web server using Node.js.  • Extensive knowledge of using MVC and MVVM architecture in building interactive cross  • platform web applications.  • Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Profound experience in developing different web application using the Agile Methodology.  • Worked with version control system like Git, continuous integration tool such as Jenkins and bug tracking tools like Jira.  • Self-starter, fast learner and consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Up to date knowledge with the latest industry trends, and having the ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines.    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap 3.x, XML, JSON, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Ngrx, Redux, php, WordPress Node.js.    IDE & Text Editor Visual studio code, VS, Sublime, bracket, Atom  Unit Testing Tools Jasmine, Karma, Jest, Mocha, Chai, Enzyme  Database Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.x, MongoDB 2.4  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, Http Web Server  Reporting Tools D3.js, Fusion Charts 3.1  Version Control Tools Git, CVS, SVN  Dependency Management Tool Apache Maven Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End/UI Developer Bank of America November 2017 to Present Bank of America Corporation Merrill Lynch, is an American wealth management and financial service provider. It is an investment banking arm and engaged in prime brokerage and security dealings. Lending, derivatives and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of BofA which includes Securities, strategic advisory and other investment banking activities. Merrill lynch is registered broker-dealers as futures commission merchant with the CFTC and member of the NFA, FINRA, SIPC and other jurisdictions.    ? Involved in building client relationships and sub households maintenance application using Angular 4 with Ngrx state management.  ? Used Angular cli for faster setup of skeleton and development of single page web applications.  ? Created directives, components, services, routing and custom pipes.  ? Developed the application with responsive layouts, Ngx-Loading, Ngx-swiper-wrapper, Ngx-agile-slider.  ? Took advantage of ngrx/effects to handle any side effects of action as well as async calls.  ? Worked closely with prototype team to understand the design and implement with ng-bs4 and less.  ? Developed prime Ng drag and drop tree to create data tree with parent nodes and leaf node.  ? Created Actions, Reducers, Effects and managed multi-store state logic to maintain single source of truth.  ? Responsible to communicate with the web services by making Http calls to transfer the request and response between two endpoints.  ? Working on creating generic radio buttons by providing accessibility feature and made them reusable throughout the application.  ? Used Ngrx entity to reduce the boilerplate and get full benefits out of the architecture.  ? Working under Agile environment and participated in daily standup meetings to discuss on the project status.    Technology stack  Html, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, Angular 4, Typescript, NGRX, Redux, RxJs, Ngx Bootstrap, Less, Lodash, Mongo. Front End/UI Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR November 2016 to October 2017 Walmart, is an American multinational retailing corporation that operates as a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores. Walmart has 11,695 stores and clubs in 28 countries, under a total of 63 banners. Walmart is the world's largest company by revenue according to the Fortune Global 500 and the largest private employer in the world.    ? Involved in migrating Order Management System application from Angular 1.x to React-Redux with new layout on the electrode platform by Walmart Labs.  ? Developed proof of concept in ANGULAR 2 and technology research prior to proposals and demos.  ? Used Electrode for faster setup of skeleton and development of single page web applications.  ? Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format and upload excel file then parsing into JSON using Hapi.js.  ? Took advantage of reacts virtual DOM for rendering and rendering components for faster page load and Implemented reacts one way data flow.  ? Creating view layer with different components. Drop down list, search bar, log in, forms all these are implemented through react components.  ? Using babel for transpiling JSX and ES6 syntax to get compatible with modern browsers.  ? Performing unit testing using Mocha, Enzyme and Phantom.js along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and working closely with QA.  ? Managed multi-store state logic to maintain single source of truth and created Actions, Reducers, dumb components and smart components.  ? Creating class based component for re rendering automatically on state change.  ? Working on creating responsive single page application, grid, custom buttons and all layouts using Material UI.  ? Writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using React Fetch.  ? Worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI.  ? Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added in future.    Technology stack  Html, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, Angular 2, Typescript, React, Redux, Material UI, Bluebird, Electrode, Hapi. Front End/UI Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ August 2015 to October 2016 American Express was founded in 1850 and is ranked 22nd most valuable brand in the world and is listed one of the top 20 most admired company in the world. American Express is an American multinational financial services corporation. Amex is best known for its credit card, change card and transactions in the U.S. offices.    ? Involved in developing Cornerstone and Maverick applications using web technologies like HTML 5, CSS 3 and CSS 3 pre-processor styling LESS.  ? Worked on MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives, custom filters and also used john papa's style guide.  ? Created Controllers, Factories and Services for optimizing the AngularJS application code and also to manage the shared services.  ? Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  ? Build a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Backbone JS.  ? Created custom directives for navigation bar, sidebar filters for product details, strict filters for exact match search and other re-usable sections.  ? Used Aria attributes for form labeling and Jaws for screen reading to accomplish 508 compliance application.  ? Resolved Cross Browser Compatible Issues for different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox and Opera.  ? Watched project changes with Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the Node.JS environment.    Technology stack  Html, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SASS/LESS, Bootstrap, React, Angular, Backbone, Node. Web Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA June 2014 to July 2015 Kaiser Permanente was founded in 1945 and is made up of three distinct groups of entities: the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and its regional operating subsidiaries; Kaiser Foundation Hospitals; and the autonomous regional Permanente Medical Groups. As of 2006, Kaiser Permanente operates in nine states and the District of Columbia, and is the largest managed care organization in the United States. Kaiser Permanente has 8.9 million health plan members, 167,300 employees, 14,600 physicians, 37 medical centers, and 611 medical offices.    ? Worked on Electronic Medical records and Doctors locations and developing UI using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Worked on responsive design and put forward a proposal of doing away with device-specific apps and developing a single responsive website that could be served to both desktop and mobile users.  ? Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application.  ? Extensively used ASP.net for web forms design with VB.Net acting as a code behind and Created User Controls and Custom Controls in ASP.NET.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Used $http, $resource for Fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server.  ? Used JavaScript for Client Side validations. Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects.  ? Developed the UI screens using SFX, JavaScript, JSTL and CSS.    Technology stack  Html, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Wordpress, Angular, Node, Asp.net, Ado.net. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT, WEBPACK, WEB SERVICES, RESTFUL WEB SERVICES, JIRA