Lead Front- End Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Orlando, FL Work Experience Lead Front- End Developer Digital Health - Orlando, FL June 2018 to Present 32801 • Work with UX team to architect superior patient portal experiences that  make our site a joy to use.  Phone  • Lead front- end development for online scheduling division of  (225) 505 - 6124  HelloWell.com  E-mail  • Lead developer for CentraCare online scheduling React plugin.  GarrettKS@me.com  • Work with back- end developers to architect custom APIs.  • Build components using JavaScript with React and redux.  Skills  • Develop custom tests using Cypress.  SQL • Assist in the QA process for new releases. Departmental IT Consultant II GIT May 2017 to Present medical staff Orlando Health IT June 2018 to June 2018 JavaScript • Test new builds of the front- end web interface for credentialing database.  • Manage implementation process for all new applications and workflows for Learning on the Fly  the medical staff.  Interpersonal Savvy • Create custom SharePoint plugins for Physician Portal website.    React • Create custom JavaScript to assist with front- end data entry.  • Create custom reports and data feeds using SQL and Visual Basic.  SASS    Redux Operations Expert Apple Inc August 2014 to May 2017 webpack  • Implemented development strategy to propel team towards common  goals.  • Crafted custom VB scripts to help identify transaction variances.  • Leveraged time management skills to prioritize tasks and deliver exceeding  results on simultaneous projects and initiatives.  • Produced visually appealing documents, dashboards, and reports to inform  management on the current accuracy of all transactions, sales, and inventory. Education BS in Information Systems & Decision Sciences in Information Systems Louisiana State University - E.J. Ourso College of Business August 2009 to May 2014 Skills Javascript, UI, Front End, Front-End, React