Digital Marketing Consultant Digital Marketing Consultant Project Management, Sales, Front End Website Development, Mobile Application - Captiv Creative Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Marketing Consultant BERGflow - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present At BERGflow I build custom digital sales systems that cater to the needs of any organization. In today's digital landscape it is just not enough to have a static website that simply displays information. To get the most out of your online presence there needs to be a digital system that funnels you target consumer into spending money on you business or service.    I specialize in designing and building automated digital platform for companies to increase sales, produce higher volume of digital traffic, and save time.    Some, but not all, of the things that I am tasked with at BERGflow are:    • Creating Digital Sales Funnels BERGflow and Clients  • Front End Web Development  • Back End Web Development  • Integration Implementation  • Copy Writing  • Online Membership and Community Organizer  • Systems Analysis  • Facebook/Instagram Ads  • Google Ads  • Digital Sales Campaigns  • Content Creation  • Digital Media (high end videos, photos, graphics and logos)  • Webinar Conversion  • Digital Course Creation  • Outsourcing Specialist (upwork & fivver)  • Email Campaigns and Automations  • Project Management  • SEO  • Creating Custom Analysis Dashboards  • Wordpress, Squarespace, Kajabi  • Custom Coding  • Social Media Content  • Social Media Scheduling  • Inside Sales & Marketing Google Trusted Agent Captiv Creative - Houston, TX July 2016 to Present While working with Google to provide businesses with Google Business View I learned many new  skills. A large part of the job was gaining business owners and decision makers trust in order to complete sales and build a professional relationship. Getting them to trust you with improving their  presence on Google Maps can be difficult at times. Consistency in the quality of work is required and being able to build those relationships with business owners was very rewarding.  ? Placed businesses across the Houston area on Google Street View.  ? Created the Virtual Tour and added it on the Google Maps for businesses. Virtual tours  allow s users of Google Maps and potential consumers to virtually tour businesses.  ? The businesses that used the virtual tours included restaurants, medical care, auto repair,  real estate and many others.  ? Greatly improves the businesses SEO and ability to be found easier on Google. Project Management, Sales, Front End Website Development, Mobile Application Captiv Creative - Houston, TX July 2016 to April 2018 Development, Video Production, Virtual Tours, Photography  Captiv Creative is a marketing firm with a focus on digital content creation. Duties included  communicating with clients to determine what is the best content and distribution strategies for their website, google business page, social media, and tv advertisement. I developed clients  website and created back end portal that were easy for them to use. Also I created virtual tours so potential customers for clients could explore their establishments or what they have to offer. I  managed major video production projects from start to finish, hiring actor, schedule shoot dates,  confirming shoot locations, directing on set, making sure project were delivered on time, etc.    At Captiv my role went from finding potential clients, following up with them, closing a deal,  scoping out a project, managing a project through development, to working on the delivery team through product delivery. This role in the company allowed me to apply many of the skills I have  acquired.  ? Created business processes  ? Created digital content for corporations  ? Created Virtual Tours of real estate, restaurants, and other businesses  ? Created promotional videos for businesses  ? Created mobile applications for businesses  ? Created websites for businesses  ? Operated drones  ? Operated camera equipment  ? Created 360 degree video  ? Assisted in content distribution  ? Created marketing campaigns  ? Managed projects from start to finish  ? Drafted project scopes  ? Drafted contracts  ? Gathered requirements for projects  ? Sales Developer, mPower GeoFac August 2015 to June 2016 Client needed custom web GIS application. The application integrates ESRI, MapGuide, and OpenLayers 3. Functionalities of web applications were built with these open source and licensed API's Applications Developer, GIS Software GeoFac January 2015 to June 2016 gave me the opportunity to use my skills at the highest level. Being able develop  applications for international companies with a team of very knowledgeable people is something I  enjoyed very much. The professional way to collaborate on application development is necessary in a modern software development environment. Learning from others is a great way to grow and learn.  ? Was responsible for developing, updating, and implementing GIS software for clients of  GeoFac. Clients included companies from industries such Oil & Gas, Energy, Pipeline,  Retail, Healthcare, and others. Learned new technologies and grew my knowledge of developing software on a professional level. From meeting a client to determine  specifications to delivering a final product.  ? Integrated programming skills with GIS analysis to create custom applications for users  ? Scrum and agile methods of development were used. Jira, Slack, GoToMeeting were all  used. Constant communication of status was crucial for development.  ? Used Python to write script for pipeline tool.  ? Sales was also conducted. Learn the methods such as writing proposals and different  marketing techniques to generate sales of our services.  ? Attended workshops and conventions to extend network and obtain new knowledge.  ? Educated self on new development methods in GIS and software industry.  ? Created in house applications to manage external GIS applications for clients.  ? Implemented ArcFM and ArcObjects interfaces using C#.  ? Used SourceTree for source control and to collaborate coding.  ? Jira experience.  ? Created custom GIS dashboards.  ? Created custom windows forms that interact with ArcMap.  ? Created custom login form for ArcFM.  ? Created custom GIS applications using open source mapping platform such as Leaflet and OpenLayers.  ? Used AngularJs to implement a web mapping dashboard configuration tool.  ? Created administration console for clients to manage GIS applications using MEAN stack.  ? Developed applications using gulp and grunt.  ? Used Git through terminal to push and pull code.  ? Skills and technologies used: .Net, C#, JQuery, Javascript, Java, CSS, Python, ArcGIS,  Node.js, Angularjs, MongoDB, SQL, AWS, Jira, Slack, SourceTree    Projects Sports Coordinator Greater Houston Area YMCA - Houston, TX March 2012 to December 2015 YMCA is a great organization that benefits so many peoples live. It has given individuals the opportunity to give back to the community they live in.  ? Organize sports games for Kindergarten - 9th grade  ? Sports included Football, Basketball, Soccer, Baseball, and Volleyball  ? Oversee practice and games  ? Create scheduling  ? Dissolve conflict  ? Educate youth Developer GeoFac April 2015 to August 2015 Clients were using outdated ArcFM software that needed to be upgraded. The upgrade  was done so their software could be compatible with ArcMap 10.0 and up. Code was  wrote in C# and the .NET Framework. Tester GeoFac April 2015 to July 2015 Custom dashboards built using scada and geospatial data. The dashboards are displayed  using web technologies. A friendly user interface was created to display real time data.    Created a test script to be used for testing. Agile methods were used in project execution.  Task for testing were assigned. GIS Analyst GeoFac - Houston, TX January 2015 to May 2015 Geography has always been intriguing. It answers a lot of question s we have about our society.  Being able to enter this information into applications and analyze it is one of the greatest tools.  Being able to help business and other organization answer these question is very honorable.  ? Collected geospatial data and analyzed for business financing purposes.  ? Demographics around multiple locations where needed to compare for a purchase of a  proposed business location.  ? Analyzed spatial relationship between oil injection wells and seismic activity between 2006  to present.  ? Geoprocessing tools used.  ? Imported census data.  ? Skills and technologies used: ArcMap, ArcCatalog, Geodatabase, Geoprocessing, Data  collection, Esri Web Maps, GIS analysis, Microsoft Excel, research intern GeoFac Systems Inc - Houston, TX June 2014 to December 2014 During my senior year of undergrad I was offered a intern position with GeoFac Systems Inc. The  positions was to assist the Senior Developers with their daily task. I attended daily scrum meetings and completed task that helped with the development process. Upon graduating I was offered a  full time position.    Houston 360 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Houston Clear Lake 2015 Skills MySQL, Javascript, ASP, Google Analytics, Marketing, Digital Marketing, SEO, HTML Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Driver's License