Senior Digital Designer Senior Digital Designer Digital Art Director Irvine, CA I am an accomplished Digital Art Director, focusing on conceptualizing, designing, and prototyping digital products to curating brand experiences. From art direction to social media content, I also specialize in gathering, researching, and delivering outstanding user experience and approaching problems from the user and consumer point of view. I enjoy collaborating with team members identifying  project, exploring, testing, and also having fun along the way. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Digital Designer Newegg - Industry, CA July 2014 to July 2019 Worked and communicated with product owners daily, gathering clear business  requirements and delivering designs on time.  - Created and developed ad designs that were visually appealing and met criteria of a target audience and communicate consistency in tone, voice, graphics, content and readability across materials.  - Designed and developed responsive website templates for new product launches and large annual campaigns. Web Designer - UI/UX Designer NIKKEN INTERNATIONAL - Irvine, CA January 2012 to January 2014 Successfully redesigned product landing pages, an online self-serve advertising  solution.  - Designed and developed weekly email announcements and campaigns.  - Produced hi-fidelity mockups, wireframes, workflows while collaborating with back end developers.  - Worked with front- end developers and QA to ensure successful design implementations UI Designer & Front- End Developer XIOS ENERGY INC. - Irvine, CA January 2012 to January 2013 - Working on a new MLM eCommerce mobile application.  - I Managed a team of engineers based in Queretaro, Mexico, working on the back- end functionality.  - Generated wireframes, interactive prototypes, and hi-fidelity visual UI design  mockups.  - Worked and communicated with product owners daily, gathering clear business requirements and delivering designs on time. Sr. Art Director ACTION WOBBLE INC. - Irvine, CA 2011 to 2012 - I designed an identity for the upcoming Action Wobble line of products.  - Created a new site for their new line of products.  - Led team of creatives team as well as conceptualizing, designing and producing  new marketing assets.  - Maintained corporate site and created exceptional user-centered design solution and UI design for the new Action Wobble website. Education Fine Arts LAGUNA COLLEGE OF ART - Laguna Beach, CA 2012 to 2013 Marketing and Design ART CENTER COLLEGE OF DESIGN - Irvine, CA 2006 to 2009 Graphic Design / Fine Arts CYPRESS COLLEGE - Long Beach, CA 2000 to 2004 Skills Visual design, Coding, Html, Ui, Ux, Css, Creative direction, Branding, Bilingual, Adobe, Illustrator, Wordpress, Typography, Graphic Design, Marketing, Photoshop, Web Design Links http://Linkedin.com/in/RobertoCRamirez http://Behance.net/RobertoRamirez Additional Information SKILLS: Art Direction Creative Direction UI/UX  Project Management Visual Design Branding  Multicultural Creative Direction Hand Coding  HTML and CSS Bilingual Spanish and English