Front End/ UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/ UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/ UI Developer - UnderArmour Baltimore, MD • 8+ years of experience in designing and developing responsive rich web applications using front and back end technologies like React JS, Redux, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, NodeJS, Mongo DB, Express.js, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3.  • Extensive experience with client and server-side JavaScript frameworks such as React JS, Redux and building AJAX driven Single Page Applications (SPA) with Accessible Web Applications • Hands-on project experience in implementing JavaScript frameworks and libraries such as JQuery, Angularjs, Nodejs.  • Utilized a preprocessor (SASS) to maintain style sheets improving readability and organization.  • Experience in Developing Responsive Applications Using Bootstrap, CSS Media Queries, and SASS making the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices. (Grid, Fluid layouts and Break Point Approaches).  • Proficiency in using different package managers like NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Consumed both JSON-based Restful and WSDL based SOAP Web services.  • Experience in deploying web applications using web servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Experience in building scalable MERN stack applications using MongoDB, Express.js, React JS and Redux and Node JS.  • Working knowledge of Adobe Experience Manager.  • Worked in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy.  • Capable of creating and editing scalar and vector images using respective photo editing tools like Adobe Photoshop, Sketch, InVision and Adobe Illustrator.  • Experience with Performance tuning tools like IE8 JS Profiler, Fiddler and Debugging tools like ULS viewer.  • Created Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Dynamic Screenshots and Sitemaps. Working knowledge of wireframes tools like Mockups, Fireworks, Photoshop, and Mockingbird.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, DOM Layout, utility, UX, cross-browser compatibility.  • Basic idea in Cloud computing and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in writing complex database queries, stored procedures, and triggers using Oracle, My Sql, and SQL Server. Strong Skills in Database Design, Process and Data Models.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) • Much familiar with SVN, Git, Putty and strong knowledge on testing applications using JUnit, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Selenium, tools such as JIRA. Work Experience Front End/ UI Developer UnderArmour - Baltimore, MD August 2018 to Present Responsibilities • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, and Mongo DB.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with LESS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using JavaScript used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Used React-Router to redirect pages in a Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015 (ES6) used Babel, webpack.  • Designed and built signup and login pages using HTML and JavaScript and used parse to save the information on the cloud.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpiler, etc. based on build target.  • Implemented flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side • Worked with Mocha and Chai unit test frameworks to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  Environment: React, Redux, MongoDB, NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, Java Script, jQuery, Flux, JSP, Chai, Mocha, GitHub, and Jenkins. UI Developer Citizens Bank - Providence, RI June 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  • Experienced in working with responsive design utilizing cross browser CSS.  • Developed websites using cross browser development, CSS, CSS animations, CSS prefixes, and CSS pre-processors.  • Used Node.js to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Implemented Initial setup and component migration to Redux.  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Experienced consuming APIs using AJAX and manipulating/consuming JSON objects.  • Used jQuery for callbacks, promises and event-based functions.  • Experienced in working with HTML5 APIs for Video, Audio, Files, etc.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with Mongo DB integration.  • Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  • Experienced in writing unit and integration tests for full stack JavaScript applications • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Designed modular and reusable React components using Flux Architecture and Material-UI.  • Experienced in writing JavaScript intense Single Page Applications.  Environment: React JS, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Gulp, Jasmine, Agile, AJAX, Git, Angular JS. UI Developer TIAA Cref - Charlotte, NC April 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Setting up Angular JS framework for UI development.  • Worked over building custom directives and controllers using AngularJS.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front- end part widget based application.  • Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using Angular JS v1.6 MVC architecture.  • Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Used Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js v1.6, Require.js, Node.js.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more.  • Used detailed wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs, for several browsers.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, AJAX, JavaScript, node.js, JQuery, JSON, SVN, JIRA and Eclipse UI Developer Aditya Birla Group - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in the Development and design of GUI layouts. Used jQuery plugins for webpages.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS2/3. Extensively used CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Implemented with AngualrJS using its advantage including two-way data binding and templates.  • Integrated the Angular JS application with the RESTFUL Web Services.  • Worked on Angular JS Validations.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing apps, controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.  • Extensively implemented Angular JS components ng-click, ng-repeat, ng-model, ng-show, ng-include etc.  • Implemented CSS3 techniques to reduce file sizes.  • Worked on website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript • Designed customized component library to use more than one place.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Produced content pages with CSS2/CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Tested each and every application using validators.  • Handled multiple modules simultaneously to build the application.  • Worked with AJAX, XML, and Http Requests to server and populate cases to JSON.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  Environment: Eclipse, REST, JavaScript, GUI, AJAX, JSON, HTML5/4, CSS3, AngularJS, NodeJS, jQuery, Hibernate, Spring, JSON, XML, Servlets, Spring, SQL. Java UI Developer Accolite - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per bank's standards.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Created pages in Site Core and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Wrote extensive HTML/ HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQuery components for CRM application for customer service.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MYSQL.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend (Java) code AJAX and JSON.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Working Parallel with the Clients on Agile Methodology and delivered the client without fail.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model • Responsible for creating pages with Usability, Accessibility with semantic coding.  • Created a new UI Library to show the demo for the Clients with the flow.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, SVN, Eclipse, M.S Windows, HTML, Dreamweaver. Education Master's