Information Technology Consultant Information Technology Consultant Font- End Developer New Richmond, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Consultant The Creative Group May 2018 to Present Working with clients of The Creative Group to help fill their short/midterm web developer and content specialists needs by helping with organizing, creating, editing and migrating content in varying CMS suites.    Skills: Liferay, Sitecore, Hubspot, HTML/CSS, Photoshop, Site Architecture, Content/Image Organization    Achievement Highlights  • Site Optimization  • Migrations Webmaster/Web Marketing Specialist nVent Hoffman (Pentair) December 2015 to August 2018 While working at InVent Hoffman (Pentair) I had the opportunity to create and design elements for the site while helping to implement SEO and Content Updates. I have also gotten the chance to do some image splicing and creating pages from designs.    Skills: Html, CSS, WebSphere Commerce, Photoshop    Achievement Highlights  • Creative solutions for unique problems UX Designer/ Developer/Engineer TSI February 2017 to July 2017 I was brought on at TSI to help prototype the UI's of a two of their production devices. The company had decided to move from a C, C++ Developer stack to a html/CSS/JavaScript UI to help update the look and extend a few features of the products. I was provided with the design comps and software requirement documents to get started. While working closely with marketing and hardware engineers I designed and developed the html/CSS/JavaScript the software engineers used to interface their code with for the new Touch User Interfaces.    Skills: VCODE, UX/UI Design Development, Material Design, Git, hands on hardware troubleshooting    Achievement Highlights  • Specialized Human-Machine Interaction  • Device Troubleshooting Digital production / Jr. FTE / Migration Specialist Allianz Life August 2016 to December 2016 While working at Allianz I was afforded the opportunity to update and create content within their Sitecore environment. I was also very lucky to have had a chance to get some experience working with Gulp and Source Tree and learning the foundations of atomic design and SASS. I was also brought on for a site migration from a legacy platform to Sitecore.    Skills: SCSS, Atomic Design, Sitecore, Gulp, Git    Achievement Highlights  • Added corporate component to the pattern library  • Helped finish long-standing projects Web Specialist/ Developer University of Minnesota June 2014 to June 2014 While working at the University of Minnesota I was involved in all the content updates to the School of Public Health's various WordPress websites. I also helped to add functionality to the site and helped with the planning and implementation of the School's site redesign.    Skills: Html, CSS, WordPress, Photoshop  Achievement Highlights  • Automated Syllabi linking  • Re-styled instructor section  • Implemented Tag Manager Web Content Developer 3M April 2011 to February 2012 When I started at 3M I worked on site replications. A site replication is copying the template of a site and replacing its content with the content of another language or region. I worked on site replications for Scotch-Brite and Post-it Latin America and a Commercial Graphics website for Europe. Then I started working on site maintenance that included everything from changing out images and other promotional content to creating new pages within an existing site. I had also gotten to work on some XSLTs, theme/CSS updates and page redesigns from wire-frames.    Skills: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Photoshop, XML, IBM Websphere    Achievement Highlights  • XSLT/XML  • Site replications for major brands Web Designer/ Front- end Developer MOCON March 2010 to April 2011 While working for MOCON Inc I worked on the company website on a design and development basis. I was involved in everything from adding product and informational pages to updating sections of the website and working with existing code. I also spent a fair amount of time working with graphics and images in Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator and developing the MailChimp emails for our newsletters.    Skills: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Photoshop, XML    Achievement Highlights  • Website UI Changes  • Designed/Developed Satellite Sites Education Associates Degree in Information Technology Web Programmer/Analyst Wisconsin Indianhead Technical College January 2007 to December 2009 Skills FRONT-END, Git, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, HTML 5, CSS, UI/UX Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v-mgkiatlb8acld8 Email — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qvawfmtyxdetc9zx Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tehy27u6sftqintg Graphic Design — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jbhtaisik-mopbr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.