Coop Front End Developer Coop <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Chicago, IL Seeking for a junior level position that will provide growth opportunities in this growing IT industry. Dedicated Web Designer trained  with the latest technology, highly adaptable, hard-worker, and detail oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Coop Front End Developer RETAIL BUSINESS SERVICES, an AHOLD DELHAIZE COMPANY - Chicago, IL October 2018 to May 2019 • Worked with the senior developer on executing reusable codes and developing new web features such as Chatbot with an emphasized on a front- end/UI development.  • Worked on bug fixes and maintained development brand standards under the company's guidelines for any updates or changes as well as working on a new website layouts for 2019 project with writing unit testing.  • Trained and participated in an Agile scrum environment.  Skills Used/Developed: Vue.js, Storybook, Backbone.js, Marionette.js, HTML5, SASS, jQuery, Jira, Bitbucket, Bamboo, Jenkins. Full Stack Web Developer Northwestern Coding Bootcamp - Chicago, IL July 2018 to October 2018 Designed and developed 8-10 web applications utilizing all listed technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, Firebase,  Express, Handlebars, and MySQL.  • Collaborated with other developer students on a group project, pair programming, and consumption of available API data and have  established a project workflow using Github and Heroku/JawsDB. Student Fullstack Academy - Chicago, IL April 2018 to May 2018 Online Bootcamp Prep  • 2 weeks intro to JavaScript on your own pace self-studying.  • 3 weeks of rigorous hard-coding JavaScript preparatory for admission with pair programming and understanding of solving codes. Lead Image Editor/Outsource Coordinator ItemMaster LLC - Chicago, IL February 2012 to March 2018 Managed the input/output of imagery for the company as a whole in a production set-up and organized department's production workflow  on a daily basis.  • Managed up to 4 in-house Image Editors and assisted in editing returned images for quality assurance and accuracy with Photoshop CC in sizing, creating clipping paths, color correction, product orientation, and retouching. Utilized Photoshop Actions set-up for a faster daily  production.  • Supported Marketing and Sales for any marketing collateral such as sales sheets, brochures, business cards, mock-ups, social media images,  Mobile images, Out-of-Package, and Meal Kits with specific guidelines per clients request with some composting work and changes in documents using Adobe InDesign and Illustrator.  • Managed and organized up to 14 local Outsource Editors and 2 foreign outsource Editors from India to schedule outflow and inflow of work.  • Maintained daily numbers for department's productivity with MS Excel or Google docs and returned images from the Outsources for invoicing. Education Certified Fullstack Web Development in Education Northwestern University - Chicago, IL July 2018 to October 2018 Intro to JavaScript Fullstack Academy - Chicago, IL April 2018 to May 2018 Continuing Education Oakton Community College - Des Plaines, IL 2010 to 2017 Associate of Applied Science in Graphic Design & Multimedia in Graphic Design & Multimedia Westwood Technical College - Schiller Park, IL 2002 to 2003 Skills Front End, Javascript, React, UI, Jquery, HTML5, Bootstrap, Node, CSS3, User Interface, Front-End Links https://ebacerra.github.io/ellen_b