Loan Closing/Loan Product Advisor Loan Closing/Loan Product Advisor Loan Closing/Loan Product Advisor - Freddie Mac McLean, VA • Over 8 years of strong software experience in System Analysis, Design, Development and Deployment of Web-Based Applications and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  • Excellent experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Development, Implementation and Testing of various software applications using Java, J2EE.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, RichFaces, JSTL, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI etc.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, Java Server Faces(JSF), AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Expertise in XML technologies.  • Written UI elements like HTML, DHTML and JSPs.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Experience in Implementation and generating of WSDL, WSDDand client STUBs, server side code.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x, Oracle/BEA Web logic10.x/9.x/8.x, JBoss and ApacheTomcat8.x/7.x/6.x.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle 10g/9i, SQL Server 2012/2008 and My SQL.  • Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, IBM RAD.  • Expert level skills on JQuery, JavaScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Strong experience with Linuxand Shell Scripting.  • Experience in using version control software like GIT,CVS, SVN(Sub Version) and IBM Clear Case.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT,Apache Maven and logging tools likeApache Log4J.  • Expertise in writing test cases with JUnit.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Production support-Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, and within a team environment. Work Experience Loan Closing/Loan Product Advisor Freddie Mac - McLean, VA November 2016 to Present Role: Sr. JavaFull Stack Developer    Description:Loan Closing Advisor is the Freddie Mac tool that will be used to collect the Uniform Closing Dataset(UCD) in XML format. Loan Closing Advisor assesses the data against the UCD specification, checking for the completeness, validity, accuracy of certain calculated values and consistency of the data. A loan can be evaluated through Loan Closing Advisor as many times as needed throughout the loan process, helping you to identify and resolve errors before you close a loan. This reduces the likelihood of loan remediation, delays in delivery and repurchase risk related to closing data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases ofthe application development like Analysis, Coding and Deployment.  • Developed services using Java that converts xml response from Oracle SOA service into JSON response, which loads into a application view as a table.  • Build and deployed into application servers using Jenkins job.  • Developed UI using HTML, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for IE and chrome browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Integrating the front end UI to the back end using Spring MVC framework.  • JQuery to select and manipulate HTML elements and also CSS manipulation.  • Used JQuery for adding several functionalities to the application(calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, validation, making Ajax calls, etc.)  • Developed JSP for the multiple views in the presentation layer and domain objects for model layer.  • Used CSS for styling and Bootstrap JS to load the data into table.  • Implemented filter functionality on table data through JS.  • Implemented the caching functionality on filter, table sorting and user preferences when user using the custom back button in the application.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for Controller and service classes using Mockito framework.  • Followed Agile Methodology, involved in User story grooming sessions and sprint planning sessions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap JS 3.x,1.0.x,Apache tomcat 8.0, putty, WinScp, Jenkins, Eclipse IDE, XML, Linux, SQL, JUnit, Mockito, GIT, Version One, HP Application Lifecycle Management(ALM). Java/DevOps Engineer Ernst & Young - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to October 2016 Description:Fraud Investigation & Dispute Services is an E&Y service line that focuses on gathering quantities of mostly unstructured data and analyzing it for potential discrepancies or to provide evidence for use in various legal proceedings.A large portion of FIDS work revolves around eDiscovery. In this process they gather data from numerous sources; ingest it into common repository then use Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) packages to help analyze this data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in setting up chef infrastructure, Chef-repo,Bootstrapping target nodes from workstations.  • Provisioned the Windows Virtual Machines using cloud service, Azure portal.  • Developed code using chef attributes, chef templates, chef recipes, chef files for managing configuration across various nodes.  • Developed chef cookbooks, scripts for the various eDiscovery application like Relativity, iPro, Nuix, Brain space.  • Developed chef cookbooks for installing app dynamics agent on various nodes.  • Created the chef cookbooks that extends the parent cookbook and override the attributes.  • Developed the scripts to setup the infrastructure and decommission when required, automated setup and decommission.  • Created the scripts such a way that they are portable across platforms.  • Implemented Run deck for data bag dynamic update.  • Used chef templates and created data bags for chef recipes.  • Used chef-zero to test and validate the behavior of the chef-client, cookbooks, recipes, and run-lists before uploading that data to the actual Chef server.  • Created chef Roles that holds various recipes, so that one role can run multiple recipes on target node.  • Performed DevOps for Linux and Windows platforms.    Environment: Java 1.8, shell script, putty, WinScp, Azure, App Dynamics, Power shell, DevOps,Chef Ruby, ChefDK, Opscode Chef, Linux, Microsoft Team Foundation Server. Sr. Java Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA March 2015 to October 2015 Description: TheDistributionServer Process is a multi-purpose mechanism that provides various automated file routing services. Its primary function is routing of mortgage backed securities disclosure files to the external Freddie Mac website and disclosure data subscribers. However the application also routing of files between internal Freddie Mac applications.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases ofthe application development like Analysis, Remediation and Deployment.  • Analysis of the code for which parts of the code is need to be upgraded and remediated.  • Remediate legacy application by upgrading to Sybase 15.7 and Java 1.6, Web logic 10.  • Modify java components by making them more modular and adapting to change in driver or other future enhancements.  • Modify logic in SQL when reporting inconsistencies appear due to database upgrades.  • Making new autosys jobs in Development and UAT environments for the various batch processes, so as to simulate an actual production scenario.  • Writing design docs, implementation plans abiding with Freddie Mac procedures.  • Submitting application for security scan and analyzing code when potential breaches are reported and modify the code so that it can minimize risk to in terms of security threats.  • Modified the Java and Perl source files in order to maintain the business logic while remediating the application.  • The application security is enhanced by providing multi-level access permissions to the resources based on the user privileges.  • Worked on and managed shell scripts that are part of the autosys jobs.  • Performed unit testing for the application and provided information in Test cases, Excel sheets.  • Installed and configured the application components in various environments like development and testing stages.  • Used ClearCasefunctionalities to manage, versioning the files and resources in the application.    Environment: Java 1.7, shell script, putty, WinScp, Eclipse IDE, XML, Linux, Solaris, Sybase 15.7, Java Script, HTML5, CSS, Spring 3.0, JDBC, Weblogic, IBM Rational Clear Case, Rational clear quest, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to February 2015 Description: The FNTC (Field Network Technician Connect) solution will provide an optimized technician user interface, as well as automate the distribution and prioritization of work to the network technicians in the field. Network Operations will maximize technician efficiency by providing access to the required application through one FNT portal.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application development like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Coding and Deployment.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Worked on Code Migrations and deployed code into multiple environments.  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Spring Framework is implemented for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Integrated spring MVC with spring DI and spring Hibernate DAO.  • Implemented security for different front end views based on the access privileges.  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs and AJAX.  • Created and developed SOAP based Web Services API.  • Involved in integration of layers (UI, Business & DB access layers).  • Involved in writing DAO, DTO's using Hibernate DAO Support.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Used JBoss Application Server and deployed the application into the server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods to accomplish TDD approach.  • Implemented Log4J for logging and appended to a log file for debugging.  • Interacted with quality assurance team for requirements gathering and analysis.  • Thoroughly involved in client sideRequirements collection & Analysis.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Implemented server side validations for account activity, payment history and Transactions.  • Used Eclipse IDE with My Eclipse plug-in in order to develop and deploy the application code.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit and involved in User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, 1.0.x,JBoss EAP 6, putty, WinScp, SOAP, Apache Sub Version(SVN), Eclipse IDE, XML, Linux, Oracle. Java Front- End Developer Fidelity Investments - Raleigh, NC August 2013 to July 2014 Raleigh, NC Aug'13 - Jul'14  Project: MAUI Web Portal (Migration and Upgrade of Overall Java Platform)  Role: Java Front- End Developer    Description: The MAUI (Multi-platform Access Utilities & interface) is a B2B (Business-to-Business) solution used by Fidelity that provides Consumer-Producer connectivity by transporting XML (extensible Markup Language) data streams over HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol). The MAUI is redesigned to new look and feel and enhanced navigational path from its older format it has ever since 1999.    Responsibilities:  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Designed and Developed front- end using struts framework. Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, Validations provided by struts framework.  • Created and designed rich and interactive web pages, user controls using cascading style sheets, JavaScript and HTML.  • Used Angular JS framework to build interactive web application along with Ajax, DHTML.  • Involved in designing User Interfacing using FLEX controls, components and also used FLEX Skinning with CSS for changing the look and feel of components in various states.  • The application menu links are designed and coded in web pages which meet the user friendly navigation for the users.  • The application is designed and developed based on browser compatibility to target various browsers.  • The application security is enhanced by providing multi-level access permissions to the resources based on the user privileges.  • Implemented client-side validations on controls using JavaScript, JQuery.  • Used Firebug as debugging tool.  • Performed unit testing at the web page level and provided information in Test cases, Excel sheets.  • Used CVS functionalities to manage, versioning the files and resources in the application.    Environment: J2EE, Spring, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS 1.0.x, CSS, JQuery 2.x, AJAX,Firebug, Flex 4.0, WAS, putty, WinScp, CVS, Eclipse IDE, XML, Shell Scripting, Linux, Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer Sears Holding Corporation - Chicago, IL December 2012 to July 2013 Description: The Member Assist application is a part of innovative retail service Shop Your Way application which provides extensive ecommerce service to customers. The Member Assist is designed to provide communication services to customers by connecting them to the Associates in the store who are online as well as offline associates. The customers can send Call Back request and messages to the online associates where they will get a call from associate for call back request and reply message for message type of request. The customers cannot send call back request when associates are offline but they can able to send a messages to them.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Used J2EEdesign patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, service locator, and session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Spring Framework is implemented for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Integrated spring MVC with spring DI and Spring hibernate DAO.  • Implemented security for different front end views based on the access privileges.  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs and AJAX.  • Created and developed REST based Web Services with JSON type of response.  • Used RAD IDE based on Eclipse for writing code for JSP and spring beans.  • Involved in integration of layers (UI, Business & DB access layers).  • Involved in writing DAO, DTO's using Hibernate DAO Support.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Used JBoss Application Server and deployed the application into the server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods to accomplish TDD approach.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components into the server.  • Interacted with quality assurance team for requirements gathering and analysis.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, OOAD, MySql, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, IBM RAD IDE, JBoss Application Server 5.1, Linux, Shell Scripting,Hibernate 3.0, Rest, LOG4J, ApacheSub Version(SVN), TOAD, JUNIT. Java/J2EE Programmer John Deere - Des Moines, IA December 2010 to November 2012 Description: The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) requires JDF to update Adverse Action and Risk Based Pricing (JDFRP only) letters sent to Farm Plan, JDFRP consumer customers, and Personal Use Installment Accounts to disclose credit score information used in the credit decision process. The design outlined in this document is for the manual letters for Revolving Products only and the functionality to be added to Service Desktop to facilitate this functionality. Service Desktop display the credit bureau score information retrieved during the Score Append process.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interface using JSP including frameworks Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) 2.0 and AJAX. Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client side validation.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Service Locator, and Data Transfer Object.  • Used spring frame work AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1: M /M: N mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO.  • Used JAX-WS 2.0 for building of Web Services. Also developed the web service client applications to test the web services. Tested the web service using SOAP UI.  • Actively involved in writing SQL using SQL query builder.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used SAX and DOM XML parsers in the application.  • Worked with Web Sphere 6.1 application server that handles various requests from Client.  • Developed test cases using JUnit.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate 2.0, Servlets, XML, Tortoise SVN,JSP, MVC, J2EE 1.4, JUnit, JSF, ANT, Web Sphere 6.1, AXIS 1.2, UML, SOA, JAX-WS 2.0, SOAP UI,Log4J, SOAP, DOM, SAX, Oracle 10g, WSDL, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA and RAD 7.5. Education B.Tech JNTU Skills BEA, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, SPRING, JBOSS, JNDI, JSF, JSP, RMI, SERVLETS, API, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, SVN, XML, XSLT, APACHE, Node, Jquery, React, Angular, Nodejs