Client Service Program Manager Client Service Program Manager Henderson, NV As someone who loves checkboxes, organization and efficiency, my technical background has empowered me to understand and estimate realistic timelines and deadlines. I am an aspiring MBA student to further my knowledge and skills about business. I have a love of learning and am always trying to further my knowledge in whatever department I am in. Work Experience Client Service Program Manager Axis41 - Salt Lake City, UT September 2018 to Present I mange 20-30 marketing projects with our client (Adobe) at a time. Projects range from simple  banner ads to full on website redesign and coding. Working through Slack, email and conference  calls my goal is to always deliver good quality and on time. Marketing Project Manager Grow.com August 2017 to August 2018 I was a key player for building our marketing platform at Grow. I was the team lead for the Web/Design team. I led our team in goals to create consistency in our brand, our SEO/Organic  Strategy and our CRO Strategy. Front End Developer Grow.com September 2016 to August 2017 Known as the CSS expert on the team, I worked on Grow's web application and have a little  experience with ReactJS. Website Maintenance Boostability July 2016 to September 2016 Quickly showed my ability to learn and to grow while on the Custom Web team. I helped fulfill edits  needed for live websites requested by clients. I responded to emails and phone calls from clients about concerns they had for their websites. I worked with Wordpress, HTML and CSS. Independent Contractor August 2013 to May 2016 Designed, built and edited various websites built on wordpress. HTML/CSS Contractor Rain March 2010 to August 2013 I coded emails for clients and worked with Photoshop to edit images. QA Tester Rain March 2010 to August 2012 I worked with HTML and CSS on websites and emails. Worked on the Quality Assurance team and I  tested websites, software, and mobile apps. Education BS in Special Education in Severe Brigham Young University - Provo, UT April 2014 Skills Html, Reactjs, Css, Jira, Wordpress, Customer Service, Client Service Additional Information Skills  HTML, CSS, ReactJS, Wordpress, Sketch, Adobe CC and DC products  Experience project managing with Asana, Trello, Smartsheet, Jira and Avaza