Real Estate Agent Real Estate Agent IT Charlotte, NC I am currently seeking a position as an entry level analyst or IT help desk support. After graduating from UNC Charlotte in December 2016 with a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, I completed an IT internship and took some time away from the technology field and began working as a real estate agent. I am now seeking full time employment as an analyst or IT help desk support technician due to my strong organizational and customer service skills, as well as my communication, problem solving, and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Real Estate Agent Allen Tate Realtors - Charlotte, NC April 2018 to Present Sole proprietor as a real estate agent affiliated with the number one independently owned real estate firm in the Carolinas. Delivering market knowledge, expertise and top-notch customer service to clients wishing to sell or purchase a home. Problem solving and communication are key skills used in this position.  Front- End Developer Intern Allegro Organizational Solutions Inc - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to May 2017 Spring internship where front- end development work was done on the current  Allegro website. Development included new form functionality, database usage on the site, and e-commerce using HTML, CSS, PHP, and JavaScript. Customer Service Associate Mae's Creole Kitchen Food Truck - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to May 2017 Family business where excellent Creole food and customer service was provided to patrons at business parks and events around Charlotte. Role included greeting customers, taking orders, and help filling orders.  Teaching Assistant University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to August 2015 Teaching assistant for the FemmeTech course at UNCC. Assisted students with weekly lab assignments focusing on introductory programming skills, graded  students' blog posts, and led group discussions on topics relating to women in computing. Automation Engineer Intern Premier, Inc - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to August 2015 Summer internship where two automation projects were completed. Projects were an automated ETL status email and an Oracle temporary table cleanup program  was completed using SQL, PL/SQL, and shell scripting. Secretary/Care Partner Carolinas Healthcare System - Kannapolis, NC September 2012 to August 2014 Performed patient care, technical skills, and clerical functions such as viewing  doctor's orders, executing those orders, and documenting orders completed. Care Technician Novant Health - Charlotte, NC June 2011 to September 2012 Provided and documented assistance to patients with activities of daily living under the direction of a registered nurse while providing patients with excellent  customer service. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC August 2008 to December 2016 Skills UI, Front-End, User Interface, Javascript, Front End, MySQL, Excel, Scrum, Agile, Customer Service Skills, Analytics, Problem Resolution, Teamwork, CSS3, Bootstrap, Real Estate Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/specialagentwilliams Additional Information Technical Skills  • Software: Microsoft Office Suite, LibreOffice, Adobe Dreamweaver, JIRA, SQL Server, Eclipse, Balsamiq, Axure, Salesforce CRM    • Operating Systems: All Windows OSs, Unix, Linux, Apple Mac OS X    • Programming Languages: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, PHP, BASH Shell Scripting, SQL, PL/SQL, Java    • General: Internet, Audio/Video, Backup/Restore Utilities, FTP, Presentation Programs, Spreadsheets, Interface Design, Web Design, UX Design, Prototyping, Computer Hardware, Version Control, Databases, Agile environment, SCRUM, Bootstrap, Customer Service, Excel