Director of Customer Success Director of Customer Success Director of Delivery - Acadaca Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Customer Success Skubana - New York, NY January 2019 to June 2019 • Managed team of four Customer Success Managers responsible for ongoing support of customer accounts.  • Prioritized customer support requests in coordination with development team, including recurring backlog grooming sessions and urgent ticket escalation. Established internal severity tier definitions to match external SLA.  • Defined requirements from customers for new features and functionality, including user story breakdowns, competitor analysis, and third-party documentation. Presented during roadmap planning sessions.  • Updated product release announcement protocol to improve customer awareness of new features and performance improvements, in coordination with partnerships, marketing, and development teams.  • Extended public documentation wiki, including automated responses, to improve support response time and reduce overhead on repeated questions. Director of Delivery ACADACA - New York, NY January 2018 to January 2019 Built strategies and directed creation of internal tools for reducing average project timeline/cost. Cut average project timeline by two months.  Analyzed historical and active project data to identify key points of scope overrun, unaccounted resource costs, staffing needs, and overall maximum delivery capacity. Projected capacity and matching hiring needs to support sales team goals and improve profitability of new projects.  Introduced processes to allow for more flexible team composition, with support of Operations team, to scale up delivery teams with partial remote workers to maintain profit margins and overcome temporary resource constraints during periods of high demand.  Assisted with business development teams to identify and extend opportunities for new business growth. Senior Implementation Manager Acadaca - New York, NY June 2016 to January 2018 ? Served as team lead and oversaw new projects through entire life-cycle from initial discovery to resource allocation through development, build, and launch using both agile and waterfall  methodologies.  ? Managed hiring of full-time staff and third party contractors to achieve long term goals and specific project objectives.  ? Improved internal processes for ease of future scalability, including documentation, training, and standardization to reduce onboarding time for new hires and account transitions.  ? Refined functional wireframes and technical requirements based on user stories, in collaboration with creative design teams.    Clients include: Opening Ceremony, Frame, Cushnie et Ochs, Wildfox, and Tuckernuck. Implementation Manager Acadaca - New York, NY November 2015 to June 2016 ? Communicated with internal and external stakeholders to establish business requirements and write comprehensive technical documentation.  ? Coordinated internal development teams, and third-party integration partners; including design  agencies, fulfillment centers, ERP, OMS, and payment gateways.  ? Extended software-based automation protocols for quality assurance to run routine Selenium tests and reduce defects included in production releases. Project Manager MedForward May 2013 to July 2015 ? Managed development teams for secure online forms and content management system SaaS platforms.  ? Led active client website projects, from design through launch.  ? Oversaw account managers, including training of new hires and as a resource for client request  escalation.  ? Served as point of contact for large hospital networks from sales process through custom extension projects for secure online forms program.  ? Directed development of mobile game that reached target of 1,000+ download on App Store and Google Play Store. Account Manager / Front- end Developer MedForward June 2011 to May 2013 ? Contributing developer for HIPAA-compliant secure online medical forms submission program that grew into 20% of company revenue.  ? Provided search engine optimization and search engine marketing services for clients.  ? Introduced mobile and responsive website design projects to company portfolio to increase incremental revenue with existing client base.  ? Composed website copy, blog posts, press releases, and other promotional material.  ? Constructed HTML from design files and extended design themes to new features from original concept. Education Bachelor in English Tufts University - Medford, MA September 2007 to May 2011 Skills ASP.net (Less than 1 year), HTML (8 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Selenium (2 years), JIRA (2 years), Basecamp (3 years), Javascript (4 years), java (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Related Skills and Programming Experience    ? Jira, Confluence, Basecamp, Highrise, ActiveCollab, SalesForce, Pipedrive  ? CSS / HTML, JavaScript, SQL, Java, Selenium, C#, ASP.net, Visual Basic, Unity, PHP  ? Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch  ? Microsoft Office Suite, Google Apps  ? E-commerce solutions including Magento, Shopify, and proprietary technology  ? Online marketing management (Formerly Google AdWords certified)  ? Search Engine Optimization