Front- End Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Front- end Web Developer, Virtual Assistant, Copywriter,Editor, Technical Support Representative Powder Springs, GA I'm a Web Developer who specializes in front- end programming and design. I'm proficient in HTML5, CSS3, SASS (SCSS), and JavaScript for building fully-responsive websites, landing pages, presentations, and emails. Other related skills I possess include website deployment, debugging, updating, and website maintenance. I also have a considerable amount of experience in the field of Customer Support (five years), and Copywriting/Editing (seven years to present). I have also acquired Data Entry, and Research (two years). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer Independent Contractor - Powder Springs, GA June 2018 to Present I implement programming languages (mainly HTML, CSS, and JS) for building fully-responsive emails, high-functioning websites, landing pages, and presentations. Making regular use of Frameworks such as Bootstrap, and AngularJS for development and design is also a normal part of building sites along with API integration. Links to my personal Git repositories are available upon request.Other tasks that I carry out in this position include website deployment, maintenance, debugging, and making updates to sites as necessary. Customer Support Representative, Copywriter, Editor Cruz & Salas Media - Tamuning, GU May 2016 to October 2018 Receiving calls and emails from clients regarding services and billing.    Updating billing information as needed and processing requests according to company and affiliate policies.    Maintaining an open and constant line of communications with team leads and supervisors through messaging, calls, and WFM tools.    Directing callers and clients to IVR systems as appropriate.    Creating original web content such as Blog Posts, Articles, product descriptions, emails, and summaries.    Proofreading and editing to create final products for client use.    Ensuring subject matter is engaging and relevant to target audiences while maintaining coherency and consistency.    Conducting qualitative research related to subject matter, topics, audiences, and markets  Creating effective, customized messages and ensuring responsiveness across a range of devices.    Scheduling automated emails, message tailoring, template design, personalization, and customer relationship management.    Creating emails for customer relationship management, product launches, newsletters, and site content notifications.    Navigating secure billing systems to manage accounts.    Creating accurate tickets based on calls, emails, and all client interactions.    Documenting all interactions in databases and billing systems.    Troubleshooting issues related to software and hardware (modems, connections, programs).    Operating Genesys Interaction Desktop for client calls and interactions.    Maintaining confidentiality regarding sensitive information while adhering to third-party disclosure policies and maintaining strict adherence to security protocols. Virtual Assistant EEAC - Remote/Telecommute (Vancouver, Guam) July 2015 to May 2016 Assisted with the addition of new products to online storefronts and web pages with presentable images and copy.    Formatted images and copy to ensure compatibility with websites and pages.    Entered product descriptions into appropriate spreadsheets along with accurate pricing and in-site links.    Created new product categories and original descriptions for new and existing products.    Assisted with back and front- end maintenance of web pages.    Translated English niche market terms to Japanese for web use.    Created product-related articles and performed data entry related to on-page links and pricing.    Regularly used VOIP and smartphones to place and receive calls.    Regularly used map and geography platforms and software (Rand McNally, Google) to determine locations. Research Assistant II, Guam Cancer Research Center Guam Cancer Research Center - Mangilao, GU March 2014 to June 2015 Collected, processed, and disseminated various forms of data over the course of research projects for departmental use.    Created original publications, and documents pertinent to research and programs for interdepartmental use as well as for use with community partners.    Maintained regular engagement with community organizations, and participants through site visits, phone calls, and emails.    Organized meetings for focus group participants and collected data via surveys, interviews, and voice recordings.    Generated weekly reports outlining progress for department heads and supervisors based on meeting minutes and weekly objectives.    Performed transcription of digital recordings and data entry using SPSS software.    Carried out various administrative tasks at GCRC such as receiving incoming calls and faxes, handling time sheets, and processing mail.    Successfully recruited participants for studies and meetings.    Purchasing of supplies and equipment related to meetings and office maintenance.    Carried out weekly correspondence with affiliated departments and personnel for planning, logistics, and records. Education Certification, Teacher 1-B CLCP (Chamorro Language and Culture Program) University of Guam 2007 to 2010 Skills Call Center, Customer Support, CSR, Customer Care, Customer Service, Billing, Resume Writing, Profile Writing, Email Copywriting and Design, Web Copy, SEO Writing, SEO Research, Data Entry, Administrative Writing, Product Descriptions, Research, Troubleshooting, Editing, Mail Processing, Billing, HTML, CSS, Microsoft Office Programs, Apache Open Office, Magento, Mailchimp, Stripo, Google Docs, Quickbooks, IBM SPSS, Google Analytics, Photoshop, Illustrator, Genesys Interaction Desktop, Call Center, Student Assessments Written Spanish for English Speakers — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c-lobgrfsixluupw Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q5fiyw6sja5kt-s Written Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9zaof6d8ofosacjr Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2mezj5hspneq9bxg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.