Web/Application Developer & Front- End Designer Web/Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Designer Web/Application Developer & Front- End Designer Greenville, SC I'm a dedicated and creative designer/ developer, and one of the most diverse and resourceful marketing specialists in the upstate. While being unique and talented on the coding of the field, I also possess the artistic side of the skill set as well. Being able to take a project from start to finish if required is a talent that is very rare to come by these days. I take pride in my work and love doing what I do. I'm confident in my skill set and enjoy the challenge of learning new technology, techniques and practices when required. The marketing and I.T field has gradually become a huge part of my life over the last ten years. I couldn't imagine myself working in any other field while being as driven, dedicated and eager to please on a daily basis as I am designing websites and applications. I have fun with every project and always aim to be the best that I can be and as consistent as possible.    KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE:  ? Senior Web Developer with over ten years of experience in development & design with a broad range of languages, frameworks, practices and environments used on a day to day basis.  ? Extensive experience with the most common LAMP package languages like PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, CSS3, XML, XSL, SQL. Set up of the common web server Apache as well as development environment packages like MAMP, WAMP, XAMPP  ? Extensive experience with multiple PHP Frameworks such as Codeigniter, Zend Framework, Larvel, Phalcon, CakePHP, FuelPHP, Ruby on Rails, Groovy on and many more.  ? Understanding and vast knowledge of the HTTP based RESTful API practice and common services such as the google, google maps, youtube and other google owned apis. Also a precise working knowledge of the facebook api, twitter api, linked in api, and many more.  ? Extensive experience with Modular Programming software design practice.  ? Everyday experience using version control systems including git, mercurial and svn.  ? IT infrastructure configuration management systems including Puppet and Chef.  ? Setup and configuration of web servers for multiple environments running a range of different Operating Systems including Ubuntu, CentOS, FreeBSD, OpenSuse and more.  ? The build and setup of development environments on virtual machines that force consistency across multiple platforms for multiple developers eliminating the probability of difference in software, services and installed modules.  ? In-depth experience applying graphical elements using an assortment of techniques, frameworks and languages that are supported on all popular devices used today.  ? Experience with front- end frameworks such as Twitter Bootstrap, Foundation and Boilerplate that allows for faster development using consistent naming methods.  ? Ability to work with a client to create a product that meets or exceeds all necessary requirements set forth by the client while building client relationships that become loyal and reoccurring.  ? Advanced training with extensive knowledge and experience in the usage of popular development software and design tools like all 20+ Adobe Creative Suite Programs, Sublime Text Editor, Notepad++, Text Wrangler, PHP Storm, Dreamweaver and more. Knowledge and experience with command line tools including putty, SSH SecureShell, Terminal using in-line editors like vi and nano.  ? File transfer usage with FTP, FTP over SSL, SFTP, Web Dav, rsync, SSH and Secure Copy (SCP)  ? Experience with dynamic pre-processors to compile CSS for front end design using LESS and Sass Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web/Application Developer & Front- End Designer T&S Brass And Bronze Works March 2014 to November 2014 Maintained and developed applications and websites that were driven by ERP and Dataworks systems.  ? Developed Custom RESTful API that bridged between applications or websites and the internal encrypted/protected systems that managed and housed all product data inventory information.  ? RESTful API also featured a robust authentication system that authenticated requests over a http certificate requiring allowed users access to specific product data housed internally.  ? Used languages including HTML5, PHP, CSS3, Sass, Less, jQuery, JavaScript, .NET, Java and C+  ? Built all applications using the MVC architecture framweorks (Codeigniter, Zend Framework)  ? Based in a day to day Agile work environment.  ? Used Software including Sublime 2, Dreamweaver, Adobe CC, Mac OSX, Git, Mercurial.    Find Great People / Erwin Penland Designer & Backend Developer Google October 2013 to February 2014 Used languages including Html5, CSS3, Sass, Less, jQuery, JavaScript, PHP and CodeIgniter MVC Framework.  ? Used Third party social network API's like Facebook, Twitter, Google, Vimeo and SoundCloud API's to allow sites to share content and connect to their social network pages.  ? Used software including Sublime 2 Editor, Photoshop, Illustrator, MAMP, Mac OSX 10.8 and up.  ? Used Mercurial and Git versioning control systems for all projects along with Bitbucket.org and Github.com.  ? Front End project consisted laying out every website in a Responsive style layout that is viewable across all devices including Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, and Mobile Phones.  ? Based in a day to day, fast paced Agile work environment. Lead Software Engineer Dealer Online Marketing November 2012 to October 2013 Designed and Developed a custom content management system that allowed account executives to maintain client information on all accounts.  ? Software used third party web services such as Google Analytics, Dataium reporting, oAuth/OpenID sign in and cvs data imports to authenticate, run reports, and track popular areas of their website.  ? Creation of database workflow, documentation and table relationships holding large amounts of data that is being served across hundreds of car dealerships managaging advertisements and keeping track of visitors.  ? Creation of lead generation software that directly integrated into the custom content management system internally.  ? Project developed using the Codeigniter Framework, MySQL Database, jQuery and AJax, HTML 5 and CSS3 scripting languages in a AGILE environment.  ? Used Git version control with multiple developers across the country. Sr. Software Engineer & Project Manager Glytec, LLC December 2011 to November 2012 Developed glycemic management software for hospital systems around the world.  ? Developed and maintained corporate website.  ? Led team of 5 developers and project management over all hospital system projects.  ? Reviewed code before adding into repository.  ? Develop with the following languages on a daily basis: PHP, jQuery, Ajax, CSS, XML, JavaScript, MSSQL, MySQL, HTML. Web Developer Hubbell Lighting October 2006 to June 2011 Worked as a key player in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining web sites for clients to enhance their business productivity and web presence.  ? Utilized CSS and HTML for enhancing and maintaining corporate websites.  ? Developed websites for all Hubbell Lighting brands to meet corporate guidelines utilizing ActionScript 2 & 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, jQuery Mobile, HTML4 & 5, CSS2 & 3, PHP4 & 5, MySQL, XML, RSS, XSL, and Perl.  ? Developed user friendly interfaces for many websites utilizing the Adobe Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver).  ? Designed and Developed Flash applications such as Slideshows, Presentations, Product Configurations, Video Players and Product Spotlights.  ? Edited video for fast and easy online viewing utilizing Flash and Actionscript 2 & 3.  ? Built Mobile Applications for easy information for Sales Agents. Education Associates of Applied Science in Multimedia ITT Technical Institute - Greenville, SC