Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer and Designer Lumberton, NJ Work Experience Front End Web Developer Webimax, LLC - Mount Laurel, NJ April 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities  Maintain, modify and develop for an array of Content Management Systems including WordPress, Magento, OpenCart, and DotNetStoreFront by designing various modules, plug-ins, themes and features using PHP5 and MVC techniques.  Design for an array of CMS systems utilizing HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, jQuery, and responsive design.  Work with the graphic arts team to translate static images to CSS/HTML templates.  Consistently stay up to date with various technologies in order to anticipate further changes in the programs that the team utilizes.  Stay up-to-date with every system used by the company and my teammates in order to anticipate changes and work with them.  Collaborate with the project managers to ensure that the sites are coming along in the anticipated timeline and to the clients' expectations.  Quality control and assurance as the work progresses, maintaining a “clean-as-you-go” mentality.    Accomplishments  Supplied my team with multiple best-practice tutorials.  Consistently provided help and feedback to other team members, helping us all reach higher standards of work quickly.    Skills Used  WordPress, Magento, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, PHP Web Developer Destination ImagiNation, Inc - Cherry Hill, NJ November 2009 to April 2012 • Maintain and modify an array of Content Management Systems by designing and implementing various modules, plug-ins, themes and features.  • Work directly with a graphic arts team to translate static images to CSS/HTML styles.  • Collaborate with communications team to maintain branding, messaging and visibility.  • Create styles, modules and components for several promotional campaigns.  • Work closely with a Web team to help ensure the consistency of the brand as well as the algorithms and scripts implemented throughout the organization's Web presence. Freelance Contractor Self-Employed Freelancer - Merchantville, NJ 2006 to 2012 • Create different band-related graphics for CDs, T-shirts, promotional posters, stickers, and other media.  • Photograph and videotape bands' live performances for promotional use.  • Develop Web sites and custom Content Management Systems for bands.  • Clients include: Machan, DéNaté, Collision of Me and I, Tonight's the Night, Waiting on Wendy and SouthernXpress. Director of New Technologies / Web Developer Digital Marketing Group - Moorestown, NJ 2007 to 2009 • Scripted a PHP/SQL management system to keep track of clients, their assets and their analytics. Features included a geographically targeted email blast and user interaction tracking.  • Created dynamic and scalable widgets for clients' promotional use.  • Designed various aspects of client media for promotional use. Education Visual Communications Chubb Institute - Cherry Hill, NJ 2007 Skills Graphic Design, PHP, HTML4/HTML5, SQL/MySQL, CSS, XML, RSS, JavaScript, RegEx, AJAX, Soap, JSON, REST Links http://mickeybuckno.com Additional Information • More than six years of Web development and design experience on a LAMP platform, involving successful management of all aspects of site development and design.  • Demonstrated ability to complete high-priority projects using computer language skills, Content Management Systems and researching abilities.  • Proactive problem solver who can work multiple projects on tight deadlines to fulfill client and management needs.    Design and Computer Skills  Language Skills:  Advanced: PHP, HTML, SQL, CSS, XML, RSS  Average: JavaScript, RegEx, AJAX, SOAP, JSON, REST APIs  Novice: PERL, Linux  Software: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash, SVN  CMS/Libraries: Joomla, CodeIgniter/BackendPro  Platforms: Windows 95+, Mac OS