VP of Engineering (Contract) VP of Engineering (Contract) VP of Engineering (Contract) - The Shadow League South Hempstead, NY Web Engineering Leader with 7 years of professional experience developing websites, web applications and mobile applications for small businesses to Non-profits, to Fortune 500 corporations. Implemented and managed full software development lifecycle (SDLC) using agile or waterfall methodologies. Managed and mentored other developers on teams ranging from 3 to 30 people, to help solve problems. Collaborated with cross-functional and multi-discipline teams and stakeholders.    Core technologies include: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, SASS,LESS, POSTCSS, Flexbox, CSS Grid, JavaScript(S5, ES6, ES7, ES8), React, Redux, Flux, JSX, Angular(2-8), Typescript, jQuery, Handlebars, AJAX, JSON, RESTAPI, NodeJS, Express, CommonJS, NPM, Yarn, Cross-Browser Compatibility, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, Foundation, Material UI, Tachyons, Version Control, GIT, Mercurial, SVN, Windows, MAC, Linux,, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Firebase, MongoDB, AuroraDB, Amazon web Services(AWS), Lambda, EC2,S3, PHP, WordPress, Drupal 8,Twig, Composer, Shopify, Liquid, E-Commerce, WooCommerce, Docker, ElasticSearch, Babel, Kibana, WebPack, Live-Server, Adobe CC, Photoshop, Gimp, Sketch, Zeplin, Invision, UI interfaces, Data Visualization, D3, Highcharts, Gigya, platform integrations, Bower, Gulp, Github, Bitbucket, Jenkins, CI/CD, CircleCI, Redis, Memcached, Apache Cordova, Critical Render Path, SEO, Google Analytics, Swift, XCode, Android Studio, Python, Google Analytics, Google DFP, Google Tag Manager, Teads, Taboola. Work Experience VP of Engineering (Contract) The Shadow League - New York, NY February 2019 to Present Managed https://theshadowleague.com website  ? Created Front End UI Components in HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Restructured Back End architecture upgrading to PHP 7.3  ? Improved scalability and optimized MySQL database through AWS RDS  ? Managed, deployed, implemented AWS EC2 servers for both production and development environment  ? Updated and upgraded WordPress CMS functionality with custom built theme  ? Created technical documents outlining procedures and processes  ? Worked with COO and CFO to strategize and implement company initiatives and execute the vision  ? Improved relationship with vendors  ? Improved site performance and increased Google PageSpeed, GTMetrix scores by 75%  ? Implement Google AMP pages for articles to increase performance  ? Provided tech support to a team of 14  ? Worked closely with Ad-ops to place ads into the site at strategic points to increase clicks and impressions by 85%  ? Managed and mentored a team of 4 freelance developers Senior Front- End Engineer (Contract) Pixacore - New York, NY September 2018 to January 2019 Managed Development Life Cycle/Process for The Children's Place Wi-Fi Splash pages and forms  ? Improved internal Pixatrkr analytics and Data Visualization tool, using React for UI Components.  ? Developed Wi-Fi Splash page for The Children's Place using Handlebars, SCSS, and NodeJS and ExpressJS.  ? Improved on the front end and some back end of https://www.abraxanepro.com/ using HTML, SCSS, PHP, and WordPress  ? Optimized the front end and some back- end components of Searchlight ALS app https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/searchlight-support/id1261568734?mt=8 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mtpharma.searchlight&hl=en_US on iOS and Android using Apache Cordova, SCSS, TypeScript, Angular 4, Android Studio, XCode.  ? Developed http://pharma.bayer.com/en/innovation-partnering/research-and-development-areas/oncology/ using PHP, Drupal 8  ? Worked on the upcoming iOS app for http://pharma.bayer.com/en/innovation-partnering/research-and-development-areas/oncology/ using Swift, XCode  ? Improved website performance using caching, critical render paths, image optimizations, and CDN's.  ? Organized daily scrum meetings with the team to keep stakeholders informed on progress.  ? Collaborated with cross-functional teams on numerous initiatives.  ? Managed 1 junior and 2 mid-level developers on the team. Senior Front- End Developer (Contract) Northeastern University - New York, NY August 2018 to October 2018 Managed Development Life Cycle/Process for Northeastern University's Career Portal Site http://careersmanager.pageuppeople.com/879/ci/en-us/listing  ? Improved the front end and back end of the website using HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, and Bootstrap 4  ? Performed User Acceptance Testing on revisions of the site.  ? Collaborated directly with stakeholders regarding the project as well as updated progress with stakeholders throughout the length of the project via weekly meetings.  ? Created a web application development workflow to use going forward on all web projects.  ? Created the process for future development projects. Front End Web Developer (Contract) Millennium Communications - Syosset, NY May 2018 to July 2018 Developed Front- end components of www.millenniumweb.com, www.mill-max.com, www.jpmorganchase.com, www.marinelausa.com/en, www.therustikbakery.es, www.bimbobakeriesusa.com in JavaScript (ES6, jQuery), PHP, SCSS, and Bootstrap 4.  ? Improved the Corporate Responsibility portion of www.jpmorganchase.com  ? Performed code deployments to the production environment using Jenkins.  ? Communicated directly with stakeholders regarding projects as well as updated progress with stakeholders throughout the length of the project via daily Scrum meetings.  ? Executed Web page development from design to testing and up to production deployment.  ? Rebuild of mill-max.com front end in Drupal 8 using Twig.  ? Collaborated with designers to achieve the best UX practices and solutions. Front End Developer (Contract) Blue State Digital - New York, NY April 2018 to May 2018 Managed Development Life Cycle/Process for Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation http://jdrf.org/ and National Marine Corps Relief Society http://nmcrs.org/  ? Worked on the front end and back end of websites using HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Javascript, and BSD Tools.  ? Contributed to professional development meetings.  ? Communicated directly with stakeholders regarding the project as well as updated progress with stakeholders throughout the length of the project via weekly meetings. Senior Web Engineer American Kennel Club - New York, NY December 2016 to March 2018 Developed Front- end and some Back- end components of www.akc.org, www.akcwinners.com , www.shop.akc.org (Shopify E-Commerce), and www.akccanineretreat.com  ? Performed and spearheaded sprint code deployments to the production environment using GitHub.  ? Communicated directly with stakeholders regarding projects as well as updated progress with stakeholders throughout the length of the project via daily Scrum meetings.  ? Updated the AKC delegates portal using MySQL to query and insert records into the database.  ? Developed web tools such as AKC/Realtor.com widget and AKC Event Search Pro using Angular and Webpack.  ? Executed Web page development from design to testing and up to production deployment.  ? Executed the relaunch of www.akc.org in WordPress/PHP. Senior Web Developer Robert Half Technology - New York, NY March 2016 to December 2016 Fixed frontend bugs (HTML, CSS, JavaScript errors (JQUERY), PHP, testing (A/B Split Testing), unit testing.  ? Performed UX tests to test the usability of mobile or websites.  ? Communicated directly with clients to establish project parameters, wrote proposals for design work, analyzed competitor websites, determined web site content, produced sitemaps for client approval, and communicate progress with the client throughout the length of the project.  ? Trained end-users on performing necessary updates.  ? Developed website mock-ups for clients to ensure quality control and client satisfaction before project development phase.  ? Executed Web page development from design to testing and up to production deployment.  ? Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.  ? Developed Web app/Plugin called "Views" using React.  ? Mentored 3 junior developers and 2 back end developers. Web Developer Huemor Designs - Farmingdale, NY August 2015 to February 2016 Overhauled existing inbuilt WordPress themes, plugins and the existing PHP, MySQL, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery codebase.  ? Developed E-Commerce sites using Shopify Plus and Woo Commerce for WordPress.  ? QA of sites developed, testing, and Cross-Browser Compatibility using Browser Stack and various devices.  ? Optimized images in Photoshop and Adobe CC, cropped images as needed.  ? Created various code snippets to improve development time.  ? Mentored 4 junior developers.  ? Created a CMS guide for clients to use and set up CMS back end using Advanced Custom Fields.  ? Implemented Responsive layouts using LESS, and CSS Media Queries.  ? Improved workflow using Productive and TeamGrid Scrum system and GIT Version Control.  ? Executed deployment and migration of sites across various servers.  ? Improved Wireframes in InvisionApp. Front End Web Developer Millennium Communications - Syosset, NY February 2015 to July 2015 Developed Front End of websites using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery.  ? QA of sites developed, testing, and Cross-Browser Compatibility.  ? Optimized images in Photoshop and Adobe CC, cropped images as needed.  ? Created various code snippets to improve development time.  ? Implemented Responsive Web Design layouts using SASS, SUSY, Compass and Breakpoint.  ? Integrated Font End development into Symfony and Adobe ColdFusion.  ? Improved workflow using JIRA Agile system and SourceTree Version Control for GIT and Mercurial. Front End Web Developer Elmont, NY January 2012 to April 2015 Developed and updated websites by hand coding using HTML, HTML5, CSS3 and Responsive Web Design.  ? Updated JavaScript elements on various websites (sliders, menus, etc.)  ? Created various email blasts using basic HTML.  ? Optimized images in Photoshop, cropped elements as needed.  ? Improved client sites using various CMS Platforms such as WordPress. Web Developer Austin & Williams - Hauppauge, NY June 2014 to January 2015 Developed custom themes and plugins in PHP to fit clients' precise needs in WordPress.  ? Overhauled existing inbuilt WordPress themes, plugins and the existing PHP, MySQL, CSS3, HTML5 codebase.  ? Optimized images in Photoshop, cropped elements as needed.  ? Created various email blasts using basic HTML.  ? Implemented Responsive layouts using Bootstrap, Foundation, and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Integrated JavaScript/JQuery APIs in certain projects, such as PM Pediatrics, Henry Schein Dental Transitions, and Secure Self Storage. Education High school or equivalent Links https://mikelegemah5799.github.io/mikelegemah5799 https://github.com/MikeLegemah5799