Senior Full Stack Web Developer Senior Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Chicago, IL • 12 Years’ experience in developing web applications using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, Flex, AngularJS (1.X) jQuery, JSON, Node.js, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development Mongo DB, Express, Node.js, and AngularJS.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs).  • Working knowledge of Web Protocols and Standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Pleasant experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass.  • Implemented easy to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  • Good Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and JavaScript Functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Expertise in ReactJS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Expertise in using AngularJS Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Experienced in working with Node.js and NPM modules like HTTP-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, Mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bower.  • Strong in using the Node.js, and RequireJS and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in Back- End applications using JAVA along with spring, Servlets.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and various J2EE technologies including java/J2EE technologies JAVA, Spring, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, EJB, XML, and JMS.  • Expertise in writing SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers with Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, DB2, Blob storage and MS-SQL Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure Blob and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Expertise in video coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application.  • Experience with Front- End development with back- end system integration.  • Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners.  • Pleasant Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla.  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  • Experience in Jenkins and Maven.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, and Web Storm.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Full Stack Web Developer Uber - Chicago, IL January 2015 to Present Uber is a globally recognized transportation network company operating in 528 cities worldwide. It develops, markets and operates the Uber car transportation and food delivery mobile apps. I joined the company in the capacity of Senior Web Developer. On any given day, I was responsible for:    • Developed and maintained Uber in house portal which is used to manage drivers, sales and inventory.     • Developed UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Moment.js and Angular.js.    • Used React & Redux architecture with Node.js backend.    • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.    • Write custom APIs using PHP in order to collect data/feedback from di?erent modules.    • Used NGINX in order to Balance loads on the server by using reverse proxy.    • Developed responsive Web-designs, Page layouts and Navigation.    • Used React.js for templating, for faster compilation and the development of reusable components.    • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for troubleshooting.    • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI/UX after ?xing the Issues which are reported by Tesitng Team.     • Created CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome,Firefox and IE. Full Stack Developer Brightworks - Toronto, ON April 2010 to September 2012 Brightworks is a full service digital agency specializing in digital marketing and advertising primarily catering to Pharmaceutical, Banking and Telecom sector. I joined Brightworks in the capacity of Web Designer and Full Stack Web Developer where I developed:    • Client Retention Portal custom built from scratch. The portal was for Bell Canada for their call center teams in addition to View/Manage Customer Loyalty stats so to assist their sales cycle by providing offers and discounts that they could give to eligible customers.    • The portal was developed using custom PHP, CSS, and JavaScript. Several CRON jobs were set up to gather stats and populate live data using Reverse AJAX.    • It used and maintained extensive language files on the run me to ensure ease of usage by both French and English speaking reps.    • It used extensive AI Modules/Algorithms which were the nucleus of the application and helping call center agents to determine competitive pricing to assist customers in a more profound fashion.    • It was fully responsive for all platforms Using Bootstrap and LESS.    • Extensive backend was developed which was receiving data files in various formats available in order to power the front facing application. The multi role login and dashboard was built using Node.js.    • Version control set up using GitHub and repository management for the entire team using GitKraken.    • System migration from in-house server setup to Amazon AWS.    • A multi-function fully responsive WP based real estate site with custom build plugins and advanced level Google map integration.    • Custom Built WP plugin for special for multi-user type and special access to specific property items. Web Developer Richmond Day - Toronto, ON September 2007 to May 2010 Richmond Day is an independent, full-service collaborative of creatives, designers, developers, and administrators, executing multi-channel campaigns for some of the world’s most renowned brands. Since 2003, they've based their success on putting collaboration and big ideas ahead of archaic, linear agency processes. On any given day I was responsible for:    • Designing and maintaining a custom dynamic template website for multiple domains and multiple physical locations.    • Designing and maintaining company’s website using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, WordPress, Google Maps, and Custom Contact Forms.    • Assisting with the creation of the branding of the company, logos, colors and website content.    • Helping with the Graphic Design and Moon Graphics.    • Front- end technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery.    • Back- end technologies: PHP, MySQL.    • Other technologies: Google Maps, Directions with Google Maps, Google Translate. WordPress / Web Developer (Freelance - Remote) Extreme Pita - (www.extremepita.com) - Toronto, ON • Redesigned and developed a PHP based website for Extreme Pita.  • Designing and implementation of location search feature that e?ciently determined and displayed restaurant locations using Google maps.  • Integrating a slider that displayed various products in a concise and clean manner. Front End / PHP Developer (Freelance - Remote) Kinglet - (www.gokinglet.com) - Baltimore, MD • Researched User experience across multiple real estate websites to create an improved and sharpened user interface.  • Developed wireframes for a new structure of the website, reexamined user interface to create a better user experience.  • Developed wireframes for a new structure of the experience. Overhauled the old design to create a new brand Identity for Kinglet's product (Real Estate for workplaces).  • Used LESS and SASS to create a fully responsive front. WordPress (Freelance - Remote) ShootDotEdit - (www.shootdotedit.com) - San Diego, CA • Designed wireframes to improve the layout of the overall website.  • Created a new design which brought to their home page the quality of their work, introduced the team and explored the variety of work they are capable of.  • Created a new batch of custom forms in order to cater to the diverse number of inquiries they faced. Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was drastically increased  • Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was drastically increased. WordPress / Magento (Freelance - Remote) Austin Bazaar - (www.austinbazaar.com) - Austin, TX • Created new wireframes, keeping in mind the products to be sold and the best ways to display their products.  • Created new sections for exhibiting the best deals available on Austin Bazaar.  • Removed radical space issues which wasted the real estate of the overall website, creating well occupied spaces for clearer presentation of products.  • Created a new cart, adding a wish list to the store as well as a mean to rate products based on the experience of previous orders done by users. WordPress (Freelance - Remote) Kim Komando - (www.kimkomando.com) - Phoenix, AZ • Created wireframes that took into account that the site was for a radio host who had a large quantity of listeners and followers for her blog.  • Created a new Blog like design to help users navigate through the wide variety of information available for followers.  • Implementation of design was done in such a manner that it did not hinder the upkeep of the website.  • Integration of new functionalities such as a URL generator and a showtime countdown timer were done at hours of low upkeep, making sure users did not face issues while browsing the site. Front End Developer (Freelance - Remote) Nite Nite - (www.nitenite.com) - Los Angeles, CA • Created wireframes to finalize a new design with better flow of data and a more straight forward user interface.  • Designed the homepage so that booking rooms and apartments were made simpler for potential customers increasing the website to product turnover rate.  • Integrated a booking engine API with the hotel's property management system.  • Integrated the booking system with PayPal’s API to further simplify the payment process. WordPress (Freelance - Remote) DigiVision Media - (www.digivisionmedia.com) - Spokane, WA • Created, much needed, contemporary design wireframes, keeping new functionalities in mind.  • Provided a design which brought to the forefront, the product that DigiVision was providing.  • Designed a multilayered menu and navigation that allowed ease of access to a great collection of blogs and video conferences.  • Built the website on WordPress, as it was the best CMS to build a blog oriented website. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Toronto - Toronto, ON 2003 to 2007 Skills HTML5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), SASS (3 years), LESS (3 years), Laravel (4 years), PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), ReactJS (3 years), React Native (1 year), Redux (2 years), Vue.js (1 year), AngularJS (5 years), NodeJS (2 years), MongoDB (4 years), AJAX (7 years), JSON (6 years), jQuery (6 years), Gulp.js (3 years), Grunt (3 years), WordPress (7 years), WooCommerce (5 years), Shopify (3 years), Adobe XD (1 year), Photoshop (10+ years), Sketch (2 years), Git (5 years), Angular, Drupal Links http://www.marcspicer.co Additional Information Technical Skills:    Platforms: Centos, Ubuntu and Windows.  Virtualization: VM Ware, AWS (EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, Route53, S3, Cloud Front, SNS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation)  Scripting: Shell scripting (Bash), Python, Perl, Ruby  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime, Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Notepad++, Dreamweaver.  Web Technologies: HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, jQuery  UI Frameworks: Bootstrap, Angular.js, React.js, Node.js  Server Technologies: MVC, RESTful Services, XML, JSON  Source Code Mgmt.: Git, SVN, CVS  Continuous Integration/Build Tools: Jenkins, Ant, Maven  Configuration Management: Puppet, Chef.  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 6.x, 7.x, WebLogic 8.1, 10.x, 11g,  Databases: Oracle 11g, MongoDB, MS SQL server 2008, Knowledge on Few NoSQL DB's