Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer - Aims Testing • Experience in development of cross browser compatible web page using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3 and MVC Framework.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and Angular 4, typescript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Angular 4, typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2 and Angular 4 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application.  • Implemented Router Module of Angular 5 to make the whole project a Single Page Application and add routers according to the requirements.  • Comfortable working with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, NodeJS) stack.  • Developed crypto rest services using NodeJS and integrated services with HSM (Hardware Security Module)  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Utilized Angular 5/6 to build multiple Client facing websites for figure eight.  Tools: Work Experience Frontend Developer Aims Testing - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, Angular2, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for a web application that matches requirements.  • Excellent Coordination of project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular JS (2.0/4.0) like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Extensively involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.0 and Node JS  • Using Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Implemented mock services in Node.JS with the help of modules using Express.JS.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Interacted with RESTful Web services using Angular 2 Http Module.  • Done unit tests in BDD format using Angular 2.0 testing library.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0. Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.  • Implemented Angular2/4 Services for connectivity between a web application and back end API's.  • Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4. Frontend Developer Fed Ex services - Collierville, TN September 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing and rendering views using Angular 2 framework.  • Developed custom modules like app-routing module, pipes, and models to make the construct of the whole application more concise and understandable and avoid writing duplicated codes.  Implemented CSS, Bootstrap, Font-awesome CSS and Google Font to make the UI responsive and consistent with Construct Web Application accordingly.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes, and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT (TDD)  • Experience in using React.js to build web components such as signup form and rule form.  • Creating a range loop directive and components in React.js and Implemented MVC framework.  • Developed user interface using NodeJS and developed client-side interface using React.js. Frontend Developer Michelin Tires - Greenville, SC May 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities  • Created SQL stored procedures using SQL QueryInvolved in developing all the User Interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, and jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX and Angular 2 Framework.  • Defined new validations through Angular for the form field validation implemented using directives like valid, pristine, and checked.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Used Angular 2 for Client-side validations while rendering JSON validation errors in the backend.  • Developed Angular 2 Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using ng-Model.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Prepare reports working with database structures and data modeling including working knowledge of SQL.  • Handle Strong healthcare material including experience with transaction standards (e.g. HIPAA)  • Experience with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, health care provider data and online data submission process. Front End Developer Actifio Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to May 2015 • Involved in developing the front- end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, and CSS/CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and some jQuery, and clean semantic code.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.  • Developing UX design and clickable prototypes with front- end development utilizing Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Basic jQuery front- end frameworks for web, responsive and mobile-based web applications and websites, in an agile development environment.  • Code web applications utilizing programming languages like JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, and AJAX.  • Implement data grid/tables using Bootstrap and AngularJS for front- end client facing the Single Page Application (SPA)  • Developed gratifying experience with Responsive (RWD) and Adaptive Web Design principles.  • Re-skinning, updating and a complete redesign of an existing website, using Bootstrap.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery to interact with web Services and user controls.  • Develop and integrate related applications components, including front- end development and back- end integration.  • Used Maven builds toolGIT source control systems.  • Define technical requirements based on business requirements.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the Application.  • Experience with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, health care provider data and online data submission process. Education Bachelor's Skills BOOTSTRAP (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), AJAX (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), jQuery (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows, Linux.  Programming Languages C, C++, C#, Java  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, RESTful web services, XML, JSON.  Database Management Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Cursors, PL/SQL.  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere.  Tools and Frameworks MS Visio, Rational Rose, MS Project, Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans IDE, Android SDK, Android Studio, Visual Studio, Git, GitHub.    Methodologies Agile-scrum, Waterfall.