Sr. Cloud Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer Sr. Cloud Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer Sr. Cloud Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer - Hachette Book Groups Lowell, MA • About 8 +years of experience in the areas of Cloud Administration, Cloud Computing,Linux Administration and Web Designing.  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS) including EC2,Auto-Scaling in launching EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancer, Elastic Beanstalk, S3,Glacier, CloudFront,RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.  • Administration and Architect of Cloud platforms(AWS).  • Experienced in creating Amazon EC2 instances and setting up security groups.  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto Scaling groups.  • Optimized volumes and EC2 instances& Created multi AZ VPC instances.  • Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating cloneinstances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows,Red Hat Linux, Cent OS and VMware Environments.  • Experience in using configuration management tools like Puppet.  • Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines.  • Expertise in using build tools like Maven.  • Experience in load balancing and monitoring with Nagios.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications on Apache Web server, IBM Web sphereapplication servers.  • Good development experience usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript,JQuery.  • Knowledge on hosting and deploying applications using WebSphereApplication Servers.  • Experienced in scripting for automationand monitoring usingShell and Python scripts.  • Experience in administering ,installation, configuration, support and maintenance of Linux.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux.  • Experience in creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space, quotas and process monitoring in Redhat Linux.  • Manage deployment, maintenance, support and upgrade of servers, hardware, software, operating systemsin server environment.  • Experience in Installation of Oracle and MYSQL.  • Knowledge in administering VMware Infrastructure Client 3.5 and Vsphere 4.0.  • Knowledge in configuring DNS, DHCP, NFS, SAMBA, FTP, Remote Access Protocol, security management and Security troubleshooting skills.  • Exposed to all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects.  • Excellent communicative, interpersonal, intuitive and leadership skills with ability to work efficientlyin both independent and team work environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Cloud Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer Hachette Book Groups - Boston, MA March 2016 to Present Hachette Book Group (HBG) is a leading US trade publisher and a division of the third largest trade and educational book publisher in the world, Hachette Livre. In addition to selling and distributing its own imprints, HBG provides a wide range of custom services to third party publishers, such as distribution, fulfillment, digital and sales services.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Written ansible Recipes to automate our build/deployment process and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes.  • Experience in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB),auto scaling groups.  • Worked at optimizing volumes and EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances.  • Experience working with IAM in order to create new accounts, roles and groups.  • Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Experience involving configuring S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive filesin glacier.  • Utilize Amazon Glacier for archiving data.  • Developed Scripts for AWS Orchestration  • Utilize EBS to store persistent data and mitigate failure by using snapshots.  • Use Amazon CloudWatch metrics to monitor the health and utilization of AWS resources.  • Experience working on User admin groups, maintaining account and monitoring system performance usingNagios.  • Participated in configuring and monitoring distributed and multiple platform servers using Puppet.  • UsedPuppet server and workstationto manage and configure nodes.  • Experience in writing Puppet manifests to automate configuration of a broad range of services.  • Experience in managing virtual instances and disks using Puppet.  • Maintained and Administered GIT Source Code Tool.  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT repositories.  • Experienced in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tool like GIT.  • Experience with Build Management tool Maven.  • Experience in designing and implementing continuous integration system using Jenkins by creating Python and Shell scripts.  • Installed VMware VSphere 5 and created virtual machines on ESX 5.0 Servers using Dell PowerEdge R410.  • Managed and configured VMware virtual machine for RHEL.  • Installed, configured and maintained web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server and WebSphereApplication Server on Red Hat Linux.  • Responsible for installation and upgrade of patches and packages on RHEL 5/6 using RPM&YUM.  Environment - EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB),auto scaling groups, VPC, IAM, CloudWatch, Glacier, GIT version control, VMware,RHEL 5.x/6.x, Nagios, Puppet, Maven, Shell Scripting, python Apache Web Server, IBM Application Server AWS Solutions Architect Armor - Richardson, TX January 2015 to February 2016 Worked Armor - Richardson, TX as a cloud architect at and involved in deploying various applications on AWS. Implemented and controlled the flow of data to and from AWS. Designed and configured several services using AWS.Evaluated applications, infrastructure and security to propose architecture solutions.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS etc.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach oneor more AWS EC2 instances.  • Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved loginauthentication.  • Provided policies to groups using policy generator and set different permissions based on the requirement along with providing ARN(Amazon Resource Name).  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets usingAWS Cloud Watch.  • Monitoring AWS and on premise resources using Nagios.  • Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS.  • Created alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Experience in deploying and monitoring applications on various platforms using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Created an AWS RDS Aurora DB cluster and connected to the database through an Amazon RDS AuroraDB Instance using the Amazon RDS Console.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group for isolation of resources withinthe Amazon RDS Aurora DB cluster.  • Performed database SQL queries to address connectivity and integration activities.  • Configured AWS RDS Aurora database users to allow each individual user privileges to perform their relatedtasks.  • Migrated the production MySQL schema to the new AWS RDS Aurora instance.  • Enhanced the overall performance of AWS RDS Aurora database instances, by increasing the architecturalclass definition of specific instances.  • Setting up scalability for application servers using command line interface for Setting up and administeringDNS system in AWS using Route53.  • To design high availability applications on AWS across availability zones and availability regions.  Environment - AWS(EC2, Auto-Scaling, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS), RHEL 6.x. Linux Administrator SRA International Inc - Rockville, MD May 2012 to December 2014 Provided on-going support for the administration of Red Hat Enterprise Linux(RHEL) Servers, whichincluded new hardware installation,advanced system configuration, operating systems installations and upgrades and maintenance of the RedHat clustering suite.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Installation, Maintenance, Administration and troubleshooting of Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x servers onvarious hardware platforms.  • Configured, and maintained Apache web server from open source withJava and Tomcat.  • Maintained systems configuration and managed the installation and integration of systems patches, updates and enhancement.  • Maintained application and security polices and resolve hardware/software interface problems.  • Installed, Configured & Upgrade ofLinux operating system.  • Performed LAMP installation and configuration on Ubuntu, Red hat and Amazon Linux Instances.  • Experience installing and administrating various Red hat Linux Distributions with use of Kickstart in order to monitor, scale, maintain and plan capacity of Servers.  • Experience in managing and maintaining Active Directory on Windows Server Platform.  • Integration of Linux with Active Directory (LDAP).  • Experience working with IT Security team to handle responsibility of Firewall administration.  • Installing and configuring of SAMBA for heterogeneous platform.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of local and Network based Printers.  • Implemented file sharing on network by configuring NFS on system to share essential resources.  • Performed automated installations of Operating System using Kickstart via FTP, HTTP servers.  • Creation and administration of Virtual Machines using VMware.  • Designed bash scripts to automate application and system management activities. These scripts provided the following functionality: application startup and shutdown, monitored systems and applications health, and web site management.  • Set up administer user and groups accounts, setting permissions for users.  • Assisted in upgrading RHEL 5.0 to RHEL 5.5and RHEL 5.5 to RHEL 6.0using live upgrade and manual upgrade.  • Installation, configuration, support and security implementation on DNS, DHCP, NFS, HTTPD.  • Used LVM for the management of logical volumes including creation of physical volumes in Linux.  • Created disk partitions and file systems and extended storage space using Logical Volume manager.  • Configured RAID Level 1 ,RAID Level 5.  • Performed tasks related to managing Disk Storage and file system administration using VERITAS volume manager.  Environment - RHEL 5.x/6.x, VMware, Web Servers. Web Designer/ Front- End Developer Logica Cmg Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to April 2012 India    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed UI/UX for various web applications.  • Assisted in coordinating with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Assisted being developed and usage of complex Internet and Intranet applications.  • Provided continuous support and improvement of bug fixes and fix sets for existing applications.  • Wrote extensive HTML/ HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Worked extensively with Dreamweaver.  • Familiarity with GIT.  • Experience in creating logos, icons and scaling images using illustrator.  • Used Photoshopfor designing and enhancing the picture content.  • Used JavaScript extensively for visual enhancement and form validations.  • Worked with Adobe flash for the flash content on the web portal.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internallayouts.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Deployed Web based applications on IBM WebSphere application Server.  • Installing, configuring, modifying, testing, supporting and monitoring various applications on IBM WebSphere application server.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed thebusiness requirements to documented and implemented.  Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS, JQuery, SQL, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere, Linux OS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Adobe Flash Player, Illustrator. Education Bachelor's Skills Devops, Python, Puppet, Azure, AWS