Sub Team Leader / UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI Developer Jr Sub Team Leader / UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr Sub Team Leader / UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI Developer Jr - Infosys Raleigh, NC Work Experience Sub Team Leader / UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI Developer Jr Infosys - Raleigh, NC March 2019 to Present Project #1: CAP by Conduent  Description  As part of a big team of about 80 members at Infosys, I collaborate in the UI & UX design team as a sub leader helping to coordinate 3 more designers to create an intuitive and flexible enough interface for CAP, a white label big platform by Conduent to provide automatization to business process for important companies like Walmart, Microsoft or Metlife with a variety of needs.    Responsibilities  • Take and analyzing the requirements from the client  • Coordinate and assign the tasks to the other team members  • Creation of low fidelity or wireframes with Sketch  • Creation of high fidelity mockups using Sketch.  • Creation and maintenance to the sitemap to help the other areas to understand the structure of the app.  • Creation of clicking prototypes with Sketch to simulate the interaction of the interface.  • Creation of style guide to provide a standard between the design teams and also for developers implementation.  • Creation of symbols for Sketch to standardize and speed up the creation of high fidelity screens between the other designers in the team.  • Creation of HTML and CSS templates for the developers to implement in the final product  • Working under agile methodology with weekly sprints.    Tools  Sketch    Portfolio  www.jobadsayas.com/cap    Reference UI & UX Leader Sagar Singh - Orlando, FL October 2018 to Present Role: UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI Developer Jr. / Branding Designer    Description  Integrass is an IT solutions company from India, providing outsourcing services to international companies. I work through them in C2C model as external contractor for other companies, or directly for some of their customers like the USA Hockey. UI & UX Designer / Front End Developer Jr. / Branding Designer USA Hockey - Orlando, FL October 2018 to March 2019 Location: Part remotely, part onsite at Orlando, FL  Role: UI & UX Designer / Front End Developer Jr. / Branding Designer    Description  The project was the official Hockey website in the US to impulse the practice of the sport in the US. I designed the form screens to help adult people in their 50's or 60's be able to fill it in order to register their children, providing an easy to use and mobile device interface.    Responsibilities  • Studying and analyzing of requirements and testing different ways to display the information with Sketch to create wireframes.  • Creation of mockups and wireframes using Sketch, Affinity Designer and Photo.  • Reviewing feedback with inVision.  • Creation of user stories using with Sketch to simulate the interaction.  • Creation of the assets for the templates.  • Guide frontend development for implementation  • Prototyping using HTML and CSS plus Bootstrap.  • Creating responsive layouts with CSS.  • Testing websites for cross-browser functionality.  • Sharing files with Git.    Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, Twiter Bootstrap, jQuery, Sketch, InVision, Affinity Designer and Photo.    Portfolio  www.jobadsayas.com/us-hockey UX Designer / Visual Designer / UI Developer Jr. / Branding Designer Av Plus - Aguascalientes, MX January 2017 to January 2019 Description  Av Plus is a local company dedicated to software development for which I mostly provide mockups to propose user interfaces and optimum user experience as well as creating pixel perfect HTML & CSS templates. This to offer quality web and mobile apps easy to use. The main project is GeoGPS a GPS tracking system for companies with vehicles, I have helped also with the branding and the marketing to reach more potential users. I also design and create websites with Wordpress for companies to help have more visibility and get more clients.    Responsibilities  • Working in several software projects mainly in a GPS app tracker called GeoGPS  • Meet with clients to know their needs and requirements.  • Studying and analyzing of requirements and testing different ways to display the information with Balsamiq to create wireframes.  • Creation of mockups and wireframes using Adobe Illustrator, Figma.  • Creation of user stories using with Sketch to simulate the interaction.  • Creating the mockups for the mobile versions and testing with users to ensure an intuitive navigation.  • Creation of the assets for the templates.  • Prototyping using HTML and CSS plus Bootstrap.  • Creating responsive layouts with CSS.  • Design and creation of the UI with web technologies using PhoneGap & Cordova to generate hybrid app for Android and iPhone.  • Testing websites for cross-browser functionality.  • Publish files to staging server using TortoiseSVN.  • Involved in the planning of screens to design the flow of the apps  • Managed the development of 4 website for our different brands and tracking their stats, results and organic positioning (SEO).  • Creation branding for several projects  • Generation hybrid Android apps using PhoneGap & Cordova    Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, Twiter Bootstrap, jQuery, Javascript, PhoneGap & Cordova, Wordpress, TortoiseSVN, Axure, Sketch, Figma, Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop, Affinity Designer and Photo.    Portfolio  GeoGPS  www.jobadsayas.com/geogps  Metafin  www.jobadsayas.com/metafin  Websites  www.geogps.com.mx  www.conceptococinas.com  www.mariaguajardo.com  www.exhito.com    Reference Human Resources Administration January 2016 to January 2017 Phone: +52 449 910 7800 Ext. 8577  Mail: karina.aguilar@softtek.com    Project #4: CAS (Corporate Audit System)  Duration: Jan 2016 - Jan 2017 Manager Victor Olguin - Aguascalientes, MX February 2012 to January 2017 Location: Aguascalientes, Mexico    Description  Softtek is one of the top IT solutions companies in Mexico, providing outsourcing services to national and international companies. For which I had the opportunity to collaborate in 4 different software development projects, all of them for american clients. Such projects are listed below.    Reference  Name: Karina Aguilar Team leader / Visual Designer / UX Designer / UI Developer Jr. / Branding Designer September 2014 to December 2015 Description  CAS is a web platform General Electric uses internally to audit their procedures. This platform is extensive and contains lots of screens with variations and user permissions depending of the role or area. Since such procedures are updated constantly, I lead the design team to update several of the screens adding new features at the same time we improved the interactions. Also since it was an old platform we helped them to create and apply a new look and feel as well as doing the necessary adaptations to work on mobile devices.    Responsibilities  • Leader of the UI and UX design team.  • Remote collaboration with the development team in India.  • Remote communication with the client in the USA to know the needs and requirements for design.  • Studying and analyzing requirements and testing different ways to display the information with Axure to create wireframes.  • Creation of mockups and wireframes using Adobe Illustrator and Sketch.  • Creation of user stories using with Sketch to simulate the interaction.  • Creating the mockups for the mobile versions and testing with users to ensure an intuitive navigation.  • Creation of the assets for the templates.  • Guide frontend development for implementation  • Prototyping templates to provide the development team using angular material design library.  • Creating responsive templates with CSS.  • Testing websites for cross-browsing functionality.  • Daily SCRUM standup and biweekly sprint planning.  • Task management and reporting using JIRA.  • Sharing files to staging server using TortoiseSVN.    Technologies  Adobe Illustrator, Axure, Sketch, HTML5, CSS3, Angular material design, TortoiseSVN.    Portfolio  www.jobadsayas.com/cas    Reference  Name: Karen Frissora from General Electric  Role: End client  Phone: 203 455 4981  Mail: kfrissora2@gmail.com    Project #3: Sourcing IS  Duration: Sep 2014 - Dec 2015 Visual Designer / UX Designer / UI Developer Jr. / Branding Designer September 2012 to September 2014 Description  Sourcing IS is a web platform General Electric uses internally to track purchases and providers. I helped to create a new version of such platform with new features and also to web technologies since it was created originally with Flash technologies. I created the mockups for a fresh and more intuitive user interface and also provided pixel perfect html and css templates to the development team. Also the team had created other small applications to help in task related to the operations of the area, for which I helped as well with branding design, UI & UX design and providing prototypes.    Responsibilities  • Analysis of requirements and testing different ways to display the information with Balsamiq to create wireframes.  • Creation of mockups and wireframes using Adobe Illustrator and Sketch.  • Creation of user stories using with Sketch to simulate the interaction.  • Creating the mockups for the mobile versions and testing with users to ensure an intuitive navigation.  • Creation of the assets for the templates.  • Guide frontend development for implementation  • Redesign of the UI of several tools and sub applications.  • Remote communication with the client in the USA to know the needs and requirements for design.  • Prototyping templates to provide the development team using the Foundation library.  • Creating responsive templates with CSS.  • Testing websites for cross-browsing functionality.  • Daily SCRUM standup and biweekly sprint planning.  • Task management and reporting using JIRA.  • Sharing files to staging server using TortoiseSVN.    Technologies  Adobe Illustrator, Sketch, Balsamiq, HTML5, CSS3, Foundation, Adobe Illustrator, TortoiseSVN    Portfolio  not available    Reference  Name: Evan Chan from General Electric  Role: End client  Not available    Project #2: SkyEdge  Duration: Sep 2012 - Sep 2014 Visual Designer / UX Designer / Front End Developer Jr February 2012 to September 2014 Description  SkyEdge is a web platform General Electric uses internally to track campaigns in different social media. It is the new version of a previous platform created with flash technologies. For this project I helped creating the new branding as well as the new user interface and interaction. Also I provided pixel perfect templates created with HTML5, CSS3 and SASS. This was a team of 10 people, which was an interesting experience and challenge regarding coordination and relations with partners.    Responsibilities  • Analysis of requirements and testing different ways to display the information with Balsamiq to create wireframes.  • Creation of mockups and wireframes using Adobe Illustrator and Sketch.  • Creation of user stories using with Sketch to simulate the interaction.  • Creating assets with Adobe Fireworks.  • Remote communication with the client in the USA to know the needs and requirements for design.  • Being part of a team of 10 developers working in coordination with all of them.  • Prototyping templates to provide the development team using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Creating responsive templates with CSS.  • Design and creation of the UI with web technologies using PhoneGap & Cordova to generate hybrid app for Android and iPhone.  • Guide frontend development for implementation  • Testing websites for cross-browsing functionality.  • Creating the brand of the app.  • Learned about social media tracking.  • Daily SCRUM standup and biweekly sprint planning.  • Task management and reporting using JIRA.  • Sharing files to staging server using TortoiseSVN.    Technologies  Adobe Illustrator, Fireworks, Balsamiq, Sketch, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, jQuery, TortoiseSVN, PhoneGap & Cordova.    Portfolio  www.jobadsayas.com/skyedge    Reference  Name: Chen Li from General Electric  Role: End client  Not available    Project #1: Water TD  Duration: Feb 2012 - Sep 2014  Role: UI Developer Jr.    Description  Water TD is a platform General Electric uses to track smart water suppliers. This was my first experience working with a team of developers as well as working for american clients. There was a designer in charge of the UI & UX design, therefore I was the one in charge to create templates in HTML and CSS from the mockups she created. Also adapting the existing templates to a new look and feel and fixed errors and misalignments to improve the interface quality.    Responsibilities  • First experience working remotely with american clients.  • Assisting the UI&UX designer with templating with CSS and HTML  • Helping to correct and adapt existing templates.  • Cross browsing fixes and adaptations.  • Daily SCRUM standup and biweekly sprint planning.  • Task management and reporting using JIRA.  • Sharing files to staging server using TortoiseSVN.    Technologies  HTML, CSS and TortoiseSVN    Portfolio  Not available    Reference  Name: Will Kuchera from General Electric  Role: End client  Not available Education Bachelors in Graphic Design in Duration Universidad Autónoma de Aguascalientes August 2005 to December 2010 Skills Ui, Ux, Git, Svn, Jira, Version control, Prototypes, Integration, Problem solving, Self-starter, Team player, Mentoring, Training, Work flow Links http://www.geogps.com.mx