Front End Web Developer (Freelance) <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Freelance) Front End Web Developer (Freelance) - Quedo Work Experience Front End Web Developer (Freelance) Quedo March 2019 to Present Created an application for hospital patient to book appointment  ? Design User Interface of the application  ? Test application on bugs, broken features or UI design on android emulator, iOs emulator, android real device, and iOS real  device  ? Technologies- React Native, Material UI, Android Studio, Xcode Front End Web Developer (Freelance) Technologies- React.js, React Hooks, Material UI December 2018 to Present Agent Ave  ? Converting web application from Angular.js to React.js  ? Develop Password and Procedure pages  ? Technologies- React.js, React Hooks, Material UI Teacher Assistance University of Minnesota August 2018 to Present Assist instructor on lessons as needed  ? Review students code and provide constructive feedback to help student learn better  ? Help student troubleshoot errors on application Front End Web Developer (Freelance) Trash Bolt November 2018 to December 2018 Created auto calculate form to calculate client's expense  ? Designed user interface  ? Developed mobile responsive application  ? Technologies- Vanilla JavaScript, CSS, jQuery Full Stack Software Developer Student Prime Digital Academy February 2018 to July 2018 Solo Project: Sa-Bai-Dee (Learn Lao)  o Learning Lao is hard, especially if you don't know where to start. There are a lot of contents that you have to search around the web for. Therefore, Sa-Bai-Dee (Learn Lao) was created.  o Created a mobile friendly application to study the language on the go. The basic contents of learning Lao are all  listed in one place. User's have the ability to study, view, listen, favorite, and add a personal comment on the consonants, vowels, and vocabulary.  o Technologies- React.js, Redux Saga, Redux Reducers, Material UI, CSS, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Bootstrap, Passport, HTML5, JavaScript, Git, and GitHub.  ? Group Project: JFuerst Real Estate Photography  o JFuerst Real Estate Photography is manually going into their system to schedule time slot for their photographer.  Client want to create an application that will minimize their time spent on scheduling.  o Created an application that manage and streamline the schedule flow by using google map API to automatically  calculate the driving time and mileage it takes to from one destination to another.  o Technologies- React.js, Redux Saga, Redux Reducers, Material UI, CSS, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, HTML5, JavaScript, Passport, Git, and GitHub Account Associate II Wells Fargo December 2016 to March 2018 Managed investor's accounts  ? Responded to client inquiries timely and with accurate information  ? Collaborated and coordinated with internal department to meet client's sales/funding deadline  ? Issued certifications and Trust Receipts as required within contractual/agency guideline timeframes  ? Negotiated with client on review timeframe for upcoming deals  ? Proactively collaborated with Managers and other Account Associates to develop and create consistent procedures/processes Customer Service Representative Wells Fargo August 2015 to December 2016 Managed special projects to ensure they are completed precisely while exceeding customer expectations  ? Provided backup to other Customer Services Representative and Work Director when needed  ? Trained and onboarded new CSR on the role  ? Mentored multiple Processors and new CSRs throughout their career with Wells Fargo Operations Processor III Wells Fargo October 2014 to August 2015 Researched and processed complex documents in emBTRUST daily  ? Completed very tight deadlines requests received in the Funding shared mailbox with a team of 4 members  ? Provided Quality Control and feedback to processors for Final Docs Release documents  ? Back-up Customer Service Reps when needed Operations Processor II Wells Fargo June 2014 to October 2014 Processed complex and escalated tasks, as well as other miscellaneous and rush projects with a team of 25 members  ? Trained new team members and managed resources  ? Quality checked documents and provided feedback on errors  ? Tracked and accurately bill customer requests monthly Operations Processor II - Managed Resource (Contractor) Accountemps July 2013 to June 2014 Reviewed collateral trailing documents to verify accuracy of information to meet clients standards per agreement contract  ? Processed 400+ documents per day  ? Added exceptions in the system of record, emBTRUST, for information that is not correct according to checklist Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, REDUX, ANGULARJS, HTML5, UI, MONGODB, jQuery, PASSPORT Links http://github.com/payengt24