Marketing Director Marketing Director Hesperia, CA Performance oriented, Marketing and Communications leader, with over 9 years of experience in in organic growth and a demonstrated track record of developing and executing integrated marketing and communications plans from end-to- end. Work well both leading and within a team, with dedication to a collaborative approach, yet able to make tough calls independently when needed. Talent for hiring, training and mentoring highly engaged team members, seeking always to offer opportunities for others to rise in their talents and skills. Meticulous project manager, balancing multiple deadlines, while maintaining an organized, yet creative, approach. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marketing Director MLBIH - Victorville, CA January 2019 to July 2019 With undertaking the role as Marketing Director, I implemented a staged plan to roll-out a full marketing campaign. Social media, SEO, landing pages, and other traditional methods of marketing and customer acquisition.    Handled all the Aspects of marketing and advertising each individual business under the MLBIH umbrella. Marketing Director Option One Solar - Apple Valley, CA August 2018 to February 2019 I developed websites, Print material, Graphic Design, Direct Marketing campaign, and attend trade shows that I would prepare the entire set up from concept to implementation. Increased sales from 120,000 a month to 300,000 a month within the first 60 days. With a tiered marketing plan and product roll out. Marketing Coordinator BP Distribution - San Bernardino, CA January 2018 to March 2018 Developed, website, marketing material, SEO Strategy, Google Analytics, FB BM, and Direct to consumer marketing practices. Expanded marketing strategies to increase B2B sales, also enabling marketing management for Customers of BP Distribution by implementing a consulting service for our customers. Cannabis Marketing OC Pharm - Costa Mesa, CA May 2016 to February 2018 Develop marketing plans and strategies to dispensary and delivery services with the various products that would be offered. Also assist in the branding and email campaigns. Quality Control RJ NOBLE - Quality Control June 2017 to January 2018 I ensure the Quality and consistency of Asphalt / and Other Products that is produced. I Test to ensure the material is up to Specs / GreenBook Or Cal Trans Spes. Troubleshooting Issues or field testing. Marketing Mazda Victorville - Marketing and Social Media July 2015 to September 2015 I would prepare material for social media campaigns. I would also develop pages dedicated to promotion of the dealership. I would also conduct polls to gather appropriate demographics for prospected clients. Create warm Leads in the process. Self Employed Ngraphics / Media - Hesperia, CA November 2014 to July 2015 I would develop content, for both print media and digital. Build websites, Develop apps and User interfaces. Contract Bids as well as negotiation. Responsible for Builds from start to finish.  Promote my business in many medias such as Social media, Organic seo and PPC / google adwords. Wed Designer / Front End Developer Alignmed / Eblife.com - Irvine, CA September 2010 to October 2014 Irvine, CA    Modified content on the companies web site with new and updated content, develop jquery content to update their affiliates web sites to sell their product. I have gotten their content to rank on the top 10 of Search engines on their most important keywords. I also help modify a lot of their printed material such as brochures and business cards. Education BS in Computer Science UCR - Riverside, CA November 2008 to June 2013 Bachelor's Skills Email Marketing (6 years), Social Media (6 years), Photoshop (4 years), Digital Marketing (6 years), Indesign, Dreamweaver, Adobe, Email, Google Analytics (5 years), Marketing Strategy (7 years), Customer Service, SEO (7 years), Social Media Marketing (5 years), Advertising (5 years), Event Planning, Graphic Design, MS Office, Public Relations (5 years), Wordpress (3 years), Salesforce, Search Engine Optimization (6 years), Facebook (4 years) Assessments Social Media — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t1qdovbbn0qxd1eg Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nvnttnnbvlvom34t Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Displayed Leadership, Patience, Diligence  Self-assured, assertive, self-confident, and aggressive.  Versatile, adaptability, and willingness learn