Web Developer Student Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Student Web Developer Student Inglewood, CA Very motivated to help in creating beautiful things. First job in front end web developer/design is the ideal fit. Work Experience Web Developer Student St Joseph Center - Los Angeles, CA March 2019 to July 2019 Design, create, and modify Web sites. Analyze user needs to implement Web site content, graphics, performance, and capacity. Integrate Web sites with other computer applications. Convert written, graphic, audio, and video components to compatible Web formats by using software designed to facilitate the creation of Web and multimedia content. Customer Service/ Front End Kiosk Agent American Airlines - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to February 2019 Make and confirm reservations for transportation or lodging, or sell transportation tickets. May check baggage and direct passengers to designated concourse, pier, or track; deliver tickets, contact individuals and groups to inform them of package tours; or provide tourists with travel or transportation information. Credit Analyst Robert Half - New Orleans, LA September 2014 to August 2017 Analyze credit data and financial statements to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money. Generate financial ratios, using computer programs, to evaluate customers' financial status. Consult with customers to resolve complaints and verify financial and credit transactions. Prepare reports that include the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money. Credit Analyst Professional Alternatives of Houston - Houston, TX April 2010 to January 2013 Analyze credit data and financial statements of individuals or firms to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money. Prepare reports with credit information for use in decision making. Review individual or commercial customer files to identify and select delinquent accounts for collection. Complete loan applications, including credit analyses and summaries of loan requests, and submit to loan committees for approval. Analyze financial data such as income growth, quality of management, and market share to determine expected profitability of loans. Education Business Management University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2016 Marion Abramson High School - New Orleans, LA Skills DATA ENTRY, UI, UX, HTML, CSS Additional Information Skills & Qualifications  • Advanced proficiency in word, excel  • Excellent data entry skills  • Quality Analyst  • Intro UX/UI  • HTML  • CSS  • Data Generation Tools