Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - PenFed Jersey City, NJ • 8 Years of experience in developing professional User Interface/ Front End web applications.  • Strong working knowledge of HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Bootstrap.  • Extensively used the React JS, Angular 2.0 and Angular 4.0, frameworks for single page application.  • Extensively worked on Web architecture, Web 2.0, and Web pack.  • Experience in creating and consuming Web Services using Restful API and SOAP • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTTP, HTML 5, JavaScript, and Typescript.  • Good Understanding of, Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility.  • Experience in designing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with CSS @media Queries, Fluid Layouts and Bootstrap.  • Experience in working on CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Gulp and Grunt.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome, IE Developer Toolbar for Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer.  • Work knowledge in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Worked in various version control systems - GIT, TFS, SVN (Tortoise Git) • Experience in system analysis, design, workflow architecture, development, testing and maintenance of web-based applications.  • Expertise in implementing the business rules in different layers like User Interface, services and backend database.  • Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Load Testing.  • Experience working in AGILE and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions. Work Experience Web Developer PenFed - McLean, VA April 2018 to Present Employer: Object Data, Inc    Responsibilities: • Developing the RICH User Interface using HTML 5, SCSS, JavaScript, ES6, React JS, and Bootstrap.  • Working on responsive website for Desktop, Tablets and Mobile users using React.js and Materialize CSS.  • Leveraging React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router to develop the Web application.  • Using React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Using React-Redux to create the smart components and managing React application state.  • Using Redux-Thunk as middleware to manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions.  • Using Middleware, Redux Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Using Axios with ReactJS for making AJAX Calls, and (Fetch) web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Using REST API calls to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and populated on UI conditionally depending on the prop values of a component.  • Working on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, for rendering component's using HTML tags.  • Leveraging react npm packages like react-slick to develop image carousels, react-modal and react-input-auto size.  • Using React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Working on Cross-Browser Compatibility and tested each & every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, and Chrome.  • Using various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and react-bootstrap components.  • Using Babel for transpilation Typescript to JavaScript.  • Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jest.  • Using Prepros to compile SCSS, JavaScript files for cross browser synchronizing in real time.  • Using GIT to manage the code repository.  • Using JIRA to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, React-Router, Ajax, JSON, GIT, Node JS, Express JS,Bootstrap, Restful API, Prepros, Jest, Visual Studio, Agile, Scrum, InVision, web services, JIRA Web Developer MRM//McCann - Birmingham, MI January 2016 to March 2018 Employer: V2Soft, Inc    Responsibilities: • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Bootstrap.  • Developed Reactive UI components using JSX, Babel and React JS.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views for rendering the components, which contains additional components, called custom HTML tags.  • Used React-Router library to turn application into Single Page Application • Responsible for debugging scripts and CSS styles on the browser using IE Developer Tools, Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools.  • Used React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Used HTTP Service in React JS to consume REST API's from Java based API Service.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble.  • Used Redux Framework for state management and store the history of the application.  • Used GIT as distributed version control system for code check-in, check-out, merging and branching.  • Used Webpack to bundle JavaScript files and for packaging.  • Developed UI Components in Test Driven Development (TDD) and performed unit testing using Jasmine and karma test runner utilities.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management and following TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum meetings.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, React-Router, Ajax, JSON, GIT, Bootstrap, Restful API, Webpack, Visual Studio, Agile, Scrum, Photoshop, web services, JIRA Front End Developer Greek Time - Austin, TX October 2013 to December 2015 Employer: Cardus, Inc    Responsibilities: • Developed the application both for Web and Mobile using HTML 5, CSS 3, Typescript, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, for front- end development and Mobile Application with ionic 2/3 framework.  • Used Angular 2/4 to create a Single Page Application (SPA) following MVC architecture and used Router outlet to render the components for specific location of the application.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Typescript, Bower, and Angular 2.0/4.0.  • Used React Native to develop app login page.  • Designed and Developed Mobile Application with ionic framework • Used media queries and twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Designs.  • Used NPM as a package manager for Typescript, Grunt for task runner, which handles template cache and code magnification and Bower for installing frontend dependencies.  • Responsible for creating Restful Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format.  • Worked on Angular 2 structural, attribute directives, and created custom directives to reuse it in the code.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management and following TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum meetings.  • Used Git as distributed revision control system for code check-in, check-out, merging and branching.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript (ECMA Script 6), Angular 2/4, jQuery, Ionic 2/3, Ajax, JSON, Git, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Restful API, SASS, Agile, Scrum, Protractor, web services, web sockets, JIRA UI Developer Synovus - GE January 2010 to September 2013 Employer: IPolarityLLC.    Responsibilities: • Responsible for developing all the MVC UI pages using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, AJAX, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, RESTful API.  • Worked on MV* frameworks like Angular 2.0/4.0, for creating Single-Page Applications (SPA).  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, along with HTML5, SASS, and JavaScript and Typescript.  • The portal is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and Media Queries to support Phone, Tablets, and Desktop.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Developed web application that is Modular, Scalable, Stable and Optimized.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5 and SASS using the latest web technologies.  • Created TypeScript, reusable components and services to consume RESTful services, based architecture provided by Angular 2.0/4.0.  • Used React Native to develop Kiosk User Interrace.  • Developed web application that is Modular, Scalable, Stable and Optimized.  • Built single page apps, modules, graphics and reusable components using React JS, Angular 2.0.  • Developed front end web applications using Angular 2.0/4.0, Grunt, Bower, SASS.  • Good experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge.  • Implemented Angular 2.0 component to maintain each view data.  • Developed Responsive Web applications on all device platforms • Worked with Angular.2.0 Routers, Forms, Modules, DOM, Events, Expressions, Components, Pipes and Http Request.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server, integrating JSON-based REST services.  • Implemented the GET / POST functionality for JSON.  • Interacted with RESTful API services (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end services).  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of attributes using jQuery.  • Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using AJAX.  • Using Jasmine unit testing and end-to- end test using Protractor and experienced in TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology.  • Used GitHub as a version control, and JIRA for task management.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily SCRUM meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, LESS, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, TypeScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, RESTful API, JSON, JIRA, Jasmine, Grunt, Agile/Scrum Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, REDUX, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, XML, AJAX, CSS, ROUTER, UNIT TESTING, ECLIPSE, jQuery, FRAMEWORKS, MAC, MAC OS