FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER San Diego, CA Work Experience FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER FXDD - New York, NY March 2014 to May 2019 • Interactive Leaderboard (6-month project): Marketing team wanted to host a contest to see which of the customers could earn the most money; solution presented was an interactive leader-board that tracked and posted users results in real time; contest was a success and was repeated for 4+ more years bi-weekly becoming a staple marketing effort. Product was built using PHP / MySQL with responsive HTML / CSS and jQuery.  • Manage content in 15+ languages with three regions; develop templates, themes, widgets, and landing pages within the CMS framework.  • Developed and manage email templates and campaigns; implemented tracking and lead scoring throughout the website. Ensured emails worked in every email client using standard HTML / CSS optimization practices.  • Utilized jQuery, JavaScript, and JSON to develop website widgets; included stock tickers, image galleries, live leaderboards, and form validation.  • Designed and developed comps for landing pages, website redesigns, and microsites across multiple languages and cultures.  • Collaborated with payment providers to develop payment processes from the client-facing website; used PHP.  • Responsive website redesign (18-month project): gathered requirements and owned the development of user stories and sprint planning; Ensured business, functional, and technical requirements were documented. Resulted in new website launch with fully responsive design and modern look and feel, with updated user experience that saw mobile traffic increase by 300%. SENIOR CONSULTANT NTT Data Americas - New York, NY August 2014 to December 2015 • Translated business requirements into test cases for enterprise web projects powered by Sitecore.  • Team had no way of verifying the Administration portion of our CMS was working and the client ran into many issues using it; personally, wrote over 100 user stories for the administrator that outlined all the functionality expected by the end-user.  • Client wanted to review the website before signing off on it, however as this was a Sitecore project nothing was actually built, it was all just planned out; created a pixel-perfect rendition of the client's new site; client approved and signed off; used HTML, CSS, JavaScript with jQuery.  • Analyzed QA and business practices for MS Dynamics CRM installation for a retail client; tested functionality.  • Worked with developers to explain bugs and assign work priority based on client expectations. USER EXPERIENCE DESIGNER Actiance - Redwood City, CA May 2013 to January 2014 • Many stakeholders in the company felt the flagship product was in serious need of a full UI upgrade; designed a User Study to find out if there were usability issues with the current UI; determined there were some issues with the UI; ways to make huge improvements without completely rebuilding it, which saved time and money.  • Collaborated on wireframe and sketch feature requests for a social media monitoring application.  • Built personas for eDiscovery software, as well as recruitment briefs and test plans onsite and remotely.  • Created clickable, pixel-perfect mockups to show key product features to customers.  • Worked with the development team to implement new UI components and redesigns. ASSOCIATE NTT Data Americas - New York, NY April 2012 to May 2013 • Developed and contributed to a WordPress-powered blog that outlined best practices for Analytics and Optimization; blog was used to introduce clients to the Analytics and Optimization team; convinced clients to buy additional services.  • Contributed to securing optimization and design contracts through the development of in-depth analytics reports for clients.  • Developed a content strategy and led a team in the process of migrating 8K+ content items from Vignette CMS to Ektron CMS for an enterprise-level website. INTERN Think Tank Designs - Chino Hills, CA August 2011 to January 2012 • Developed direct marketing email blasts and provided input and editing of the product catalog for a large-scale eCommerce client.  • Perform QA and BA work for a "startup" client, including requirements gathering, bug testing, and creating user accessibility reports for review by developers.  • Created wireframes for new clients, and created design mockups based on those wireframes Education Bachelor of Science degree in Design and Interactive Media The Art Institute of California - San Bernardino, CA Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Content management, Front-end, Javascript, Php, jquery, Content management systems, Mysql, Jira, Html5, User experience design, Frameworks, Wireframing, Wordpress, Adobe cs, User experience, Documentation, Technical documentation, Quality assurance Links http://linkedin.com/in/kurtsietz Additional Information Core Competencies Include:  Front- End Web Development Business Analysis Quality Assurance Content Management Systems Project Management Responsive Design User Experience Design Web & Browser Technology Analytics    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Software Other  * HTML5  * CSS3  * Javascript  * jQuery  * PHP  * MySQL    • Adobe CS  • Microsoft Office  • Jira / Confluence  • Sitecore  • Wordpress  • Microsoft Visual Studio    • Agile / Scrum  • Cross Browser Compatibility  • Javascript Frameworks  • Wireframing / Mockups  • Technical Documentation