User Experience Engineering Associate Manager User Experience Engineering Associate Manager Software Engineer Austin, TX I am a software developer with several years of coding experience. My journey started 6 years ago with Java and C++. Since then I have worked with multiple technologies for web and desktop software development. Currently I work with a rapidly evlolving world of JavaScript based technologies and frameworks.     I think my main strength is the ability to quickly identify and pick up new technologies for new and ongoing projects.     When it comes to working in a team I value soft skills as much as hard skills. I am easy to work with, have great relationships with previous employers and always eager to learn more and improve myself as a developer?.    For more information and portfolio check my website: http://dbudak.com/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience User Experience Engineering Associate Manager Accenture - Austin, TX June 2019 to Present ? Received 2 Automate Innovate Differentiate awards for introducing new practices and technologies that helped to streamline the product delivery process.    ? Successfully managed an Agile team as a Front End Team Lead on an enterprise project. Helped to align the business and the technical aspects of the development process.   ? Introduced practices and guidelines that helped to increase the project's code quality and unit test coverage. Trained junior developers and helped team to improve the architecture of complicated solutions and code readability.   ? Successfully delivered major features in a SAFe Agile Sprint environment.  User Experience Engineer Accenture - Manhattan, NY December 2017 to May 2019 ? Instrumental in engineering the front end architecture and developing a responsive application using Angular 5 that transitioned the client into the digital space.    ? Worked collaboratively with stakeholders and international Agile technology teams to deliver a business critical product to serve millions of customers.    ? Identified opportunities to remedy complex problems and process to deliver value and reduce the project maintenance cost.  Front End Developer Freelance 2013 to December 2017 Developed solutions for multiple clients using such web platforms as Wordpress, Shopify and  Magento.    * Prototyped and developed web based applications using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular,  Node.js) stack.    * Redesigned and improved UI/UX for multiple clients using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Timber and a  React.js/Redux combination    * Designed a number of printed and web promotional products using Photoshop and Illustrator. Front End Developer Analog Drone - Brooklyn, NY 2016 to 2017 Took the initiative to learn React and Angular frameworks allowing for a faster development  process for the company needs.    * Developed, maintained and customized websites and multiple promo webpages using HTML5,  CSS3, JavaScript, Timber, Shopify.    * Planned advertising campaigns and managed budgets.    * Designed promo materials, banners and emails Full Stack Developer BH Wholesale - Brooklyn, NY 2014 to 2016 Took the initiative to learn Wordpress infrastructure and plugins creation process allowing for a  deep customization of company projects.  * Designed local CMS system using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) stack that helped to organize client management and reduce time expenses.    * Developed, maintained and customized 2 ecommerce websites and an eBay storefront using  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.    * Developed an application that helped to connect all company's sale channels and track eBay  products data using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SOAP, XML, PHP and MySql    * Developed an application that managed customer's emails and sent auto notifications and 'thank you' emails    * Designed promo materials, banners and emails Front End Developer InDesign, Nikolaev - UA 2013 to 2014 Designed basic websites per client's specifications using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL.    * Designed a number of promotional products using Photoshop, Illustrator.    * Designed custom jQuery based plugins for client's needs.    * Planned advertising campaigns and managed budgets. Education Computer Science Kingsborough CC - Brooklyn, NY 2015 to 2017 Computer Science Black Sea University - Nikolaev 2012 to 2014 Skills HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), CSS (5 years), SCSS (2 years), Angular? ??1.X/2/4 (3 years), React.js/Redux (2 years), TypeScript (2 years), GIT/GitHub (3 years), Node.js (2 years), JSON (4 years), REST? ?API (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), ?jQuery (5 years), PHP (1 year), ?MySQL (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dbudak/ Awards Accenture Automate Innovate Differentiate Award 2018-05 Accenture Automate Innovate Differentiate 2019-04 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information ? Proficient in building scalable JavaScript applications and scripts using the latest ECMAScript features and coding styles. Have a deep understanding of core JavaScript concepts and a strong knowledge of JavaScript asynchronous actions and client-server web communications.   ? Designed, developed and maintained multiple web applications using such technologies as Angular 2+, React/Redux, Node.js. Have experience in full stack development using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP), MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular 2, Node.js) and Angular, Jenkins, Java environment.      ? Managed an international Agile development team as a Front End Team Lead. Trained Junior Developers and introduced Javascript code guidelines and best practices. Instrumental in key architectural decisions on an enterprise project.       ? Expertise in writing unit tests. Introduced systems that helped to increase and maintain code coverage on multiple enterprise projects. Helped other developers with writing meaningful and maintainable unit tests.      ? Easy to work with, have great communication skills and always eager to learn more and improve myself as a web developer?.    