Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Miami, FL Creative Application Developer with over 3+ years of experience in design techniques of website construction, user interface applications and maintenance.   Software management using GIT.  Good Knowledge in Node.js for creating backend APIs.  Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  Experience in web Service technologies like REST and SOAP.  Experience working with JSON and XML based web services.  Experience working with Terraform, Ansible, Docker, AWS, NPM, Grunt and Bower.  Experience in SQL for database queries, table connections, database development, indexes, triggers, stored procedures and worked on MySQL and MongoDB database.  Experienced in working with PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Hactopia - Miami, FL September 2018 to Present • Architected/built complex web applications for clients in diverse fields such as educational software, entertainment editing tool and e-commerce products  • Develop new user facing features using Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript (ES6), JSX, CSS, PHP, React  • Work with various 3rd party API's such as Facebook, YouTube, Hacker News, and etc to add new features and functionality to corporate sites  • Work with WordPress to build out custom themes and maintain legacy sites. Front End Developer Entercloud LLC August 2016 to September 2018 • Use JavaScript frameworks, Node.JS/Express.js to create Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Maintain and update HTML/CSS templates.  • Optimized application for maximum speed and scalability  • Prepared site by installing and configuring server software  • Facilitate the security, build, and deployment processes for the AWS infrastructure.  • Developed site content and graphics by coordinating with copywriters and graphic artists; designing images, icons, banners, audio enhancements, etc.  • Implemented functionality in JavaScript, and Python. Application Support Engineer Intuit - Miami, FL June 2016 to September 2016 • Troubleshoot personal computer and various applications such as Windows XP/Vista/7/8, Mac OS, Microsoft Office, Internet Security (VPN), Internet Explorer, Safari, Sun Java for best results.  • Utilize tools such as salesforce, citrix, quickbase, and token-based authentication.   • Educate end-users on how to resolve their computer hardware, software, or network problems regarding their products.  • Work to ensure cases/chats/emails are closed with a defined service-level agreement (SLA). Technical Sales SEARS - Doral, FL September 2013 to May 2016 • Maintain and grow established clients in Technical Service Contracts within Sears Home Services  • Consistently achieve best key performance metrics (KPI) in highest save rate percentage of the month  • Have closed over $1.2M+ in service contract deals by analyzing patterns in various different data systems  • Consistently secure 5% more than the targeted goal of retaining long-term subscribers Sales/Technical Support Lead Hactopia LLC - Miami, FL September 2010 to March 2012 • Resolve technical issues for DirecTV customers who are anticipating product installation  • Utilize customer relationship management (CRM) systems to establish and resolve customer related concerns  • Piloted and lead the development of a new department of products and services offered by Alorica to ever sell bundled services Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Miami Dade College - Miami, FL August 2016 to 2020 Skills HTML 5 (3 years), Javascript (2 years), CSS (3 years), Git (2 years), Node.Js (2 years), Express.js (2 years), AWS (2 years), Linux (2 years), React.js (1 year), Bootstrap, CSS3, Node, Front End, React, Angular, UI, HTML5, Front-End, Jquery Links https://www.kennashka.com https://www.github.com/kennashka https://galaxy.ansible.com/kennashka Additional Information TTechnology Stack:    Languages : ?Python, Shell, Javascript(ES5 & ES6), C#, PHP    Operating Systems: Docker EE, Linux/Unix, Microsoft, CoreOS    Web/App.Server : ?Apache Tomcat, Nodejs, Apache2 , Nginx    Web Technologies: ?AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, HTML, YAML, Rest, SOAP    Databases : SQL, MongoDB    Cloud:?AWS, AZURE, Openstack    Provisioning : ?Terraform, Ansible, Vagrant