Lead Front End Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Design & development professional with experience in operations support, customer service, and solutions architecture. New York, NY Comprehensive expertise operating in both independently and team-oriented environments with demonstrated ability to handle multiple and concurrent tasks efficiently. Proven leader equipped with advanced interpersonal, management, and communication skills. Features a dynamic and diverse skill set and ability to master various forms of media across industry-leading platforms and interfaces. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Front End Web Developer docero - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Scale design solutions for healthcare professionals using Adobe Creative Suite. Utilize WordPress, HTML, CSS (Sass and LESS), JavaScript, PHP, and Node to create informative and robust healthcare professional websites.  Key Achievements:  • Brought companies web development framework up-to-date  • Developed companies new website as a multi Wordpress website. Web Designer/ Developer Advice Media/MedNet Technologies - Melville, NY May 2014 to July 2017 Scale design solutions for healthcare professionals using Adobe Creative Suite. Curate graphics for medical websites based on client business needs and specifications. Utilize WordPress, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and PHP to create informative and robust healthcare professional websites.    Key Achievements:  - Compose custom post types and registering taxonomies for effective team productivity.  - Serve as UI architect to structure pre-existing frameworks and responsive layouts for all devices. Deli Clerk The Health Nuts - Westbury, NY October 2013 to May 2015 Facilitated and supported daily operations in conformance with quality standards and applicable regulatory guidelines. Promoted safety and hygiene in the maintenance and oversight of premises on a daily basis. Cultivated leadership ability by administering daily operations in a customer-centric setting.    Key Achievements:  - Championed superior customer service to enhance patron satisfaction.  - Drove sales by issuing appropriate recommendations based on potential products and services. Art Director/Art Teacher LIU Post Youth Camps - Brookville, NY June 2012 to August 2013 Managed and supervised total art program, developing lesson plans that fostered artistic skills. Guide the strategic approaches and methodologies to enhance program visibility and foster enrollment. Served as the key point of contact for program intake and progress evaluation.    Key Achievement:  - Steered and directed a wide array of projects, ranging in scope and complexity. Education BS in Visual Arts Education State University of New York at New Paltz - New Paltz, NY 2009 to 2013 Skills Adobe Creative Suite (7 years), Photoshop (7 years), Indesign (1 year), Dreamweaver (5 years), HTML (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), CSS (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), PHP (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Graphic Design (5 years), Web Design (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), Git (2 years), Gulp (2 years), Advanced Custom Fields (2 years), Front-End, Front End, Jquery, Node, User Interface, UI Certifications/Licenses Mobile Sites Certification June 2017 to June 2018 Assessments Graphic Design Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uj8ajcc81g5uh8qk Problem Solving — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfszxmfmy5mul-xy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.