Director of Technology Director of Technology Director of Technology - Mega Energy Holdings, LLC Houston, TX Work Experience Director of Technology Mega Energy Holdings, LLC - Sugar Land, TX August 2017 to Present Infrastructure & Development  Recent Accomplishments/In Production Environment  - Migrated Mass-Markets business to AWS w/ Data structure and management, full test and production environments for scalability, 24/7 automated monitoring for cost efficiency variance, and  plenty more.  - Designed and Developed new system using MERN Stack that allows for automated mass-market  acquisition. UX and UI.  - Designed and Developed a functional application that pulls records directly from ERCOT, places this  information in a newly structured database, and via API returns proper ESIID and address for mass- market order processing.  - Designed and Developed internal dashboards for tracking orders, viewing order details, searching  through orders, checking status of orders, creating products, viewing products, automatically  developing electricity facts label for products, updating products that are already created, submitting  batch orders, running credit checks with Experian API, and also has the capability of storing important  business documents.  - Built application to connect to billing systems legacy technology and route all information with AJAX  through Node JS to a SOAP client for accurate placement in billing system.  - Currently working on transformation of current overall commercial process and the automation of more departments on my 2019 Roadmap  Description of Role  - Utilizing Komak Agile model to devise automation and complete solutions to broken and manual  business processes to all arms of the business.  - Directing all IT operations to meet business requirements  - Architecting & Designing the overall structure of company programs and systems.  - Migrating business infrastructure to the cloud. Primarily utilizing AWS.  - Ensure the responsiveness of current applications and new systems  - Create and review technical documentation for system integrations  - Directing the effective delivery of networks, development, and disaster recovery systems and processes  kevin.mokoli06@gmail.com 16315 Clearmont Dr. Houston, TX 77053 832.488.8832 Director of Digital Technology Implementation Innowatts, LLC December 2014 to August 2017 - Responsible for International market penetration and technology adoption at rapid rates  - Successful and creative digital B2B and B2C acquisition plus retention strategies  - Develop digital algorithms to grow business to $20 million evaluation  - Oversee $5 million book of business and day-to-day client relations on technology enhancements  - Develop acquisition platform for 2.35% bounce rates and 60% CTR through aggressive white hat  techniques  - Manage offshore teams and domestic teams for pro-active modifications to market trends.  - Work directly with CEO and Senior VP to ensure commercial goals are met.  - Create thorough customer journey and customer experience for products to convey story accurately  - Manage marketing budget for all staffing, resources, and capital purchases  - Motivate sales professionals, project managers, and stakeholders for high performance  - Accountable for identifying and reporting on key campaign metrics.  - Pitch concepts and deliver presentations for new business and community initiatives. Innowatts, LLC - Houston, TX May 2014 to August 2017 Digital Marketing and Front End Developer Innowatts, LLC May 2014 to December 2014 - Utilizes a range of techniques including SEO, SEM, and guerilla tactics for constant digital growth and awareness.  - Develop high quality and effective B2B & B2C strategy that aligns correctly with various target  customer segments.  - Research based forecasting of sales and volume for strategically setting and obtaining goals.  - Improving the usability, design, content and conversion of digital channels for current markets and new market entry.  - Responsible for daily research on market movement for optimal consumer experience and brand  distinction. National Marketing Analyst NRG Energy - Houston, TX August 2013 to May 2014 - Monitor industry trends to make sure rates are current/accurate to finalize contracts w/Marketing and Legal teams.  - Create and review documents prior to routing, identifying inconsistencies between contract and upstream system and submit contracts for enrollment with 98% accuracy within a 30-minute turn  around (Maximum-proficiency rating). Education Full Stack Development and Cloud Solutions UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN - Houston, TX August 2017 Master's in Business and Digital Mkt Full Sail University - Orlando, FL December 2012 Bachelor's in Economics UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN - Austin, TX May 2011 Skills Javascript (9 years), Cloud Computing (3 years), HTML 5 (9 years), CSS (9 years), REACT.js (1 year), Node.js (4 years), Search Engine Optimization (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), JSON (5 years), Project Management (7 years), Marketing Strategy (7 years), Digital Strategy (5 years) Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ik2gaog5kveyia92 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.