Test Automation Engineer Test Automation Engineer Mount Pleasant, SC Highly motivated software test engineer well-versed in analysis, design, testing, development, and  implementation of websites and software applications. Thorough hands-on experience in developing test cases  and performing tests on various operating systems and browsers. Comprehensive knowledge of Java and  Selenium with WebDriver. Supportive and enthusiastic team player dedicated to resolving project issues.  Focused on producing quality products to meet customer needs. Work Experience Test Automation Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton October 2018 to Present • Build and implement a maintainable automation framework using Selenium WebDriver with Java.  • Develop reusable automated JUnit tests that can be run on a build server with a continuous integration dashboard  to improve deployment efficiency.  • Debug and analyze issues with automation and developer code to promote constant improvement. Senior Test Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton - Charleston, SC January 2018 to October 2018 Test Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton - Charleston, SC June 2016 to January 2018 Delivered quality software results through thorough unit, integration, exploratory, and smoke testing of the web application to help reduce the large backlog of Veterans' claims. Security Analyst PhishLabs - Charleston, SC January 2016 to June 2016 Reduced phishing, malware, and other security threats targeting banks and financial institutions by mitigating  vulnerabilities and identified potential adversaries using a web crawler and threat feeds. Quality Assurance Analyst SPARC, LLC - Charleston, SC August 2015 to January 2016 Analyzed and tested the Veterans Benefits Management System to discover and log defects in IBM Rational Team Concert and provided assistance in solving issues that were the result of various regression, performance, 508  compliance/accessibility, and functional tests. Front- End Web Developer Bevel Labs, LLC - Fairfield, CT June 2015 to August 2015 Participated in the design and development of a more user-friendly group messaging iOS and Android mobile app. Software Test Engineer Pitney Bowes - Danbury, CT September 2013 to April 2015 Ensured the execution of client-provided requirements using a combination of regression, performance, and functional  testing for a C# online postage web application and tracked test plans and defects in IBM Rational Software. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering Fairfield University - Fairfield, CT 2013 Skills TEST PLANS, SELENIUM, SELENIUM WEBDRIVER, DATA ANALYSIS, QUALITY ASSURANCE, Java, QA, Python, JIRA Additional Information Skills  • Quality assurance • Self-motivated  • Test automation with Selenium WebDriver • Oral and written communication  • Manual testing and creation of Test Plans • Data analysis