Lead Front- end Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front- end Developer - BOWST Kittery, ME ? Enthusiastic and fascinated by everything 'internet' since 1999, I've been building websites since the  7th grade, witnessing the many progressions from table layouts, scrolling marquees, and Comic Sans.  ? Passionate about writing extra-clean code, I follow only the best front- end practices and stay up-to-date  with modern techniques.  ? Self motivated, quick, conscientious, and highly focused, I strive to deliver  pixel/cross-browser/cross-device perfect templates resulting in few QA tickets.  ? Curious and always willing to learn more, I seek experience in all areas of web development. Work Experience Lead Front- end Developer BOWST - Portsmouth, NH October 2015 to Present As the Lead Front- end Developer at Bowst, a small scale, open source web development agency, I help  create front- end solutions, boilerplates, and standards based on best practices and up-to-date technology.  ? As a Product Owner for various projects, I manage and assign tasks to ensure smooth and efficient  workflow, maintain project organization and ensure timely delivery.  ? I use the Twitter Bootstrap Framework to create clean, organized, structurally sound, and modular  solutions uniquely modified for each project, which mainly consist of React apps and Drupal websites. Senior Technical Web Designer HUBSPOT - Portsmouth, NH August 2013 to August 2015 As a member of the Technical Services team at Hubspot, a large scale Inbound Marketing SaaS  company, I assisted with the migration of 1000s of customer's websites from the Hubspot CMS to the  Hubspot COS (content optimization system).  ? I ensured flawless migrations in regards to matching the website's original style, content, and functionality, implemented improvements to out-of-date code, and made non-responsive sites  responsive.  ? I communicated directly with customers to ensure their migration needs and requests were timely met, and I collaborated with my team to create front- end solutions and boilerplates to improve efficiency of the overall migration process.  ? I created the CSS boilerplate that is used as the base stylesheet for all COS websites. Support Web Developer PIXELMEDIA - Portsmouth, NH April 2013 to July 2013 As a web developer on the Support and Maintenance team at PixelMEDIA, a medium scale web  development agency, I worked directly with a personal portfolio of clients to provide assistance, manage  tasks, execute technical updates, and perform ongoing development maintenance for their websites built on various systems with various languages, including ASP.NET, Classic ASP, PHP, Drupal, Wordpress,  SiteCore, and Kentico. Senior Front- end Web Developer THE ATOM GROUP - Portsmouth, NH February 2010 to April 2013 As a junior to senior front- end developer at the Atom Group, a small scale mostly ASP.NET web  development agency, I was responsible for cutting up designs and transforming them into valid,  pixel-perfect, semantic, and cross browser perfect websites in mainly the Kentico CMS.  ? I worked within a very fast-paced environment, meeting tight deadlines, cranking out websites back to back, and handling multiple projects at a time.  ? For larger scale projects that required more than one front- end developer, I was responsible for leading the front- end team, creating the standards and base for the site and organizing/assigning tasks.  ? For our Christmas party one year I was kindly awarded "Best Attitude" out of a staff of 35 people. Education SALEM STATE COLLEGE - Salem, MA September 2005 to January 2006 SUFFOLK UNIVERSITY - Boston, MA September 2004 to May 2005 Skills Wordpress, Git, Drupal, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Web Development, Bootstrap, Front-End, Front End, HTML5 Additional Information SPECIALTIES    ? Writing valid standard, clean, and organized HTML5 & CSS3  ? Starting from scratch or from Twitter Bootstrap  ? Styling modular CSS with SASS and LESS  ? Developing fully responsive & mobile optimized templates  ? Delivering cross browser/device compatible, high performance, SEO friendly templates  ? Cutting up designs from Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks and Sketch  ? Writing jQuery and JavaScript for cosmetic features  ? Using the workflow of NPM for JS components, and building files via Gulp  ? Developing within various languages, frameworks, and techniques: JavaScript, PHP, ASP.NET, Twig,  React, Angular, MVC, Open Source  ? Building within Content Management Systems: Drupal, Wordpress Craft, Concrete5, Kentico  ? Using version control with Git using Terminal