Senior Product Manager Senior Product Manager Senior Product Manager - AdRoll Group San Francisco, CA Work Experience Senior Product Manager AdRoll Group - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present AdRoll Group offers a full-fledged marketing platform to drive growth for direct-to-consumer brands (AdRoll) and B2B  brands (RollWorks). As PM on the Core Ads team, I drive the product vision and identify key investment areas for all user- facing ad products with a focus on the self-service user experience.  • Launched a unified ad creation and management platform to all 35000+ customers  • Ability to create static and dynamic product-based ads across 4 inventory sources.  • Improved user-efficiency in ad creation by over 60% and reduced internal cost-to-serve by 10% (for support teams)  • 3x and 2x increase in native and social ad adoption respectively and a 3x increase in ad spend among self- service customers.  • Launched Video Ads for full-funnel marketing across Web and Social marketing channels  • Ramped up adoption from 0-450+ customers with 3M USD of cumulative spend in the first 5 months Senior Product Manager Opower - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to February 2018 • Conceptualized and delivered customized energy efficiency and customer engagement SaaS products to Fortune  500 utilities.  • Achieved average energy savings of 3%, boosted customer engagement by 30%, and customer satisfaction by 5%  • Launched the following suite of energy efficiency products impacting tens of millions of customers  • Home Energy Reports (Email + Paper) - to encourage high spending customers to conserve energy.  Email CTR: 30% (10x industry average). Email Open Rate: 60% (3x industry average).  • Energy Insights - to help customers analyze their historical energy usage, costs, and trends.  Drove down call-center volume and operating costs for utilities.  • Bill Forecast - to intelligently predict upcoming energy bills, and drive customers to take corrective action  to reduce high bills and save money. Product Manager Zillow Group - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to January 2016 Lead the successful rebranding of Postlets.com to Zillow Rental Manager, a product to help landlords manage  their rental properties for free.  • Launched the Lead Management Platform - to manage rental listings, handle incoming rental inquiries, and run credit checks on potential tenants.  • Conceptualized data-driven email marketing campaigns resulting in a 15% growth in new users and leveraged an integration with Zillow.com to drive a 300% growth in new rental listings (YoY vs Postlets).  • Reduced incoming support request volume by 30% by building out self-service tools to address the most  common support requests. Product Manager / Front- End Developer The Mathworks - Boston, MA February 2012 to April 2014 Designed and built features for the first version of a new product called App Designer, a GUI builder for MATLAB  • Lead the design of the core component library and launched it as part of the Simulink product.  • Built an asynchronous JavaScript loader to improve application load times by 25%. Also, implemented a new unit testing framework to improve code coverage by 15% and reduce redundancy by over 40%. Security Software Development Intern Bishop Fox - Atlanta, GA August 2011 to December 2011 Engineered a web application to simplify, automate, and parallelize the task of cracking complex password hashes. Software Development Intern Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA January 2011 to December 2011 Designed and built an online Budget Builder to help researchers generate federal budget proposals efficiently. Software Development Intern Alcatel-Lucent - Chicago, IL May 2011 to August 2011 Designed and built the messaging interface for ALU Messenger - a multi-platform mobile communication client. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA December 2011 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2010 Skills Agile, Product Management, Product Development, Marketing, Scrum, Jira, Business Analysis, HTML, Powerpoint, Data Analysis Links http://linkedin.com/in/vijaymurali