UI/UX Front end( Angular5.0+CLI SASS) UI/UX <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span>( Angular5.0+CLI SASS) UI/UX Front end( Angular5.0+CLI SASS) - Marathon Oil Houston, TX • Software Professional with 8+ years of experience in Design and development in the areas of Object Oriented technologies, client/server applications and web based applications.  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and Design, UML and SDLC.  • Expert level skills developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, Web Services, JDBC, XML, HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax and JQuery.  • Developed UI and backend applications Struts, Hibernate, Java, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Experience in Enterprise JAVA and Object-Oriented Programming (OOPS)  • An experienced software engineer in Java web and client server development with knowledge in all the phases of the life cycle of the software including requirements, design, coding, testing, deployment, change and configuration management and project management.  • Worked on cloud platforms like AWS.  • Solid understanding of React/Angular rendering theory.  • Familiarity with newer specifications of Typescript/ ECMAScript (ES6).  • Experience in MongoDB and hands on experience in installation and configuration.  • Worked o Angular (version 5) as soon as it released.  • Worked to build dynamic graphs using d3.js (converted some graphs from c3 to d3).  • Extensively used high chats for visually supporting statistical evaluations.  • Experience in designing, marking up, developing the UI of websites.  • Extensive experience in developing web-based applications on J2EE platform.  • Experience in application analysis, design, development, and support (Java/J2EE, IBM WebSphere portal.  • Worked on various web servers like Tomcat.  • Experience using web services like SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Worked experience in Hibernate and JPA ORM tools.  • Experience with Protractor to create end to end framework using Angular JS.  • Good knowledge using web sphere.  • Experience in developing Web Services using XML over HTTP(s) and SOAP.  • Worked extensively in MVC frameworks Springs.  • Having good knowledge in front end technologies like Angular JS.  • Excellent knowledge and practical experience in CSS and JavaScript.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit, Cucumber  • Hands-on experience on development tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse, and Jdeveloper.  • Having good exposure on service-oriented architecture (SOA).  • Hands-on experience using multi-threading and collections frame works.  • Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Solid Understanding of Core java concepts.  • Understanding in creating SQL Queries in Oracle, DB2.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD)  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Experience in working with customers to determine their needs, gather, analyze and document requirements, communicate with customers throughout the development cycle, manage customer expectations, resolve issues and provide project status.  • Ability to clearly understand the Clients' requirements & work closely with other teams/ Developers in order to develop Quality Products/Solutions.  • Strong interpersonal, written, and oral communication skills. Aptitude and willingness to learn and implement unknown technologies.  • Worked as PHP/UI Developer, built banking application  • Good Exposure to database concepts using Oracle Database 10g, SQL Server 2008/2012, MySQL and IBM DB2.  • Experience with version control tools such as ClearCase, CVS, and SVN.  • Experience in Class diagrams, Use Case diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML Microsoft Visio.  • Thorough knowledge of Banking, Finance, Insurance and ELearning domains Work Experience UI/UX Front end( Angular5.0+CLI SASS) Marathon Oil - Houston, TX January 2018 to Present Worked on a Project called Digital Oil Field (DOF). DOF increases reliability while eliminating the need to visit wells daily, thereby reducing risk from driving and wellsite hazards. Operators can focus their time and attention on visiting locations based on value and need. In addition, all central facilities are outfitted with a fixed security camera for real-time monitoring, investigating alarms or reviewing events.    https://www.marathonoil.com/lov2016/Features/Digital-Oilfield/    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed this application using Angular 5, Node JS, MySQL, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Angular-Material.  • Implemented Angular Material Design components and Theme, such as table, table pagination, sort header, form filed, etc.  • Consuming Web API via Angular Http Client (by using GET/POST/PUT/DELETE methods) to realize CRUD data operations.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Used Typescript to write the Angular Components, Modules, Services, and Models.  • Implemented form validations using Angular Template-driven and Reactive Forms  • Used Angular routing and configured the routes to allow a seamless navigation.  • Used JavaScript Libraries like Ag-Grid very extensively to create tables in the view.  • Used web standards - HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular with ECMAScript 2015/ ES6 specifications.  • Integration of UI screens with the Database by making use of web service.  • Made use of Pipes from Angular as filters to display data nicely to users.  • Created and performed SQL queries to fetch data from the backend database.  • Extensively used high chats for visually supporting statistical evaluations. Complex data and large amounts of data depicted easily and used for exploratory analyses.  • Used GitHub as a repository, for code changes and track reviews. Even used GitHub desktop for committing developed code and generating pull requests.  • Build and deployed website on Azure. Mentored and helped other team members with providing code guideline. Created various documents.  • Performed CRUD operation to SAP HANA database.  • Built REST web services using node.js.  • Cron jobs have been setup using node.js  • Used PM2 process manager to maintain node serve.  • Used CHILD_PROCESS to perform some CPU intensive tasks (eg. reading .xlsx files)  • Used web storm as an editor for developing the project.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 5, AJAX, JSON, Angular 5, Node JS Responsive Design, Bootstrap 4, High charts, DOM, Firebug, DHTML, Eclipse, GitHub, Angular Material, Web storm, GitHub Desktop, ECMA Script 6 Adobe Dreamweaver, Jira, MVC, Agile/Scrum, SQL Server Management Studio, Windows. UI/UX Front end( Angular5.0+CLI SASS) Capital One - Dallas, TX June 2017 to December 2017 • Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Visual Design Team, Project Manager and Architect as Sr. Developer, Lead and Architect capacity to develop and design very complex 2 Projects "1 Product Dispatch and Monitoring System" and "2 Promotion Event Management System" from scratch. Project which includes. Responsive design for IPhones/IPads.  • Designed a brand-new solution with Angular 2/4, Angular-CLI 1, SASS, SCSS Mixing, Angular 2 Form, Angular 2 Route, Angular 2 Animation, RxJx Observables, SASS Variables for themes, Ng-2 UI Bootstrap, Component/ngModule, Goggle Map, ng2 Charts, Rich Text Editor, Full Calendar, Auto Complete, Date Picker, Color Picker, CLI Built and much more using leading edge technologies.  • Updated our project from Angular version 4 to 5 and made use of version 5 functionalities  • Migrated solution from updated Angular 2 Beta to RC, RC1 to RC4, RC4 to RC6 and to Angular 2.4. Fixed various node dependency issues and Angular 2 and CLI changes during migration.  • Designed lazy loading route with separate modules and child routes including data transfer with Resolve, Route Data and Route Parameter. Implemented Rout Grad mechanism using can-activate, can-deactivate, can-load-child etc.  • Involved to create test case scenarios using Protractor frame work and validate end to end testing.  • Developed various generic Component, Directive, Pipes and SASS classes to use across the both project. Including generic Module and Service Provider.  • Created very complex full calendar with Key Indicator and Reminder of planning, coloration and analysis for upcoming sales and promotion events.  • Used ES6 new features such as let, const, map function, modules and others in angular type script.  • Developed various Restful WebAPI services including C# models, Business layer and Data layer. Created various store-procs, taggers and modified data table including query tuning for performance.  • Created various SCSS mixing classes, various themes and media quarry utilities for unique branding and theming.  • Designed and Developed Various Angular 2 Component (/ngModule), Services (observable/promises), Directive and Pipes, Used Angular 2 CLI commands for productivity and global/generic building blocks  • Used Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio (MVC 5/6, WebAPI, .Net Core), TypeScript and SASS for dev-environment  • Developed numbers of Typescripts objects including Components, ngModules, Providers, Services, Interfaces and classes utilizing arrow function and optional types.  • Since working for Banking got an opportunity to work on d3.js to develop various graphs.  • Designed and developed a very complex Merchandiser Product Dispatch Dashboard having time and location-drive related time sensitive KPIs indications, and Drivers Apps. Dispatch Dashboard provides monitoring and information of route, change/add store sequence of delivery, time in store, product quantity delivered, photos of delivery setting upload, Mileage drive on route, various route, process step of routes, process step of product dispatched at store, quantity of product delivered at each store, going deliver and quantity on vehicle at tim,. Delay, issues, store drops and much more functionality.  • Designed and developed a complex panning and real-time update admin systems, a UI which provides calendar and planning of Merchandiser and their day to day route of delivery including route direction and store to attend. It provides functionality to change/manage route of merchandiser, remove/add/modify route and route path, add/remove/modify store to attend, off days of Merchandises. Routes management, modify route, modify route path.  • Created a very complex Navigation System based on role of user, with deferent color, alert and process indicators, based on security modal, authorization and zone/regional location.  • Utilized various 3rd party libraries/node-modules including graph, Google map, Image/file uploaded, Color picker, Model dialog box, Rich text editor, jQuery plugin integration, Auto complete, jQuery Scroll and ui-bootstrap.  • Designed with Angular 2 Technologies a large scale business line application to Product Lines and relevant activity for a large change group store, including planning, gathering information, scheduling, various level commitment check, ordering martials, transporting material at event, team training of product launching, event management, zone/region level multiple event management, check list verification, event handling, event analysis, reviewing complete events, impact analysis, success analysis etc.  • Provided training to team member for Angular 2 technologies including mentoring team member during development.  • Worked with QA team and fixed number of JIRA, bugs and defects including enhancement request and changes.  • Build and deployed website on Azure. Mentored and helped other team members with providing code guideline. Created various documents,  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular 5, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Node JS Responsive Design, Bootstrap 4, d3.js(V4), DOM, Firebug, DHTML, Protractor, Eclipse, SVN, ECMA Script 6 Adobe Dreamweaver, Jira, MVC, Agile/Scrum, SQL Server Management Studio, Windows. UI Developer(Angular CareCentrix - Tampa, FL February 2016 to May 2017 2)    • Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Designed and Developed Various Angular 2 Component (/ngModule), Services (observable/promises), Directive and Pipes, Used Angular 2 CLI commands for productivity and global/generic building blocks Consumed server-side SOAP UI web services and called them from angular controllers.    • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Bootstrap.  • Worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS Sprites, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different applications.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology of software development thereby satisfying the Customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Implemented various features of Es6 successfully.  • Worked on PHP with Angular.js, the development of mobile Restful APIs.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • React JS and JSON were used to facilitate an AJAX enabled application of Model-view-controller.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Utilized various interactive plugins, widgets to design UI/UX.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Re-designing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionalities using Angular JS.  • Wrote various Angular JS custom directives and developed many reusable custom JS libraries.  • Developed Angular JS framework including MVC architectures, distinctive modules, particular controllers, templates, custom directives, custom filters and widely resolved angular scope issues.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Used Node JS for server side run time environment.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data end result in UI.  • Involved in developing rich GUIs and performance tuning website by using AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used SQL Server Management Studio as the backend and wrote SQL queries and stored procedures to verify data from source to target.  • Designed and implemented a professional and production quality build and unit-test automation system with Gulp, Karma, and Jasmine.  • Design & implement sharding and indexing strategies for MongoDB  • Responsible for tracking the issues in JIRA.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Handling different versions of the website (Development, Beta and Production).  • Involved in bug fixing and aided QA team in navigating through the pages.  • Worked on the GIT version control system on the front- end side and SVN on the back end side.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.    • Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS Angular 2, React JS, Node JS Responsive Design, Bootstrap, DOM, Java, JSP, XML, Firebug, AWS, DHTML, Ecma Script 6, Eclipse Juno, Mongo DB, SVN, Apache Tomcat, Adobe Dreamweaver, Jira, MVC, Agile/Scrum, SQL Server Management Studio, Windows. UI Developer American Express August 2014 to January 2016 • Responsibilities:  • Implemented various Employee Self Service front end UI Applications developed for easy lookup and creation of HR Records for various Employees.  • Involved in Agile/full software development lifecycle from Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Worked with Data Tables, a table enhancing plug-in for the JQuery JavaScript library, adding sorting, paging, and filtering abilities to plain HTML tables.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, GitHub, JQuery, GWT and Ajax.  • Conversion of wireframes and Photoshop mock-ups into table-less, semantic XHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), AJAX (jQuery).  • Used "twitter bootstrap" along with "angular-UI" bootstrap for HTML components style definitions and user interface elements such as dialog boxes and tooltips.  • Built web applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Code igniter Framework and Drupal CMS.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit and Selenium.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Involving in Analysis, Design, and Development Testing and Production phases for the new requirements of the Application.  • Worked closely with creative teams for understanding Low and high-fidelity wireframes.  • Created Dynamic web pages using forms, filters, expressions and data binding.  • Developed SOP document for maintenance and troubleshooting of the MongoDB environment  • Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.  • Used ReactJS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Templet Framework.  • Implemented automated local user provisioning instances created in AWS cloud  • Developed banking application for account management to be used by internal associate using Java/J2EE  • Consumed SOAP Web Services to retrieve customer information and integrate with User Interface, used JAX-RS to develop REST resource to integrate with Web Interface.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JSON, Bootstrap Framework, Ajax, CSS2/3, Media Queries, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS Frameworks, CSS Sprite on Java, JSP.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams (QA, BA, PM, Product Owner) as a part of AGILE environment.  • Developed applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Backbone.js and Bootstrap.  • Hand-coded HTML, CSS3, Java Script and jQuery to create front- end    • Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, PHP, React js, AWS Java, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Eclipse, JSON, Rest Web Services. UI Developer SunTrust Bank - Richmond, VA November 2012 to July 2014 • Responsibilities:  • Worked as an individual and as a team member of small team for frontend, UI/UX and Mobile design.  • Worked on all stages of full life cycle of web application development in 'Scrum and Sprint' based a fast pace Agile development environment on Enterprise Applications.  • Worked, designed and developed various mobile 1st based components including View, Modal, View Modal, Partial View, Data Access, WebAPI, Entity, Domain and Repository layers of very complex MVC and Razor view engine based application.  • Administrated MongoDB Ops Manager monitoring, backups and automation.  • Enhanced existing WCF Services as per new development and developed various new WCF as well as Web API.  • Developed various Frontend / UI design component including layout design (MVC layout file) and View Forms with Razor 2, HTML 5, CSS3, Media Query and Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  • Wrote numerous AJAX, JSON and JavaScript code for a very complex UI, a high performance, a single page type, live data SVG flow/chart diagram rendering application  • Worked and used SharePoint 2013, TFS Team Project to manage day-to-day task, meetings, documents and bugs.  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, SES and SNS services.  • Successfully completed UI/UX design, MVC codding, AJAX/JSON/JavaScript coding, HTML5/CSS3/LESS coding and WebAPI/WCF for an end- end enterprise mobile 1st cloud base web application with multi-tenant based business-to-customer cloud solution.  • Developed and Implemented Multi Language (Globalization) solution with Razor Engine, MVC and AngualrJS.  • Used ReactJS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format. Developed ReactJS forms to manipulate text within HTML5 views.  • Designed, and developed SPA Admin System to manage with multi-tenant, users and subscription packages for main cloud based product including dashboard and key-indicators using AngularJS 1.3.X, Bootstrap 3.3.x and MVC-WebAPI  • Developed various AngularJS JavaScript objects including Modules, Configuration, Filters, Directives, Controller, Factory(/Service), Designed view including Bootstrap RWD and templates, and Modified/Enhanced/Created JSON based WebAPI controllers for a SPA Admin System.  • Used various JavaScript library included but not limited to Node, Gulf, Grunt, npm, Bower, Karma, Jasmine, Protactor.  • Used Angular-Strap 2.1.x (for Bootstrap 3.x) Directives with Angular JS including Modal, Typeheads, Tooltip, Datepicker, Tab, Collapse, Navbar and Scrollspy Directives.  • Environment: CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery 1.2, JSON, Dream weaver, AWS, React JsXHTML, Protractor, DHTML, Firebug, XML, XSLT, Internet Explorer 6.0/7.0, Unix, Eclipse 3.2, Windows. Java Developer Chevronne Softech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to October 2012 Description:  Chevronne Softech is an IT consulting and Software Services Company headquartered in Hyderabad, India. It is web-enabled system to efficiently organize, populate, and maintain information on all aspects of their customer relationships (CRM). The Intranet portal site is used by employees and customers for several purposes such as Customer and Employee Accounts, Evaluation Services, HR Functions, Account Level Updates, Products, Sales Department, Finance Department, Leave Management, Accessing Documents, Participating in Surveys and so on.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front- end for the Web application using JSP, HTML, JavaScript & CSS to the requirements of the client.  • Coordination of project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and properly documented.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Created DOM for datasets. Worked with datasets in JSON format. The datasets are collected from back end server PHP file using API and these datasets are then rendered on front end using JavaScript, HTML, DHTML and CSS  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality using JQuery.  • Implemented JDBC using spring in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Database.  • Extensively involved in the discussions and design sessions user experience to provide input to designs.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handling platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used SQL Server 2005 as the back end and wrote SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Debugging the code using browser tools like Firebug.  • Extensively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate and thus creating the object relational mapping with the Java beans in the application.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema. Familiar with Embedded and Normalized data models in MongoDB.  • Designed the website and created/developed web interfaces.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company's needs and goals  • Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Developed HTML documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Worked closely with the programmers for project requirement analysis. Enhanced website by creating presenting new static models pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Improved user experience through the design and creation of new web features and components.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, Eclipse, Mongo db JDBC, SQL Server Web Developer Transoft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2009 to November 2011 Sports management platform for sports clubs, leagues, teams, athletes, coaches, and parents. Cloud based, mobile friendly, and secure all in one sports platform to manage registrations, payments, schedules, teams, communications, fields, athletes, staff, and website. Unique website builder which generates beautiful web pages and helps to keep the website up to date. Secure role based access for everybody in the organization. Integrated team management app for team communication, schedule and roster management, player availability and volunteer management, pictures and videos. Integrated athlete portal to manage athletic performance, profile, schedules, and athlete network. Allows coaches and parents help their young athletes. Easy to use cost effective and quality solution. All in one sports platform that keeps everybody on the same page.    https://thapos.com/    • Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible  recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, Customer information modules.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Extensively worked on web application development using HTML.  • Created used interfaces using JavaScript.  • Developed the Web Interface using Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the objects using JDBC.  • Worked with core java and C language concepts.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, indexes.  • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JQuery  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS page layouts.  • Involved in working with J2EE and some core technologies.  • signed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards  • Experience working closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, XML, SQL Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), UI (9 years), USER INTERFACE (9 years), jQuery (9 years) Links https://recuricial.firebaseapp.com/requisitions Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web, Frontend and UI/UX Development  • jQuery, jQMobile, AngularJS 2/1.3.x, Bootstrap 4/3.x, AJAX TK, VB.NET, C#, OOP, OOD,  • MVC 5/4/3, Razor, RWD, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, MVVM, React JS  • WebAPI, AJAX, JSON, EF, WCF, Web Services, XML, XSLT, SOA, Application Blocks, ELMAH, SOAP  • Visual Studio 2015/14/12/10/08/05/03, Azure, SourceSafe, TFS, StarTeam, N Tiers, N Projects, WWF, Patterns,  • Crystal Report, FrontPage, SharePoint 2007/03, SharePoint Designer 2007, InfoPath 2007  • Dreamweaver 8, Firework CS5/8, Flash 8, Photoshop 7, and Image Styler.    Database Tools  • MS SQL Server 2000/05/08/10/12/14, SSRS, SSIS, Oracle 11g/10g/9i/7, Oracle SQL Developer, TOAD for Oracle, Oracle Explorer  • Visual FoxPro, MS Access, Sybase SQL, Data Warehouse, mongo DB, RDBMS, ODBC.  Environment, Protocol and Fundamental  • MS Windows 10/8.1/8/7/Vista/XP, Windows Server, NT Server, Index Server 2, Azure  • MS Office 2013/10/07/03 (PowerPoint, Outlook, Word, Excel, Visio, SharePoint Designer)  • SQL Server Red-Gate, Cruise Control, Web Publication, TCP/IP, HTTP/FTP, LAN/WAN and IIS  Recent Updates  • Angular 5, VS 2017, Bootstrap 4, Typescript, RxJs, Ecma Script 6 MVC6, Web API 6, .Net 5, and CLI.    Cloud Platform: AWS  Server Side: PHP, Java.