Senior Web Developer Senior Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer - Yamamoto Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Senior Web Developer Yamamoto - Minneapolis, MN November 2016 to Present Leading team member on an integrated digital team developing and maintaining web applications and websites for regional to Fortune 50 companies. Oversee multiple projects as a Senior Developer and  assist in other projects as a specialist in specific areas.  - Create development plans and flow diagrams - Travel onsite nationally for client projects and  - Manage key projects new business opportunities  - Conduct interviews and decision making for - LAMP stack, PHP 7, SQL, HTML5, Canvas, Audio  new hires API, CSS3/SASS, NPM, Gulp, React.js, Javascript,  jQuery, Git Web Developer Schima - Minneapolis, MN April 2011 to Present Coordinate and develop websites and applications for various small to mid-size businesses and marketing agencies in addition to holding full-time employment positions.  - Develop custom sites across various platforms - Develop and sustain strong client relationships  - Create and manage HTML email campaigns - Plan, strategize and execute business objectives  - Provide maintenance and support - Manage 5 subcontractors Front- End Developer Schima - Minneapolis, MN August 2015 to April 2016 Developed websites for a development agency working with top marketing agencies in the region.  Provided both front- end and back- end solutions for a range of projects in a collaborative team  environment.  - Worked with top marketing agencies and - Created pixel perfect HTML email templates  Fortune 100 companies - Utilized HTML5  - Developed custom WordPress, Drupal, and - Created a complex data module coordinating  Expression Engine sites heavily with multiple entities Lead Web Developer Schima - La Crosse, WI March 2014 to September 2015 Developed and executed strategic development strategies and ideas utilizing various development  methods for a marketing agency. Played a key role in project management and consulting for clients,  other IT departments and key stakeholders.  - Created HTML templates - Created and delivered reports and presentations  - Built custom WordPress sites and plugins to key stakeholders  - Built custom PHP web applications using MVC - Lead a team of 4 developers/designers  - Noted for strategic decisions - Consulting and proposal creation  - Standardized development practices - Project management of multiple projects Web Developer Schima - Verona, WI September 2012 to August 2013 Active member of a regional award-winning web development shop. Created many projects which required custom builds of templates and plugins extending the WordPress core for small to large  projects. Worked heavily with a custom PHP MVC framework and CodeIgniter to extend systems for the healthcare and automotive industries.  - OOP PHP - Website server configuration  - Created Bootstrap templates - Built WordPress plugins  - Used VCS (Git) - Active leader in a team-oriented environment  - Extended PHP MVC healthcare applications - Maintained strong client relationships  - Conducted extensive cross-browser testing    LEADERSHIP AND INVOLVEMENT  Young Professionals of Minneapolis, Marketing Committee, Minneapolis, MN, 2 Years - Present  (Managing the website and new digital Projects) Education B.S. in Finance and Information Systems University of Wisconsin - La Crosse, WI 2014 Baraboo High School 2009 Additional Information Websites I built won silver and bronze at the 2019 Ad Fed Show and bronze in 2018.