Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - American Association of Physicists in Medicine Alexandria, VA Independent and self-motivated individual with strong ability to prioritize work. Self-driven with current  knowledge on the latest in web and mobile development. Possess a willingness and eagerness to learn. Work Experience Application Developer American Association of Physicists in Medicine October 2016 to Present VA  In continuation to my existing projects, conducting testing and installing the program into production,  evaluating and increasing the program's effectiveness, updating, repairing, modifying and developing  existing and new software and generic applications. Front End Web Developer American Association of Physicists in Medicine November 2015 to September 2016 VA  Work closely with UX designers, project manager and other developers to implement versatile front- end  solutions to web development problems, design and write code for the current company website and other  supporting applications. Junior Developer Discover Video LLC - Wallingford, CT March 2015 to October 2015 Working on porting of existing C#/ASP.Net System (DEVOS) to Linux/PHP/MySQL. Also working on maintenance of company WordPress website and marketing of the website. Front End Developer Paperplane Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2012 to July 2013 India  Translated requirements and mockups into fully functioning features using JavaScript and HTML/CSS  Improved client sites continuously and implemented A/B tests provided daily maintenance of client  websites and optimized code for the best user experience optimized the client site for mobile and other  devices, worked for clients such as Rapid7, United Security Summit, ReeVeda, Sanctuary Asia and more. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of New Haven - West Haven, CT May 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science K. J. Somaiya Institute of Engineering & I.T. March 2011 Diploma in Dot Net Technology in Dot Net Technology NIIT Skills C# (Less than 1 year), Css (8 years), Html (8 years), Javascript (7 years), Sql Server, Jquery, SQL, Linux, Angular, React, Nodejs, Node, PHP (7 years) Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/2294935/rohan-tapiyawala https://www.linkedin.com/in/rohantapiyawala/ Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  Web Design: PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Photoshop  Content Management Systems: Laravel, WordPress, Joomla  Database: SQL SERVER, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Application Server: Apache, Nginx,  Version Controlling: Git, Tortoise SVN.  Software Programming: C#, JAVA, C, C++  Mobile Development: Mobile Optimization and Print Solutions via mobile devices