Software / DevOps Engineer, Founder Software / DevOps Engineer, Founder Software / DevOps Engineer Westminster, CO Innovative professional with 14+ years of web and application mastery skills, including 8+ years progressive experience as a Software Engineer and Team Leader. Deep understanding of developing both front- end and back- end code using numerous technologies and programming languages. Strong understanding of DevOps tools and techniques and the ability to think through and identify complex functionality requirements, data types, and database schemas. Problem solving is a passion as well as thinking through and solving situations that may not have an easy or known solution.     Extensive understanding of best practices in various languages/technologies such as native software development for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices. Ability to easily grasp and put into application new ideas, concepts, methods, frameworks, and technologies.    I am very dedicated, highly self-motivated, and a hard working team player/builder with an entrepreneurial spirit and passion for making engaging, creative, and user-friendly websites and applications.    Proficiencies:  AWS, JavaScript, PHP, HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3, LESS, Sass, Objective-C, PhoneGap, React, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Grunt, Gulp, CircleCI, Git, Beanstalk, AJAX, JSON, cURL, REST, XML, XHTML, SSH, Unix/Linux environments, Cyber Security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software / DevOps Engineer, Founder Entropi, LLC - Westminster, CO July 2014 to Present Lead Developer on numerous projects including fitXchange which uses JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, Angular, React and other technologies to create an online fitness community. The system allows personal trainers, gym owners, and customers to create/modify accounts, create/modify listings, and purchase/register for fitness events, classes, or groups. A custom API was also developed for the project to pass data between fitXchange and MindBody which allowed admins to manage and sync their events and classes across both platforms. Google Maps API was also used for displaying available listings on map view which could be filtered down by radius/proximity to the user’s location or a specific location. Other responsibilities include cyber security and designing/developing the system architecture for Entropi’s DevOps allowing quick creation, testing, deployment, and version control for all clients/projects. Senior Software / DevOps Engineer Aquarius Designs & Marketing - Denver, CO August 2011 to February 2019 As the Team Leader and Lead Developer, I oversaw and developed 100+ projects into fully responsive websites and applications for both the front- end and back- end code utilizing PHP, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, and other technologies. Projects included FinishedBasementsNJ which involved developing a complex gallery and multi-step wish list form. Data from a MySQL database was dynamically loaded based off previously selected inputs, and the data was then sent out to site admins allowing for easy viewing, editing, and communication with clients during their project. Other responsibilities included designing and developing a custom in-house client management system for developing, testing, deploying, and monitoring. This system also used multi branch version control and implemented automated cyber security on a linux based (Centos/AWS) server which hosts 100+ websites/applications. This system saves extensive hours every month on maintenance and updates, and saved Aquarius Designs over 30% a month in server management and hosting costs. Lead Front- End Software Developer Blue Riot Labs - Wheatridge, CO August 2014 to January 2017 Member of team responsible for developing numerous websites/applications including BarBets, a hybrid mobile app developed for web, iOS, and Android that required parsing 20,000+ lines of sports data provided from mutliple 3rd party APIs and displaying the data in a user-friendly and interactive app for sports betting. Other responsibilities included building and using DevOps tools such as Jenkins, CircleCI, and BeanStalk to test/review/deploy code between staging and production environments with multiple branches. Worked closely with Account/Project Managers, Designers, Devs, and Marketing Directors using agile methods. Front- End Software Developer The Tombras Group - Knoxville, TN July 2010 to September 2011 Developed websites and mobile applications for Android, Blackberry, and iPhone for nationallyrecognized companies and products as Front- End Developer including a hybrid mobile app forthe University of Tennessee football team utilizing PhoneGap, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, Java, andObjective-C. Education High school or equivalent Horizon High School - Thornton, CO Skills AWS, Devops, Jenkins, Git, Linux, Software Development (10+ years), Ansible, Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jtc-dev/