Technical Support Analyst Technical Support Analyst New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Analyst Community Heathcare Network - New York, NY September 2016 to Present ? Reimage and repair workstations with software or hardware issues.  ? Create and update user accounts via AD.  ? Install new hardware and peripherals.  ? Troubleshoot conference room issues (Projector, connectivity, etc).  ? Travel to over 10 sites to handle any IT related issues that occur. Junior Front End Web Developer Care Coordination Solutions - New York, NY September 2018 to July 2019 ? WordPress theme setup and administration via FTP.  ? Implement frameworks such as Bootstrap, jQuery, and SASS when need  ? Responsive HTML5, CSS3, & JavaScript with cross-browser optimization.  ? Use agile methodology for project management.  ? Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders.  ? Use best practice SEO for indexing and handle the tracking of Google Analytics.  ? Use Git for version control. Help Desk Analyst IBM @ Y&R - New York, NY April 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Provide support for both Windows (7, 8, 10) and Mac OS X (Maverick, Yosemite, El Capitan) platforms.  ? Solve clients networking and VPN issues.   ? Handle both regular and VIP clients.  ? Troubleshoot Android, iPhone and Blackberry issues including corporate email.  ? Provide support for Microsoft Office 2010 (Mac) and Office 365 (Windows).  ? Create and edit accounts via Active Directory.  ? Troubleshoot Symantec and Sophos issues.  ? Provide hands-on support for users.  ? Troubleshoot conference room issues (Projector, connectivity, etc).  ? Support over 9 different companies in over 30 countries. Hostel Manager Suite Hostel Budapest - Budapest April 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Managerial duties including, but not limited to, dealing with guests and upkeep of the business.  ? Managing the LAN, telephony, and internal administrative systems of the business.  ? Managing the online accounts of the business.  ? Organizing and partnering with touristic organizations and other businesses.  ? Establishing partnership with other hostels in regards to sending and receiving guests. Help Desk Analyst Credit Suisse - Morrisville, NC November 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Help traders and non-traders with both hardware and software issues.  ? Provide support for mobile phones using the Blackberry Enterprise System and Good for mobile.  ? Troubleshoot VPN access applications such as MyDesk, MyDesk advance, Cisco VPN, iPass, Citrix and RSA token.  ? Troubleshoot network connectivity issues.  ? Perform system upgrades and/or system recovery for clients.  ? Troubleshoot Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8 and VMware running Mac OS X platform developed for Credit Suisse.  ? Use Unix GUI NTPA to provide access, reset and unlock clients’ accounts and passwords.  ? Use Active Directory and LDAP to grant access permissions and troubleshoot access issues.  ? Provide support for Microsoft Office suites (2010, 2013) and Microsoft Exchange applications.  ? Troubleshoot printing, copying and faxing issues. Help Desk Analyst Cisco Systems - Morrisville, NC November 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Configure new hire machines and assist with the installation of programs and applications.  ? Troubleshooting of network, application, and general desktop issues.  ? Troubleshooting Microsoft office applications; including special licensed applications.  ? Provide support to Windows XP, Windows 7, Mac OS X and Virtual Machine users.  ? Provide level 2 support for configuration of smart phones for corporate email.  ? Provide VIP support for Directors, Vice Presidents and Executives.  ? Provide support for VOIP based Cisco devices and Cisco Virtual Office package, including Cisco VPN and Citrix.  ? Troubleshooting printing, copying and faxing issues.  ? Troubleshooting of McAfee antivirus and Cisco Security Agents issues. Education Certification in Web Development Johns Hopkins University - New York, NY 2017 to 2018 Computer Information Technology in Computer Informatics Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC 2008 to 2010 Skills HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Javascript (1 year), JQuery (1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support (4 years), SASS (Less than 1 year), Networking (4 years), Customer Service (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Mac OS X (3 years), Windows (7 years), VOIP (4 years), Adobe (2 years), Lightroom (1 year), Photoshop (1 year), Illustrator (1 year), Web Design (2 years), Word (5 years), Powerpoint (5 years), Excel (5 years), Office 365, Network Administration (4 years), Networking (4 years), TCP/IP (4 years), Desktop Support (4 years), Mac OS X (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), VPN (4 years), Dhcp (2 years), DNS (2 years), Meraki (2 years), Okta (1 year), Vmware (2 years), Help Desk (5 years), Helpdesk Support (5 years), Linux (2 years), Service Desk (2 years), Tech Support (4 years) Certifications/Licenses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for Web Developers May 2018 to Present Classes: Intro to HTML, Intro to CSS, Intro to JavaScript, Responsive Web Design, Intro to ReactJS, Single Page Web Applications with ReactJS, Interactivity with JavaScript, Version Control (Git/Github). Additional Information Skills  • Able to speak, read and write fluent English and Spanish.  • Ability to work in a team structure where I can utilize my strong interpersonal and customer service skills.  • Knowledge in configuration, deployment, repair, install, and modification of workstations and peripherals.  • Familiar with Cisco applications and equipment, and Microsoft office suites and applications.