UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Morgan Stanley New York, NY • 8+ Years of experience in application and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS2/3, SCSS, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, and JAVA technology  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout, Angular.js, JQuery UI, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  • Good understanding in NGRX.  • Experience in developing cross platform server side applications using Node.js to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Hands on experience for HTML/CSS/JSP direct coding with focus on Cross-browser/Cross-platform compliance.  • Good knowledge in Angular.js directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client side interactivity in web applications.  • Working knowledge of integrating Angular.js and React.js with additional custom directives. Also with Backbone.js and React.js to be used for comments sections.  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Good experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Developed UI for search products using React JS  • Designed and developed custom web applications specific to the client's needs using Ruby along with the Rails application framework.  • Expertise in testing APIs, Web Services for SOA, Databases and UI.  • Extensive knowledge in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using Rails, Struts, spring framework and Hibernate  • Extensively used Java/Servlet API/Spring/Multithreading/Drools API/Lucene in the projects.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  • Experience with Styling and Responsive Design techniques using technologies such as LESS, and SASS  • Created Mobile Web Solutions using Responsive Web Design (RWD), Twitter Boot Strap and JQUERY MOBILE.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery  • Involved in creating unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control(SVN)  • Developed Interactive graphs using D3.js with JSON data (D3 is powerful visualization JavaScript)  • Experience in developing applications using Angular JS-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Good knowledge in using the Mongo DB and Couch DB.  • Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Implemented, configured, and customized JIRA issue tracking software with agile plugin across all company functions and acted as JIRA administrator.  • Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using core JQuery along with AJAX/JavaScript.  • Ran the standalone front end application in GRUNT Server. Used Google Chrome for debugging the application  • Client side technologies such as JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSL, Web Services etc.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY October 2018 to Present Morgan Stanley is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages and distributes capital for governments, institutions and individuals. The company operates in three business segments: Institutional Securities, Wealth Management, and Investment Management.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze use case document, perform systems Analysis, feasibility study, and understand technology paradigm.  • Designing and developing the user interface as per requirement defined in use case document.  • Applying broad knowledge of programming techniques and computer systems to evaluate the use case requirement and creating user interface for various enterprise applications.  • Created application structure based on the Angular Style Guides and Best Practices.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and project setup with scaffolding features.  • Created application mockups and styling with Bootstrap, ng2-bootstrap and SCSS.  • Created single page application structure with multiple modules using Angular 5.0, TypeScript and RXJS.  • Redux ngRx is used for state management purpose.  • This will contain all the required action to initiate any transfer process in a single page.  • Created individual Modules, Components and Directives with single responsibility principle.  • Creating new component using JavaScript framework for providing the custom solution to the complex business requirement.  • Integrating the user interface with middle layer using RESTful api.  • Created Angular directives, controllers, modules, pipes etc., in TypeScript.  • Created Angular directives for Card View, Grid, DatePicker, Pager, other custom controls and corresponding controllers.  • Created templates for the UI view in Html 5, SCSS and AngularJS directives.  • Created reducers and selectors to handle actions. Used effects as middleware to handle asynchronous service calls.  • The UI data binding achieved with async pipe wherever required  • Validating the user interface integration with the oracle data source system.  • Follow iterative development practices like requirement gathering, analysis, design, coding, testing, UAT, performance, deployment and support.  • Identify the functional gaps in use case and communicate the same to business analysts.  • Gathering business process requirements and utilize JavaScript framework functionality to develop and achieve those objectives.  • Worked on HTML/HTML5, SCSS/CSS3 style sheets, JavaScript, JQuery , React JS and Angular Js to tie together a diverse range of sites with an easily understandable structure.  • Tracking and prioritizing issues and new features for later releases of software using JIRA.  • Strong working experience in solving Cross-Browser Compatibility challenges and processing Responsiveness.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating the animations on CSS/SCSS basis.  • Developed APIs using AJAX and JSON to implement more robust and efficient client facing applications.  • Redesigned user interface HTML frameworks with Bootstrap and CSS styling.  • Creating unit test case for UI application.  • Creating technical design document based on the use case documents in technical support team.  • Creating release note, unit test report and code coverage report for QA and business testing team.  • Interaction with client about the daily status of the project related activities  • Highlighting about the issues, risks, limitations etc. for the present and future deliverables.  • Stay up to date with new tools and strategies to incorporate best practices to current IT Systems.  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Applied media queries to created responsive website across different size of screens.  • Created a dashboard using bootstrap 4.0.  • Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  • Conducted unit testing with Firebug, IE Tester and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers and devices.  • Involved in using JQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation  • Extensive Front end UI development, mobile UI development.  • Designed and Developed Web application using CSS preprocessors (SASS)  • Involved with Styling and Responsive Design techniques using technologies such as HTML5, Bootstrap, LESS and SASS  • Designed navigation structure, interaction and styling for an AJAX environment.  • Expertise in testing APIs, Web Services (REST and SOAP) in SOA, Databases and Web UI.  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design displaying properly on different devices.  • Committed code change into repository by using version control tool SVN.  • Responsible for introducing an increased quality standard for web page design and maintain quality with innovative internal solutions.    Environment: Angular 5.0, Angular-CLI, TypeScript, RXJS (Reactive Extensions for JavaScript), NGRX, Bootstrap, ng2-bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML, SVN, Chrome Inspector, Karma, Jasmine, Protractor, Bootstrap IE Tester, Firebug. Front- End UI Developer PWC - Tampa, FL October 2015 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Designed and created a dynamic website model which served as design guide for the development team.  • Worked on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 style sheets, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js to tie together a diverse range of sites with an easily understandable structure.  • Used ReactJS for improving the performance of the app by using the Reusability concept.  • Used Redux and ngrx store to manage the State, Subscribing and unsubscribing the state changes and dispatching the actions in Angular 2.  • Extensively used React JS, Node JS and JavaScript to provide UI functionality.  • Created customizable components for the new website using ReactJS and React-Routes to create a single page web application. Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Tracking and prioritizing issues and new features for later releases of software using JIRA.  • Strong working experience in solving Cross-Browser Compatibility challenges and processing Responsiveness.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating the animations on CSS basis.  • Developed APIs using AJAX and JSON to implement more robust and efficient client facing applications.  • Redesigned user interface HTML frameworks with Bootstrap and CSS styling.  • Used routing feature of angular to build a single page application.  • Used building rich internet applications, backbone JS & Require JS to optimize in-browser use, to load the module, and to improve the Speed.  • Integrate with a RETE based rules engine (Drools).  • Developed frontend application using React.js and Knockout. Js.  • Created Mobile Web Solutions using Responsive Web Design (RWD), Twitter Boot Strap and JQuery Mobile.  • Applied media queries to created responsive website across different size of screens.  • Created a dashboard using bootstrap 3.0. Used D3.js for charting jQuery and JavaScript for creating view models.  • Use of CMS and Enhanced Plugin Customization.  • Familiar with version control systems like GIT HUB.  • Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  • Conducted unit testing with Firebug, IE Tester and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers and devices.  • Involved in using JQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation  • Extensive Front end UI development, mobile UI development.  • Designed and Developed Web application using CSS preprocessors (SASS)  • Involved with Styling and Responsive Design techniques using technologies such as HTML5, Bootstrap, LESS and SASS  • Designed navigation structure, interaction and styling for an AJAX environment.  • End-to- end web application development with Ruby on Rails.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using Angular JS framework and JQuery.  • Linked web page with social websites with feedback features by using JavaScript.  • Expertise in testing APIs, Web Services (REST and SOAP) in SOA, Databases and Web UI.  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design displaying properly on different devices.  • Mastered the GRUNT with commands for building and deploying the project. Used Bower for successfully implementing the dependencies.  • Use Mongo DB to save non-transactional/static data  • Use Mongoid to query the document based Mongo DB  • Committed code change into repository by using version control tool SVN.  • Responsible for introducing an increased quality standard for web page design and maintain quality with innovative internal solutions.  • Implemented and developed with Interwoven Team site and other Content Management Systems.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML, SVN, Chrome Inspector, Angular JS,D3.js, Ext.js ,React.js , NGRX, Bootstrap IE Tester, Firebug, GIT, GITHUB, Apache, Ruby on Rails 4.0, Mongo DB, GRUNT, Linux, Karma, SASS and LESS, Drools rule engine. Front- End UI Developer Cisco SanJose February 2015 to September 2015 Project: DNA Center  DNA Center is a software driven approach to network architecture that helps you innovate, reduce costs and lower risk. lt is an application where a user can Design, Automate and Assure Network. lt provides allthe tools needed to setup the network setup for large scale companies by automating all the tasks for setting up a network and also provides better insights to detect issues faster' All the teams contribute to the project by developing individual plugins which perform individual tasks collectively over cloud. All the individuals developing the plugins will be following cluster based development for easy deployment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Worked Closely with Designers to Understand and redesign the Package Customization and Service Locator Modules using HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery.  • Worked extensively with Yahoo! User Interface Library (YUI), AJAX, JSON, XML and created components based on WRIA frame work which internally uses the YUI3 frame work.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Backbone.js.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Created websites for devices using Responsive design.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  • Implemented different JQuery Conditions as per the business requirements for the Package Landing Page.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Adobe Photoshop has been used to create different banners and designs.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Adobe Flash, Photoshop, CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Created HTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards along with Section 508 compliance for CSS as well.  • Built Model Android application's UI layout using Phone Gap and Sencha Touch along with EXTJS.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used advanced level of JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used JQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Maintained, enhanced, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Used REST, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Utilized Mocha for unit testing.  • Worked on developing products pages with Magento and PHP Scripting.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, YUI, Responsive Design, Backbone.js ,Angular.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Bootstrap, Mocha, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, ECLIPSE, Photoshop, Flex, Dreamweaver, SOAP and Windows. UI Developer Brooks Brothers - New York, NY February 2013 to January 2015 Brooks Brothers is the clothing company headquartered on Madison Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. The project involved in upgrading the UI for company website in the members and providers module to provide user friendly experience to the customers supporting products, online shopping, billing, & accounts management    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing budgeting module for various deals negotiated between Agencies.  • Worked on application center screens and developed interactive professional and dynamic user interfaces using CSS2, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Redesigned UI screens for developing table-less layouts using CSS selectors.  • Extensively worked on creating cross-browser compatible interfaces to support IE, Firefox.  • Designed and developed User friendly web based interfaces using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Custom Tags.  • Designed and developed UI using HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  • Gathered and designed user cases for UI requirements. Prototyped UI designs using: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Flash and PowerPoint.  • Hands on experience implementing AJAX calls for better web based User Interface.  • Worked extensively on rewriting style sheets using CSS.  • Involved in Budget management module involves creation of various media management and reports.  • Also done enhancements to existing Account Budgeting System using JavaScript and JSP for developing views and user interaction.  • Interacted with the project leaders, team leaders, in designing and developing web pages, animations, still graphics, banners, greeting cards, logos etc.  • Worked closely with Program Engineers how the front end and back end mechanism works in order to develop an interface.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JSON, REST Web Services, Ajax, RUP, Spring 2.0, AOP, Hibernate Template, ,XML, CSS, JUnit, HQL, Data Caching, WSDL, Apache Axis, , Web logic 9.1,SOAP, Log4j, ANT UI Developer Sapient Corporation June 2010 to August 2012 Project Description: This application has been developed for a reseller application. This project was to develop a web site, which is e-commerce compliant. It involved maintaining good backend inventory and order processing system. The project involved different modules like database designing, static content designing, dynamic product displaying, maintaining the shopping cart, invoice generation and administrator's interface for the remote maintenance of database objects in HTML forms through Java Servlets.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, XML, JQuery, XML, Agile, Apache, Ajax, RUP, Spring 2.0, AOP, Hibernate Template, Hibernate2.0,Eclipse,XML, CSS, JUnit, HQL, Data Caching, WSDL, Apache Axis Education Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Vignan University