Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Bloomington, IL • Almost 8+ years of professional experience in software design and Core Java/J2EE development and understanding of Object Oriented Design Methodology.  • Deep understanding in Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Observer, Proxy, Demand, etc.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts, such as OOP Design, Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling, Collections, Java Reflection, Annotation and some other features in Java 6.  • Extensive experience in Open Source Java frameworks such as: Spring Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control, Aspect-Oriented Programming, Spring MVC, Hibernate and Struts 1 and Struts 2.  • Excellent in front- end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, JQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server.  • Extensive experience working in Spring Framework SpringMVC, SpringAOP, SpringDAO, SpringORM, Spring Security, Struts Framework and O/R mapping Hibernate framework.  • Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, route Providers, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call, input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  • Build large-scale web applications and mobile-first websites using JavaScript, React, AngularJS, and C#.  • Experience in server side technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, RMI, JNDI, JMS, Ant and Log4j.  • Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/JQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  • Experience in J2EE Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of business applications in Web and client-server environment using Java and J2EE patterns, together with JSP, Servlet, SOAP, AJAX, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Java Mail, JAXB, Web Service and REST.  • Strong in writing SQLqueries in PL/SQL and T-SQL, triggers, stored procedures in Relational Database Management Systems like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and MicrosoftSQLServer.  • Experience in developing and deploying Web Services using SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Axis, Rest full web services, shell scripting. WebLogic portal Server development and Installation and configuration of WebLogic/WebSphere, Good Knowledge in J2EE Design Patterns like Session Facade, DAO, MVC, JavaScript, Unit System testing, various Integrated Development Environments IDEs like Eclipse, PL/SQL , RAD  • Hands-on experience in using various versioncontrolsystems: SVN, CVS, Git and Github.Developed an internal inventory tools for e-commerce company using ReactJS.  • Experience in major web application servers: ApacheTomcat, Jboss, Express Node.js, and ApacheHttpServer.  • Having hands on experience in deploying web and JEE enterprise applications on ApacheTomcat, Weblogic, Jboss and IBMWebsphere application servers.  • Expertise in PHP development under LAMP/MAMP/WAMP Linux, Mac, Windows, Apache MySQL, MongoDB&PHP 5 environment.  • Involved in various back- end testing QA phases including Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Black-Box Testing, White-Box Testing, Regression Testing, etc.  • Worked with testing tools such as Unit for Java, Quit for JavaScript, and A/B Testing for Website Design and its traffic flow.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, spring batch, Spring security, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Familiarity with Android SDK and Eclipse IDE along with Android ADT plug in.  • Interests in graphic designing for UI using Adobe Photoshop, Flash and Dreamweaver.  • Involved in Agile Software Development Team using SCRUM, TDD Test Driven Development.  • Good personality, excellent communication skills, efficient developer in a team as well as working individually.  • Willing to learn new technologies and learning fast. Capable of working on multiple projects under tight deadlines. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer IBM - Bloomington, IL August 2018 to Present Description: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) is an American multinational information technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York, with operations in over 170 countries.IBM produces and sells computer hardware, middleware and software, and provides hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Agile Methodology two weeks sprint and two sprints one iteration  • Ability to adapt easily and effectively to learn any emerging technologies, self-learner and exceptional analytical capabilities.  • Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Worked with front end build environment of Grunt, Node JS and GIT version control system.  • Implemented Restfulweb services using technologies like JSON, XML and JAXB etc.,  • DevelopedRestful server APIs written in NodeJs and connecting UI with back- end Restfulservices.  • Worked on writing the business services for the given User stories.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling and Polymorphism.  • Experience in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.  • Experience working with the Java 8 concepts like Parallel Streams, filters, Collectors grouping by and counting.  • Used ReactJS for declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.  • Microservices Architecture is used to write the business services.  • Spring Boot is used to develop the Application.  • Good exposure to RestfulWeb services such as Get/Put/Post http methods.  • Hibernate is Used as an ORM Framework.  • Used BIRT framework for developing various Reports.  • Modules in spring like Spring IOC and SpringCRUD are used to write the business services.  • Used CoreSpring framework for dependency injection. Used SpringCRUD to integrate between Hibernate and Database.  • Mockito is used as a framework to write JUnit test cases.  • Worked on writing the unit test cases for the business services with the code coverage of 100%.  • Bit Bucket is used to store the repositories and Git is used as a version control.  • Proficient in working with various MVS JavaScript frameworks AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Databases like MariaDB and Oracle are used to Store the schemas.  • Worked on migrating the data from Oracle to MariaDB.  • Worked on creating a POC on Migrating data from Oracle and MariaDB and hence got the chance to get some exposure on Apache-NIFI.  • Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJS/Redux and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager)  • Got chance to work on JMS for sending the messages between Consumer and Producer. ActiveMQ used as a message broker.  • Using Redux and ReactJS fetched the API's from the back- end systems.  • Tomcat is used as an Application server to run and deploy the application.  • Worked on the AWS environment where the database is placed in the RDS and Bastian host access is required to connect to RDS and Putty is used to connect to Bastian host.  • Involved in doing end to end testing and hence got chance to understand the frontend part of the application as well.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Java 8, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring CRUD, JMS, Active MQ, Mockito, Junit, Oracle, Maria DB, Rest, Bit Bucket, Kafka, Git, Intellij, Hibernate, DB2, Jprofiler, AWS. Java Developer Aim Specialty health - Chicago, IL May 2017 to July 2018 Description: AIM Specialty Health® provides clinical solutions that drive appropriate, safe and affordable care. Serving more than 50 million members across 50 states, D.C., and US territories, AIM promotes optimal care through the use of evidence-based clinical guidelines and real-time decision support for both providers and their patients. Our platform, featuring a sophisticated clinical rules engine from Applied Pathways (a wholly owned subsidiary of AIM), delivers significant cost of care savings across an expanding set of clinical domains, including radiology, cardiology, oncology, specialty drugs, sleep medicine, musculoskeletal care, and genetic testing.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Core Java including Exceptional handling, Multithreading and collections with code review and sharing best practices with the team.  • Querying the Sybase /Db2 database to support requests from various Business Users.  • Experience in installation, configuration and deployment of J2EE components on IBMWebSphere Application Server using Eclipse IDE.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Expertise in developing various JavaScriptframeworks like Angular.js Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, React.js/Redux, Ember.js, Pdf.js, Spine.js, Ext.JS, Responsive web design. (RWD)  • Sybase, Db2 and Ms Sqlspace checks for all major applications using Java  • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, JavaScript, JAVA XML, JSP, JSTL and CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side JavaScript validations.  • Designed and developed UI screens with Bootstrap and Angular JS to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Experience working with Node JS to develop single page along with dynamic web applications.  • Design and development of application using Java, J2EE, Struts2, Hibernate&XML.  • Developed custom directives in Angular JS for the application independent components like sticky header for window or table, custom dropdowns, tab.  • Involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps and used ReactJS for declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. Working experience on coreJava Concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Design Patterns, OOPS concepts.  • Spring Boot is used to develop the application.  • Heavily worked with Oracle for user data maintenance.  • Worked extensively on the Backend side of the applications to write Rest Webservices.  • Build RESTwebservice on spring controller in the back- end to handle requests sent from the front end.  • Experience working with Rest Web services for returning JSON to frontend.  • Implemented DAO layers using JPA standards and HibernateAPI interfaces, developed POJO, and implemented Hibernate and integration with Spring Framework.  • Integrated SOAP&Restful web services for the application.  • Used Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages.  • Used JMS for asynchronous messaging.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with GIT for managing the code and JENKINS for continue integration.  • Used Junit and Mockito to write different test cases.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS (Java API for XML and Restful Service)  • Experience working with Rest Web services for returning JSON to frontend.  • Provided connections using SpringJDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Deployed project on WebLogic Server.  • Used GIT as a version control tool.  • Deployed application in virtual server - Amazon Web Services for maintaining Volumes, Creating Snapshots and Security Groups in AWS.  • JIRA is used for tracking work progress and dividing tasks. Wrote documentation on Confluence for the newly developed API.  • Exposure to Docker.  • Worked in the Linux Environment.    EnvironmentHTML5, CSS3, Linux, JavaScript, Angular JS, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Gradle, JQuery, JMS, Oracle10g, SOAP, Restful Web services, Multi-Threading, Oracle11g, Maven, AWS, JIRA, Tomcat, Junit. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer PPL ServiceCorp- Allen town January 2016 to April 2017 Description: The PPL Corporation is an energy company headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA. It currently controls about 8,000 megawatts of regulated electric generating capacity in the United States and delivers electricity to 10.5 million customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Great Britain. It also provides natural gas delivery service to 321,000 customers in Kentucky.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including developing, testing, and deployment of application. Involved in developing code and writing JUnit.  • Developed the User Interface for Audit, Monetary Destination, Non-Monetary Destination, and Customer modules using Struts, Hibernate and HTML.  • Worked with engineering team on the use of Jboss and web-related technologies. Experience with OOPS, Served as a consulting in the Cloud services.  • Used Spring MVC for loading database configuration and hibernate mapping files, created data source instance for instantiating Hibernate DAO Support's session factory object.  • Declared beans in spring's application context file and used Dependency Injection for populating them in action and service layer classes. Worked with NoSQL and MongoDB and MongoDB was integrated with Spring Framework.  • Developed server side SOAPWeb Services and Service Oriented Architecture SOA using Apache Axis for storing and retrieving merchant and terminals information of a customer. Tested developed web services functionality using Web Services Explorer tool. Created Restful web service to manage debit card accounts  • Worked on the resolution of defects as identified by the QA team.  • Used Ant for compiling and creating deployable archives, Subversion for Version Control, Blaze rules for identifying and creating the rules for a specific entity and Jbossas Application Server.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for project development. Implemented numerous JAVA based Frameworks for project Development and support using agile methodology.  • Created Desktops, Books, pages and portlets on weblogic portal. Involved in installation and configuration WebLogicPortal Server. EclipseIDE was used to build Java applications. Worked for Continuous Integration deployment, automating build, and tests using Jenkins, and Maven.  • Worked with WebLogicPortal Administration for creating users, user groups, defining Blaze rules, and delegated administration. Experience with OOPS.  • Modified and wrote core JAVA code according to the requirements of upper management while adding new parameter such as the addition of new states to the software database.  • Designed and developed the Customer Service portal using framework ReactJS along with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Wrote PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and worked with database such as Oracle9i to 10g.  • Implemented Log4J1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers  • Developed multi-tier web and form applications using SQLServer, Linux and Windows. Management experiences that included setup and configuration of PHP, Apache including SSL, Tomcat, Java, monitoring, security auditing and tightening, and building custom installs from source.  • High exposure to EAI Enterprise Application Integration, integrated Document with WebSphere Portal using Web services. Identified, analysed and developed integration flows using Mule Enterprise Service Bus ESB. Hands on experience in planning QA testing procedures for complex enterprise solutions  • Experienced in deploying J2EE components on IBMWebSphere application server  • Built an end to end vertical slice for a JEE based billing application using popular frameworks like Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSF, XHTML, Maven, Ajax, HTML 5  • Worked in ILOG rule application Integration. Integrated ILOG JRules and Process Server to implement agile business process.  • Gathered technical requirements for Enterprise Service Bus message flow. Performed data mapping from one XMLschema to other web services. Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Used EJB, Struts framework for JSP and Servlet development, JMS, JAVABeans, JSP, Servlets, and other J2EEAPIs on WebLogic  • Used CVS version control system to manage system development,    Environment:Java 1.5, J2EE, RMI, Spring Frame work, Soap, Hibernate, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, YUI, APACHE TOMCAT server, Angular JS framework, JPA, SOAP UI, REST web services, spring web flow, Bootstrap. Java/ J2EE Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, OH. The company also operates regional headquarters in Des Moines, IA; San Antonio.  Responsibilities:    • Participated in Agile Development Team, and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front- end side AngularJS to back- end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfil the implementation of business logic.  • Configured the xml files for Open Source Spring 3 Framework to fulfil the Proxy Pattern.  • Configured the xml files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on SessionFactoryas well as caching on query.  • Configured the xml files for Spring Security injection to ensure the back- end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and Server side assets.  • Configured the xml files for Java Mail technology in User Account Activation Service and Password Reset Service.  • Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application.  • Customized CSS files by adding new CSS3 features like media queries to ensure fluid/ responsive design for our web pages.  • Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS, JQuery UI andJQuery Mobile to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  • Developed front- end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and JQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back- end RestfulServer, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Involved in defensive coding against SQL injection, XSS, Phishing by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for email validation and credit card number validation, JQuery code combined with AngularJS ng-pristine/dirty for input validations.  • Developed JavaScript code to feed data-tables of Google Charts API with data, then draw charts with animation effect.  • Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods like mortgage calculating.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Node.JS, Spring, Hibernate, Hibernate Annotation, Oracle 10g, Spring Security, REST, Web Service, JSP, JUnit, JSTL, JPA, Servlet, Java Mail, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, Angular.JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Tomcat, JBoss, log4J, Subversion SVN , JIRA, SCRUM, MyEclipse/Eclipse. Java Front End Developer Marico - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Marico Limited is an Indian consumer goods company providing consumer products and services in the areas of Health and Beauty based in Mumbai. During 2015, the company generated a turnover of Rs.5,733 crore. Marico has 8 factories in India located at Pondicherry, Perundurai, Kanjikode, Jalgaon, Paldhi, Dehradun, Baddi and Paonta Sahib.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering with clients and prepared the data dictionary. Assisted in moving the components from Development to TEST to Production, troubleshoot and resolved issues.  • Involved in coding front end using Swing, HTML, JSP, JSF, Struts Framework and involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate  • Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing Mapping files and Hibernate (POJOs/DAOs)  • Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO, and Business Delegate) and Model View Controller Architecture with JSF and Spring DI.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction. Extensively used Hibernate for Object relational Mapping for data persistence.  • Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  • Developed customized Exception classes for all modules to display user friendly messages  • Responsible for complex queries using JDBC and also implemented JPA using provider as Hibernate at the Persistence layer.  • Used web services to retrieve information from remote services using SOAP, WSDL and Axis Webservices. Worked on Java APIs like Collections, Generics, exception handling, etc.  • Leveraged Ant, JUnit (Test Driven Development) and log4j open-source projects. Coordinate with the off-shore team and client for resolving the queries and finalize the timelines. Responsible for data modeling and database design in Oracle10g.  • Involve in installation and configuration of Web Logic Application Server on Windows XP systems for the application. Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Used Spring Framework for developing the application. Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the Oracle Database from the DAO.  • Designed the email blasts using Adobe software and then implemented them using HTML and JavaScript.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and rich user interfaces.  • Used AJAX to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and developing strategies.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from server. Build large-scale web applications and mobile-first websites using JavaScript, React, AngularJS, and C#.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.    Environment:HTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, MySQL, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Firebug and Waterfall. Software Engineer Agnide technologies-Ahmedabad,Gujarat January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Our initial focus was on providing complete information technology solutions for companies. It is a software company which provides complete and customized software solutions, internet solutions and IT consulting services. We provide complete and customized software solutions.  Responsibilities:    • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Used MVC architecture of Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS/LESS)  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, WebServices using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expertise in CoreJava concepts such as OODesign, Multithreading, GenericsExceptionHandling, Collections, JavaReflection, Annotations.  • Taken care of complete Java Multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development phase of the application.  • As a team member, I was involved in preparing design documents - Technical Design, Functional Design Technical Domain documents, Application Interface Contract and Service Interface Contract Documents.  • Extensively involved in writing MySQL, PL/SQL queries, to interact with Oracle.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Implemented DataGrid, Charts, Forms and LayoutManager Components.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts, fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Web Logic, Java, JDBC, Servlets, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, SVN and Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon web services, Api, C++, Cucumber, Docker Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JPA JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Java Beans, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Spring data, Spring Boot, Spring framework, Spring JDBC Templates, java mail, Google API, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty Server, jerkins, AEM, Nginx.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/4.x/5/x, Hibernate, JSF, iBatis, Angular Ionic, RCP  DevOps Tools Docker, Kubernetes, Amazon Web Services(EC2,EBS,EKS), Jenkins  Web technologies JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, Express.js, Ext JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  Web Services Frameworks JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Axis, Jersey  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, Altova , XMLSpy  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC Waterfall model  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Cucumber, SPock, Mockito, TestNg, Karma, Jasmine, Protractor, Mocha, Chai  Database Servers Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Postgre.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git, Bitbucket  Build Tools ANT, Maven 3.0, Gradle, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Jenkins.  Cloud Amazon Webservices (AWS) Cloud, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).