Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - Pacific Staffing Citrus Heights, CA • One-year experience of Data Entry & Data Analyst  • One-year experience of Customer Service  • Four years effective Front- End Developer experience  • Self-taught: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Python, C++, WordPress, Adobe Photoshop, MySQL, Microsoft Office, Excel, Outlook, (GeoJSON - learned on the job)  • Four years effective Social Media experience (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Snapchat)  • One-year experience Help Desk Technician  • Fluent in Arabic and English  • Green Card holder (Becoming citizen in one year) Work Experience Data Analyst Pacific Staffing November 2018 to Present • Duties may include processing provider applications, research, verifications and preparation of files for Credentialing Committee review.  • Research and obtain further information for incomplete documents.  • Review data for deficiencies or errors, correct any incompatibilities and enter them into Salesforce.  • Payment processing/payment collections. Front End Developer - Freelancer Assisted Web Design Company April 2014 to Present • Assisted Web Design Company with enhancing their web presence to include design, structure, and style of websites.  • Translated designs to front- end code, estimated time and costs, and determined developer requirements and specifications.  • Viewed, Edited and added pages to the client's WordPress environment, and changed information from old web pages.  • Supported clients to answer queries, located information and reviewed technical requirements.  • Supported new personnel software, programs and operational instructions.  • Troubleshoot and resolved cases and by reviewing critically and prioritizing resolution of issues. Front End Developer OpenThink Technology - Sacramento, CA June 2018 to September 2018 Internship) Web Developer IT Department at American River College - Sacramento, CA January 2018 to May 2018 Internship) Customer Service Representative Maximus - Folsom, CA June 2017 to December 2017 • Provided customer support in busy call center environment for Healthcare option ACD calls.  • Provided customer service, building productive relationships, resolving complex issues and winning customer loyalty.  • Worked independently and with a team with minimal supervision; demonstrated initiative.  • Listened attentively, solved problems creatively and used tact and diplomacy to achieve win-win outcomes.  • Used problem solving, critical thinking and effective negotiation skills. Help Desk Technician LNC Company July 2014 to September 2015 • Serving as the first point of contact for customers seeking technical assistance over the phone or email.  • Performing remote troubleshooting and run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems. Education AA Degree in Database Management American River College - Sacramento, CA March 2016 to Present Drawing & Animation Khan Academy Skills Excel, access, SQL