Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Applications Developer West Hills, CA A career as a web applications developer with an organization that will utilize my development experience and draw upon my educational background in computer engineering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Rinsoft LLC - Calabasas, CA August 2016 to December 2017 • Participated in the development of an inventory management system within a team of both on-site and off-shore developers  • Utilized C#/ASP.NET, MSSQL to develop an Auto Ordering API for automatic placement of orders as well integration with 3rd party ordering/picking APIs  • Developed API documentation and high-level diagrams for summarization of API development tasks  • Communicated updates/progress of tasks/issues to Project Manager in Pivotal Tracker Application.  • Developed cross browser, responsive, front- end/user-interface for pages across entire application using Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and jQuery, and AngularJS.  • Created profitability/sales dashboard interface from UI templates using Google Charts, and Bootstrap calendar picker.  • Incorporated UI elements in pages with tabular data with plugins including AngularJS Datatables, noty.js for page notifications, jQuery SelectBox for styling dropdowns, numberPicker.js for rendering numeric input controls with styled increment/decrement buttons.  • Accomplished integration with LightSpeed picking software and VendSys ordering API, and interfaced with vendor representatives/client to resolve issues ProjectAIM Developer Independent Project Work June 2015 to July 2016 • Developed a complete action item management web-application using PHP/MySQL.  • Features include sortable summary page with red colored indicators on dates for past due action items as well as ability to find action item by id.  • Advanced features include ability to filter action items by static and custom categories.  • Provided ability to lock fields, add users and view action item status in an interactive dashboard with burn-up, burn-down charts using NVD3.js (an  interactive re-usable JavaScript charting tool for Data Driven Documents - d3.js) as well as exportable reports in PowerPoint and Word.  • Created functionality to send automatic email reminders of past due and approaching action items.  • Delivered a presentation/demo to IEEE Ventura Chapter (Details at http://www.ieee-bv.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/newsletter_2016_07.html#b4) Software Developer Rinsoft LLC - Calabasas, CA June 2014 to June 2015 Worked under the direction and supervision of the principal software architect to develop front- end/web-applications for direct internal use by Fox  Networks, Engineering and Operations (NEO).  • Enhanced functionality of a scheduling application to include PDF summary generation of schedules for clients using wkhtmltopdf (an HTML file template to PDF generator).  Incorporated features using CSS to allow for viewing application responsively on Mobile Devices.  • Developed a responsive graphic artist workflow tracking dashboard application using Masonry.js, and Kendo UI Framework for viewing graphic artists  open projects.  • Developed a client-side Scoreboard application using Shapeshift.js and AngularJS framework for viewing live sports scores from an internal WebAPI. Web Development Student Los Angeles Pierce College - Woodland Hills, CA December 2013 to December 2014 Certificate of Achievement in Web Development (Awarded Dec 2014)  Courses - Introduction to Digital Imaging Using Photoshop, Linux Operating Systems  Additional Courses (at Los Angeles Valley College) - Windows/Web Database Programming, Programming in C# Web Development Student Los Angeles Pierce College - Woodland Hills, CA August 2010 to December 2013 Certificate of Achievement in Web Development, Programming and Scripting (Awarded Dec 2013)  Courses - Web Page Development, Server-Side Programming Using PHP, Web Development Using JavaScript and AJAX, Web Development using Flash and  ActionScript, Web Development with Dreamweaver, Advanced Dreamweaver  Additional Courses - iPhone Development (Advanced Mobile Applications and Development) Software Engineering Intern ITT Radar Systems-Gilfillan - Van Nuys, CA November 2009 to September 2010 • Participated in the development of a Radar System software upgrade in the software engineering team for an external customer.  • Produced formatted document in RTF (Rich Text Format) using phpRtfLite which queried database for information, generating formatted content in place of special placeholders throughout RTF document.  • Developed a logging application, using PHP/MySQL, which accepted SQL queries and produced paginated results, while allowing to save and delete  existing saved queries.  • Created context sensitive web pages using NicEdit Inline HTML Content Editor and manually populated content.  • ITT used produced deliverable for a live demonstration to customer during an on-site factory acceptance test. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering California State University Northridge - Northridge, CA August 2007 to December 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA September 2001 to March 2007 Skills HTML (4 years), Javascript (3 years), SQL (3 years), User Interface (1 year), API Integration (1 year), jQuery (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), C# (2 years), Angularjs (1 year) Links http://vahejab.net Additional Information Languages/Frameworks - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, SQL, Bootstrap, AngularJS  Professional Qualifications - Technical Drawing, Presentation (MS PowerPoint), Documentation (MS Word), Strong Research, and Debugging Ability  Development Tools - MS Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio