Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Alpharetta, GA sarahgreen.tech Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Merge Atlanta, Formerly AVID Design - Alpharetta, GA March 2017 to Present Responsible for implementing the visual and interactive elements of a website. Worked alongside UI/UX designers to translate their design wireframes into the code that will produce websites. Took an active role in defining how an element looks as well as how it functions. Optimized all sites for maximum speed and scalability, ensuring that all sites are responsive and cross-browser compatible. Built code using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Javascript, and Bootstrap and use code versioning tools like SVN and Git. Website Build Specialist Merge Atlanta, Formerly AVID Design - Alpharetta, GA October 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for implementing a full website build, including navigation, within a custom CMS admin function. Worked in front- end development with HTML and CSS to format web pages to match style and design standards. Made sure that all websites are fully optimized for SEO and all content was organized for user readability and engagement. Implemented keywords and keyword phrases into content and metadata. Assisted in social media marketing and blogging for AVID and clients. Used analytical skills and tools such as Google webmaster tools, Raven, and Moz to understand and prepare site traffic reports. Website Build Project Manager Heystac - Roswell, GA 2014 to 2016 Responsible for overseeing all web design projects beginning with ideation to site delivery. Managed the tasks of our interns, social coordinators, photographers, designers, and developers. Assisted in the website build and front- end development using HTML and CSS on Wordpress and SquareSpace platforms. I was the client's point of contact for any of their website needs. In addition to development and client management, I was responsible for all monthly reporting which entails pulling Google analytics, Google webmaster tools data, social media analytics, and formatting all of those platforms into an attractive and easy to understand report. Digital Project Manager The John Maxwell Company - Duluth, GA 2014 to 2015 Managed the design of brochures, graphics for the website and other distribution channels, and post cards. Leveraged an existing business line with a new distribution channel called Kindle which generated an anticipated $14,000 annual profit increase with expectations of growth. Created and implemented an SEO strategy for the company’s website and blog. Was responsible for keeping track of all sales in the company on a companywide dashboard, ensuring that we were meeting and exceeding company goals each month and scheduling marketing promotions if numbers needed to be boosted for that month. Education Master's in Business and Technology University of Georgia August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Business Administration, Concentration in Marketing Georgia Gwinnett College 2009 to 2013 Skills Javascript, UI, Front-End, React, Front End, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Jquery, User Interface Links http://sarahgreen.tech