Customer Support Agent Customer Support Agent API Support Agent - HomeAway Leander, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Support Agent HomeAway - Austin, TX February 2017 to Present • First point of contact for property owner application support  • Help to analyze and identify issue severity levels and follow appropriate escalation procedures/Update website content as needed.  • Stay up-to-date on product changes in order to provide accurate and thorough support.  • Educate customers in best practices for using HomeAway applications Freelance Jr Front End Developer Fluid-Logic - Austin, TX January 2016 to Present • Implement object-oriented code in HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Create websites and blogs using WordPress.  • Maintain websites.  • Update website content as needed.  • Edit content submitted by clients. Customer Care Supervisor and Business Development Associate USI CT - Meriden, CT November 2005 to July 2009 • Create, run, and report CMS status updates for management meetings.  • Keep staff up to date on latest technologies and run training on new software quoting systems.  • In charge of hiring and training new employees.  • Performance reviews, coaching, and termination as a last resort.  • Analyze, monitor, and report performance objectives to upper management.  • Implement new procedures as needed to react to changing objectives as required. Personal Risk Manager Webster Insurance - Wallingford, CT December 2003 to November 2005 • Manage designated book of business.  • Process renewals, policy changes, and invoices.  • Write new business home, auto, umbrella, and flood policies.  • Increased book of business by 15% annually. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technolog University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ Skills AWS (1 year), Salesforce (2 years), LINUX (Less than 1 year), CSS3 (2 years), HTML5 (4 years), Front End Additional Information • Honors student at the University of Phoenix.  • Graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology with a concentration in Web Development November 2016.  • Broad skill set including HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.    Skills: HMTL5, CSS3, JavaScript, WordPress, Python, Java, NetBeans, Eclipse, Agile Development, Object Oriented Programming, Photoshop, Visual Studio, PHP, MySQL, Linux, Microsoft Office Suite.