Relief Manager Relief Manager Binghamton, NY A position as a team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Relief Manager Public Storage - Long Island City, NY December 2018 to Present • Work independently or with other team members at multiple locations  • Make customer calls regarding their account, collections and other items; document notes on the computer system  • Conduct daily physical storage unit inspection; confirm inventory availability and ensure spaces are secure and/or ready to rent  • Manage, audit, balance cash drawer; prepare and make daily deposits  • Perform cleaning and maintenance such as sweeping, mopping, picking up trash and wiping windows to ensure a great customer experience  • Partner with District Managers and other team members to exceed company goals and expectations Team Leader U.S. Army - Fort Hood, TX May 2016 to April 2018 • Prepared intelligence reports, maintained and, established intelligence records and files.  • Determined how reliable and significant any incoming intelligence information might be.  • Entered new data in context with existing intelligence so that commanders have the most up-to-date information possible.  • Prepare battlefield reports and analyzed and evaluated any changes in enemy positions or capabilities. Security Guard St. Moritz Security Service Inc - New York, NY October 2015 to May 2016 • Monitored and authorized entrance and departure of employees, visitors, and other persons to guard against theft and maintain security of premises.  • Inspected windows and doors to ensure lock were in place and working.  • Patrol every hour to ensure there were not any trespassers in the area.  • Carried out any other duties related to Asset & Profit Protection as directed by management. Security Guard FJC Security Service - Long Island, NY July 2014 to November 2015 • Conducted complete patrols in accordance with established procedures.  • Conducted inspections and testing in compliance with Fire Safety Director's procedures.  • Reported any unscheduled visitations, repairs, and suspicious activities at the work site.  • Responsible for maintaining fire safety. Data Entry/ Front End Developer Opportunity for a Better Tomorrow - Brooklyn, NY December 2014 to June 2015 • Entered customer and account data by inputting alphabetic and numeric information.  • Maintained customer confidence and protects operations by keeping information confidential.  • Used a combination of markup languages to write web pages.  • Created quality mock-ups and prototypes on tight timelines. Group Leader Good Shepherd Services - Brooklyn, NY January 2012 to July 2014 • Planned and implemented integrated educational projects, recreation, arts and crafts and group building activities.  • Supervised program aides.  • Completed required documentation, participated in training and staff development activities Education Associate in Intelligence Operations Studies Cochise College - Sierra Vista, AZ Certificate in Advance First Aid U.S. Army Intelligence School - Fort Huachuca, AZ Skills ASSOCIATE (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), Customer Service, Inventory, Microsoft Excel, Team Building, Time Management, Word, training Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: PVT Additional Information Professional Skills  Specialize on Microsoft Office Suit, Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), National Retail Federation Certification in Costumer Service, Adobe Certified Associate, and Conversational in Spanish.