Teacher/Tutor Teacher/Tutor Substitute Teacher at AISD, Tutor at Testmasters, Freelance graphic and UI designer Houston, TX I have experience doing graphic design and web development (and generally solving problems) for companies of various sizes, and I have a few years of experience teaching English, writing, and editing. I also have experience working with diverse groups, working on projects of various size and complexity, and learning on-the-go.     I enjoy listening to the needs of the clients I work with and delivering solutions that fit these needs.    Feel free to say hello or contact me with questions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teacher/Tutor Testmasters - Houston, TX July 2014 to Present Taught Critical Reading, Multiple Choice & Essay Writing (SAT & ACT). Advised students on the advantages of organizing writing as recommended by the curriculum, best practices for reading, learning vocabulary, grammar, preparing for the essay, and what they can expect from graders. Graphic Designer Internetbar.org Institute - Houston, TX June 2017 to December 2018 Worked with Creative Cloud and Behance to do research and iterate on new  logos. Used Adobe Experience Design to make full-site UX/UI wireframe and  redesign site for launch by deadline. Managed design assets and  communicated with team to make sure designs were implemented. Web Designer (contract) CMedEd - Houston, TX January 2017 to November 2017 Worked with HTML and CSS to set up and standardize pages in WordPress for this start-up. Also worked with Adobe Photoshop to edit images according to brand standards. Front End Web Developer (contract) John Manlove Marketing and Communications - Houston, TX March 2017 to March 2017 Worked in a Mac environment with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, WordPress, and Dreamweaver. Consulted with a third party about setting up a credit card processing form as well as integrating and testing their service. Web Designer (contract) International Facility Management Association - Houston, TX May 2016 to August 2016 Worked in a Windows environment with HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, and Adobe Suite to set up sites in WordPress. Redesigned parent theme, managed child themes and WordPress plugins, and consulted with members about their needs to deliver customized sites. Web Developer General Assembly - Austin, TX December 2015 to March 2016 Made a series of applications from scratch in a Mac environment. Hosted them with Heroku (cloud) and tracked versions with Github. These projects included: an informational site that consumes API data and uses Web Storage and JavaScript/jQuery to render the UI, a survey application that uses Node, MongoDB, and NoSQL to store user input and JavaScript/jQuery to render the UI, a recipe recommendation application that uses Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL to store user input and JavaScript to render the UI and handle user actions, and a to-do list application that uses Angular for SPA organization and MongoDB to store user input. Web Development Intern LRNGO, Inc. - Houston, TX August 2014 to May 2015 Worked for start-up with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, and Zend framework in a Mac environment. Used BitBucket for version control. Wrote and consumed an API. Wrote and fixed frond- end code and back- end code for database queries, models and controllers. Wrote out custom interactive features with JavaScript and HTML5. Also did visual design (color, placement, sizing, image choice) and wrote front- end code for various landing pages focused on visitor conversion. Managed email marketing campaigns, wrote a technical brief about the process for future users, and did content writing. Education BA in Literature, Visual Arts Duke University - Durham, NC Web Development Immersive General Assembly - Austin, TX Continuing Education: CompTIA A+ Houston Community College - Houston, TX Skills HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, Graphic Design, Logo Design, Visual Design, UI Design Links http://pchubinskiy.com https://www.behance.net/pchubinskiy Additional Information You can find my portfolio at http://pchubinskiy.com and https://www.behance.net/pchubinskiy