Web Director, Digital Marketing Consultant Web Director, Digital Marketing Consultant Web Director, Digital Marketing Consultant - Standout Arts, LLC Latrobe, PA Dynamic, self-starter, and forward-thinking customer-facing web developer and digital business consultant with excellent organizational skills that is interested in working for a dynamic and community driven organization. I am interested in finding a career that will produce results for the organization and advance my own career. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Director, Digital Marketing Consultant Standout Arts, LLC - Waynesboro, VA 2018 to Present • Web Project Lead  • Lead Web Developer  • Consult with upper management and clients about marketing directives  • Troubleshoot and support all agency websites  • Set up and support Digital Ad Campaigns (Google Ads)  • Manages daily, weekly & monthly updates to company website.  • Manages all aspects of client websites and backend services  • Google related analytics and secondary support service set up and management  • Provide support to current & future clients with regards to software & website integrations  • Configure and set up Zapier links to support client(s) websites  • Research any and all services related client business functions Owner | Freelance Designer & Digital Marketer BluBerry Media - Latrobe, PA 2016 to Present • Manages day-to-day activities i.e. customer service, editing images, image and site backups, sales  • Work with clients on a week-by-week and month-by-month to reach predetermined goals to achieve success within each owns industry  • Provide weekly and monthly marketing and advertising initiatives for clients  • Set up and track daily Accounts Receivable and Payable accounts for both marketing and website companies  • Manages social media accounts and marketing  • Manages daily, weekly & monthly updates to company website.  • Manages all aspects of client websites and backend services  • Manages all design aspects related to advertising, marketing, website, company brochures and documents  • Discreetly handles confidential documents and sensitive data  • Designs logos, websites, and graphics for all clients Marketing Director ( Front- End Developer) Balance Business Consulting - Culpeper, VA 2016 to 2017 Advertising and marketing content creator  ? Training video editing, upload and maintenance  ? Create and update all course curriculum  ? Setup social media account, create content, blogs, etc.  ? Works with all departments to make sure jobs are done in a timely manner.  ? Create landing pages, update website data structure, Google dashboards, etc.  ? Create and design all graphical content for website and other published media.  ? Integrate 3rd party apps to streamline automation for the company. Billing Clerk Westmoreland Mechanical Testing & Research - Youngstown, PA 2016 to 2017 Accounts Receivable  ? Provide billing support to in-house personnel and customers  ? Bill Invoices daily and monthly  ? Setup New Customer Accounts.  ? Works with all departments to make sure jobs are done in a timely manner. Store Manager, Web Designer, Head Buyer, Marketing Executive Uptown Angler - New Orleans, LA 2015 to 2016 Manages daily retail activities i.e. customer interaction, setting up displays, employee issues, sales, vendor orders, etc.  ? Provide daily and weekly marketing and advertising initiatives  ? Set up and track daily Accounts Receivable and Payable accounts  ? Track and make funds available for A/P Accounts, Payroll, Rent, and other monthly budgets  ? Manages social media accounts and marketing  ? Manages employees daily, training of new products, procedures, & sales  ? Manages daily, weekly & monthly updates to company website.  ? Manages all design aspects related to advertising, marketing, website, company brochures and documents  ? Implemented QuickBooks Online & WebGility to streamline inventory tracking  ? Incorporated new accounting protocols to streamline between business and accountant  ? Responsible for all HR/personnel documentation  ? Discreetly handles confidential documents and sensitive data  ? Maintains fluid communication channels between vendors, accounting, and the company's CEO Event Photographer American Cancer Society - New Orleans, LA 2012 to 2016 • From 2012 until moved from area, had provided charitable photography services for the local American Cancer Society (ACS) Chapter in New Orleans for all events fundraising happy hours, Patron Party and the Belles & Beaus Gala in late September annually  • Help with fundraising to reach annual goals Education Associate in Business, Marketing Opt. Westmoreland County Community College - Youngwood, PA August 2016 to December 2018 Skills SEO, Google Analytics, search engine optimization, Illustrator, Marketing, Digital Marketing Certifications/Licenses The Complete JQuery Course July 2019 to Present JQuery course on uDemy.com Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vv-jmamueqtolwaq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skillset  ? Proficient with Microsoft Office  ? Proficient with Adobe Creative Suite  ? Proficient with Shopify E-Commerce Solutions  ? Proficient with Webflow.  ? Webflow Volunteer Community Moderator 2018 - Present  ? Webflow FB Page Mentor Program  ? Webflow MeetUp Group Organizer - Founding Chapter, Pittsburgh, PA, Fall 2018  ? Front- End Development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills  ? Attention to detail and accuracy  ? Impeccable work ethic  ? Ability to multi-task  ? Bookkeeping  ? Extensive Remote Work Experience  ? Self-starter