Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - E Commerce Work Experience Front End Developer E Commerce March 2018 to Present Identified UX pain points and provide knowledgeable recommendations for implementing unified  user experience.  ? Created landing pages, dashboards and web applications using Wix, WordPress, GoDaddy, DreamHost, while using HTML and PHP programming languages, on Apache and Linux servers  ? Established hosting for each website and completed go-live process by uploading sites to host  account.  ? Translated concepts into user flows, wireframes, mockups and prototypes to promote positive  intuitive designs, site interactions and user experiences.  ? Ran communications and public relations efforts on 10 digital campaign projects with budgets  totaling $72,000 KDB Virtual Group - Bear, DE May 2017 to Present SEO Manager October 2017 to March 2018 Monitored metrics such as redirects, click and bounce rates and other KPIs to proactively optimize  campaigns.  ? Created paid ads for clients to run on Google and Bing platforms, achieving 54% ROI.  ? Provided outstanding customer service to new and long-standing customers by attending closely to concerns and developing solutions.  ? Proactively identified and solved complex problems impacting operations management and business direction.  ? Reduced cost per acquisition rates by 28% through a successful targeted email acquisition  campaign(MailChimp, Hubspot) Content Manager May 2017 to October 2017 Monitored website and social media(Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube) traffic.  ? Coded user-customizable applications to convert raw data from design engine to easily  understandable graphical formats.    ? Interviewed with print media and podcast panels about website creating and marketing Business Analyst Bank of America, NA March 2015 to May 2017 Translated business requirements into higher conceptual design while ensuring program met  performance, usability, scalability and functional requirements  ? Interfaced with cross-functional team of business analysts, developers and technical support  professionals to determine comprehensive list of requirement specifications for new applications.  ? Mapped process activities to identify shortfalls and identify options to rectify operational  inefficiencies.  ? Analyzed key aspects of business to evaluate factors driving results and summarized into presentations.  ? Manipulated data using pivot tables, pivot charts and macros in Excel Bank of America, NA - Charlotte, NC September 2010 to May 2017 Sr. Fraud Analyst Bank of America, NA September 2010 to March 2015 Identified fraud patterns and anomalies through the effective analysis of large quantities of data  ? Worked with strategies department to launch first-to-market back-office automated solution for review of suspicious online retail transactions, leading to 45% decrease in spam transactions  ? Recovered over $190,000 worth of assets by effectively breaking up business credit card fraud  ring  ? Spearheaded group discussions on a bi-weekly basis with team members to brainstorm new ways  to combat fraud Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Delaware State University - Dover, DE Skills WEB DESIGN, CONTENT CREATION, DATA MINING, ARCHITECTURE, FORECASTING Additional Information SKILLS  ? Data mining ? Staff training and development  ? Business recovery and sustainability ? Content Creation  ? Forecasting and planning ? Conflict Resolution  ? Technology architecture analysis ? Web Design  ? Strategic decision making  ? Critical thinking  ? Requirements gathering