Sr. Front- End/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End/UI Developer - Bridge2 Solutions Atlanta, GA • Skilled UI/ Front end developer offering more than 8 years of professional IT experience in developing Responsive web applications which includes front- end designing and hand coding with solid proficiency in usability, web and client / server applications using Web 2.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, VueJS, Ajax, Bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Socket Cluster, MySQL, Sequelize, ES6, Ext JS and JSON.  • Strong knowledge in developing and designing Web 2.0 and business application according to information architecture and usability standards using JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Java, XML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and MVC framework.  • Extensive experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents and design documents.  • Extremely skilled and efficient in developing responsive web application using with CSS3 Media Query, Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery Mobile, LESS, SASS and also experience for fixing Cross-bowser and cross-platform issues.  • Demonstrated over 3+ years of experience on working with Node environment using NodeJS, NPM, Grunt JS, Gulp JS, Bower.  • Over a year of experience on developing front end layouts with VueJS.  • Over 3 years of Strong Experience on developing SPA using AngularJS and strongly expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routings and events. And knowledge of AngularJS 6.  • Experienced for developing a front- end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use and familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Experienced on JavaScript based Web Application WordPress Development, Woo commerce.  • Strong Experience in RESTful Web Services/API's using NodeJS and also in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL)  • Experience on working with Mobile Application Development using Android SDK, android third party libraries.  • Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications and working knowledge of Web protocols and standards(HTTP HTML/XHTML/XHTML- MP, web forms).  • Strong knowledge on how to use latest web technologies ReactJS, Babel, and Web-Pack.  • Experience with task runners like Grunt, Gulp and Ant to minify CSS/JavaScript.  • Hand on experience in working with several J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, XML, SOAP, WSDL, Multithreading, Generics, Serialization, Externalization, MVC Architectures, spring and Struts.  • Knowledge on web debugging tools (Firebug, Fiddler debugging tool) and used integration frameworks and libraries like Jasmine, Mocha and Karma for AngularJS and NodeJS. Created unit test cases for Angular applications using Jasmine to test individual functions/modules using test runner Karma.  • Good experience on Agile Methodologies and active participant in Scrum and Sprint meetings.  • Good knowledge in finding out the bugs in the application and used debug tools for eliminating the frontend code issues.  • Highly Exposed to various databases like My SQL and SQL Server  • Experienced in project management of estimating, scheduling, and monitoring tasks.  • Competent using version control systems such as SVN, GIT, CVS, GERRIT and JIRA, VersionOne for defect tracking.  • Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams and capable of quickly adapting to new challenges and environments.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and did testing on the browsers like safari, IE11, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Self-motivated and a good team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills and capable of working independently even under high-pressure challenges. Work Experience Sr. Front- End/UI Developer Bridge2 Solutions - Alpharetta, GA July 2018 to Present APPLE Team)  Description: Bridge2 Solutions is a leading marketing solutions platform providing innovative marketing and fulfillment solutions to leading financial institutions, loyalty programs and Fortune 500 companies which provides many programs whereas like loyalty, wellness, AEP (Apple Employee Portal), EPP (Employee Portal Program), AEP-DRP mainly for APPLE and other reward-point Loyalty program which supports for other clients as CITI, CHASE, RBC, UNITED AIRLINES, DELTA, AMEX, PNC and SCOTIA.  Project: Loyalty and Wellness Program  By using reward points and miles you can make a purchase on APPLE products using Loyalty and wellness Program website for many clients worldwide.  Project: AEP DRP Program  By using Employee official email ID, you can make a purchase on APPLE products on website.  Project: APPLE Employee Program  When an organization gets register to APPLE ADMIN to purchase a bulk product under certain groups.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in development single page application and testing of various modules.  • Interacted with other developers (on-shore and off-shore), definition team and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, SASS, AngularJS, JSON in the development of the front- end application.  • Good experience of working with Java/J2EE with spring framework and Worked on Spring MVC, Ajax, Servlet/JSP, JSTL and Tomcat.  • Used media queries and twitter Bootstrap to implement Responsive web design and development with pixel perfect experience.  • Used AngularJS for ng-grid and UI components. Used UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Created custom directives and filters using AngularJS built-in $http service from controller through dependency injection.  • Built Angular Template for products using Angular Material and using ng-repeat to iterate the products list.  • Used ng-option to build the drop-down list to implement several search patterns such as search by categories or by brand.  • Involved in Restful JSON data synchronizing using Angular Services.  • Performed Verification and validation process for the code written by making use of Jasmine and Karma JavaScript testing framework by testing across various scenarios of the AngularJS applications.  • Used Lodash to manipulate category array and product array.  • Developed custom Word press themes and plug-ins for Application.  • Hands-on experience in designing and creating NoSQL database such as MongoDB for one project and Worked on as well as on SQL server.  • Worked on different project to maintain consistence with code on with source control system as GERRIT (like git).  • Worked with Section 508, WCAG 2.1, WAI-ARIA, HTML5 and Global Web Standards.  • Worked with assistive technologies including JAWS, NVDA, ZoomText, Dragon Naturally Speaking - and using assistive technologies - and/or other accessibility features  • Worked on making web applications, PDF, and video content accessible.  • Created customized library for table grid and worked on multiple web development libraries and frameworks.  • Working on experience with cross browser / cross platform support.  • created and maintained unit tests for UI code with CMS integration experience.  • Experience in working with multi skillset team working on online experience enhancement initiatives and user interface development projects with zero escalation.  • Worked in Agile environment and submitted daily status report to team leader.    Environment: AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSON, jQuery, Java, Bootstrap4, Restful Web-services, SQL Server, UNIX, Lodash, Intellij, GERRIT, Agile, Photoshop, VersionOne, Adobe photoshop, Sketch. Full Stack Developer AuctionOS - Atlanta, GA July 2017 to June 2018 Description: AuctionOS is a startup company which is implementation of a leading technology provider for independent car auction nationwide which facilitates transactions between buyers and sellers at its internet-enabled physical and private label remote sales. This system delivers flexibility, compatibility, security, easy-of-use and an industry experienced support team to give auction in operational excellence and profitability.  Responsibilities:  • Served as a full stack developer and actively involved in all aspects of the system designing, developing interfaces for multiple browsers, planning and implementing intranet and external applications.  • Closely worked with Business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI models been built.  • Responsibilities included improving, implementing new features and maintaining existing application.  • Designed and developed all responsive User Interface layouts using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4, JavaScript, jQuery, VueJS, Sass and sketch for designing layouts.  • Used Babel and ES6 syntax to get compatible with modern browsers.  • Worked with libraries like Chosen, Selectize for dropdown select options. Also worked with LightBox2 for images and jQuery Data Table for pagination, sorting and downloading PDF and Excel versions.  • Proficiency in developing MVC framework based Single Page Application (SPA) using VueJS 2.0+.  • Worked with Vue.Draggable and Vue-multiselect to drag and select the required cars for the sale.  • Used JSON format for asynchronous request handling and partial refreshing by the user.  • Worked with client-side password and SSN encryption/hashing mechanism using Bcrypt.  • Implemented directed graphs and charts for data visualization using JavaScript library ChartJS. Also supported interactive features like animations, scaling, events and transitions.  • Used Node.js for server-side web applications for java script codes to build real-time web API's.  • Developed application from stage of concept to implementation and worked in end to end development cycle from client-side, server-side and database.  • Created RESTful web-services using NodeJS and ExpressJS.  • Used Lodash to manipulate category array and product array.  • Involved in designing and developing non-relational database using MySQL and Sequelize ORM.  • Involved in implementing Gulp on client-side and Nodemon on server-side to automate the development process  • Used Agendash library to schedule jobs using waterfall to prevent asynchronous nature.  • Used Nodemailer to automate email notifications for the users.  • Implemented restful searching for Reports and Socket endpoints for live communication of data.  • Used Ajax methodology to makes calls to Restful web-services  • Responsible for the day to day support of computer systems running the Unix/Linux operating system.  • Involved in QA and followed Agile Scrum Methodology for application development life cycle.  • Used Google chrome DevTools to debug and profile the Single Page Application SPA.  • Worked on compatibility issues with different versions browsers like Safari, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and IE11.  • Adobe Photoshop and Sketch has been used to create different banners and designs. Create ICONS using svg, png, jpeg images.  • Worked with JIRA including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Maintained the code using version control GIT and used for continuous integration.    Environment: VueJS 2.0+, JavaScript, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, NodeJS 8.9, NPM, Gulp, Bootstrap4,Restful Web-services, SocketCluster, Sequelize ORM, MySQL, UNIX, Agendash, WebStorm, sequel pro, GIT, Agile, Sketch. Sr. UI Developer UST - Boston, MA October 2015 to June 2017 Description: UST Global is a leading provider of end-to- end IT services and solutions for Global 1000 companies. Developed clean efficient JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 used WEB features, including product images, zooming, Pinch zoom, swiping, carousels and major content. Responsible for providing all content and coding for the product page including pixel perfect adherence to standards and participated in code reviews and provided expertise to middle tier group.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and estimating the time-line for the project.  • Worked on basic front- end prototype and page design with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS 2 and Bootstrap4 with database.  • Used CSS preprocessor LESS and WEB Essentials for converting LESS to CSS file while deployment.  • Constructed web pages for application in custom created framework extensively using JavaScript MVC, jQuery, Unit Test (NodeJS) and wrote code that is modular, reusable and designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links.  • Worked extensively on AngularJS in creating Controllers, Client and Server side validations are done by AJAX calls using $http and JSON parse.  • Worked with AngularJS Promises, Filters, UI Router, Directives and developed some of the custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes)  • Worked with Spring Dependencies injections, Web services using Spring REST, Spring MVC, spring web flows, DAO support classes and JPA.  • Wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Created custom filters which parses $http response to match the wireframes.  • Implemented custom JavaScript date time picker (from Bootstrap) to pick to and from date calendar which gives a string to the input field.  • Used Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Queries to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop's tablet's and mobile phone's  • Interacted with java controllers ( jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Implemented email and SSO integration using NodeJS for backend and AngularJS in frontend.  • Used Node Package Manage (NPM) as package manager for JavaScript, GULP for task runner, which handles template cache and code minification and Bower for installing frontend dependencies.  • Extensively involved in development of Mobile applications.  • Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.    Environment: AngularJS, RWD, JavaScript, EXTJS, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, NodeJS, NPM, Gulp, oops, Bootstrap, Web storm, Web services, Jasmine, Unit Test, GIT, Agile. Front End Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH October 2014 to September 2015 Description: Cardinal Health, Inc. is an American health care customer Services Company managing behavioral health care, diagnostic imaging, specialty pharmaceutical services, etc., our application mainly focuses on the maintenance of patient information which includes all the personal information, insurance data, diagnostic reports and all other information entered by the physician.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Development of health care Web page using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, CSS3, SASS including Ajax controls and JSON according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Worked on coding with W3C standards, classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture and cross-browser development techniques.  • Used AngularJS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • The concepts of cross-platform environment NodeJS are successfully implemented on the Linux based Grunt (JavaScript task runner)  • With the help of AngularJS library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Created a URL Shortened with frontend using AngularJS and backend using NodeJS.  • Created NodeJS backend for creating RESTful Web Services using the Express Framework.  • Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Utilized NodeJS to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Extensively used D3 JS for visualizing bar chart (horizontal, vertical), geo maps, line chart, bubble chart, ng-tables  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Involved in Agile process, Sprint meetings, attended daily standup meetings (Scrum), estimation meetings.    Environment: AngularJS 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Drupal, jQuery, PHP, DOJO, Bootstrap, RESTful web services, GIT, AJAX, JSON, XML, Mongo DB, Node-Js,D3 JS, Web Agile, Junit. UI Developer Guardian Insurance - Appleton, WI March 2013 to August 2014 Description: Guardian is the fourth largest mutual life insurance company in the US which sells life insurance, disability income, long term care, group medical and dental insurance products, and other financial products. The project that I have worked is the Driver Automation for add and update driver. Named Insured himself/herself can add a new driver or update the existing driver information instead of calling the customer care and explaining their needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and responsible for designing page layout using HTML5, CSS3 along with JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and adding dynamic functionality to each module.  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used High charts for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and also implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Written controllers and components that are responsible to hold model data, call back functions and for rendering views.  • Contributed with database designs and assisted in increasing response time for APEX reports.  • Creating HTML pages for the responsive layout using media queries (breakpoints).  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Used jQuery and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Designed application framework and developed Oracle APEX Application.  • Integrated payment card encryption, implementing electronic funds transfer payments, protecting application from different kinds of security threats (CSRF, XSS, etc.)  • Used JSON and AJAX for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Used Bootstrap to show and hide classes for different and grid classes to create RWD.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Developing client-side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Implementation of TDD Using Jasmine Testing.  • Handling all the activities related to designing for Production on Web site.  • Performed testing and documentation of UI and services    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, Agile, Jira, GIT, jQuery, Jasmine, JSON, Oracle, TDD Web UI Developer Well Care - Tampa, FL November 2011 to December 2012 Description: Designed and planned Employee Forms application used in by HR department. The application includes various functionality including Employee Search (search employee details based on name, department, and role), Employee Appointment (for submitting new employee details), Employee Transfer (used for transferring employee between departments), Employee Details Form (used for employee verification).    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Create website layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices  • Strong experience of JavaScript frameworks and library (jQuery).  • Implemented XML parsers such as DOM.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Developing semantic mark-up and Wireframe development. Web application prototyping and development using Dream Weaver and Fireworks.  • Written and implemented Object Oriented JavaScript throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Involved in Unit testing, bug fixing, QA and Production support.  • Monitor site for any UI inconsistencies and fix all the UI bugs reported in the test track.  • Attended project meetings on a regular basis and helped to improve the Project workflow.    Environment: OO JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, XML, DOM, My SQL and Eclipse IDE, UML Waterfall. Web Developer Coromandel InfoTech India Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to August 2011 Description: Coromandel Info Tech India Limited is a new generation software services and solutions company with niche industry focus, committed to providing innovative IT solutions to the growing business needs of its customers, that includes Fortune 500 companies, Blue-Chip Indian MNCs and Leading Banks in India and abroad. Our Indian headquarters is located at Chennai with offices spread across the country in major metros of India.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in building user interfaces for websites and web applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Strong experience with jQuery, AJAX, and XML.  • Responsible for all of the responsive web design, look and feel (CSS, image/icon selection, etc.), and client/browser side interactions/UI (JavaScript/html)  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Implemented new website design layout for conversion of existing static websites to responsive  • Implemented visual elements that users see and interact with in a web application.  • Used the Hibernate Framework for connecting to SQL Server database.  • Identified, fixed, troubleshoot and resolve problems and scrupulously documented system  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Timely delivery of the assigned projects.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, Eclipse, SQL, Hibernate, Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), JavaScript (9 years), jQuery (9 years), UI (9 years), user interface (9 years)