Line Cook Line Cook Line, Prep, and Saute Cook Brooklyn, NY To obtain a position that utilizes any and all my acquired skills to successfully contribute to the growth and success of the team and company. Possess culinary expertise in Italian, american, caribbean and vegan dishes. Work Experience Line Cook Eugene & Co. - Brooklyn, NY December 2018 to Present My Responsibilities are abundant as a prep cook & line cook. Worked in a small kitchen space where using the space efficiently was important.  • Actively learned all menus lunch, dinner and brunch.  • Recorded inventory and ensured we had all items for prep  • Prepared all items for the busy weekend brunch Line Cook/Prep Cook Koda - Brooklyn, NY December 2018 to February 2019 My main responsibility as a line cook i was tasked with handling the kitchen alone. Cleaning dishes and cleaning the kitchen. All kitchen responsibilities were mine the nights i worked.  • Successfully managed and worked in the kitchen alone.  • Responsibilities included dishwashing, setting plates and cooking meals in a timly manner.  • Opened and closed kitchen for 10 hours a shift. Prep Cook Caribbean Pearl Caterers - Valley Stream, NY November 2018 to December 2018 Manage food truck and developed process that track food cost more efficiently, resulting in savings.  • Prepared, loaded and managed the food truck.    • Learned caribbean style recipies Line Cook Red Robin - Buford, GA July 2018 to October 2018 My main responsibility was being a clean and efficient line cook. Working set ups for burgers and grilling beef.  • Maintains a nine and a half minute average on burger tickets  • Trained, managed and guided other cooks to improve overall performance.  • Learned all burger sets and seasonal recipies Prep Cook Ippolito's Italian Restaurant - Peachtree Co. January 2017 to September 2018 My responsiblites included cartering, preparation and line cooking. After cartering was cooked in a timly fashion I set up the line with sauces, proteins and pastas. I would continue to prep lasganas, zitis and cannlonis and serve any lunch orders that we received.   • Started as a dishwasher and my performance lead to receivng a promotion to prep/line cook.  • Took the initiative to learn saute when done with my prep work.  • Cleaned and washed kitchen equipment and shelves in the walk-in. Crew Member/Cook/Cashier Mcdonalds - Maimi, FL October 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities included Cooking, Cashiering and Working Night-Shift. Front- end Developer CHARGED.FM - Brooklyn, NY August 2011 to August 2013 At Charged.fm I designed with Photoshop and Illustrator and, coded with HTML5, CSS3 and  JavaScript. My accomplishments were building and developing fully functionally websites. INTERNSHIP PLOT COMMERCE - Manhattan, NY 2010 to 2011 Responsibilities were updating coding HTML pages and keeping the websites updated with new information. Lead developer Henrik Rypkema trained and inspired me to be a great  developer. I accomplished a lot in learning the process for business and web development.    PROJECTS  Somersetpatriots.com- Showed knowledge of JavaScript and coded the social media  clubhouse. Giving user easy access to the baseball teams social media personalities.    PNCRadio.fm- successfully built an on-going radio player for the site. Giving the users a  coherent design and the ability to surf the website and listen to the radio station.    Stepcorrect.com-All functionalities maintained and created to sync with charged.fm ticketing  system. Education Associates in Web Design & Interactive Media Art Institute of New York City - New York, NY August 2011 to December 2013 Animation School of Visual Arts - New York, NY 2010 Skills Attention-to-detail, Preperation, Cleaniness, Punctuality, Creativity, Organization, Team-Player, Cartering, Commitment to Quality (1 year), Kitchen Staff, Experienced, Culinary, Saute, Busser, Food Prep, Grill, Food Service, Catering, Attention-to-detail, Preparation, Punctuality, Cleaniness, Organizational Skills Additional Information Technologies: Wordpress, Grid systems, LESS, SASS, Mobile Design, MySQL, SEO.  Skills: Marketing, Social Media, Branding Identity.