Operate soundboard to engineer and produce live programming Operate soundboard to engineer and produce live programming Talk Radio Host / Producer Chaska, MN Work Experience Operate soundboard to engineer and produce live programming KTNF AM 950 Radio - Eden Prairie, MN June 2017 to Present for AM950 local broadcasts.  *Very strong verbal communication with ability to speak on-air. Voice weather broadcasts, write and record advertisements, and serve as a regular talk radio host.  *Host a talk radio program 4pm-5pm Thursdays on progressive politics.  *Manage social media accounts; create facebook live video streams of the live programming, Coordinate paid advertising campaigns on social media. Sound Engineer / Stagehand IATSE Local - Minneapolis, MN September 2014 to Present *Run soundboards in the Twin Cities for touring live music, dance, theater, and television broadcasts.  *Adaptability and problem solving with power, lighting, and audio cables is required as every show has unique conditions and custom requests. Must meet needs of the shows quality and safety standards.  *Assembled large scale concerts and events as a stagehand. Work ranging from lighting, audio, carpentry, props, to video. Front End Developer IATSE Local - Boston, MA January 2016 to January 2017 *Developed a responsive web application using JavaScript React, Meteor, CSS, and HTML.  *Created custom graphic design, user interface and user experience.  *Formulated a wireframe which was approved and developed site with fellow developers through github.  *Maintain and debug problems after launch.  *Convert React to ES6. Founder Event Promotion - New York, NY May 2011 to September 2014 *Organized large scale events by securing venues, negotiating contracts, and booking talent.  *Led marketing campaign through effective social media campaigns creating flyers and newsletters.  *Built relationships with press building trust with editors of publications and blog writers.  *Grew mailing list from 0 to 3000+ members using strategies such as HTML design and RSVP discounts.  *Managed and hired staff of 10-15 people. Administered payments, payroll, and expenses.  Accolades New York City Best Dance Floor - The Village Voice, New York Magazine & The Villager Production Manager Event Promotion - New York, NY March 2013 to August 2014 *Led production for online radio station geared toward New York Cities art and music scene.  *Produced live programing and recorded prerecorded shows, organized files to launch 24/7 to keep the station stream continuous.  *Troubleshot any problems that arose, able to solve issues quickly to assure not to disrupt live broadcast.  *Implemented new technologies to improve the accessibility of the station. Education Bachelor of Music in Electronic Production and Design Berklee College of Music - Boston, MA 2011 Skills Audio Editing (10+ years), Broadcasting (2 years), Talk Radio (2 years) Awards Best Dance floor NYC The Village Voice 2011-11