MEAN Stack Developer MEAN Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> MEAN Stack Developer - Vital Decisions Baltimore, MD • Full Stack Web Developer(MEAN Stack/MERN Stack) with 5 years' experience in Software Development Lifecycle(SDLC), application design, web development and technical specs.  • Used to work in Healthcare, Insurance, and Banking industries.  • Expertise in working with MEAN Stack/MERN Stack frameworks Angular2/4/5/6, Node JS, Express JS, React JS and MongoDB.  • Strong experience in designing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular2/4/5/6, React, Typescript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Extensive experience in Angular libraries like Angular Material and PrimeNG for building tables of management systems.  • Strong experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap, CSS media queries and Grid system.  • Proficient in implementing backend API by using Express.js and operating CRUD.  • Experience in build reusable structure of backend including different layers, like routes, controller and middleware.  • Proficient in using bcrypt and JWT to secure the data passing though backend and database.  • Proficient in redux to manage global state in React and using reducer and action to upadate state.  • Extensive experience as a web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including MongoDB, AWS, GIT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Lightroom, Adobe Premiere and Edius 7.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability , DOM Layout, utility, cross-browser compatibility and hence worked on Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Familiar with web development tools such as Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text Editor, Postman, Amazon Web Services(AWS) and Plunker.  • proficient in UI Development, Web UI coding, testing(Mocha, Jasmine), implementation.  • Experienced in JIRA, Slack, Agile/SCRUM project environments and used GIT for version control and managing codes.  TECHNICIAL SKILLSETS  Databases and Webservice MongoDB, AWS, Azure  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript ES5/ES6, Typescript, ReactJS, JSX, Responsive Web Design, JSON, DOM, AJAX, Adobe, Python  Frameworks and libraries  Angular2/4/5/6, Angular Material, PrimeNG, Node JS, Express JS, React, Redux, Bootstrap 3/4, Font-awesome, mongoose, JWT, bcrypt, Bodyparser, JQuery    Operating System Windows XP, MAC, Linux  Languages/IDE Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text Editor  Project Management Tools Jira, Slack, GIT, Zoom, SDLC  Testing and Debugging Tools Mocha, Jasmine Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MEAN Stack Developer Vital Decisions - Edison, NJ October 2017 to Present Vital Decisions is a healthcare company catering personal advanced care plan. This application is to build a time attendance management for internal employees. There are multiple modules in this application, I am in charge for building registration module, time & attendance module, personal information module and career module by implementing front end with Angular 4/5 and nodeJS for back end, MongoDB for database.    Responsibilities: • Created a web application using MEAN Stack technologies (MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 4/5, NodeJS) • Involved in developing applications using HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material, Bootstrap like Grids, Navbars, Tables and Button etc.  • Familiar with Typescript features, like anonymous functions, class constructor.  • Involved in components communication like @input, @output, @viewChild and service.  • Used data-bind to pass property and event between components and template.  • Implemented attribute directives and structural directives with Asterix symbol to change the DOM layout.  • Created Responsive Web Design by using Bootstrap for Media Queries to view application in various types of screen.  • Used lifecycle hooks to invoke functions in the components and destroy it before removing from the DOM.  • Used CanActivate for AuthGuard in routing module typescript file to implement authentication of routes.  • Implemented Angular 4/5 Dependency Injection(DI) to inject service in the application.  • Created Http interceptor to pass token value in the request headers.  • Imported Http Client Module to perform http CRUD requests, like get, post, put and delete.  • Involved in Pipe from templateConverter to transfer some values to desired output and created customized pipe.  • Used Angular Router to build the Single Page Application(SPA).  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies.  • Implemented Server-Side application development framework using Express JS and mongoose to connect the database.  • Worked with Node JS for building middleware in the server JS file and creating scalable network applications.  • Stored shared and favorites data in MongoDB and tools.  • Used Git to control application flow and worked in team and JIRA for task management.  • Used Agile scrum methodology to track the project work and also responsible to merge the code into repository.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4, Express JS, Node JS, MongoDB, Bootstrap, GIT, Typescript, Windows, MAC, Chrome, Jira, SCRUM. MERN Stack Developer ProSight Specialty Insurance - Morristown, NJ August 2016 to September 2017 ProSight Specialty is a private specialty insurance company catering to various industries such as Constructions, Real Estate, Transportation, Energy, etc. This project is to create an internal application that manages customers insurance documents and organizes them for other departments. I am involved in implementing UI with React and Redux. I used node and express for web APIs, connecting to noSQL database which is MongoDB.    Responsibilities: • Developed this Single Page Application(SPA) by using MERN Stack technologies, including MongoDB, Express JS, React JS and Node JS.  • Involved in render function to return JSX code and create HTML elements inside DOM.  • Used Bootstrap and Media query along with ReactJS, CSS3, and JSX code to make the user pages more interactive and responsive.  • Involved two way data bind to pass the value from component to template and return changed value back with onChange event.  • Used Action creator as middleware to pass http requests to reducer which has access to update application's state changes in the central store.  • Implemented if condition to create Router Guard for security of application data and UI pages.  • Worked with react lifecycle hooks to invoke functions in the JavaScript files, such as • Involved Axios to send http requests to backend like get, post, put and delete.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  • Implemented Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Implemented Server-Side application development framework using Express JS and mongoose to connect with application with MongoDB database.  • Used bcrypt to hash the password input by user for account security.  • Involved JWT for pass the token to requests in order to protect routes.  • Experienced to analyze the requirements and make wireframes using Adobe Photoshop.  • Worked in team and control code in time frame using GIT and JIRA for task management.  • Used Mocha and Jasmine for testing and debugging program code.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) using Agile scrum Methodology.    Environments: AWS, CSS3, JavaScript, React Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, MongoDB, NodeJS, ExpressJS, DOM, Adobe Photoshop, Git, Internet Explorer, Chrome and Mac. Full stack Developer Spencer Saving Bank - Elmwood Park, NJ March 2015 to July 2016 Spencer Saving Bank is a full service, mutually owned and operated community bank, serving both individuals and businesses. The project was to work on Risk Management system which helps assess the credit risk of the borrowers based on their profile (Individual or Enterprise). My responsibility is to build UI with JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and typescript in client side, node and express for server side.    Responsibilities: • Developed Single page application using JavaScript source code and Typescript.  • Utilized functionalities include coding in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and making use of Bootstrap framework.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD(Responsive Web Design) to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Experience with using directives, dependency injection, modules and routing.  • Made use of Observables to make HTTP Requests and leveraged its functions to loop around results.  • Implemented the caching of the post and get requests using the Interceptors of HTTP Client Module provided by creating server in JavaScript.  • Implemented back- end using NodeJS, ExpressJS and database with MongoDB.  • Used form validation with the both template-driven and react form to ensure that errors cannot be sent to database.  • Used GIT for version control and work in team • Ability to work in advanced Agile SDLC environment and used JIRA to track the project work.    Environment: DOM, Internet Explorer, MAC, GIT,CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX. Front End Developer Datacolor - Lawrenceville, NJ August 2013 to February 2015 Datacolor is an international color management company which offers customers color management solutions. I helped my team to build a management application that help employees to manage diverse solutions for their clients such as apparel matching module, auto vehicle selection color module and data color matching pigment module. My responsibility is to build front end by using frameworks and libraries including JavaScript, Bootstrap and jQuery.    Responsibilities: • Developed the UI Pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML, JavaScript and CSS as per company standards.  • Used Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries to create responsive web design.  • Utilized jQuery to manipulated form inputs and outputs of the front end interface.  • Supported existing reporting solutions in trouble shooting and maintenance • Ensured every functions inside of the components ordered in right sequence by using lifecycle hooks.  • Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bug that were reported in JIRA. Cooperated with QA Team and DBAs to ensure reports quality and smooth report deployment.  • Ability to work in advanced Agile SDLC environment and use GIT for version control.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Internet Explorer, DOM, GIT, JIRA Education M. S. in Electrical & Data Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology