Threat Intelligence Lead Threat Intelligence Lead Threat Intelligence Lead - DEFENSIVE THINKING Troy, MI Highly organized and detail-oriented IT Security Specialist with 7 years of experience, specialized in: Incident Response and Digital Forensics, Threat Intelligence, and Vulnerability Research. Work Experience Threat Intelligence Lead Defensive Thinking December 2018 to Present ? Perform advanced data analytics on real-time raw cyber-threat data to create actionable threat intelligence.  ? Identify and track threat actors and associated Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) by capturing relevant data. Development of countermeasures to mitigate threat actors' ability to do harm.  ? Analyze preliminary evidence of cybercrimes, identify and isolate relevant evidence sources, and develop investigative plans on collected raw data in line with forensic best practices. Founder | Security Analyst | Researcher Voxified Security Solutions 2012 to Present ? Analyze threat and attack data from a variety of sources to identify the modus operandi of threat actors.  ? Rapid recognition of attack signatures, indicators of compromise, and intrusion methodologies used by threat actors.  ? Identify, and define, system security policies, procedures, and requirements. Front End Designer Art into Science: A Conference for Defense September 2017 to 2018 ? Front end design, development, and maintenance of feature rich content, using HTML(5), CSS(3), JavaScript, jQuery, etc.  ? Research, development, and design of additional, modern features, per the client's request. Front End Developer Cindy Fay Modeling and Photography 2014 to 2017 ? Lead front end design, development, and maintenance of feature rich content, using HTML(5), CSS(3), JavaScript, jQuery, etc. Subject Matter Expert (SME) Tim Brost (Author) May 2016 to July 2016 (Short-Term Contract)  ? I was interviewed by Tim concerning Small Business-oriented Information Security practices. Tutor | IT Technician Colorado Technical University April 2013 to June 2013 ? Provided tutoring sessions to students seeking help in the Computer Science, IT, and Mathematics subjects.  ? Assisted the IT department with technical projects around the campus, including database security work. Education Master of Science in IT - Strategic Security Management Colorado Technical University 2015 to 2017 Bachelor of Science in IT - Information Security Engineering Colorado Technical University 2011 to 2015 Skills Information Security (7 years), Digital Forensics (3 years), Malware Analysis (3 years), Incident Response (5 years), PowerShell (3 years), Threat Intelligence (4 years), Python (3 years), Virtualization (6 years), Project Management (2 years), System Administration (4 years) Links https://4n6.tech http://linkedin.com/in/MalwareJedi