Barista/Food Prep Barista/Food Prep Front End WordPress Developer Pittsburgh, PA Strong skills in communications and organization. Hard working, self starter who is  efficient and professional. Multiple areas of expertise from retail, customer service, and program  design. Worked in public service (911 Communications), non-profit (501c Mustang Sanctuary),  and private industries, (Tour and Ski Areas). PA Child Clearances, pass criminal background  checks and CDL Class B license. Work Experience Barista/Food Prep Curbside Coffeehouse - Blawnox, PA May 2019 to Present Fantastic locally owned and operated coffee house/sandwich/bakery. Barista, Food prep, service, and anything and all in-between. Owner Polly Beth Web - Pittsburgh, PA July 2018 to Present Freelance Web Developer business that optimizes SEO, Keyword search, Social Media Management for various customers, and works with Ridgeview Technologies as a freelance web developer that converts non WordPress sites to WordPress, customizes HTML/CSS for unique website design, and links Social Media Platforms with Websites. Front End proficient with Back End knowledge. Front End WordPress Developer Mad Cow Web - Fort Collins, CO Present Freelance developer who is able to convert from non WordPress sites to WordPress. Can design specific content from the ground up and the ability to make website GDPR, SEO, and pair with Social Media. Cafe Server and Bookseller Barnes and Nobles, Waterworks - Pittsburgh, PA November 2017 to May 2019 Pittsburgh PA Current  -Part Time Cafe Server and Bookseller    Lead Bartender, The Hotel Crittenden, Coudersport PA 4/2016  -Opening and Closing Restaurant/Taproom    -RAMP Certified (PA Alcohol Server License)    -Handle money, deposits, hotel reservations, register opening and closing    -Create inventory documents, spreadsheets, and maintenance  -Order, stock, and inventory beer and liquor  -Create events and work functions  -Train new employees Bartender and Server The Hotel Crittenden - Coudersport, PA April 2015 to October 2017 Lead Bartender. RAMP Certified (just expired), Maintained Stock and Liquor Beer Orders with distributors. Worked with additional bartenders and servers. Substitute Teacher Potter County 2016 to 2017 -Substitute Teacher Coudersport, Austin, and Galeton Schools  -Kindergarten through High School  -On call and scheduled days  -Experience with all ages and subjects Ranch Manager Great Escape Mustang Sanctuary - Deer Trail, CO 2015 to 2015 -In charge of ay to day ranch operations  -Designed and Lead Educational Outreach Programs  -Lead on-site tours and promoted tourism  -Social Media Management on Facebook and Instagram Communications Dispatcher Fire, and EMS Emergency Communications - Whidbey Island, WA 2014 to 2014 Education Bachelor's