Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Beleza Agency Riverside, CA Knowledgeable in a wide variety of computer languages as well as the principles and  techniques of website construction and maintenance. Highly adept at conveying complex  technical information to a variety of professional and lay audiences in a clear and  understandable manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Beleza Agency - San Francisco, CA 2017 to Present web application using JavaScript, HTML5, and Bootstrap, to maintain dynamic website.  San Francisco CA  2017 - Present Logistics Manager VitaMuscle Nutrition - Moreno Valley, CA 2017 to Present Resolve any arising problems or complaints. Maintained accurate records and managed  Moreno Valley CA office correspondence.  2017 - Present Server Bj's Brewhouse - Corona, CA 2011 to Present experiences, using Windows 8.0 POSi Touch system.  Corona CA  2011 - Present Tier I Tech Support Analyze and Advantage Solutions - Anaheim, CA 2017 to 2018 Provide Technical support to retail associates across the nation, handling technical  Tier I Tech Support troubleshooting within an enterprise desktop, and mobile device environment. Analyze and Advantage Solutions resolve incident requests regarding use of application software or hardware. Resolve technical  Anaheim CA problems with local area networks, Wifi Networks, and mobile phone network. Excelled in  2017- 2018 finding, documenting and reporting bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software application developed for Advantage Solutions. Education Certification in Software Development and Coding Platt College June 2017 California State Polytechnic University 2007 to 2010 Skills Javascript, UI, Front-End, User Interface Additional Information Technologies,  HTML5 (Hypertext Markup Language), CSS3 (Cascade Style Sheet), JavaScript, PHP (PHP:  Languages Hypertext Processor), C#, Python, Node.js, AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML), JSON  (JavaScript Object Notation), JQuery, Bootstrap, Windows10, Linux Ubuntu, Visual Studio  2017, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Notepad++, Textpad, Brackets, Jetbrains Webstorm 2017.