Senior Web UI Developer Senior Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web UI Developer - PNC Bank Pittsburgh, PA Over 8+ years of experience in developing user interfaces and web designing applications using JavaScript, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, DOM.    ? Developing single page applications using different JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5/6/7, React JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, and Javascript.  ? Strong knowledge on Angular routing concepts, components, filters, MVC Architecture, expressions, Directives.  ? Implemented MVC framework using Angular that manages to split app into various components.  ? Experience working with custom directives in Angular 2.0/4 for re-usable components (multi n-filed form elements background file uploads).  ? Experience with NOSQL database development like Mongo DB. Involved in implementing queries to the back- end Mongo DB databases.  ? Developing responsive webpages using Media queries and Bootstrap. Implemented responsive web design for easy reading and navigation with a minimum of resizing, planning and scrolling.  ? Hands on experience in using JQuery UI, Bootstrap mobile for the webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive design.  ? Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web services using AJAX and JQUERY.  ? Strong knowledge on agile methodology, Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine, Karma and worked on tools like NPM, Bower.  ? Working knowledge of dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using JQuery UI library.  ? Worked in form validation using JavaScript, for providing the user interface and communication between client and server.  ? Experience in creating dynamic webpages making AJAX Calls, using the XML Http Request Object.  ? Excellent understanding of GitHub, Bit Bucket, SVN.  ? Experience using all kinds of text editors, tools like Notepad++, Brackets, NetBeans, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Visual studio, Sublime Text Editor.  ? Worked on interaction with the single page application often involves dynamic communication with the web server behind the scenes.  ? Strong knowledge of Angular 2/4 practices in commonly used modules and creating reusable Components, Pipes and Services.  ? Responsible for writing micro services using Spring Boot and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  ? Experience in building application with React JS, Redux; Require JS, in MVC architecture.  ? Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to NodeJS server side code.  ? Developed the backend by using Node.js, Express and MongoDB.  ? Experience in spring, Hibernate, understanding of design patterns, implementing Core Java/Spring/Spring boot applications. Strong programming experience on Java, J2EE, XSLT, SQL, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, EJB's, JSP, Servlet, JAXB, etc.  ? Experience in ETL (Data stage) analysis, designing, developing, testing and implementing ETL processes including performance tuning and query optimizing of databases.  ? Experience in developing Single Page Applications(SPA) using JavaScript MVC framework such as React JS.  ? Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks using Java, C#, Selenium WebDriver, RC, Junit, TestNG, Maven, ANT, Hudson, and Jenkins tools.  ? Experience in spring modules like MVC, AOP, JDBC, ORM, and Web Services.  ? Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using JAVA along with spring, Servlets and Node.js along with Express JS.  ? Proficient with Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, and their Implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web UI Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA May 2018 to Present Project: Pinnacle Portal  Description: In Pinnacle Portal the common entitlement schema and messaging framework will allow the Portal to store and maintain the entitlement information for each module. Each module stores and maintains a copy of the entitlement specific to their needs, but all additions, deletions and updates will occur in the central repository and be propagated to the modules. Centralized entitlements allows for additional features and functions at a system wide level such as better control over the Secondary Approval Process and cross-module role management. Additional and enhanced entitlement reports leverages the ability to provide greater visibility across modules.    Responsibilities:  ? Sr. Front End developer for Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) - Basket Creation application in designing UI frameworks after analyzing Business Requirements, along with that preparing software Design document, Software development, debugging of ETF application for Software defect/bug fixing.  ? Extensively worked on UI front end layer using the HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Angular2/4/7, React JS, NPM, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, SAAS, Webpack, Widgets, Handsontable, SlickGrid, etc.  ? Involved in design, development and testing phases of project and also involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings with client JP Morgan Chase.  ? Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  ? Incorporated MVC architecture using spring framework.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using JavaScript and JQuery Library.  ? Worked with JSON for data exchange between client and server.  ? Experience working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  ? Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  ? Used ReactJS for building encapsulated components, to pass rich data through app and keep state out of the DOM. Worked in a very iterative/agile development environment to manage development life-cycle.  ? Used Database first approach and created EF and used it for data source for CRUD Operations.  ? Developed front end components using HTML5/CSS3, Kendo UI, AngularJS, and AngularJS Bootstrap UI.  ? Created multiple views using layout template and AngularJS ng-Route.  ? Created RESTFUL ASP.NET Web API services that manage individual overtime based upon employees department, Shift groups and job classification.  ? Used Angular 2/5/7Filter to implement pagination for data records.  ? Created custom, self-contained and testable AngularJS modules, controllers, directives and services to implement key functionality such as recording overtime, and ranking employees based upon their overtime.  ? Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2 built-in and custom directives.  ? Developed Angular 2/5/7 Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using ngModel  ? Developed complex nested components for reuse.  ? Used Bootstrap to Style the web pages and make the application responsive.  ? Implemented Routing, validations, different forms, HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time in Angular 2.0/4 application.  ? Used OAuth Service to implementation of authentication and authorization in the application.  ? Used SQL Server Database for data migration from internal data source.  ? Using Fiddler and Postman for testing the Web API and Jasmine & Batarang Tool for Angular 2 testing.  ? Used AngularJS as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  ? Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js, which were consumed by making AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool  ? Used Angular 2/4/7 for ng-grid and UI components.  ? Leading role in UI framework design, fixing cross browser challenges and service layer exception handling.  ? Performed the full spectrum of Web-related tasks, including rapid prototyping, design and layout, performance tuning and optimization, server-side programming, AJAX/RPC/Web-service interactivity and testing in a highly team oriented and deadline-driven settings.  ? UI/UX development following Agile methodology to create a seamless customer experience with heavy usage of JavaScript/jQuery, CSS3, SAAS, HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap, React JS, Hands on table, SlickGrid, Bootstrap, XML, JSON.    SKILLS: HTML5, CSS3, JSP, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Struts, AJAX, Angular2/4/7, ReactJs, Bootstrap, jQuery-Mobile, Restful web services, SCRUM, Agile Methodology, Jira. Front End Web Developer / Angular Developer Capital One - New York, NY October 2015 to April 2018 Project: ICCE (Integrated Commercial Card Experience)  Description: The project was about EAP, Electronics Account Payable and T&E, Travel and Expenses. EAP allows customers to store their payment information and also allows the customers to make their payment in an easier way. Travel and Expenses project allows the customer to make a track of their expenses and provides the report of their expenses.    Responsibilities:  ? Developer for a front end migration from WCS platform to the USP platform using Angular 1.5 as a JavaScript Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript, Bower, GruntJS, NodeJS, LESS.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS 3.0 and JavaScript.  ? Worked with business analysts to get the requirements from client and went through user documents and designed user interface designs, Wireframes, Information architecture flows and mockups (PSDs).  ? Debugged the common code platform to remove bugs from several features of the code using Angular Directives to improve App performance  ? Actively involved in using AngularJS, HTML5 to enable client side date to meets specific criteria by applying various validation variables and used the Angular JS validation CSS classes to provide visual feedback on validation.  ? Used various data controls grid view, multi view and detail views for creating user controls  ? Understanding of how to manipulate data, such as parsing strings, working with JSON, and handling form data.  ? Experience creating and extending JavaScript code frameworks, clean, semantic HTML/CSS code  ? Experience with test driven development.  ? Understand the Functional Specification documents, SAL documents and Wireframe documents for better way to implement the user story.  ? Develop technical solutions (Single Page Application) using AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, REST API, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Knowledge on implementing directives and scope values using AngularJS for an existing webpage.  ? Extensively used JavaScript, Jquery and AJAX for implement client side data verification, data transfer and load, sending XML with asynchronous/synchronous request to build the data communication between client side and server side.  ? Working environment included open source development tools, including Node, Grunt, and Bower.  ? Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  ? Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  ? Was actively involved in designing and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, HTML5, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and AngularJS.  ? Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    SKILLS: HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, APACHE TOMCAT, JSP, SASS, AJAX, GIT, BOOTSTRAP, ANGULARJS, GRUNT, BOWER. Web UI Developer CIGNA Corporation - Columbus, OH October 2014 to September 2015 Project Description: The purpose of this project is to create self service capability for providers requesting physical therapy authorizations. A web application is developed to provide the users the ability to track demographic change requests received from providers via mail and fax, to send auto-generated confirmation letters and additional information request letters to providers.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular.js  ? Used Dependency Injection (DI) from Angular.JS factories and services.  ? Used routing schemes to develop single page applications (SPAs) using Angular route.  ? Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  ? Designed and developed Single page Application with Controllers, Model and Views of Angular.js framework.  ? Built Web pages those are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFul Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Websites designed and developed using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax and jQuery based on W3C standards and Web 2.0.  ? Involved in configuring the GIT repository and maintain the version control using GIT.  ? Created design mock-ups and wireframes using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Dreamweaver CS3.  ? Used Java Script for binding form data with the Model Objects and server side and client side validation.  ? Developed Charts using High Chart JS charting tool.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Defined the site layout and developed Wireframes using Adobe Illustrator.  ? Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing and review website.    SKILLS: Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Agile, JIRA, Web 2.0, GIT, SASS, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, Ajax, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, Eclipse, Windows XP and SQL. UI Developer PROGRESSIVE INSURANCE - Colorado Springs, CO November 2013 to September 2014 Project Description: The application offered Customer Self Service functionality by means of a CRM Application enabling Sales reps to display/update Customer Sales information, personnel details, address information etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for transforming designs mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery, JSP/JSON, XML and XSLT.  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  ? Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, JavaServerPages, HTML and CSS.  ? Business logic is implemented using Struts framework, MVC, Designed and Developed application.  ? Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  ? Developed various objects using HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  ? User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  ? Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, indexes.  ? Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML.  ? Wrote custom JQuery plugins and developed JavaScript functions to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX driven user interface.  ? Worked on JQuery Light box for creating image and video galleries.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  ? Embedded the flash content into the web pages using SW Object.  ? Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  ? Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control.    SKILLS: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, PHP, APACHE, MAC OS, ECLIPSE, SVN Software Developer HCL Infosystems - Gujarat, IN June 2010 to October 2013 Project Description: I-GOVERN (Federal Govt.)  UN Employment Insurance for Tax and Benefits System is an application helps to find the employment tax and its benefits around the 4 states namely Colorado, Wyoming, and North Dakota & Arizona. It's a web application Federal Government project. And implemented in Java and J2EE Technologies like JSF, JSP, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle Database etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Security module in IGOVERN was designed to support implemented custom.  ? Login module to support custom authorization of the user.  ? Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript's.  ? Implemented the UI using JSF, J Query, HTML, spring, Hibernate, Active MQ, Mule, Me cache etc.  ? Business logic originally written in PL/SQL is rewritten in Java.  ? Worked with MVC frameworks such as Backbone.js, Underscore.js, Ember, Knockout or Angular JS.  ? Involved in multiple projects with UI development and handled production defects in parallel.  ? Implemented Spring MVC for designing and implementing the UI Layer for the application.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate and created the mapping files.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection (IOC) and integrated with the Hibernate.  ? Wrote queries for the modifications to existing database structure.  ? Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using JUnit.  ? Improved the performance and response time of the application by implementing AJAX  ? Used SVN for version control.    SKILLS: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, Adobe Photoshop. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (9 years), Javascript (9 years), jquery (9 years), Json (9 years), User interface (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ? UI Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, Angular JS, Angulr2.0/4/5/6 React JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Node.js, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, CSS3, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing.  ? IDE: Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text 2  ? Database: ORACLE SQL SERVER MYSQL  ? Operating Systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7  ? Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN  ? Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server  ? Design Tools: Photoshop, 3Ds Max, Maya, After effects, Unity, Unreal.    AGILE SKILLS:  ? Humble servant leader keeping teams moving forward  ? Effective with working with product owners and dev teams understanding business priority, technical team needs keeping communications open  ? Pro at Jira, Rally, MS Project, IBM Clarity and other PMO planning tools commonly used  ? Effective team collaboration skills  ? Great at initiating and leading scrum ceremonies like the daily stand ups, backlog grooming sessions, sprint planning sessions and retrospectives  ? Facilitation skills to identify and resolve impediments  ? Highly advanced with visual presentations, Burn down diagrams, visios and lucid charts  ? Good at keeping teams on track, accountable and reminded of upcoming deliverables and tasks via different tools, emails and discussions  ? Ability to study, analyze and present data analytics via various reporting tools  ? Skilled at producing status radiators for leadership and teams