Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Moonraft Innovation Labs Pvt Ltd Work Experience Front End Developer Moonraft Innovation Labs Pvt Ltd June 2017 to Present Developing websites, android applications, web applications, hybrid applications using  given design specifications and delivering them with all functional specifications  integrated and tested  ? Coordinating with the team members for efficient work progress.  ? Utilizing different version control systems for work integration within the team  ? Analysing the refinements required by clients and implementing effective solutions that  result in significant improvement    Project  accomplished  Hybrid Application for TLC    • Hybrid Application that digitalizes customer's experience of enjoying all the loyalty  benefits of a particular hotel service  • Development in Ionic framework on Angular 5, BEM  • Also includes development of CMS to update the application for different hotels.  • Consists of content variation depending on the type of user, progress bars, form validation,  data-binding, posting and getting data using api, otp verification etc    Website for ICICI  • Development of Website for ICICI user interface using core JavaScript, HTML, CSS  • Consists of navigation between pages, form validation    Paperless Application  • Android application that digitalizes all the paperwork done by executives to register a loan  application for vehicles.  • Development of application using all the core building blocks of android such as  Activities, Content providers, Services, Fragments. Implemented interactivity using  functionalities in Java.    Greaves Life Application Moonraft Innovation Labs Pvt Ltd 2018 to 2018 • Android application to be used by drivers of three wheeled vehicles. Gives all the information about the status of vehicle, petrol filling station locations nearby etc.  • This application was installed in a vehicle for demo in Auto Expo 2018  Interactive Wall    • Development of interactive wall that gives all the information about the culture and innovative work done at the Client's place(RPG).  • User interaction with the wall is achieved using Kinect sensors, pressure sensors.  Animations achieved in Unity3D on C#. Education BTech in Electronics and Communication Engineering college clubs related July 2013 to May 2017 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/anishayathigiri Additional Information Skills    Development skills: JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Java, C, C#    Development tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Android Studio, Unity 3D, MATLAB, MPLAB  IDE, Arduino