Freelance Graphic Designer and Web Developer Freelance Graphic Designer and Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> DIGITAL PRINT SPECIALIST / PRODUCTION ARTIST Saint Charles, MO I am an educated prepress designer, digital press operator, and production artist with experience in design work, file correction, color separation, screening processes, screen printing, vinyl and large format printing, vinyl installation, vehicle wrapping, digital press diagnosis and repair, and finishing techniques Including: binding, padding, mounting, guillotine operation, pneumatic folding, scoring, perforation, and packaging. I have had the professional opportunities to work with a variety of machines large and small that include Ricoh, Xerox, HP, Cannon, and Hiedleberg presses, and have prepressed for single, two color, and four color offset presses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Graphic Designer and Web Developer FREELANCE DESIGNER - St. Louis, MO 2015 to Present Hired as contracted programmer and graphic designer based on client needs. Worked with clients to produce needed marketing materials based on desired effects and existing efforts. Competent with print and electronic media and capable of creatively finding solutions within client budgets. Print Services Supervisor OFFICEMAX PRINT CENTER - Saint Charles, MO January 2017 to January 2019 Use print shop knowledge to bring professional production hand to print environment. Train new hires on job creation and production. Handled operation and management needs of print area. Production Coordinator / Installer Landmark Sign Company - Chesterfield, MO March 2018 to August 2018 Hired as summer help, was trained on operation of latex on vinyl large format printing plotting and installation as well as coordination ordering of supplies and materials for larger jobs requiring outside manufacturing. Trained in installation of vinyl of all kinds including basic vehicle wrapping, window vinyl installation, perforated vinyl installation, and basic small signage production with vinyl. Helped with field work including site surveys and real estate signage construction. Prepress Graphic Designer and Production Assistant MINUTEMAN PRESS - Wentzville, MO January 2017 to September 2017 Produced from-scratch business branding, file correction, and prepped artwork for digital printing. Handled ordering, estimation, and equipment repair logistics. Handled all digital production. Prepress Graphic Designer and Production Assistant WITT PRINT SHOP - Columbia, MO September 2015 to May 2016 Produced from-scratch business branding, file correction, and prepped artwork for digital printing. Handled ordering, estimation, and equipment repair logistics. Handled all digital production. Recruitment Artwork Designer MIZZOU ATHLETICS GRAPHIC DEPARTMENT - Columbia, MO February 2015 to July 2015 Developed graphics and recruitment documents for the MU football program sent to prospective recruits across the country. From-scratch artwork and illustration production mixed with design work. Front End Developer TIGER NETWORKING AND COMPUTING April 2014 to July 2014 Contracted to rebuild database for the Columbia Immigration Offices. Handled front end development while working closely with back end developer to rebuild and streamline internal website for employees. Production Assistant and Screen Printer MISSOURI COTTON EXCHANGE - Columbia, MO April 2013 to September 2013 Assisted in production and shipping of large apparel orders. Mixed ink to specifications of customer and trained on automatic and manual screen printing. Operated direct to garment printer as well. Education B.F.A. in GRAPHIC DESIGN University of Missouri Columbia / St. Louis - Columbia, MO Skills Illustrator (6 years), Indesign (6 years), Photoshop (6 years), Prepress (6 years), Social Media Marketing (2 years), Graphic Design (6 years), Management (2 years), Logistics (3 years), Digital Media (6 years), Installation (2 years), Vinyl Installation (2 years), Information Technology (1 year), Color Theory and Matching (4 years), Digital Printing (6 years), Production Artist (4 years), Production Management (2 years), Variable Data (2 years), Adobe, Typography, Advertising, Branding, Web Design, Marketing, Wordpress, illustration, After Effects, Large Format Printing (5 years), Lamination (5 years), Plotting & Weeding (3 years) Assessments Graphic Design — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pzsrcc89k0cvpfdy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I am a highly creative individual and I use every bit of that to my advantage. I am a jack-of-all-trades designer that doesn't let new territory hinder productivity. In my free time I study jazz guitar, keep fish, and build high performance computers.