Lead UX Designer/ Developer Lead UX Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead UX Designer/ Developer Work Experience Lead UX Designer/ Developer Essentia Water LLC March 2018 to February 2019 Implemented multiple marketing strategies from concept to product. Led redesign of the corporate website to double visitor retention by promoting user discovery as well as targetting curret target market interest points of entry.    Implemented design through a suggested CMS platform and custom HTML/CSS/JS/PHP as well as taking lead on QC and versioning.    Managed multiple inputs from Social Media promotion, in-store connectivity and promotion, and targeting of specific market promotions by designing multiple user patterns to build user habits.    Led SEO research driven timelines to steer content priority for maximum above the fold and first landing impact, while simultaneously  providing alternative entry to secondary content.    Implemented complex, image and video heavy, fluid (mobile-first) structure designs while optimizing to reach high load standards via  GTMetrix / Google Page Speed and Cloudflare solutions. Advised design, marketing and social media teams strategy in accordance with SEO and research led observations. Contracted Designer Leviton INC October 2017 to February 2018 Presented alternative design for print, web and presention for internal / external promotional material, from concept to production, using printing standards and guidelines. Interpreted and stretched brand guidelines to deliver unique presentation material, pitching to  multi-national audiences. Partner/Design Lead Act Out VR February 2016 to 2018 Act Out VR is a startup that is bringing VR storytelling to the masses. Providing a cloud based storytelling application for worldwide  collaboration across every device imaginable.    Owned the continual design of a virtual reality interface for multiple devices. From Visual design to User Experi- ence, to App  Architecture, providing an experience that anyone can pick up without any knowledge of virtual reality, immersing themselves in an intuitive experience.    Led the design of Brand guidelines, Typography, Logo design and Color. Making an approachable, memorable experience, instilling whim- sy as well as the allusion of great depth capable in the program.    Led the Web development and Design of the company site, driving up mindshare in the VR marketplace whilst presenting our product to initial investors and interested users. Contracted Lead Design Steyer Associates March 2017 to August 2017 Delivered marketing material via 3-folds, white papers, online web-banners, email design and production ads well as tradeshow material for multiple fortune 500 companies.    Led multiple SaaS and B2B solution interface redesigns from concept to completion, using Agile philosophy and managing rapid dead- lines. Supported multiple production teams by providing visual style guides, supplying top level user patterns as well as living HTML5 /  CSS / .js prototypes for plug and play support via existing infrastructure.    Created Iconography and motion interaction guidelines for maximum visual experience impact. Contracted Designer CB Technologies Indigo Slate December 2016 to February 2017 CB Technologies is an agile B2B IT integrations and solutions company. Known for being a woman owned business and a people first  company.    A responsive website built on the WordPress CMS platform. The site utilizes long scroll to point anchors to streamline architecture, a mobile contact form for ease of contract entry, social sharing functionality on site wide and events to proliferate content. Provide training and support to content creators for optimal long term content creation.    Created an identity system of component parts that the client could use in a variety of trade shows and promo- tions. I supplied a kit of parts including the logo's above with both horizontal and vertical versions as well as templates for future work. I designed postcard  leave-behinds for the client to use for networking solutions as well. I created a slide template decks that the client could use to feed  information in for specific presentations. Contracted Visual Designer Microsoft Allovus Design November 2014 to July 2016 Conceptualization of hi-level projects promoting company agendas for positive change. I brought bundled Mi- crosoft software strategies  and design to internal promotion. This in turn increased use and discovery of Mi- crosoft applications as well as increased Membership  retention via subscription based bundles.    Elicited ease of use via the Visual design of Microsoft Membership Website services. Increased the speed of implementation from design to dEvelopment with my knowledge of both Visual design, Brand knowledge and HTML/CSS/JQuery/Bootstrap. I brought tasks in earlier  than expected by bridging the gap between two differ- ent teams that lacked knowledge of each other's workflow.    Increased hiring of essential Engineers by use of eye catching collateral for trade shows, promotional events and expos.    Increased employee morale with motivational collateral via print campaigns for multiple teams including Microsoft HoloLens, Xbox and more. Storyboarding, illustrating and art direction collateral for motion design, im- plemented for launch parties.    Bridged the gap as a design integrator on a tented project. By working with the design team to quality check all output, outlining brand  guidelines, redlining all design work and implementation with developers. I tested all initial OS components to bring the Microsoft  Surface Hub to market. Visual Designer/UX Designer Centroid LLC September 2014 to December 2014 Implementing best practices from UI, UX and Front End Development to create a beautiful, navigable website for visiting hiring hopefuls and clientele as well as task-management for employee interaction for the back end dashboard. Freelance Visual Designer / Front End Developer Arc Media Productions July 2014 to September 2014 Visual Design, Front end development using HTML5/CSS3 and UI design, creating pixel perfect mockups for web. Graphics, Layout, and mobile design. Info graphics as well as html & css inline coding for email.    Working closely with clientele for an upscale website for a new housing community, fostering an increase of homebuyers. Providing visu- al mockups with coded living style guides HTML/CSS/Jquery. Worked with development team to realize user interactions and animations. Print and Web Designer Seattle Central Community College Student Leadership March 2012 to 2014 By use of print and poster design I raised the collective campus awareness of specific events for social, economic and cultural change, thereby increasing attendance.    I working closely with the Veteran Services to get information to Veterans on their eligibility and support available by creating pamphlets, flyers, posters and web banners for the community colleges websites. In addition to structuring marketing campaigns and benefits. Education Associate of Applied Science in Graphic Design in Graphic Design Seattle Central Creative Academy Skills CSS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, jQuery, ANIMATION, WORDPRESS, USER RESEARCH, ADOBE CS, SEO, AFTER EFFECTS, EXCEL, WORD, MAC, OPTIMIZATION, Illustrator, Marketing, Customer Service, Sales Links http://matthewdavison.net Additional Information Skills  Proficiency in Adobe CS, Sketch, CSS3, HTML, PHP, Jquery, Javascript, Omnigraffle, Mac & Windows,  Excel, Word. Fluent with Proto IO, Flinto, After Effects, Adobe Experience and html/css mockups, Figma, Invision, Wordpress, Video editing  and animation, SEO optimization, User research and HCD standards.