Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Irving, TX • Over 8 years of experience in Designing, Development, implementation and maintenance of software applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, React.js, Node.js.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in node.js, React.js responsive design.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, ReactJS and Node.js in effective web design • Experience in developing rich views using React.js with React-Redux architecture for the Uni-directional data flow with the web-pack build tool.  • Expertise in Snapchat Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design and in handling cross browser compatibility issues • Experienced in designing and developing Responsive Web Design using Media Queries, Snapchat Bootstrap AngularJS, Angular2/4, Bootstrap, jQuery, Node.js.  • and jQuery Mobile.  • Created React.js components using JSX and Virtual DOM Followed Redux Architecture for unidirectional data flow and manage the data in React and Make HTTP requests in React & Redux.  • Experience in producing RESTful services using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular2.  • Hands on experience with object-oriented JavaScript, modern JavaScript features like arrow functions, classes, and modular code development and more ES6 features.  • Extensively implemented ES6 for building interactive cross platform web application and optimizing the application for high performance.  • Worked with Node.js and Express.js to develop RESTful API's consumed in front end applications.  • Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Used Node.js to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  • Excited to learn and implement new and emerging technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer AMEX - New York, NY April 2015 to May 2018 Responsibilities: • Responsible for the overall layout design (Table-less), color scheme of the web site using HTML, XHTML and CSS and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Created and deployed new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications.  • Creating Desktop and Web Applications using C#, ASP.NET.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  • Implemented jQuery UI widgets like drag, drop, accordion, sort, etc.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Provided graphic and artistic support for web enhancement and new creative initiatives.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.  • Developed IFRAME element to fetch and display the external pages that contains JavaScript/CSS code that runs when fetched via Ajax, the page is from an outside domain.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JQuery UI, Responsive Web Design, Angular 2, TypeScript, Angular.js, Ext.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, JSON, DOM, XML, XHTML, W3C, Photoshop and Windows. Web Developer Limra IT Solutions March 2011 to April 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked with a team of front- end developers to build UI design concepts and prototypes.  • Extensively worked in the design implementation phase.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company's needs and goals.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Created and deployed new features to sustain and amend existing applications.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the website using HTML, XHTML and CSS and Responsible for creating detailed wireframes and process flows.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse and Windows. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, LESS, SASS, AngularJS, Angular2/4.  JavaScript Libraries jQuery, BackboneJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, AngularJS, D3JS.  Web Services REST and SOAP  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Inspector, Browser stack  Databases SQL Server, MYSQL, PL-SQL, MongoDB  Development Tools Brackets, Sublime Text 3, Eclipse, Android Studio, NetBeans 8.1, Notepad++, Photoshop CS6, GIT, Visual Studio.  Servers Apache Tomcat Server, IIS, WebLogic  Operating System Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Ubuntu, LINUX, UNIX