Creative Tech Intern Creative Tech Intern Creative Tech Intern Hyde Park, MA Work Experience Creative Tech Intern Hill Holliday - Boston, MA June 2019 to July 2019 Worked on a mockup UI/UX design  ? Edited code on a client website http://knowceliac.org/  ? Created a website for the Intern Pitch Project http://greenlinehhcc.com/ Digital Strategist Craft & Caro - Boston, MA April 2017 to June 2019 Revitalized the social media campaigns.  ? Created graphics via Photoshop for the social media campaigns.  ? Curated Mailchimp campaigns.  ? Creating our publishing schedule and tracking conversion rates through Google Documents.  ? Assisted in event planning logistics.  ? Customer-facing role at the boutique; requiring sales and marketing techniques. Curriculum Designer and Lead Instructor Athletes Without Borders, Inc - Boston, MA November 2017 to April 2018 Taught students at Trotter Elementary School computer programming.  ? Planned a weekly curriculum for the students at Trotter Elementary School to acquire basic  knowledge of HTML, CSS and JavaScript through online programs such as Tynker and Scratch and hands-on activities. Technical Project Manager Resilient Coders September 2017 to November 2017 Worked with upper management and oversaw fellow peers to complete client projects.  ? Managed client projects as a team.  ? Made sure each team member had their assignments and deliverables in order.  ? Discovered solutions to any problems my team encountered.  ? Acquired in-depth knowledge about Wordpress, PHP, Git and pull request workflow. Front- End Web Developer Program Resilient Coders July 2017 to August 2017 Completed front- end web developer program.  ? Honed my skills with semantically structured HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript and building web  applications in a competitive 8-week bootcamp course.  ? Acquired skills such as PHP, Wordpress and Git through the 8-week extensive lab work.  ? Acquired how to utilize text editors like Visual Studio Code, Atom and Sublime.  ? Mastered soft skills and hard skills simultaneously.  ? Created interactive games for the best user experience possible.  ? Generated web applications that cater to needs, such as a tasks list.  ? Experienced in creating compelling site layouts. Support Staff Northeastern University - Boston, MA February 2016 to July 2016 Temporary Work)  ? At Office of Global Services, the main working ports would be within Sunapsis, Excel Spread- sheets, Outlook and other specific programming to ensure that these international students were  ensured proper service.  ? Heavily engaging with customer service and contacting advisors on a consistent basis.  ? Fluctuating from administrative work to data entry to customer service at any sporadic moment.    Mentionable Temporary Work & Internships: Administrative Assistant Harvard University January 2016 to February 2016 Field Representative on The Farm Team Cornerstone Agency April 2015 to February 2016 Assistant Stylist Fashion Projec September 2014 to May 2015 Contributor TOAN Magazine November 2012 to January 2015 Fashion Merchandising Assistant TOAN Magazine September 2013 to July 2014 Social Media Intern and Contributor TOAN Magazine June 2013 to August 2013 Stache Lifestyle Representative Sony Music / RED January 2013 to May 2013 Education Bachelor's in Social Psychology University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA December 2013 Psychology University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth - North Dartmouth, MA June 2011 High School Diploma Fontbonne Academy - Milton, MA May 2009 Skills Css, Html5, jquery, Illustrator, Excel, Microsoft outlook, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Photoshop, Premiere, Mac, Copywriting, Marketing, Digital marketing, Grassroots, Branding, Adobe premiere Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  Experienced in HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Photoshop, Adobe Premiere.  Copywriting skills as well as branding skills for small companies and artists.  Digital marketing and grassroots campaigning.  Project management.  Experienced in both Mac and Windows based operating systems, Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel,  PowerPoint and Google Docs.  Proficient in Illustrator.