Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Samsung Houston, TX • 8 years of experience in IT industry in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance of Web and J2EE applications.  • Experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Design, Implementation and testing during the development of software applications.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications using Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS.  • Expert in Web Development using Java/J2EE technologies like Java, multithreading, JSP, JDBC and XML.  • Experience in developing applications using three tier architectural frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) SPRING framework and Hibernate.  • Experience with Spring Web services, Spring Security, Spring Boot, and Spring JDBC Template.  • Experience with Installing and configuring AWS cloud servers with Linux, Tomcat, MySQL, Apache, etc.  • Installed and maintained My SQL Database.  • Set up and administer Amazon servers (AWS, Linux, Apache and MySQL).  • Experience designing REST APIs and developing Restful Web Services.  • Design & implementing Restful APIs, SOAP, WSDL, JSON, Web services and XML.  • Well versed with J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Front-Controller, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO), and Spring MVC.  • Experience using Front End Technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with MVC frameworks - Angular and JavaScript design patterns.  • Skilled in writing technical specification documents, translating user requirements to technical specifications.  • Expertise in back- end/server-side java technologies such as: Java Persistence API (JPA)  • Designed various modules on the website using technologies like CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for testing and fixing bugs found on the website.  • Worked with Admin for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Experience using Front End Technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap  • Developed a core component of Analytics with MVC frameworks - Angular and JavaScript design patterns.  • Skilled in writing technical specification documents, translating user requirements to technical specifications.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery.  • Developed custom directives, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  • Knowledge on Kafka, Cassandra.  • Knowledge on User Interface and integrated with backend code Node.JS as server side technology.  • Worked on Node JS.  • Knowledge on Docker container and VMS.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Worked on spring boot starters, which is spring-boot-starter-web-services, spring-boot-starter-validation..etc  • Knowledge on twitter API's and configures app user register that application able sees data transaction.  • Knowledge on Scala.  • Used the Inversion of Control module of spring framework Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Samsung - Houston, TX July 2015 to Present This project is targeted to enhance the capabilities of digital banking solutions. It includes various features such as retail banking, building customer relationship, new product marketing and transactions support on multiple platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/ implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs  • Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium Web Driver.  • Create stand-alone spring applications.  • Developed Web pages using view component JSP, JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, AJAX.  • Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services.  • Worked on Twitter API to find data relevant access profile.  • Worked on Twitter API to access key from methods.  • Strong Experience in Java Programming, Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and TestNG.  • Well versed with Handling Elements in Selenium Web Driver.  • Executing Selenium Test Cases and Reporting defects.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch Servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Writing Test cases using Element locators, Web Driver methods.  • Done development by using Spring Framework, JAX-WS, XML, Hibernate, JDBC, web services SOAP.  • The Card Management System should interact with an external Card Transaction System, thereby making the Card-related information maintained by the bank, up-to-date.  • Responsible for testing and fixing bugs found on the website.  • Worked with Admin for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Methods and constructors implementation as per business logic.  • Implemented services horizontal scalling  • Experience on Docker container.  • Hosted web app by using Docker.  • Worked on service ability aspects of micro services  • Designed and Developed Logging and Monitoring for Micro services  • Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate / spring.  • Used Maven for build automation.  Environment: Core Java, Hibernate, spring, XML, Selenium, JSP, MySQL, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Oracle, GIT,  Eclipse, Node JS, Agile Methodology, JavaScript, Spring Batch, TwitterAPI, Restful, AngularJS, Docker. Full Stack Developer PWC - Austin, TX May 2013 to June 2015 Esurance is the first online-only insurance company and is also the fastest growing new insurance company to be created within the last 50 years. This is Esurance.com (web and desktop) application from which auto insurance buyers can get quotes and purchase policies. Current application supports all states in US. Customer Flow Standard Flow is Esurance.com application from which auto insurance buyers can get quotes and purchase policies. It uses web services for utilities like for verifying customer's address, credit history, credit card payments. Used design pattern to implement state specific business logic, also used MVC pattern.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Software Development lifecycle, followed the Agile Development Model.  • Unit testing and Integration testing of the modules.  • Used JUNIT Test Tool for performance testing.  • Developed the front end using HTML and CSS & JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch Servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts. Implemented try catch and throw to catch the run time exceptions.  • Used Core Java features such as Multi-Threading, Collections, and Exception handling to efficiently process high volume transactions.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process and continuous deployment (CD) jobs in Jenkins master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Developed with AngularJS functions with filter and data binding view to store the data in web client.  • Developed custom directives, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  • Worked on creating simulation environment using Node JS.  • When purchase policies it reminder payment alert.  • Used Node.js to create server-side API.  • Managed the dependency packages by NPM/Bower.  • Extensively used Core Java and Spring framework in developing business logic.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Involved in creating new messages and attached them to oracle forms as per business requirement.  • Developed Pick confirm and Ship confirm Interface using oracle API's.  • Used Spring Batch framework to load flat files to database.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Servlets and performed data validation.  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form.  • Tested various HTTP methods and REST API through POSTMAN (REST Client Tool).  • Extensively used Java multi-threading to implement batch jobs.  • Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate / spring boot  • Used Git as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  • Configure Spring boot application on internal server.    Environment: Java JDK, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Servlets, JavaScript, JSP, Ajax, Bean, JQuery, CSS, Node JS, Angular JS,  Eclipse, My SQL, Postman, spring boot, J2EE, Linux, Maven. Front End Developer Esurance - San Francisco, CA June 2011 to May 2013 Description: Client Account Profile (CAP) is a Central client account on boarding process for the services provided by Midcap Growth financial Banking (MGFS). It involves Web based UI to review and maintain the account information. It acts as store for various agreements with Institutional clients. Account information is distributed to downstream systems to reporting, trade processing, and performance benchmark analysis.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology for Scrum Process for the Project Implementation of the backlogs.  • Involved in design strategies for enterprise application systems and set standards for operations, programming and security. Designed High level and low level designs for applications  • Experience on tax calculation and credit card payment methods.  • As a java developer, has been involved in performance tuning and optimization and Participated in requirement walk-through and data model the requirements to technical specifications.  • Prototype designing in Java J2EE and Developing complex custom components, Used SOAP, and REST ful web services and performed Server side coding in Java.  • Business requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with the customer.  • Used JIRA to report the hours and issues that are related to the project and Worked with mortgage express vendors to get all the connectivity needed details for the applications for both the production and non-production environment.  • Experience on Core Java, which includes collections and strings.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, & JSON and developed the application using Spring Framework, which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Enhancing user interfaces of the application and Rest based service setup for communication between Angular js and Java.  • Maintenance of JQuery, Java, Dot net based applications using the build tools like Maven to build the project.  • Documenting the functionality and environment set up and have involved in the data analysis, design, developing databases and data modeling.  • Used the Inversion of Control module of Spring Framework and Developed Controller for request, response.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, Web Technologies (Spring Framework, Hibernate, Web Services - SOAP, JAXB,  Jenkins, Postman, HTML, CSS and XML), Maven, Git, MS SQL. Software Engineer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2008 to May 2011 Portfolio View (American Family Insurance) is an online application that enables clients to access, review and update their products purchased from American Family and its subsidiaries. The primary users of this application are policy owners, agents and customer service representatives. The application provides an integrated environment for account management, policy changes/ renewals, monthly premium dues alerts, claims processing status and also offers commercial insurance, life, health, and homeowner's coverage as well as investment and retirement-planning products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and implementation.  • Created use case, activity and sequence diagrams.  • Involved in the development of Controller, Service and integration layers.  • Done development by using Java Framework, JAXB, XML, JDBC, web services SOAP.  • Writing Database Queries and Procedures.  • Involved in Agile methodology.  • Used SoapUI for standalone testing of SOAP services  • Logging, capturing, analyzing and resolving defects.  • Code Review, Code Delivery and Integration with existing Code and Test Data Preparation.  • Unit testing and Integration testing of the modules.  • Involved in identify defects in the integration process.  • Involved in providing maintenance and support for the application.  • Configured and deployed the application on Web Logic Application Server.  • Used JAXB to convert the persistent java objects to XML.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Designed and Developed the UI screens using JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSP, Html and CSS.  • Creation of supporting documentation using templates to document code, installation plans, test plans and cases.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Shell Script, XML, JSP, MySQL, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Oracle, Agile methodology,  JavaScript, JQuery, Firebug, Eclipse. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU University 2008 Skills ECLIPSE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), WEB SERVICES (9 years), JDBC (7 years), Core Java, Hibernate, spring, XML, Selenium, JSP, MySQL, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Oracle, GIT, Eclipse, Node JS, Agile Methodology, JavaScript, Spring Batch, TwitterAPI, Restful, AngularJS, Docker (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Language and Technologies Core Java, JSP, Servelets, JDBC, Spring, Scala, Multithreading,  Web Services, UML, Ajax, JMS, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  Methodology Agile/Scrum, Waterfall model  Tools Known Eclipse, Visual Studio, Glassfish, Postman, MS-Office  Operating Systems Windows 2000 Professional/Server/Professional/NT/98/95  Windows 2003/2008 Server, UNIX.  Web and Application Servers Tomcat, AWS  Web Services SOAP, REST  Databases and Data Storage Oracle, MY SQL.  Version Controls GIT, GIT HUB