IT Specialist/SEA 05 ACIO Support Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) Headquarters IT Specialist/SEA 05 ACIO Support Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) Headquarters Clearance Level: SECRET Upper Marlboro, MD Date of Investigation: 07- DEC - 2017 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist/SEA 05 ACIO Support Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) Headquarters Delta Resources Inc - Washington Navy Yard, DC November 2017 to Present • Recruited to NAVSEA HQ SEA 05 ACIO team from Delta Resources IT team to support the SEA 05 ACIO.  • Process account requests, application access requests, MAC/TIE requests, network share drive access and supporting IT procurement requests for NAVSEA HQ employees.  • Daily ad-hoc requests from on-site users; from assisting with application functionality, VTC Support, VPN functionality issues, troubleshooting laptops, NMCI support, account support, etc. Assist with logistics and preparation for onsite/offsite tech refresh/asset orders.  • Responsible for handling all electronic spillages (U-NNPI, Confidential, Confidential NSI, Secret and Top Secret) for NAVSEA 05. Utilize ESAF report to research documented spills which have occurred on users’ local machines or network share drives. Required to run ciphers within the command shell to purge files from affected user’s machines. Required to submit completed mitigation request reports to SEA 00I and work with the SEA 00I HQ ISSM/ NAVNETWARCOM to release users’ assets from government spaces.  • NMCI Developer (NIPR/SIPR) with responsibilities including securely downloading software, installation, WIN7/WIN10 testing, troubleshooting, portfolio management and compliance record management within DADMS.  • Assist end users with maximizing SharePoint capabilities as it relates to their job function.  • Create and provide instructions for best practices within the NMCI environment. Information Technology Specialist Delta Resources Inc - Washington, DC June 2017 to Present • Evaluate, prioritize, resolve and or end-user requests by monitoring our Helpdesk ticketing system, thus providing a timely response to customer requests for assistance. Initial triage support will be provided via phone, desk-side or remote assistance. Perform quality control of the ticket to ensure that all actions taken are properly recorded.  • Asset management for all corporate issued devices.  • Maintain and produce current help desk documentation  • Install, configure, service, repair and maintain various equipment for the workforce including computers, wireless communication devices, tablets, printers, and other peripherals. Electronics Technician uBreakiFix - Washington, DC November 2016 to June 2017 • Diagnose, troubleshoot and repair devices  • Provide recommendations for problem resolution as well as repair/replacement estimates to customers based on the diagnosis  • Fix/Diagnose hardware and software related issues with devices ranging from smartphones, tablets, computers & game consoles  • Replacing hardware may include soldering components onto main circuit boards, replacing keyboards, trackpads, dock connectors, batteries or glass/lcd assemblies  • Interact with and explain complex issues to customers in a non technical manner.    Daily Smartphone/Tablet Repairs range from Glass/LCD replacements, liquid damage treatments, battery replacements, dock connector replacements, headphone jack repairs, power button, camera & home flex replacements, etc.     Daily Computer Repairs (Mac & PC)  • Proficient with Mac OS, Windows OS, Linux (HD, SSD installs, virus/malware removal, liquid damage treatments, data backups, LCD replacements, restores, battery replacements, keyboard & trackpad installs, network issues etc.) Technical Support Specialist Geek Squad November 2014 to August 2016 • Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools  • Remained up-to-date on the latest technologies and solutions applicable to company products  • Researched, troubleshot and resolved complex problems independently  • Set up PC/Apple desktops/laptops and various types of mobile devices  • Handled all aspects of the sale including: customer contracts, customer payments, cash and credit card/check transactions  • Developed, maintained and communicated strong, up to-date knowledge of wireless products, accessories, pricing plans, service features.  • Provided personalized service and exceptional level of expertise for customers. Front End Developer Scrapple TV - Philadelphia, PA September 2012 to October 2014 • Designed and built a responsive website using HTML/CSS/PHP and Media-Queries to launch a local news aggregator start up   • Linked WordPress with Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Youtube using respective API's to allow users easy login  • Defined custom WordPress user roles and capabilities for security purposes  • Planned Information architecture through wireframes and product mapping  • Website : www.scrappletv.net Sales Associate Washington Nationals - Washington, DC June 2012 to September 2013 • Solely maintained and operated an entire stand during all Nationals home games.  • Assisted with the daily upkeep, cleaning and maintenance of concessions stands and equipment.  • Sold multiple nationals products, logged inventory and efficiently operated cash register in order to maintain great customer service in a timely fashion. Research & Development Intern Electronic Ink - Philadelphia, PA March 2011 to September 2011 • Collaborated creatively with clients to develop final products that met their needs and pushed their vision.   • Maintained company website with Wordpress and Umbraco. Updated company website daily utilizing HTML and CSS.  • Plan detailed Information Architecture through product mapping.  • Collaborated with marketing team in order to generate awareness about this award-winning design being featured in MoMA exhibition “Talk to Me” on our company website using HTML and CSS. Fitness Assistant Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 2010 to April 2011 • Oversaw both the weight room and fitness center in regards to enforcing all of the policies to the members in these areas.  • Monitored and logged all active members information into the computer system in order to maintain great customer service. Education Bachelor's in Digital Media with a minor in Information Systems Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Data Entry, Technical Troubleshooting, Hardware Configuration, Software Installs, Problem Diagnosis, Preventative Maintenance, Scanning Technologies, Proficient with Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office, Windows OS, Mac OS, Linux (10+ years), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Service Desk, MAC, Customer Service, Customer Support, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support, Linux Awards Deans List, Drexel University Dean's Scholarship, Drexel University Research Day Award of Merit, Drexel University Certifications/Licenses Career Management