Angular2 Software Developer Angular2 Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular2 Software Developer - JetBlue Airways Corporation Elmhurst, NY • More than 5 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation and testing of Front- End of Web-based application and Client-Server applications. On the top of the latest trends and technologies. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, take ownership. Tremendous skill at employing common UI Design Patterns.  • Expert level skills in UI (User Interface) application development using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Angular and DOM manipulation.  • Excellent in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS and Angular framework.  • Expertise in Twitter Bootstrap, Foundation, CSS Susy and Angular Material framework and building responsive website for different devices, such as desktop, laptop, mobile, and iPad.  • Strong experience in Version Control tools GIT.  • Great skills in using Canvas, SVG, WebGL to build web site graphics.  • Great experience in task runners Gulp and Grunt. Module bundler Webpack for Angular.  • Expert level skills in Typescript for both AngularJS and Angular.  • Expert in test-driven development (TDD) by using unit testing tools Karma, Chai, Mocha.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming (OOP), such as Java, C++, C#, JavaScript.  • Familiar with overall web development tool MEAN Stack.  • Excellent skills to upgrade AngularJS dependency Injection framework to component Angular.  • Strong skill on analyzing project architect and deploying on cloud (AWS). Certified on associated level of AWS certified solutions architect.  • Effective communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular2 Software Developer JetBlue Airways Corporation - Long Island City, NY January 2018 to Present JetBlue Digital 2020 (Web Products Engineering Team)  JetBlue has launched the program to develop the next generation of all its software, and upgrade its IT infrastructure, called the 2020 Digital program. The 2020 Digital program aims to develop much more efficient, more stable and more reliable software than the existing ones using the cutting-edge technologies and to maintain them independently, reducing the dependencies and cost induced by third-party software companies. JetBlue has developed Dotcom, SEO, booking, check-in and email software systems across different devices platforms. I have worked in SEO, Check-in and Dotcom teams for front- end development, CMS integration, troubleshooting and performance analysis.  Responsibilities:  • Work in an Agile team using Agile JIRA scrum and Kanban.  • Work on CSS grid system and front- end integration using Tachyons and JB component library  • Worked as product owner of JB component library  • Used SonarQube, JSHint to monitor code quality, modify rules for code acceptance criteria.  • Work on Angular-Redux state container to better manage states.  • Used Rxjs to control angular data stream.  • Test unit testing cases by using Jest and Angular CLI.  • Used Angular-Material for checkin form  • Utility library using Rambda instead of lodash.  • Used NodeJS and Express as web server. Build and test Server-Side Rendering SSR.  • Created Docker container to test SSR locally.  • Used yarn instead of NPM for the package management for better performance.  • Git feature branch workflow to reduce merge conflicts, pull request for code review before merge. Git rebase to squash commits and release branch for stable version.  • Devops tool Jenkins to auto deploy client-side application based on git branches, debug server is triggered by git push while release server is based on nightly build.  • Communicate with CMS team for front end integration  • Work with DevOps team to resolve application workflow issues  • Worked with Devops team and successfully released jetblue.com several times  • Worked on JetBlue where we jet using google maps API  Environment: Angular, Typescript, Tachyon, Webpack, Angular Material, Angular-Redux, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Github, MYSQL, SonarQube, WebStorm, VS code, rxjs, Angular-Material, Docker UI Developer Aetna - Manhattan, NY January 2017 to December 2017 Clinical Analysis Rules App (Rules App UI team)  Aetna AHM brings unparalleled analytics and insights to population and health management by using the technology platform CareEngine. Rules App provides insightful suggestions to each patient based on personal health conditions through data analysis and machine learning. Rules App is designed for set and update rules for the given clinical conditions. The backend API server is using Java Spring and Drools as rule engine for the business logic integration platform. My role is UI developer in Rules App UI team, our team built the UI interface, dynamic rule template and web server using MEAN stack technologies, upgrade UI framework Angular and design better template structures to increase performance.  Responsibilities:  • Work in an Agile team using scrum and Kanban (CA Rally).  • Design the UX looking and wireframe by using sketch and Invision.  • Developed various pages such as login, repository selection, rule editor, read only using Typescript, AngularJS, Angular and various libraries.  • Upgrade the UI framework from AngularJS to Angular using component-based Typescript syntax and NgUpgrade module. Upgrade Gulp workflow to webpack.  • Used SonarQube, JSHint and TSLint to monitor code quality, modify rules for code acceptance criteria.  • Used NodeJS and Express as web server. Used Java as backend API server.  • Centralize API and Templates by using AngularJS service.  • Used swagger to generate and view API details, auto generate AngularJS client http service.  • Used MongoDB as the node server database, and Mongoose framework to operate it.  • Used NPM and bower for the package management, upgrade NPM to yarn for performance.  • Git feature branch workflow to reduce merge conflicts, pull request for code review before merge. Release branch for stable version.  • Devops tool Jenkins to auto deploy client-side application based on git branches, debug server is triggered by git push while release server is based on nightly build.  • Migrated several servers to amazon web service (AWS) for better performance and decrease the server downtime. Serverless API calls using AWS Lambda.  Environment: AngularJS, Angular, Typescript, Gulp, Webpack, Bootstrap, UI-bootstrap, Angular Material, HTML5, CSS3, Compass, Susy, jQuery, JavaScript, Java, Drool, AJAX, JSON, MongoDB, AWS, Github, MySql, SonarQube, WebStorm UI Developer Monsanto Company - St. Louis, MO June 2016 to January 2017 Advanced Digital Agriculture Platform (API engineering team)  Advanced digital agriculture platform is designed and developed for the future of digital agriculture. By integrating and analyzing Monsanto's Climate Corp's weather, water, soil and environment data, Monsanto Company can provide farmers accurate information to make decisions. Monsanto treat this platform as Amazon of agriculture, my role in this project is UI/UX developer serving in API engineering team, our team builds API platform for basic users and trusted partners to publish their APIs which are designed for agriculture optimization purpose. This platform is based on Akana API platform which is SOA governance. Akana API platform also provides security solutions which ensure API security. Amazon Web Service (AWS) is also used in this project to perform cloud computing and storage tasks. My task in this project is to design and build the website for Monsanto API portal.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on analysis, development and testing phases of the application using Agile Jira (scrum and kanban) methodology.  • Design the UX looking and wireframe by using sketch 3, Adobe Illustrator and photoshop.  • Developed various pages such as landing, registration, dashboard, data visualization using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, CanJS and AngularJS.  • Created Navigation bar, Dropdown menu, Pagination, Modal, Form, and Table using Angular-UI- Bootstrap.  • Used ng-Animate, CSS transition and animation to provide JavaScript-based and CSS-based animations.  • Invoked Angular $http calls and processed JSON data, such as API details and description for rendering on UI pages in the corresponding modules.  • Generated API runtime including user visualization charts with Chart.js and D3.js.  • Used MongoDB as the node server database, and Mongoose framework to operate it.  • Used NPM and bower for the package management and Git for the version control.  • Used amazon web service (AWS) to perform cloud storage and compute tasks.  • Used Akana API platform to perform API management tasks.  Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JDK, MongoDB, AWS, D3.js, chart.js, AWS, Akana API platform, Github Software Engineer Technomax LLC - Princeton, NJ December 2015 to May 2016 Dashboard Login System for Employees Information  Dashboard login system is designed primarily to meet the organization's requirements for employees' information management. It is a lightweight, user-friendly, clean and well-organized application that is easy for employees to access and design their own personal information, which shows automatically the entire lists of personal information and project progress. For the same project, it will be having different progress level appeared as a bar to illustrate the percentage. My role in this project is to design and code the application front- end using Bootstrap and AngularJS. Mean Stack was also implemented to build the overall site.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the front- end components using AngularJS Framework that leverages classical Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed User Interface using with HTML5, JQuery, CSS3 and SASS.  • Implemented Compass to enhance SASS functionalities.  • Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from API server using AJAX.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces by JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Used Canvas and WebGL to enhance the graphics on the dashboard.  • Involved writing coding using JavaScript and AngularJS to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Utilized npm.js, Gulp, Grunt and Bower to fasten the project building process and deployment process.  • Utilized Agile Sprint to push project continuously growing.  • Used NodeJS and Express JS to write the backend code and MongDB for data management.  • Used Jasmine and Karma to run unit testing for the project.  Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JDK, Jasmine, Karma, NodeJS, MongoDB, Express JS Front End UI Developer ShanXi Jian Wei Engineering Company - TaiYuan, CN July 2012 to August 2013 Official Website Development  ShanXi Jian Wei engineering company is a company that provides auditing services and engineering evaluations. My role in the project was to build the official website which provides better user experience.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in creating and designing the functionality and layout of the website.  • Used AngularJS to build a single page application (SPA).  • Add the sidebar and navigation bar for clients by using jQuery.  • Developed the web layout by using HTML and CSS.  • Integrated 3rd party API with Google Map to show the office location of the company.  • Design the story board for each employee that contains social links, photos, videos, personal information and professional skills, etc.  • Used AJAX to retrieve the JSON data from server side.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX Software Engineer ShanXi Jian Wei Engineering Company - TaiYuan, CN December 2009 to July 2011 Online Shopping System  The online shopping system provides a wide variety of online products and services based on user requirements. My role in the project was to design and build a nice layout of the webpage.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with business analysts to understand and implement functionalities based on the requirements.  • Participate in creating and designing the functionality and layout of the website.  • Developed the web layout by using HTML and CSS, implementing dynamic functions by using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used AJAX to retrieve the JSON data from server side.  • Resolved cross-browser compatibility issues for IE, Chrome and Firefox.  • Edit images with Canvas and SVG.  • Integrated 3rd party API with Google Map to show the office location of the company.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, Canvas, SVG Education Master of Science in Engineering in Engineering Stony Brook University, State University of New York - New York, NY August 2013 to August 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering TaiYuan University of Science and Technology - TaiYuan, CN September 2009 to June 2013 Engineering San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA August 2011 to June 2012 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, VS CODE, jQuery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Developing Language HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, Python  Skills jQuery, JSON, AJAX, SASS, Compass, MATLAB, SQL, WebGL, Canvas, SVG  Framework Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Express JS, Can JS  Developing Tools WebStorm, NetBeans, MyEclipse, Notepad++, Sublime, W3C validator, ng-inspector for AngularJS, Modernizer, Atom, VS code  Version Control GIT  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS  Other BOWER, GULP, NPM, YARN, GRUNT, KARMA, JASMINE, CHAI, MOCHA, AGILE, JIRA