Front- End Software Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer Front- End Software Engineer - Spreetail Lincoln, NE Front- end web application developer specializing in the production of JavaScript based cross-  browser applications. Experience developing and maintaining large-scale e-commerce websites.  Oversaw website integrations with popular payment services such as PayPal, Apple Pay, and  Affirm lending services. Worked to create a comprehensive component library, that allowed for  quick development of cohesive web applications. Very strong interpersonal skills with the ability  to promote and thrive in environments requiring communication, collaboration, and  documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Software Engineer Spreetail - Lincoln, NE September 2018 to Present • Development of multiple internal e-commerce tools.  • Development of advanced reporting tools for high-level overviews of live product listing  statuses and tracking products in a listing lifecycle.  • Working closely with chapter leads to create product roadmaps for our internal  component library.  • Mentoring company interns by providing personal and technical progress roadmaps as well as one-on-one sessions to ensure an easy transition into company culture. Front- end Application Developer Hayneedle, Inc - Omaha, NE February 2017 to September 2018 • Development of production ready, large-scale cross-platform, cross-browser compatible  JavaScript-based applications.  • Responsible for maintaining legacy codebase and migrating to new frameworks to create faster, efficient, and more organized experiences for customers.  • Translate UX designs into functional and engaging customer facing components.  • Work with team members to create comprehensive roadmaps and goals for each  iteration and project. Systems Application Specialist Sandhills Publishing - Lincoln, NE February 2016 to December 2016 • Responsible for all aspects of the software development life cycle including analysis,  design, implementation, testing and documentation.  • Developed dynamic, data-driven web applications using MVC Framework.  • Worked in the development of customer facing applications for our over 12,000  customers worldwide.  • Assisted in maintaining and improving existing software for internal and external  company use. Mobile Device Networking Management Sandhills Publishing - Lincoln, NE May 2012 to February 2016 • Responsible for maintaining mobile device operations and security across two domestic  branches and four international locations.  • Negotiated contracts for a wide variety of mobile services.  • Managed a network of over 1,500 mobile devices and set security protocols to secure  information based on company needs.  • Provided detailed financial analysis and provided company with options to reduce  spending and increase services. Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Information Technology Southeast Community College May 2011 Skills Adobe photoshop (7 years), Angularjs (2 years), Coldfusion (2 years), CSS (10+ years), Git (4 years), Html (10+ years), Javascript (7 years), jquery (7 years), Knockout (2 years), Photoshop (10+ years), SASS (2 years), Angular (2 years), React (4 years), SQL (4 years), Front-End, Front End, UI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/david-kean-5b56349b