UI Developer/ Angular Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/ Angular Developer - PricewaterhouseCoopers Tampa, FL • An IT professional experienced in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React MeetingW3C standards.  • Experience in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.  • Experience in an environment building n-tier application for web deployment using Java 8, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JavaBeans, JavaScript, HTML & XML.  • Designed the web layouts using Adobe Photoshop.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Used JQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Experience in building application with ReactJS, Redux; Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Extensive knowledge in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, ReactJS and AngularJS.  • Worked with Kendo UI framework to utilize its grids and tables to develop interactive and reusable components.  • Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  • Involved in Bootstrap framework to Design single page application.  • Developed automated build frameworks for projects using Gulp.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  • Experienced in client side design and validation using HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience with both Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development.  • Worked on test case frameworks like Jasmine, Karma, and Protractor.  • Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's.  • Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Well versed W3C standards.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design. Experience working with JSP templates & Angular.  • Experience with Web 2.0 and related sources.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience with Knockout.js, Angular.js and Backbone.js JavaScript Libraries. Work Experience UI Developer/ Angular Developer PricewaterhouseCoopers - Tampa, FL February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain a web application designed to interact and maintain partner assessments and details.  • Developed using latest web development frameworks like HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Redux, and Angular 7, Typescript.  • Made use of Kendo UI framework to develop grids and tables which can be reused across the application.  • Developed Hybrid application for ios and Android using Angular and ionic.  • Developed advanced animations using CCS3, Lottie, Greensock.  • Worked in Agile environment to interact with the team both offshore and onshore.  • Participated in design discussions with team to solution and keep the application efficient and robust.  • Utilized Azure DevOps for CI/CD and keeping track of work items, documenting the work to maintain the application.  • Interacted with services using swagger API development tool.  • Debugged the code using Chrome Dev Tools, Fiddler, swagger and postman. Software Developer/ Angular Developer ThermoFisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA May 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Develop code to create. update, and maintain computer web application programs/software packages.  • Use extensive knowledge of computer programming, subject matter expertise to create Proof-Of- Concepts (POC) using technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, Angular.js, D3.js and AJAX.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex , Node JS, Mongo DB  • Experience with Angular.js, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0.  • Used React concepts like JSX (JavaScript Syntax Extension), components, state and props.  • Build applications using Maven, review code changes using SonarQube analysis and manage branching and version control using Git.  • Use Swagger to interact and develop API's.  • Working on spring boot and JDK ( Java 8).  • Structure MongoDB collections and use Spring data mongo DB to retrieve and store information  • Developed tasks using Gulp to build the project and automate tasks for seamless integration.  • Coordinated with third party companies to develop GDPR compliant Identity management applications.  • Use Test tools like jasmine, Karma, cucumber to test, analyze and maintain the code integrity and develop automated unit test cases.  • Developed Node.JS framework written in Typescript to handle HTTP requests and URL routing.  • Made use Zeplin to develop and communicate wireframes for the application.  • Developed and made use of Jenkins and AWS to develop the platform for continuous integration.  • Use Object-Oriented programming concepts to build User Interface components that could be reused across the web application.  • Create Mobile Web solutions using technologies like CSS3 Media Queries. Twitter Bootstrap and JQUERY Mobile Framework.  • Perform systems analysis and integration of REST APl with Angular.  • Coordinate with Business Analysts and Quality Assurance teams to ensure the developed code is meeting the requirements and is accurately transformed into working product.  • Part of an Agile/Scrum team and coordinated with the team to develop, solution and improve the applications at hand.  • Used JIRA, Confluence to track and document the work across the team and the firm.  • Use debugging tools such as Firebug, Dev Tools and Fiddler to investigate! analyze the software defects and write code to fix the defects.  • Provide application production support by engaging cross functional teams.    Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JQuery, Zeplin, Git, Maven, Swagger, MongoDB, CSS3, Web services. Front End / UI Developer American Medical Association - Chicago, IL May 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be used by MSC sales Associate to interact with the customer and place order  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQueryUI and Angular 4.0, AngularJS  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, Create bill to and ship to screens, Customer search results page, customer dashboard page using HTML 5, CSS3 and twitter Bootstrap.  • Developed and tested website using the MERN (Mongo DB, Express, React, Node.js) stack.  • Worked with React, Redux, JavaScript ES6, Typescript, Webpack.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Developed a front- end web application for Global Network Operations using React JS, Redux, Bootstrap, ES6/Babel and Webpack  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, web services using AJAX, JSON and Hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQueryUI  • Built the UI part of address verification service where users can select or ignore recommended address using JQueryAjax and bootstrapmodel.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML 5 session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS3.0 and JavaScript  • Used Bootstrap, Angular.js and Backbone.js for effective design of Webpages  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  • Unite test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and Positioning of screen objects  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with ASP.Net validation controls.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Built the I frame Layout for Customer Dashboard Page for Ship to And Contact tabs using bootstrap  • Closely work with the QA Team to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes for given scenario.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, MS Excel, MS Visio, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, BackboneJS, Adobe Photoshop CS3, Asp.net, Json, Ajax, Web 2.0 standards, CSS3, Web services. Senior UI Front End Developer St Jude Medical - Saint Paul, MN September 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box model and HTML 5.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js and Ext.js.  • Developed user interface by using the React js, Flux for SPA development.  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates in order to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Worked on AngularJS and also on JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 in the front end development  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  • Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using Bootstrap.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Designed animated icons, vector and bitmap images, and graphic objects, graphic designs, application buttons, and animated buttons, shopping cart images in Adobe Web Premium tools like Adobe Flash, Action Script 2.0, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Adobe Illustrator CS4,Adobe Fireworks and GIF Animator.  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs, templates and banners by using Adobe Flash, Action Script 2.0, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Adobe Illustrator CS4.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Repair.com has both web scheduling as well as customer care scheduling. Coded RESTfull API's to be used by the scheduling modules.  • Used Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Designed the Front- end screens using JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript,Angular JS  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  • Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Used Knockout and Backbone JavaScript Libraries for Structured Web Application.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, SVN, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010 UI Developer Sabic Innovative Plastics, IL December 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of the websites  • Developed websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Google Maps API(JavaScript Library), XML and Ajax  • Created web page layouts using HTML and CSS  • Design, developed and updated the user interface using CSS, JavaScript.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript  • Designed and implemented all the front- end components using Struts framework.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  • Bootstrap used along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server  • Used Cascading Style Sheets in order to separate presentation from the structure  • Defined text alignment, borders, positioning and many other typographic characteristics  • Implemented security enhancements such as SSL Certificates and Verisign.  • Extensively used List view, Grid View and Pager Controls from .Net Framework.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops.  • Used best coding practices and naming conventions while writing code in JavaScript, HTML and CSS  • The Angular JavaScript (Angular JS) framework for building web applications is highly efficient to use with Larval PHP framework as well as using Restful services  • Extensively tested the websites, identified the bugs using Firebug and fixed them.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Style guide, Ajax, Struts, Angular JS framework, Dreamweaver, Google Maps API, SQL Server, Windows XP and MS Office. Web UI Developer 10x Labs January 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed the frontend applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and CSS.  • Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web and industry standards.  • Designed web pages using with HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, CSS and jQuery based on the W3C and ADA standards.  • Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers like IE 6/7/8, Firefox 3.0/3.1, Chrome, and Opera for cross-browser implementation.  • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  • Used JSON objects effectively for efficient client side coding.  • Developed UI, Virtual Objects (VO) and models by using Flash, Ajax, and Action Script 3.0.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application (RIA).  • Used to interact with Business Analyst and Business owner to give up the best designing features for the product users.  • Translated market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes.  • Involved in creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Developed the reusable framework for the application using .NET 3.5 and implemented the MVC (Model View Controller) with Service facade and Abstract Factory to build the architecture framework.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and Adobe Photoshop CS4  • Successfully configured & managed the Internet Information Server (IIS) which handles the project.  • Partly involved in writing stored procedures, views, cursors and triggers using SQL Server 2008.  • Responsible for the (D3) Design, Deploy and development of the web applications.  • Involved in interpreting business and functional requirements into a strong design implementation.  • Used Test-Driven Development with SCRUM Agile methodology.  • Involved in interpreting business and functional requirements into a strong design.  • Documented design solutions and implemented according to the design.  Environment: HTML, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, .Net, ASP.Net, AJAX Controls, Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Web Services, YUI and SQL Server 2008. Education Master's in computer science in New Paltz State University of New York - New Paltz, NY Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Vignan University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, Angular, Front End, UI, React, Front-End