Freelance Remote Graphic Designer Freelance Remote Graphic Designer Freelance Remote Graphic Designer Maitland, FL Work Experience Freelance Remote Graphic Designer Mighty Vapors LLC June 2019 to Present • Created custom logo designs  • Created new rebranded website Assets and updated graphics.  • Designed new rebrand convention booth design.  • Created Instagram images featuring new products.  • Created email campaigns for promotional items and featuring rebranded look to businesses and customers. Multi-Media Graphic Designer & Artist, Game Journalist Freelance 2014 to Present Clients:  ? Sensational Spaces  ? Cornerstone LLC. Florida  ? BeMarketing  ? Cherrydale  ? Nation Imprint  ? Lockheed Martin  ? Sign Partners  ? Embellished Design  ? Tellus Media  ? Skymark Fuelers  ? Upwork.com    • Created custom logo designs  • Designed developed and maintained website content.  • Updated web style sheets and pages as required.  • Created 3D models and animated short scenes  • Edited video content  • Created pre-production content and printed professional signs, signs billboards for clients.  • Printed, cut, and laminated production, and installed customers artwork and designs.  • Created content and wrote articles about recent video game releases.  • Wrote reviews on recent video games Graphic Designer/Animator Leap With Alice December 2018 to April 2019 • Created original vector artwork, proofs, and mockups, for clients and to set up for production.  • Created and consulted in references for 3D models and mockups.  • Created UX/UI designs for mobile augmented reality app  • Created designs and content for website. Graphic Designer and Production Specialist Sign Partners June 2018 to October 2018 • Created original vector artwork, proofs, and mockups, for clients and to set up for production.  • Created engineer drawings for outdoor building signs and monument installations.  • Upgraded computer hardware in office.  • Worked on installations of large signs at multiple locations.  • Printed newly designed signs, and vinyl for windows, walls, car decals.  • Printed and cut/weeded designs for sign production.  • Trained to use Printers, Vinyl Cutters, and laminators for production. Graphic Designer/ Web Developer Nation Imprint September 2017 to March 2018 • Created vector artwork for promotional items such as Magnets, Shirts, and Decals.  • Consulted on system upgrades and assisted the IT department  • Created merchandise designs for school's fundraisers and spirit drives.  • Edited, updated, and consulted in website development.  • Created ornament designs for holidays.  • Labelled and Packaged orders.  • Created Website content and pages for company  • Updated catalogs, flyers, and information for company website Front End Team Member Total Wine & More - Palm Beach Gardens, FL October 2012 to May 2013 • Greeted customers, assisted customer purchases and packaged large orders  • Stocked and pulled merchandise and kept record of high grade merchandise leaving the store  • Handled money from registers and kept record of daily deposits for supervisors  • Assisted customers with any questions or complaints in customer service  • Answered phone calls for questions or call orders Education Bachelor of Science in Multi-Media Design and Development in Multi-Media Design and Development DeVry University 2017 Certification DeVry University - Miramar, FL 2014 to 2015 Game Art Full Sail University - Orlando, FL September 2008 to 2009 Skills Photoshop (6 years), Illustrator (6 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Wordpress (4 years), Web Design (4 years), Graphic Design (5 years) Links http://www.Jimbeamdesign.com Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6hicxdz7cg5nspdj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    • Adobe Creative Suite: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign  • Video Editing: Final Cut Pro, CyberLink Pro Director and Editor, Adobe Premier Pro  • Development: HTML, CSS, PHP, WordPress, ESP, Webjaguar  • Maya Computer Animation Software  • 3D Modeling, Animations, Texturing for Electronic Interactive Media  • Concept Design for Gaming, Web, and Electronic Platforms  • Customer Service, Technical Support