Intern Intern York, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Intern University of Delaware - Newark, DE February 2019 to May 2019 • Used KiCad to develop schematic and then PCB for a laser driver. Also  characterized drift in frequency over time of the laser power by  created driver, using an OSA and then compare it with a more stable  laser using an ESA.  • Populated and tested PCB boards with surface mount components. Intern University of Delaware - Newark, DE August 2018 to December 2018 Developed educational game for children using the Java Swing library. Kitting Starbucks - York, PA June 2018 to August 2018 Worked in warehouse, sorting a variety of products into their designated containers.  Trained on using scanner to pick specific products and send down conveyor belt. Unload Associate Lowes - Newark, DE November 2017 to May 2018 Operated a forklift to unload truck. Lifted and moved boxes from conveyor  belt and palletised them. Front- End Developer GoldenEgg Labs - Newark, DE September 2017 to March 2018 Used Contentful CDN api to dynamically allow editing of articles and blogs  on website. Also used Angular 4 to build front end, then rebuilt with ReactJS Intern University of Delaware - Newark, DE April 2017 to August 2017 Used React Native along with Firebase serverless stack to create an application that can save specific sensor data for multiple users to view.  Activities  • Developing Responsible Economically Advanced Modern-citizens (DREAM) Sep 2011-Jun 2014  Invested in, and maintained stocks and bond. Built mock-companies and pitched to panels for loans. Produce Department Associate Acme Markets - Newark, DE November 2015 to May 2016 Provided quality customer service, ensuring every customer had a satisfying answer.  Efficiently managed tasks such as inventory, stocking, and quality control. Electrician Apprentice Independent Contractor - New York, NY June 2014 to January 2015 Assisted an electrician with installing outlets, light switches, and light fixtures  Installed air conditioner units and connected them to thermostats; trouble-shoot  complications. Student H.E.A.F August 2007 to December 2010 Completed advance high school curricula in middle school. Developed skills in car engineering, crime scene investigation, and photography Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Delaware - Newark, DE December 2019 Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School June 2014 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, D3.JS, REACTJS (Less than 1 year), FORKLIFT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Proficient in Microsoft Excel; Meticulous spreadsheet data entry; Proficient in C+  +, JavaScript, d3.js, Scalable Vector Graphics, HTML, CSS, ReactJS/Native, and  Angular 4;Using Command line of Unix based computers;Intermediate  French;Licensed to drive forklift; Osha 10 certification