UI Developer / React JS Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> / React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer / React JS Developer - Staples Boston, MA • An ambitious, creative and experienced web developer with 8+ years of extensive experience in all phases of software application design and development.  • Developed applications using HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, BackboneJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, UNDERSCORE, REQUIRE, JASMINE, NodeJS.  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Developed cross browser compatible pages using Modernizer to ensure proper working of CSS3 and HTML5 features.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, BackboneJS and ReactJSframework.  • Worked with jQuery in developing various UI widgets.  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  • Expertise in Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for both desktop and mobile browser users.  • Used ReactJS MVC framework to develop Single Page Application (SPA)  • Experience in developing modern web application using ReactJS.  • Aptitude to understand and build SEO/semantic solutions.  • Strong knowledge of object-oriented programming towards front- end libraries.  • Strong experienced in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code.  • Broad knowledge-based in JavaScript, especially jQuery, BackboneJS and AngularJS.  • Solid knowledge of complete SDLC.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Experience in Version Control tools including Git and SVN.  • Experienced in solving cross browser compatibility including Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Competent in developing and designing web pages efficiently using jQuery, jQuery UI and jQuery mobile.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers on Windows/Mac/Linux etc  • Strong communication skills, with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  • Experience working on different IDE's like Webstrom, VisualStudio etc.  • Worked on project management Methodologies like Agile (XP, Scrum), Waterfall  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved. Work Experience UI Developer / React JS Developer Staples - Boston, MA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains  additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development  • Developed our own customized UiLibrary with many different components.  • Made sure all the components are 100% responsive.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals.  • Worked with MVC pattern.  • Refactored the search suggestions system with Redux Saga to reduce the redundant API calls by an estimate of 60%.  • Added Redux to simplified components data and state.  • Implement Bootstrap CSS styles and React components to enhance the interaction  • Used React Flux architecture to create the data  • Worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Did publish twice a week.  • Created our own webpack configurations and did modifications accordingly.  • Used Jenkins for builds and Deployments.  • Wrote JEST, Enzyme test cases made sure code Quality is 100%.  • Used ESLint for code quality.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Extensively did code reviews.  • Maintained UiLibrary and made sure all domain teams are using the components and resolving any issues if they face any.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, HTML5, SAAS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON responses, GIT, Webstorm, Visual Studio, NodeJS, NPM. UI Developer Intralinks - Waltham, MA November 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications using HTML5, SCSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, JQuery, Angular JS, and BackboneJS, Underscore, Require, Jasmine, NodeJS.  • Developed a framework code with Angular JSwhich can be adopted by any team to start with.  • Worked on BackboneJSand created reusable components like Menu Navigation, Session monitor which was very useful in the application.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using BackboneJS and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library.  • Experience in building or supporting web applications with Sencha 4 Ext JS and above, JavaScript, HTML and AJAX  • Did Migration from Angular1.6 to 2.0.  • Developed reusable components using Angular 2.0.  • Talk to different stakeholders get the requirements and created wireframes and prototypes using sketch.  • Developed independent Components so that the same components can be reused across the application.  • Constructed web pages encapsulating the business logic in order to provide for cleaner separation of data and presentation layers.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals.  • Designed and developed the login portal using frameworkAngular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Created Wireframes using Balsamiq and Sketch as per the business requirements.  • layers in the application and to bring the Model View Controller architecture for the application.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database with react.  • Prepared the Design Documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram.  • Understood client business objectives and used them to produce designs that fit with their strategy.  • Implemented AJAX in order to provide pleasant client side experience.  • Made AJAX service calls to create, get, post, delete data from backend.  • Wrote Unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Created Dashboards, Charts using AM Charts.  • Used Microsoft Azure Cloud Services for Secure data storage.  • Updated to Node server from Apache.  • Participated in moving Bower to NPM package.  • Used Jenkins for Build process. Did manual build's and deployment whenever needed.  • Did Ad-hoc testing every week to make sure everything is working as expected.  • Support testing activities. Fixing assigned defects.  • Participated in Automation testing using selenium.  • Used Git as source controls.  • Used Microsoft Visual Studio and Visual Studio online as an IDE  • Made sure the site works in mobile devices and cross browsers.  • Followed Scrum process and scrum guidelines in process.  • Used SonarCubefor code quality.  • Was "DONE Champion" of team to make sure all stories were following "DONE" criteria.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SCSS,Bootstrap, JavaScript, BackboneJS, AngularJS, ReactJS. jQuery, AJAX, JSON responses,GIT, Webstorm, Visual Studio, NodeJS, Bower, NPM, Grunt, Drupal. UI Developer AT&T - San Antonio, TX February 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities  • Experience on Web Technologies using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, AJAX, IDE, Nodejs& Tool Eclipse,AptanaStudio, and Notepad++.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework Angular along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  • Implemented Angular router for navigation.  • Developed Single Page Responsive Web UI using Angular 1.6,HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by AngularJS.  • Participated in Technical Requirements Analysis, understand business requirements and draft system requirements.  • Designed wireframesfor stories using Sketch.  • Solid experience with ResponsiveWeb Design (RWD).  • Created smart navbar system in typescript that would retain a client context across multiple web apps using the querystring, Smart Nav would automatically determine selected navigation node using the browser URL.  • Developed Login/Registration/Edit of user profile integration with community sites using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed production guidelines that addressed and adhered to existing brand and template specifications.  • Developed Registration/login functionality for IW Alerts  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Implemented caching mechanism at client side instead of calling service every time.  • Using advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts  • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Used advanced JavaScript to create interfaces and help manage cross browser compatibility.  • Implemented pagination using jQuery.  • Use JS framework such as AngularJS (for data driven apps) and Backbone.js (for heavy DOM manipulation).  • Code promotion to production.  • Used Microsoft Azure Cloud Services for Secure data storage.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js.  • Participated in Release activities.  • Developing customer facing software for managing advertisements using Backbone.js  • Used agile methodology for software development.  • Evaluate the request for enhancements and analyze the high priority bugs.  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.    Environment: Windows, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Backbone.js. UIDeveloper JP MORGAN CHASE - Newark, DE May 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsive Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Stylus and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for making all the content available for any type of resolutions.  • A content management system application used for developing publishing, editing and modifying content, organizing, deleting as well as maintenance from a central interface. Developed next generation Homepage for Chase which is highly compactable for all the browsers.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Using Blue UI framework developed the styling part for the homepage.  • Using the Bootstrap will be dividing the component's using the grid layout system.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScriptand jQuery  • Extensively used Angular UI for ng-grid and UI components.  • Developed different jQuery Component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design patterns such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • I will develop the styling part in stylus and grunt server will convert all the styling part to CSS which was written in Stylus. We will be using this because to increase the higher capability of the web page.  • This is the customization guide and guide for implementing business functionality and features into your Drupal site.  • I use controllers and views and their interaction with the scope and model should be revisited and clarified.  • ExtJs used for developing grid layouts, panels and for developing too many functionalities for example wild card filter, tooltips.  • We will be using Node.js to build a scalable network application where it can handle many connections concurrently.    Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3,Stylus,Blue UI, Require JS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Photoshop, EXT JS, JSON responses, Visual Studio 2013, Angular JS, , NodeJS, Drupal. UI Developer Trianz Holdings Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Experienced in problem analysis in both technical system and application programs.  ? Essentially involved in all phases of SDLC to structure the unformatted requirements.  ? Designed the ER diagrams and structured data in the database with enforcing normalization for a consistent output.  ? Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript and Angular JS, Backbone.JS with Dust.JS templating.  ? Developed client's interface in PHP in MVC modeling using code igniter framework.  ? Developed user interface using Asynchronous validation for the fast and user friendly access using AJAX.  ? Redesigned pages to improve application design and UI to attract the customers by taking inputs from senior management.  ? Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  ? Created client side validation tool using technologies such as Angular JS and JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  ? Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.    Environment: AJAX, UML Modeling, ER diagrams, Normalization, PHP, Dojo ,Oracle 10g, IE 7,8, Firefox, Chrome, Wamp Server, HTML 5, AJAX, CSS 3, JSP, Backbone.js, AngularJS. Photo editors: Photoshop, Fireworks, MD 5 algorithm, SQL Developer, JavaScript j Query. Front End Developer Apollo Group Global Services - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2010 to May 2012 Apollo Group, which provides education for working adults, developed an online educational platform to support students, faculty and staff throughout its subsidiaries, including University of Phoenix. The platform, which aligns with an industry trend to provide education as a service, includes Phoenix Connect, an academic social network that connects students, faculty and alumni. Apollo Group deployed presence capabilities and tools that enable students to interact with the online classroom.By integrating a Web-based content-management system, Apollo also has enabled easier content publishing.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing the front end applications using web technologies likeHTML, XHTML and CSS.  ? Front- end development utilizing JavaScript frameworks such as Angular js, jQuery.  ? Wrote custom directives In AngularJS according to the Application needs.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Updated dashboard front end to support multiple dashboards and their CRUD operations using typescript.  ? Implemented fusionchart visualizations for an SPA analytics rewrite using requireJS and typescript.  ? Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, AJAX, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  ? Maintain, enhance, and reCommerceend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JAVA, Spring MVC, MySql. UI Developer Augusta HiTech Software, Inc April 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery,AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Wrote script for AJAX implementations in the website.  • Performed XML Transformations from value objects to XML and from xml to HTML data.  • Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing Struts Framework.  • Implemented Design patterns for recurring problems.  • Developed Web Services, which are published on to the Websphere application server.  • Responsible for the process of UI design for Internet sites and applications.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.    Environment: Windows, Eclipse, Javascript, HTML, CSS. Education Masters Northwestern Polytechnic University 2015 Bachelors Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2009 Skills UI