Visual Designer Visual Designer UI/UX Designer Saint Augustine, FL Online Portfolio: http://jasonmhess.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Visual Designer GuideWell - Jacksonville, FL February 2019 to July 2019 UX/UI Designer – CX Visual Designer  I was hired on as a Contractor for GuideWell to come in and provide support the CX Design team as a visual designer applying Human Centered Design principles. This included helping to support their dedicated full time design team with the six major journey’s that drive a major stream of revenue for Florida Blue. I also have helped design user personas, participated in journey mapping sessions, root cause analysis, and I have conducted and facilitated incentivized usability testing sessions, user interviews, collected Quantitative and Qualitative research data through video and audio sessions.     Lead Designer: Served directly under the Communication and Optimization Product Owner as the Lead designer working in an Agile environment to create an automated communication status data repository dashboard for any type of digital touch points or paper mailings sent out to new and existing members. This dashboard had to be able to serve up anywhere from 500 to 10,000 jobs and transactions in any given day. Just a few of the duties I was responsible for were:   • designing wireframes   • High and low fidelity mockups  • Clickable Sketch prototypes  • Managed user stories within the Sprint  • created storyboards for both training and presentational purposes Remote UX/UI Designer /Jr. UX Engineer LogistiCare - Jacksonville, FL November 2016 to November 2018 My duties at Logisticare are to work directly with the UX and development teams to assist with rapid prototyping and creating templates for a large enterprise level web application. I also have participated in several on site user testing sessions with low fidelity prototypes to collect the necessary data needed to complete our evaluations. This role was a 100% remote position, so maintaining a high level of communication was key to a successful product.  In this role, we would be responsible for creating wireframes, storyboards, user and process flows, interactive prototypes and sitemaps to communicate interaction and design-thinking ideas.     I was in charge of presenting and defending designs along with key milestone deliverables to peers and executives alike. We would continuously conduct user research and evaluate user feedback to make certain the final product met the vision and intention of the UX team on the first development iteration.    By partnering with QA and development, I also helped reduce the number of bugs by 30% by acting as a liaison between the two development teams and the design team. I also would attend both dev teams scrum calls in the morning to get a report what features, stories, or functionality were being worked on, marked "Done", or Ready for QA" in Jira as well as directly report to the Product Owners. Front End Web Designer Vizergy Digital Marketing - Jacksonville, FL November 2016 to February 2017 Vizergy is a marketing agency that services, hotels, resorts, and restaurants within the digital advertising sector. I was hired on as a web designer. I also acted as the UX designer for this small agency. The duties entailed but not limited to, create wireframes, storyboards, work flows, interactive prototypes and sitemaps to communicate interaction and design ideas. Front End Web Developer Fidelity National Financial - Jacksonville, FL July 2015 to July 2016 This was a one year contracted position that I was hired through a company called Interactive Resources.    I was hired on with Fidelity to assist in their Nationwide Web Based Leveraged Solutions Marketing and re-branding project. Which entailed development of over 300 title company websites across the US. We used TFS to manage daily tasks and development of these sites.    I was involved in rebranding existing older table based layout sites and rebuilding them using Twitter Bootstrap to create mobile friendly sites. I managed and deployed the sites once they went through an internal review process as well as User Authorized Testing (UAT) by the clients.    My duties included development of new layouts for the needed templates and assigning the proper corresponding div classes and ID’s on the templates to essentially create the page of the site. UI/UX Designer/ Developer Advantage Design Group - Jacksonville, FL January 2012 to July 2015 • Designed and developed the UI/UX for site concepts for clients in a waterfall  • development process.  • Completed user research to identify opportunities for improving Web presence.  • Partnered with User Interface Designers, Web Developers and Creative Directors to translate information architecture, navigation and process flows into easy-to-use  • solutions.  • Created user flows, wireframes, and mock ups for the client. We would then convert them to low fidelity designs. They were then taken into Photoshop or Adobe Reflow to build out the concept including all the major break points from desktop to mobile to present to the client.   • Started coding HTML and CSS/SCSS to develop a fully functioning alpha design.  • Used Responsive Web techniques best practices when started to take off in the market. Education A.A. in Web Design and Interactive Media The Art Institute of Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL 2009 to 2012 Skills HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Microsoft Office (8 years), Adobe Creative Suite (9 years), CMS (3 years), Photoshop (8 years), Illustrator (5 years), Sketch (5 years), Axure (1 year), Flinto (1 year), JIRA (2 years), Agile (5 years), Twitter Bootstrap (4 years), UX (5 years), User Interface (5 years), Wireframe, Adobe, UI (6 years), User Experience (5 years), Javascript (1 year), Typography, Figma (1 year) Links http://www.jasonmhess.com Groups AIGA March 2014 to Present American Institute of Graphic Arts Interaction Design Foundation (IDF) November 2018 to Present In other words, we democratize learning by providing top-quality, online design courses at a fraction of the cost of traditional education.    We collaborate with top universities and companies—Stanford, Cambridge and SAP Labs, for example—as well as noted authors like Clayton Christensen and Don Norman. This means our educational material focuses on practical relevance and is backed up with academic rigor. We share this knowledge with over half a million designers every month!    The Scandinavian education system was our initial inspiration for this mission and, in 2002, the Interaction Design Foundation was established to create low-cost, high-quality education to change the way people learn the science, art and intricacies of design. Since then, we have built Additional Information I am a UX/UI designer and UX Engineer from Florida who currently resides in sunny St. Augustine, FL. I love the web and everything that it has become in today’s day and age. People don’t realize the power of that little smart phone in their pockets, but I do and that’s why I love doing what I do. As an educated designer and a self-taught developer (enough to get by) the possibilities really are endless. My love for web design, mobile app design and interactive prototypes is through the freaking roof right now with the explosion of new software that we as designers now have access to.   I am a people person and love spending my days trying to understand why users make the decisions they do and help to solve problems from a human centered design approach. I feel the more "humanized" an experience is the more likely the user is to return to use your product. And with the right research, data, and design thinking, there's never a dull moment in this industry and that's what I love about it.