Designer, Pillows, Tabletop & Throws Designer, Pillows, Tabletop &amp; Throws Designer, Pillows, Tabletop & Throws - Enchante Accessories, Inc Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer, Pillows, Tabletop & Throws Enchante Accessories, Inc - New York, NY 2017 to Present • Grows new and existing accounts by designing, styling and curating collections to meet specific customer trends, such as: farmhouse, mid-century modern, Scandanavian, art deco and global.  • Develops product for new categories such as floor cushions and poufs, based on trend packs. Works with factories to execute design, construction and shape, as well as fabric and material sourcing.  • Develops tabletop and throw Creating repeat patterns, print design, options based on customer requests, seasonal, and market trends.  • Designs and edit product packaging, based on customer's style guides.  • Creates specs and development packages, as well as manage approval of lab dips, design quality, techniques, and samples; submit feedback to vendors.  • Attends customer meetings and market appointments. Freelance Artist / Costume Assistant Phish, Inc. - New York, NY November 2018 to December 2018 ·      Constructed costumes, and explored material options based on initial concept to be worn by aerial performers during the midnight “gag” at the 2019 New Year’s Eve Madison Square Garden concert.  ·      Made alterations day of show, and after dress rehearsal; set the costumes for the performance. Design Assistant, Sky Bedding for Bloomingdale's Macy's Merchandising Group - New York, NY May 2015 to May 2016 ·      Designed and developed seasonal collection for private label brands, including duvets, quilts, sheets, euro shams and decorative pillows.   ·      Created development packages and managed approval of lab dips, strike-offs and technical samples.  ·      Reviewed samples for design, quality and color; submitted feedback to vendors.  ·      Guided CAD designers in artwork development for brand collections.  ·      Research seasonal trends, as well as complete market research and competitive shopping. Assistant CAD Designer Macy's Merchandising Group - New York, NY June 2014 to May 2016 Worked with designers to create artwork consistent with brand concepts.             •          Created repeats (prints / wovens / embroideries) to be used for meetings and production.             •          Re-colored and color matched designs; created color ways and color separations.             •          Maintain organization of print and color files, including file naming conventions, and directory structure.             •          Maintained and utilized art library; utilize fabric printer.             •          Participated in mentoring program; completed Executive Development Program. Interactive Designer Stroll - Philadelphia, PA October 2013 to April 2014 ·      Designed and coded landing pages and mini-sites; as well as updated existing web pages.  ·      Created concepts and mock-ups for banner and email creatives; edited and updated direct mail print pieces.  ·      Communicated with third party vendors including voice talent, audio and video editors, and design agencies. Front- End Developer WebLinc - Philadelphia, PA April 2013 to October 2013 ·       Front- end development support for ecommerce websites such as BHLDN, Yarn.com and Maui Divers Jewelry.  ·      Mobile first responsive web approach, focusing on standards-compliant and cross-browser compatible code.  ·      Researched and created an “Accessibility Checklist” for testing client sites; possess basic working knowledge of ARIA and WCAG. Fibers Studio Coordinator The University of the Arts - Philadelphia, PA July 2009 to April 2013 • Hired and supervised student workers; ordered equipment and supplies, managed supply shop, and maintained studio.  • Managed department budget and accounts.  • Taught workshops including intro to Adobe Illustrator, and intro to dying.   • Researched and coordinated visiting artist workshops, student field trips and department events.  • Facilitated all day-to-day needs for Fibers courses, assisted students with their requests such as: demonstrating equipment usage, as well as hand processes and tool techniques. Assistant Teaching Artist Al-Bustan Seeds of Culture - Philadelphia, PA July 2012 to July 2012 • Co-taught junior high and teen art classes for Arabic alphabet quilt project, which included demonstrating processes such as: resist dying, needle felting and embroidery. Assistant Coordinator, Inside Twelve Show and International Fiber Symposium, Seoul, South Korea The University of the Arts - Philadelphia, PA January 2010 to October 2010 • Assisted with photo shoot, and organized images and copy for show catalogue.  • Shipped artwork to/from Korea; coordinated receipt and return of artwork from exhibition participants. Designer Marc Phillips Decorative Rugs - Philadelphia, PA June 2008 to July 2009 • Designed, re-drew, re-colored and scaled artwork for custom rugs, using Photoshop and Illustrator; worked with interior designers to find and create rugs matching design aesthetic.  • Project management of rug production from concept to received product; maintained schedule of custom ordered rugs, coordinated area rug fabrication and wall-to-wall carpeting.  • Communicated with manufacturers in Nepal and Thailand regarding artwork, color, weaving specifications and design revisions for strike-offs and rug production.  Designer Education Certificate in Visual Communications and Web Design University of the Arts - Philadelphia, PA February 2010 to May 2014 B.F.A. in Textile Design Moore College of Art - Philadelphia, PA August 2003 to May 2006 Skills photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign, Kaledo, microsoft office, print design Links https://samanthabrowntaifitextiles.wordpress.com Additional Information Additional Experience With:  Creating repeat patterns, print design, color matching, color separations, tech flats, trend and design  research, hand painting, silk-screening, block printing, batik, hand-weaving, hand dying, off-loom fiber  structures, knitting, crochet, surface design, sewing    Exhibitions  • “Art Unleashed: Exhibition and Sale.” The University of the Arts, 2012.  • “Inspire: Staff Exhibition and Performance.” The University of the Arts, 2012.  • "Fiber and Textile Show", Plastic Club, Philadelphia, PA. 2010.  • "Inside 12" Exhibition, 175 Gallery, Jongro-ku, Seoul, South Korea. June, 2010.  • 'Work After Work' Exhibition, The University of the Arts, Philadelphia, PA, 2010.  • 'The Whole 9 Yards' Exhibition, The Midwives Collective, Philadelphia, PA, 2009.    Activities/Achievements  • Juror, Student Leadership Fellowships, Moore College of Art and Design, 2012.  • Alumni Committee, Moore College of Art and Design, 2012.  • Participant/attendee, International Fiber Symposium in conjunction with Inside Twelve Show, Seoul, South Korea, 2010.