UI/UX Developer UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/UX Developer - Verizon, Inc Waltham, MA Over 8+years of experience in Application and Web development, designing and maintenance  - Proficient in designing and developing web front end, with sound understanding of Object Oriented Programming Concepts and component-based, object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands on development expertise in front end GUI layer  - Strong knowledge and working experience in UI development with using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, AJAX, XML, XHTML, JSON and Angular JS, Angular2+, React JS, GIT etc.,  - Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around User Interaction Models, Workflows, Wireframes, Screen Flows, Mockups and Prototypes  - Experience in creating RESTFUL webservices using Springboot  - Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug, Fiddler & Chrome Developer Tools  - Experience with User Acceptance Testing(UAT) and Accessibility Testing  - Extensive experience with Angular JSMVC Framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters; working with animations, routing and states  - Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support  - Knowledge in developing applications using AGILE/SCRUM Methodology  - Knowledge of android application development  - Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using JQuery Along with AJAX/ JavaScript  - Worked on Responsive Web Design (RWD) and implemented basics level of Angular.js  - Experienced in using assistant tools such as SVN, GitHub, etc.,  - Experience in working with clients on-site, analyzing software requirements and developing solutions and procedures  - Involved in using various IDE's like Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Eclipse  - Worked extensively on Web API's driven interactive applications which utilizes Ajax technology  - Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  - Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's  - Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/UX Developer Verizon, Inc - Waltham, MA September 2018 to Present USA  Environment: HTML, CSS3. SASS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Rest API's, JQuery, React JS, Angular JS, Node JS, XML, XHTML, SQL, Moo Tools, Adobe Creative Suite Sketch  Accomplishments  ? Involved in UI strategy planning, requirements gathering and designing the user interface  ? Developed web applications, web services & webpages using MVC, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Node JS, React JS and micro services using SpringBoot  ? Created Wireframe through Adobe Illustrator and prototypes using JQuery and Angular JS  ? Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's), Navigation & Dropdowns using Angular JS, JQuery, Sass & Bootstrap  ? Implemented Ajax to improve performance & response time for simultaneous interactions of user with server  ? Created the SQL Objects such as Tables, Queries & Stored procedures  ? Created services using Rest API's and tested on Postman. Also used Jasmine/Karma for Unit Testing and Debugging using developer & firebug tools  ? Cross platform development of web- based applications for use on both mobile devices & computer- based browser including optimization to allow for smooth operation on phones & tablets UI/UX Developer CSC Global - Melbourne VIC July 2015 to June 2018 Australia  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular 4+, Node JS, React JS, XML, DOM, SQL, MVC architecture, Moo Tools, AGILE/ SCRUM methodology, Java 6/7, Balsamiq  Accomplishments  ? Developed web front end user interface with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Sass, Bootstrap, XML, XHTML &JSON  ? Developed Single page applications using Angular JS & Bootstrap  ? Create UI mockups using Balsamiq as per design requirements  ? Used Node JS as proxy layer for accessing the API layer & Express- Node JS for maintaining sessions  ? Created reusable UI components using React JS  ? Developed applications using Java 6.0/7.0 in windows  ? Extensively worked on Restful web services  ? Architected chat user window using Socket IO framework Implemented XML and JSON parsing for handling data  ? Experienced in implementing the model- view- controller (MVC) architecture Performed client- side validation using JavaScript  ? Created clickable Prototypes and wireframing using Axure RP, sketch and Adobe tools  ? Involved in maintenance, Testing, Developing, Debugging, Deploying and printing of web application. Web Developer CSC Global - Melbourne VIC February 2012 to June 2015 Australia  Environment: Balsamiq, Adobe Photoshop, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript,  JQuery, DOM, Node JS, Mongo DB, SQL Developer, Java 1.7, Spring MVC,  Accomplishments:  ? Participated in requirements gathering phase, writing the RFP's with the phases & iterations  ? Web site initializing through HTML/HTML5; Animations and styling through CSS/CSS3; Navigations and carousel plugins through Bootstrap  ? Usage of Require JS for efficient loading of the JS files & Form validations with the JavaScript libraries such as Node JS and Angular JS  ? Used React JS to dynamically change modules in applications  ? Connecting the html source code file with the MongoDB files to retrieve the Data related elements  ? Successful integration of the front and backend with server side being the Node JS  ? Worked on the responsiveness with the Bootstrap and ensuring search engine validations  ? Working on the deployment and Production support ensuring the website/ webpages and applications are browser compatible and device responsive  ? Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed Android based applications that work on tablets, phones and desktops with different screen resolutions  ? Developed update patches, modules and components for different applications  ? Developed and administered SQL database; also developed client/server interactions using NodeJS Junior Front end Developer Jarvis Business Solutions March 2010 to January 2012 India  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, UML, Unit Testing, Acceptance Testing, SQL, Notepad++, firebug, UNIX, Core Java  Accomplishments  ? Performed Design, Develop & Test key sections of corporate website utilizing application development tools  ? Responsible for database support for a mobile web- based application  ? Developed webpages using HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript & JS libraries and Back end development with SQL queries  ? Form validations through JS plugins  ? Animations effects through strong CSS/CSS3 standards  ? Designing the new requirements through Unified Model Language and drawing the necessary diagrams Performed Unit and Acceptance Testing  ? Confirmation on the Responsiveness and Compatibility issues on various browsers  ? Deployment of Web pages on Mozilla Firefox, IE, Google Chrome. Education Bachelor's Skills Bootstrap (9 years), Html (9 years), Javascript (9 years), Jquery (9 years), Sql (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Socket IO, NodeJS, ECT, WPF/WIN, NPM, Karma, ExtJS-MVC, Jasmine, REST, SOAP, AJAX, XML, JSON, Google analytics    Programming& Scripting languages    JavaScript Libraries & GUI  C, C++, Core Java, JavaScript, Typescript    JQuery, MooTools, DOJO, Kendo UI, Angular 2+, Angular JS, Bootstrap, React JS, Dojo, D3 JS,  Backbone JS, EmberJS    Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, REST, SQL    Operating systems    Unix, Linux, Windows, Msdos, Mac    Tools Firebug, DOM Inspector, Google chrome developer tools, GitHub, Tableau    IDE Sublime text, Notepad++, MS Office, Balsamiq, azure, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio code  Others Microsoft Office, Waterfall model, SCRUM/Agile methodology, Requirements Engineering, Testing, Unified model Language, User design, Wireframe Design, Layout Design, Responsive Design, Re-design techniques, Angular - cli, Adobe creative suite(), sketch, Axure RP