Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer, Full Stack wannabe! Bentonville, AR I am an experienced and creative Front- End Web Developer with 5+ years of experience, very good at hands-on troubleshooting and process development. I am also a self-starter and am very mechanically inclined. I strive for simple, cost-effective, common-sense solutions to technical problems instead of elaborate schemes to re-invent the wheel Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Wake County Government - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present ? Collaborate with the Emergency System department to plan and develop improved UI for emergency agencies' communication systems focused on user experience to speed up the EMS process.  ? Plan, develop, test, deploy and maintain more than 20 different webpages to assist the HR department in the redesign of the county's hiring processes.   ? Create a consistent look and visual theme across the county's websites by promoting best practices and creating customized UI-UX kits to ensure brand integrity and symmetry.  ? Implement WCAG accessibility standards.  Front- End Developer Counter Culture Coffee - Durham, NC March 2018 to September 2018 • Modified and troubleshooted existing PHP core functions.  • Modified existing HTML and CSS markup to meet new UI design requirements and a better rendering process.  • Integrated productivity tools to speed up development process.  • Created custom WordPress and WooCommerce components for internal framework. Front- End Developer PHE Inc - Hillsborough, NC December 2017 to February 2018 • Supported system migration to ASP.NET Razor pages with C# syntax.  Debugged performance issues, optimized HTML and CSS for optimal speed and performance of e-commerce platform.   • Implemented WCAG accessibility standards.  • Prepared and presented technical recommendations to optimize web performance and drive IT department's key objectives. Front End Developer Cendyn - Boca Raton, FL February 2017 to November 2017 • Update UI code for internal software products, including creating new HTML and CSS markups and Javascript functionalities, to support the company in its internal rebranding and innovation strategy.  • Act as the main bridge between the development and design team by encouraging designs to be more developer-friendly, cutting down on redundant work.  • Integrate standardized suite of marketing cloud products by developing elements for basis of UI kits  • Contribute to UX team efficiency by churning out an average of 2 updated products per month.  • Manage 3+ products at once in their various stages of product development by interacting daily with key project stakeholders, including the database, design, backend, product and QA teams. Lead Web Developer NeedaWebNow.com - Miami, FL February 2016 to October 2016 • Led a team of 4 to review daily development tasks, defined potential issues and threats, and optimized web assets to increase efficiency and reduce server costs for customers.  • Designed, developed, maintained and updated a variety of web sites for 15 different clients.  • Regularly updated web style sheets and pages and developed graphic images and effects to achieve design goals.  • Identified performance issues, optimized web assets for optimal speed and performance, and made recommendations and solutions to clients. FOUNDER & CEO NetGio - Miami, FL 2012 to 2015 • Designed and developed websites and web-solutions to meet the goals of media, non-profit and personal-brand clients.   • Negotiated budgets and deadlines with clients to always deliver projects on time and ensure customer satisfaction, which led to referrals accounting for 90% of business   • Specialized in implementing web performance optimization and SEO best-practices to optimize website search results. CO-FOUNDER AND MANAGING EDITOR colombiareports.com - Medellín, Antioquia 2008 to 2011 • Developed web platform for news site from scratch, propelling it to #1 amongst English-language news websites in Latin America in 1 year.  • Managed team of 12 international journalists to produce captivating and relevant news content leading to more than 300k monthly pageviews.   • Built and maintained company’s social media presence, growing the brand’s followers to 300X in 3 months. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Science MIAMI DADE COLLEGE - Miami, FL 2012 to 2015 Skills HTML (7 years), CSS (7 years), Javascript (4 years), Lamp (8 years), Wordpress (4 years), Front End, Angular, Front-End, UI, ASP, Git, HTML 5, HTML5, Bootstrap, Jquery, PHP Additional Information - Well-versed in all phases of the web development life-cycle, from prototyping and coding, to system testing, integration and deployment    - HTML, CSS and JavaScript have dominated my experience as a developer. I majored in Computer Science and worked mainly with C++, Java, and Python    - Strong understanding of the internet space, known as a self-starter, team player and multitasker; I strive to consistently exceed expectations    - Ten years of experience working with Adobe Creative Cloud (cc)