Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Wells Fargo, KT • Around 3 years of professional experience in designing web application as a Front- End  developer in various domains including Banking and Healthcare.  • Experience in building application from the scratch leveraging various components of Angular 2.  • Proficient in designing and developing Single Page Applications using React, React-Router and  React-Redux from scratch.  • Worked in implementing web applications using MEAN and MERN Stack: MongoDB, Express,  Angular 2/4, React and Node.js.  • Strong understanding of using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES5/6) for user interface and web  application development.  • Experience on modern front- end template frameworks and libraries for JavaScript including  jQuery, AngularJS etc.  • Experience of using SASS, LESS and Bootstrap to enhance the user experience.  • Hands on experience of creating REST web services by using Node.js and Express framework.  • Experience on configuring tasks with Gulp/Grunt to automate and improve the application  development work flow.  • Experience in using Webpack as module bundler and performing the vast majority of the tasks.  • Experience of JavaScript testing framework like Jasmine, QUnit, Karma, Mocha and Chai.  • Experience in data visualizations tools like D3, Angular Fusion Charts and Chart.js.  • Hands on experience with version control tools, such as GIT and SVN.  • Experience in Implementing AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, ElasticLoad Balancer, Auto-  scaling groups.  • Experience on browser testing, cross-browser compatibility, and cross-platform compatibility  using Modernizr.  • Strong understanding of different development methodologies such as Agile, Scrum, TDD and  BDD.  • Self-motivated, committed and adaptable to changes and challenges and work effectively in a  fast-paced, high volume, deadline-driven environment. Work Experience Front End Developer Wells Fargo, KT January 2019 to Present Worked on the usage of JavaScript, React, NodeJS, Bootstrap, jQuery/AJAX, JSON, HTML4/5,  CSS2/3.  • The front- end use HTML5, CSS3, React, Axios, LESS and Bootstrap to build a single page web  app that communicate with back- end via REST API.  • The back- end use NodeJS, Express, MongoDB and mongoose to provide RESTAPI.  • Created website using React, React-Redux, React-Router for single page app routing. Modeled  with a component centric, loosely coupled architecture approach. Used Redux for state and application data (client side) flow and management.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Generated interactive data visualization for report via D3.js.  • Used Gulp to compile and compress the JavaScript, CSS, HTML files with Babel, ESlint, uglify and used Webpack to bundle files.  • Worked under Test-Driven Development (TDD) environment, and performed unit testing using  Jasmine and Karma.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis to fix the reported bugs/defects and checking cross  platform compatibility.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Used GIT as a Version Control system and for code management.  • Worked in a collaborative and agile environment. Web Developer Stryker March 2018 to December 2018 • Developed front- end application and components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React for the login and management module.  • Developed the Application as Single Page Application using React, React-Router.  • Implemented Flux for application data flow and management.  • Consumed RESTweb service for fetching JSON format data from web server.  • Involved AJAX calls for data updates in UI along with JSONdata parsing.  • Used Bootstrap and Media queries to make responsive web pages  • Integrated D3.js reporting component for customer behavior information display.  • Involved in TDD for developing and performing test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services  developed with Java and Node.js and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Followed the rules of Agile, implemented Scrum environment within development teams. UI Developer Lamda - IN January 2016 to May 2017 Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming HTML4  from wireframes.  • Used jQuery-AJAX plug-in to GET the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML4, DHTML, CSS2 and JavaScript.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML4.  • Experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture.  • Re-designing/developing the main website to improve user experience and add new  functionality using CSS2 layouts.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed testing.  • Collaborated with system engineers to ensure UI designs are implemented and tested correctly.  • Modified and updated UI pages rapidly after received new requirements. Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science North American University Additional Information Skills  Languages: C, C++, PHP, .NET and JAVA.  Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, JSP, Bootstrap, DOM.  Frameworks: AngularJS, Angular 2, ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS, BackboneJS, D3.js, Webpack.  IDE's: NetBeans, Visual Studio, Notepad++, Edit plus, Sublime, WebStorm, SVN, GIT.  Work Flow: Responsive Web Design, Single Page App, Typescript.  Operating System: UNIX, LINUX, Windows 7,8, and 10.    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  Tools: Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, Mocha, Karma.  Databases: NoSQL, MongoDB.