Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Valcom Roanoke, VA I am a self taught Full Stack & Mobile Developer and love learning new things.  I found my love of coding during my junior year of high school and have never  stopped trying to learn and perfect my coding abilities. I will always be willing  to teach others the skills I know as well as continue to learn new methods as  technology advances. Work Experience Lead Developer Valcom - Roanoke, VA May 2017 to Present My main role is this position is to lead a team of 5 developers working on different types of projects. Giving them advice & Mentoring them along the  journey.    What I have worked on:  Building Emergency Alerting and Notification mobile apps.  ? IOS App - Built on Swift 4 (Currently in redesign, however on the App Store  (V-Alert))    Web Apps  ? V-Alert  ? Planned out Infrastructure of our Multi Service Idea  ? Along with Team helped build Frontend (ReactJS) along with backend (NodeJS, MongoDB, Docker & ZeroMQ)  ? Internal Licencing Server  ? Built out Cloud Structure of Server along with Docker  ? Built FrontEnd (ReactJS)  ? Helped Build Backend (NodeJS, Postgres, Docker, grpc)    Along with helped build out the projects above, I helped pick out the Above  Technologies along with understanding how they will work together in a high  overview of the project Developer January 2011 to Present Offered Web Design & Development to clients along with working  with Companies build a beta apps for upcoming products. Full-Stack Developer Valcom - Roanoke, VA November 2015 to May 2017 I joined the team to help overhaul there main website that was customer  facing. However, I was pulled aside to help build a mobile team to help with Life Safety alerting.    What I have worked on in this position:    Mic Paging Panel  ? Helped plan out and build a web interface to send alerts and emergency  sounds.  ? This product was built with PHP 7 using Laravel, MySQL on the backend  ? Frontend was built on Angular2  V-Alert  ? Built IOS App with Swift 4  ? Built Android App with React-Native  ? Built Frontend with ReactJS  ? Founded a mobile team of 3 developers (Remote) - Web Developer(Contractor) AgentFire - New York, NY July 2015 to November 2015 Built custom real estate websites from custom PSD designs to using  X-Theme.  ? Also helped move them allow from WordPress to use angularJS and NodeJS for real estate companies  ? Skills Used WordPress, Photoshop, CSS/Sass, Javascript, HTML5 and PHP, AngularJS(1) and NodeJS.  ? Helped build a company realtor mobile app that was released to both Android and IOS Arizona (Remote) - Full-Stack Web Developer(Contractor) Lumerity, Arizona March 2015 to July 2015 Helped build WordPress themes for different types of clients. Including  Party City.  ? Skills Used WordPress, Photoshop, CSS/Sass, Javascript, HTML5 and PHP. Front- End Web Developer Blue Ridge Interactive - Roanoke, VA January 2015 to March 2015 Lead a team of 2 developer build products for different clients.  ? Used diverse programming languages to develop websites and design  applications. Education Diploma James Madison Online High School - Norcross, GA 2012 Skills Api, Html, Javascript, Ionic, Reactjs