Marketing Director Marketing Director Marketing Director Hermosa Beach, CA As founder of Native Collective and famed Mischievous Studios, and through my work with  Fortune 500 companies, product branding and rebranding initiatives, app companies,  startups, and entertainment companies, I have grown along with the new media and evolving  digital marketing landscape through a decade of experience. My work is distinguished by the  enthusiastic attention I give to every single one of my projects and clients. I have single  handedly launched numerous startups, products, and marketing campaigns, ranging from  brand discovery to full service web launch conception and final production. I consult with my  clients every step of the way, aided by the hard work of my supportive team of designers.  Going viral is a formula, and I have implemented this formula countless times with proven  results. Work Experience Marketing Director Kombucha Dog - Los Angeles, CA 2018 to 2019 e-commerce integration to further spread their messaging. I created  strategically designed and detailed technical models for numerous ground marketing  initiatives; meaning activating ground level marketing initiatives in four cities at once and overseeing the operations of all initiatives. I specialized in SEO related web solutions, and managed all social influencer relationships between our brand and their audiences.  Duties also include creating accurate profit projections, project managing, assembling  ground level marketing teams nationwide, scheduling social media influencer marketing,  and partnering relationships with other events and promotional parties for sale initiative and brand messaging. My job was growth on a national and global level. Project Manager Cousins Maine Lobster - Los Angeles, CA 2017 to 2018 Cousins Jim and Sabin hired me to manage their social media content initiative; primarily their  goal being raising brand awareness to their new franchise feature and growth hacking their  accounts and channels. In addition, I wrote, produced, and directed all of their video content  that was released on all of their featured platforms; primarily integrating the company culture into their product's story to help further guide consumers to engage with their brand. Marketing Director / Sales Manager Coach Labs Inc 2015 to 2017 Was hired in a a time when the company was about to go under to accelerate online sales,  audience target, and lead generate for Coach Lab's line of IOT golf products. Reported to CEO Jason Koo. Re-designed and re-launched their website www.coachlabs.com.  Implemented four different marketing programs to optimize their products. Implemented and led a Coachella Brand Activation. Ran a team of 6 lower level digital marketeers for PR and  growth hacking initiatives. Grew his sales by 50% in under 30 days. Drove inbound leads via  google adwords, social media marketing, event management, email campaigns and other  digital channels. Worked across functionally with Sales and product teams to reimagine,  optimize and improve customer acquisition, new user experience, and retention. Worked with partners to drive campaigns via PR and media to continue to position Coach Labs Inc. as the  leader in it's industry. Lead Front and Back End developer, Awake The Film awakethefilm.org - New York, NY 2016 to 2016 After receiving a personal phone call from academy award nominated documentary director  Josh Fox of Gasland to create the distribution platform for the release of his new film about the civil rights issues surrounding the North Dakota pipeline protests. I built their site from the  architectural outline provided for me by their art director, adding my capabilities to enhance  their deigns with innovative user interaction supplements to their original design. The launch  was an immense success at The Tribeca Film Festival, and is an experience I have immense  pride for. All proceeds to the platform we as a team built go directly to their indigenous media  fund. With this project, I designed a site that disrupted the film distribution process. 3 months  later the film was acquired by Netflix. Account Executive Mezu - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2016 worked directly alongside the Chief Marketing Officer and two founders of the app. Created  and oversaw all brand activation programs. Acted as the lead merchant developer for all on premise programs for launch. Created all in app automation marketing initiative. Oversaw the  conception of their gamification campaign. created and oversaw a custom built snapchat filter  campaign. Managed all brand ambassadors, VIP hostesses, promoters, and event staff for 90  events and brand activations monthly. Conceptualized and implemented social media  campaigns; trained our digital manager on systems I put in place like "buffer." to keep our  operations running smoothly. Lead industry and startup mixers and workshops at co work  spaces around Los Angeles most notably the CTRL Collective. Co-Founder & CMO Mischievious Studios - Los Angeles, CA 2012 to 2015 Created one of the Best Viral Video and Branded Content Agency in Los Angeles. As seen on AMC's "The Pitch". A group of Filmmakers-turned advertisers worked to blur the line between  advertising and entertainment by creating playful, sharable ads (viral videos, online  commercials, Viner branded content) and engaging branded entertainment (Web series, films,  talent sponsorships). Our ads garnered over 30 million organic views in one year alone, with everyone in the company being under 30, the young team of entrepreneurs we  assembled helped shape the future of digital advertising. Education Masters in Communication Management in Communication Management USC - Los Angeles, CA B.F.A in Photography & Film in Photography & Film School of Visual Arts - New York, NY Skills branding (Less than 1 year), Copywriting (Less than 1 year), Graphic Design (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Illustration (Less than 1 year), Maintenance (Less than 1 year), PR (2 years), Print Design (Less than 1 year), Product Development (Less than 1 year), PUBLIC RELATIONS (2 years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (1 year), SEO (1 year), TRANSMISSIONS (Less than 1 year) Links http://nativecollectivela.com http://www.lataco.com/interview-with-vine-guru-christiano-covino http://vivalifestyleandtravel.com/feature-on-maple-block-meat-co-samantha-b http://vivalifestyleandtravel.com/general/arts-and-culture/co-living-trend