Angular UI Developer Angular UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular UI Developer - Transamerica Corporation Cedar Rapids, IA Over 8 years of extensive experience in IT industry as Front- End UI Developer with web-based applications and UI applications in various domains. Experience in application and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, JSON, DOM, DOJO, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Angular2, Angular 4/6/7, react.js, redux, Node.js, React-Native, Express.js, Babel.js, Webpack, Mongo DB and Oracle.    • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3and MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, etc.  • Extensive experience in developing Web based applications and Client/Server applications using XML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS, Kendo UI, etc.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular2/4/7, React.js, Ext JS, Action Script, JSF and JSP.  • Developed enterprise-level Java applications utilizing XML, JSON, Restful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap, CSS.  • Refactored error message handling design by implementing React-Native alert dialog resulting in potential decrease of user input errors by more than 50%.  • Used High charts and d3.js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Provided SharePoint best practices and advice regarding site set-up, site security, maintenance, and future needs.  • Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front- end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Using Spark-Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra  • Good understanding knowledge in installing and maintaining Cassandra by configuring the Cassandra. Yaml file as per the requirement and performed reads and writes using Java JDBC connectivity.  • Worked under AWS management tools such as (EC2, EBS, ASG, RDS, R53) Developed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups.  • Developed Ansible scripts for an automated server provisioning and Docker images for app isolation, reducing the time between provisioning and deployment.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Good knowledge on Dockers components like Docker swarm Engine, Docker Registry, and Docker Notary.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Design and implement security system for GIS data access  • Experienced in developing web applications using MVC & MVVC Architecture.  • Following Test-Driven Development (TDD) programming technique to write clean code and test the functionalities.  • Experience in using testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber/chai and Gherkins.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3and in making web pages cross browser compatible and resolving cross browser compatibility issues.  • Ability to develop optimum and user-friendly web solutions and provide web, graphic and interactive programming.  • Effective problem-solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Motivated to produce robust, high-performance software  • Proficient in adapting and applying new technologies.  • Ability to work independently and in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular UI Developer Transamerica Corporation - Cedar Rapids, IA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS for front end web designing.  • Programmed standards complaint HTML5 and CSS3 working with jQuery library modules and JavaScript framework libraries.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework while developing the UI modules.  • AngularJS Ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Involved in a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based approach to UI Development.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Worked on Angular 6/7 on Responsive web design (RWD)  • Develop new features and components using Angular 6 and Angular  material, lo-dash, ES6 and git-lab.  • Enhanced application performance by Angular 6 Component based development in view of future Angular framework transitions.  • Developed front- end components using Angular6, Typescript, Angular Material and ngx-bootstrap  • Worked on Docker open source project by automating the deployment of applications inside software containers.  • Knowledge on Creating CI/CD deployments to use AWS Code Pipeline, Code Build, Code Deploy.  • Knowledge on maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Built application service layer using AngularJS Dependency Injection.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Created Dynamic web pages using forms, filters, expressions and data binding. Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • JSON model objects are used as request/response content type for server communication.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Enabled validation on forms across application and notify users of invalid input.  • Collaborated Sass to keep large style sheets well-organized, and to generate aggregated style sheets.  • Developed SQL Queries to run against database in Microsoft SQL Server for the application.  • Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data driven websites.  • Extensively used NPM and Bower to manage JavaScript dependencies.  • Designed and developed effective mechanism to automate existing processes using PostgreSQL pSQL.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Knowledge in using version control systems Subversion such as (SVN) and GitHub.  • Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Designed, developed, tested and certified GIS applications software and systems functionality.  • Created interactive web applications based on the ESRI JavaScript API. The  application fused finished geospatial products with underlying vector data.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop CS6, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Following Test-Driven Development (TDD) programming technique to write clean code and test the functionalities.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Working Experience with Gherkins User Stories.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating web services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.js.  • Experience in Unit testing and implemented test cases for applications using testing frameworks like Jasmine, JUnit etc.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers includingIE9.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript Angular.js, ES6, Typescript, Angular2/4/6/7, Bootstrap, Maven, Hibernate, AJAX, jQuery, MySQL, NPM, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, JSON, AWS, Rest Web Services, SASS and SVN and GitHub. ReactJS Web Developer MasterCard - Saint Louis, MI July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept  • Responsible for React UI and architecture.  • Involved in the development of the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, ReactJS and worked on JavaScript framework to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI  • Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, and Java Script  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript  • Used ReactJS with Material UI to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery, ReactJS  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in ReactJS  • React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization  • Involved in developing presentational and container components using React and JSX  • Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Developed the application on Node JS platform using JavaScript programming  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target  • Designed and built up the UI design and front- end programming for application that matches the wireframes utilizing the most recent HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Developed front- end components using HTML5/CSS3 and Angular.  • Developed applications using latest JavaScript features and frameworks such as React and Redux to build dynamic web pages.  • Worked with React-router, JSX, Babel, and React bootstrap.  • Used twitter Bootstrap for making responsive website architecture for changing screen sizes and gadgets.  • Good involvement in actualizing MVC systems like Angular.js for AJAX information calls utilizing the $http benefit.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Analyzed and parsed the reaction of JSON/XML to refresh DOM. Worked with the SASS/SCSS pre-processor to rearrange composing the CSS stylings.  • Supervised the daily set-ups and start-ups of production equipment.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.    Environment: ReactJS, Mongo DB, Gulp, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Spring MVC, Responsive Design, Eclipse. Front End Developer Ally Financials - Detroit, MI August 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed handy version applications using Bootstrap Framework, HTML5 and CSS3  • Responsible for initiating, planning, construction, execution, monitoring and controlling Web applications.  • To optimize user experience worked on enhancements.  • Developed a fully functional login page for the company's user facing website with complete UI and validations.  • Fixed the defect and tracked them using Quality Center to completion by communicating and co-coordinating with the QA and business people.  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Used Spring MVC with Hibernate framework.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Worked closely with the product, QA teams and support UI implementation efforts.  • Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application.  • Implemented the session only persistence for the last tab user clicked on is remembered if he/she returns to the page within the same browser session.  • Going through User Documents created wireframes in Balsamic and requesting client feedback.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Involved in designing Spring MVC application and Hibernate to design module structure.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS &JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  • Experience applying the latest development approaches event-driven applications using Object Oriented (OO) Java Script  • Developed jQuery methods to support the dynamic nature of the web-site elements.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse IDE, MS Office, AngularJS 2.0, SVN. Sr. UI developer 7-Eleven Inc - Columbus, OH March 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Converted requirements such as wireframes, prototypes and interactive user interfaces into fully functional and highly performing web components.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms (including both sign-in form and the search form) and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box model and HTML5.  • Created dozens of UI components including custom inputs, dropdowns, and suggestion dropdowns with filtering, multi-select option lists, and search-on-type result pages.  • Created higher order components to enforce front- end authorization based on user roles and to validate time, date, and email inputs.  • Built a Node service for mock data.  • Configured a reverse-proxy in Node to route front- end requests to appropriate backend services.  • Configured front end code and Web pack to optimize critical rendering path.  • Sped up time-to-first-paint by splitting code using react-router's get Component callback.  • Constructed a workflow component that guided a user through the construction of an insurance quote.  • Styled over 20 pages from mocks and collaborated with UX to fine-tune stories to ensure ideal user experience.  • Attended backend meetings to formulate API standards and debate architecture and communicated frequently with the product team to fine-tune stories and prepare for demos.  • Accelerated app performance by using Node clusters and improved scalability. Achieved zero down time by utilizing the master and workers efficiently.  • Coded and used Generators and Promises to resolve callback hells resulting in efficient and structured code.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) throughout the project which included pair programming, sprints, user stories, backlog grooming.  • Performed Unit testing on Angular applications using tools like Karma, Jasmine and worked with Gulp tool for build automation.  • Daily building or enhancing system features, fixing occasional bugs, and periodically troubleshooting system alerts through AWS and serving it on to Cloud Front.  • Used GIT version control tool and GitHub to maintain the source code with the use of JIRA from Atlassian.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, Media Queries, JSON, Sublime Text, IE, Chrome, Safari, Firefox, SVN, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Angular JS. Front- End Developer ANTHEM INC - Norfolk, VA December 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT and Angular 4.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, React JS and AJAX.  • Developed React JS pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business Requirements.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Designed and developed web pages from mock-ups (PSD)  • Worked on Front end by using JAVASCRIPT.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed a front- end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Used web-based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  • Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Worked with CSS Icons, CSS Pseudo-class, CSS Pseudo-element, CSS Image Sprites, CSS background and CSS3 Shadows to give some additional effects.  • Checked cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like Google chrome, Internet explorer, Firefox and safari.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB.  • Worked with Bit Bucket for recording the progress and later for version control.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Angular JS, JAVASCRIPT, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, REST APIs, Angular JS, it, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Sublime. UI Developer Innovation tech systems - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Using Microsoft Technologies for the project development such as Visual Studio, Java, J2EE, and SQL Server.  • Design & Develop application using MVC architecture, jQuery, Html 5, Java Script and CSS.  • Design and implement AJAX service call using Angular JS http.  • Design layouts and icons with Photoshop for technical specification documents and converts them to HTML prototypes with Web 2.0 standards with compatibility to different browser, platform and accessibility guidelines.  • Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment.  • Used UML diagrams Use Cases, Object, Class, State, Sequence and Collaboration to design the application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  • Used UML diagrams Use Cases, Object, Class, State, Sequence and Collaboration to design the application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  • Designed and developed dynamic menus using DHTML and CSS.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Involved in Unit testing.    Environment: Visual Studio, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UML, DHTML, MVC, jQuery, WebLogic, Photoshop, SQL, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), BOOTSTRAP (7 years), HTML5 (7 years), JSON (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Development HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML and PHP, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSTL, Struts 1.x/2.0, SOAP, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Oracle  Frameworks  Spring MVC, AWS, Docker, AngularJS (versions 1.5, 16.), Angular 2/4, Typescript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, BackboneJS, NodeJS, Struts 1.2, and MVC Architecture.    Application Servers Oracle WebLogic Server, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Databases SQL Server2012, Oracle 8i, 10g/11g, MYSQL, MSSQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra  IDE's and Tools  Photoshop CS6, Dreamweaver CS6, Flash CS6, Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Web Strom, Firebug, Developer Tools, Edit Plus, JSfiddle, Web Storm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Apana, Notepad++    Programming Languages Java, J2EE, JSP 1.2, SQL, JavaScript  Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS-DOS, Unix  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP, and SOAP.  Version controls TFS, Git, SVN, Visual Source Safe.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports.  Testing Tools Selenium, Cucumber, Gherkins, Chai, Nunit and JUnit    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENC