Designer/ Developer Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer / Graphic Designer Cape Coral, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer/ Developer On The Map Media Inc. - Cape Coral, FL July 2011 to Present Meeting with clients to determine graphic design/web development needs. Creating website prototypes/wireframes/mockups using Adobe XD. Reviewing prototype with client for approval and making revisions as needed. Custom website development using HTML/5, CSS/3, JavaScript, jQuery, and PHP. SEO optimization. Image editing and image optimization using Adobe Photoshop. Setup and customization of content management systems like WordPress and Squarespace. Minor video editing using Adobe Premiere to create promotional video clips. Senior Web Developer Arke Systems - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to January 2018 Creating web pages or web applications matching business requirements, wireframe interactions, and/or visual designs using HTML5, CSS3, React, Bourbon Neat, GIT, KIT language for templating, SCSS, and other web technologies. Building modular CSS and HTML content that facilitates creation of component libraries and easy back end integration. Assisting with design and user experience discussions as needed. Creating prototypes of websites using Axure prior to design and coding. UI/UX Developer (Contractor) Hothouse - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to January 2017 Creating web pages or web applications matching business requirements, wireframe interactions, and/or visual designs using HTML5, CSS3, Angular, Bourbon Neat, GIT, Handlebars, SCSS, and other web technologies. Building modular CSS and HTML content that facilitates creation of component libraries and easy back end integration. Creating customized WordPress themes. Senior Front End Developer Perficient - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to September 2016 Creating web pages or web applications matching business requirements, wireframe interactions, and/or visual designs using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, React, JavaScript and other web technologies. Using Bootstrap, GIT, Atom, Adobe Brackets, Assemble, Handlebars, Sass/SCSS, and other tools to aid in the web development process. Image optimization using Adobe Photoshop/Fireworks. Meeting with clients and scrum team to obtain requirements, provide updates and make suggestions for improvement. Creating documentation to aid back end developers in implementing front end code. Leading creative review process, tracking changes, and making necessary updates. Education BS in Information Systems Hodges University - Fort Myers, FL September 2007 to August 2011 Skills Web Development (6 years), Graphic Design (8 years), Video Editing (4 years), Administrative Assistant (10+ years), Project Management (4 years), Javascript, Angular Links http://monique.onthemapmedia.com http://codepen.io/moniqueward Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED March 2018 to March 2019 Obtained from Red Cross Health Coach July 2018 to Present Graduated from the Institute for Integrative Nutrition Additional Information Studying for NASM Personal Training Certification