Director of Business Operations Director of Business Operations Director of Business Operations - Childress Agency, INC Fairfax, VA Work Experience Director of Business Operations Childress Agency, INC - Fredericksburg, VA January 2018 to Present Oversaw website production and Pay Per Click (PPC) advertising services for more than 200 clients grossing $1.4M in revenue. Responsible for the preparation of and accountability for all contract deliverables, work plans, schedules, project  estimates, resource planning, and status reports.  • Helped the company gain Google Partner accreditation. Established digital marketing workflows and grew the company's  managed PPC budget by 11,000% within 12 months.  • Served as a solutions architect/capture manager for all website development projects - Built in-depth service deliverables  that resulted in a higher customer satisfaction rate and reduced scope creep.  • Rebuilt the company's service catalog and pricing model by shifting the focus from full-service marketing agency model to custom website development and digital marketing services that resulted in ~300% increase in average sale size.  • Defined, documented, and implemented procedures and process changes that ensure organizational efficiency,  profitability, and growth in the areas of on-boarding, project management, technical support, website launch, PPC  management, sales, and human resources.  • Led company's vision and adaptation of the latest developments and the best practices in the areas of Marketing  Technology, Search Engine Optimization, Conversion Rate Optimization, Conversion Tracking, Website Analytics and Reporting, and Website Development.  • Managed all high-risk business incidents that pose risks to the company's reputation and continuity by serving as a primary point of contact, minimizing legal liabilities and preventing account cancellations for high-stake clients.  • Planned and executed online and offline marketing strategies including implementing industry targeted landing pages,  marketing workshops and chamber events with more than 500 members in attendance. Director of Business Operations Cyberbility LLC - Fredericksburg, VA January 2018 to Present Managed company's post acquisition process; improving service contracts and pricing model, client support protocols,  and retention policies and practices.  • Trained brand managers, SEO specialists, and web developers.  • Managed escaladed billing problems and cancellation requests.  • Used qualitative and quantitative search engine optimization and marketing techniques to maximize the website's traffic.  • Developed relationships with potential partners and clients by attending relevant trade shows and networking events. Digital Marketing Manager Cyberbility LLC - Fredericksburg, VA September 2017 to January 2018 • Led technical, operational, and creative aspects of Web Development projects from idea stage to final delivery.  • Oversaw Digital Marketing and Social Media campaigns including planning, testing, executing, optimizing, and reporting  for clients from wide range of industries.  • Planned, coordinated and assigned shared responsibilities with team members, clients, and other involved parties to meet  project goals and deadlines.  • Ensured delivery of consistent quality for clients' SEO, UI/UX, and content needs.  • Audited and integrated emerging technologies to increase the efficiency of the sales, web development, and project  management cycles.    ata.d.birol@gmail.com • (757) 692-5020 • 9652 Thackery Sq., Fairfax, VA, 22032  ata.d.birol@gmail.com • (757) 692-5020 • 9652 Thackery Sq., Fairfax, VA 22032 Brand Manager and Business Development Specialist Hannibal Global LLC - Vienna, VA June 2016 to September 2017 Developed a comprehensive branding strategy that communicates company's brand in a positive, authentic way to attract  new clients.  • Managed and created company's digital properties, social profiles, and print materials to enhance company's developing  reputation and exposure to potential clients and partners.  • Used qualitative and quantitative search engine optimization and marketing techniques to maximize the website's traffic.  • Developed relationships with potential partners and clients by attending relevant trade shows and networking events. Senior Vice President; Professional Activities Chairperson Professional Business Fraternity of Delta Sigma Pi - Fairfax, VA September 2015 to August 2016 Planned and executed outreach programs, community service, fundraising, and professional development events  focusing on networking strategies, Fortune 500 careers, and weekly panels called Meet the Firm.  • Renovated chapter's branding by redesigning the website and creating marketing materials.  • Designed an online application for membership admission to replace the manual paper applications.  • Planned team building events and activities to enhance the motivation within the organization.  • Negotiated and reviewed vendor proposals for event bookings.  • Initiated the first annual professional LinkedIn photo-shoot event for GMU-wide student body. Web Developer & Digital Marketing Consultant Independent Consultant - Virginia Beach, VA August 2012 to June 2016 • Built mobile and user-friendly websites from ground up.  • Determined appropriate architecture solutions and made relevant technical recommendations.  • Recruited and collaborated with content developers and other technical professionals (e.g. bloggers, graphic design artists,  systems administrators, technical writers, etc.)  • Installed, customized, troubleshooted content management systems and themes.  • Established online presence ground-up, and developed content schedules and strategies for clients' social profiles.  • Provided Search Engine Optimization services to more effectively drive and convert traffic to clients' websites. Front- End Web Developer Rocket Internet, GmbH - Istanbul, TR May 2012 to September 2012 • Developed, maintained, and improved multiple e-commerce websites.  • Implemented web application solutions from conceptual design through coding using XHTML and CSS.  • Created cross-platform compliant e-newsletters reaching hundreds of thousands of recipients.  • Managed the e-mail marketing process, including converting PSD files into HTML code, creating marketing materials,  producing email content compatible with email service provider standards.  • Optimized site visuals for web by reducing images from the original source file to a size and quality setting that's web  compatible.  • Produced detailed management reports for senior leadership. Ensured all changes were recorded in JIRA. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Operations Management George Mason University - Fairfax, VA September 2015 to May 2017 Associate of Science in Business Administration Tidewater Community College - Virginia Beach, VA September 2013 to May 2015 Skills Ads (5 years), Business Development (1 year), Client Relations (5 years), CRO (3 years), CSS. (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JavaScript (8 years), MySQL (4 years), Operations (4 years), Operations Management (4 years), PHP (5 years), project management (6 years), Search Engine Optimization (7 years), SEO (7 years), Training (4 years)