Project Manager and W eb Developer Project Manager and W eb <span class="hl">Developer</span> Project Manager and Web Developer - Bandage Aid Material Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Project Manager and W eb Developer Bandage Aid Material - Los Angeles, CA June 2018 to Present • Managed and on-boarding new clients  • Created and executed all out going email campaigns.  • Created internal processes for handling orders, intake, and also created workflows for the customer service staff.  • Trained internal team on HIPAA best practices and created workflows for other employees to follow.  • Created and maintained a customer facing website that has been optimized for search. Front- End W eb Developer Eureka Dunes Productions - Santa Monica, CA September 2017 to February 2019 • Produced client facing websites for small to medium brands using Wordpress, Drupal, and Shopify  • Managed multiple brands and their creative teams.  • Additionally, created several landing pages, which corresponded to their respective email campaign. Email Creation and W eb Developer Sugarfina - Los Angeles, CA April 2018 to May 2018 • Created a myriad of rich email experiences in short span of time.  • Worked with internal creative time to correct graphic choices and messaging and to enhance deliverables.  • Used Litmus, Email on Acid, and other services to check and correct emails before be scheduled.  • Created a custom HTML form for their Oracle I-store platform. Front- End W eb Developer AMERICAN BOTANICAL PHARMACY - Marina del Rey, CA 2015 to September 2017 • Manage front- end programming, maintenance, web development, and email production and project management for $15M e-commerce business. Resolve technical problems.  • Program new functionality for Magento enterprise platform.  • Produce and launch weekly e-mail marketing campaigns (HTML e-Mails).  • Implement mockups into developed pages using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript that render  consistently cross-browser on site and mobile properties.  • Maintain and edit web content, including product updates and blog updates.  • Integrate design and front- end tech into scalable back- end frameworks.  • Develops logic, codes, tests, and debugs web pages. Troubleshoot and resolve issues with existing custom  and core Magento code.  • Contributes to task identification and schedules for development and maintenance activities.  • Manage Google Analytics tracking and ad hoc reporting.  • Create various project documentation in collaboration with other team members to ensure UI  meets functional requirements. Developer SMART ACTION - El Segundo, CA August 2015 to January 2016 Worked with department managers to create interactive applications and optimize  multiple online properties (HTML, CSS, JS, Node, MySQL, PHP)  • Created an angular app to capture leads and interfaced with their Hubspot application.  • Offered training and technical consulting for future and current projects.    Front- End W eb Developer TIRE CO - Gardena, CA December 2013 to November 2014 • Launched projects including interactive forms, responsive landing pages, and microsites, using HTML5, JSS, CSS and other JS libraries.  • Developed and maintained multiple branded sites using Drupal as the CMS.  • Worked as key member of the team who managed the Oracle iStore e-commerce platform, maintained by JSS, HTML, PHP, ASP and CSS, within a Java environment.  • Instituted standards-compliant valid XHTML/CSS files Photoshop design comps. Produced  wireframes, designs, landing pages, and media incorporating web standards and UI  practices.  • Contributed to the development of a customized tire and wheel mobile application for Android.  • Provided client-side and server-side installation and support. Managed over 250 users in multiple network  environments.  • Performed client-side testing, analysis and troubleshooting on a network spanning multiple states.  • Project-managed the installation of operating systems and data migration of 200 workstations.  • Communicated with stakeholders and other appropriate parties to ensure that requirements are  being met and initiatives are completed to technical requirements.    Front End Developer  (Contractor) ZOMBATREE - Los Front End Developer / Designer GETTY MUSEUM - Westwood, CA January 2012 to April 2012 • Created HTML pages, using technologies as CSS3, HTML5, and JQuery.  • Maintained and edited content on website.  • Launched public and private microsites, utilizing optimizing technical, best practices, including  contemporary CSS3 and JavaScript frameworks. Deployment Coordinator AEG - Los Angeles, CA March 2011 to September 2011 • Developed wireframes, web widgets, iframes, and web-based presentations interfacing with clients.  • Reported website analytics and metrics, using Akamai.  • Performed client-side testing, debugging, and troubleshooting.  • Developed technical strategies for multiple, concurrent client projects. W eb Developer THINAIRDATA CORP - Los Angeles, CA February 2006 to January 2010 • Interpreted existing site design and style guides by creating pixel perfect web pages from Photoshop files.  • Published and maintained content on website. Collaborated with marketing and creative.  • Crafted a web identity. Practiced best practices for brand identity.  • Support marketing and communications efforts including photography and updating of the corporate website.  • Managed multiple projects at once and worked cross-functionally with internal departments. Education Bachelor of Science in Bio-Chemical Engineering in Bio-Chemical Engineering in Bio-Chemical Engineering UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 2005 Skills Visual studio, Front-end, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Xml, Css, Dreamweaver, Sharepoint, Oracle, Sql, Android, Html5, Eclipse, jquery, Jsp, Linux, Flash, Front end, Outlook, Scheduling, Maintenance, budget, Estimating Additional Information Skills    CSS (4 years), Front- End (4 years), FRONT END DESIGN (3 years), HTML (4 years), Photoshop (4 years)    SKILLS    HTML (9 years), CSS (9 years), Javascript (4 years), Linux (9 years), jQuery (5 years)    SUMMARY & SKILLS  An experienced front- end developer with 9 years experience, seeking a career shift from freelance to a  full-time position.  - Responsible and capable of meeting tight deadlines  - Extremely organized with a strong set of technical, practical and interpersonal skills  - Adept at learning new languages and software quickly    Software:  Photoshop CC, Flash CC, Illustrator CC, Premiere CC, FCP, Encore, Lightroom, Dreamweaver  CC, After Effects CC, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Studio, Sublime Text, Eclipse, PHP Storm, Web  Storm, Axure and SharePoint Designer    Programming:  Kornshell, HTML5, XML, Python, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, JSP, and PHP    Platform:  SharePoint, Oracle iStore, Drupal, Magento, Joomla, Wordpress, Shopify, Github, Android, and  BigCommerce