Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Los Angeles, CA To obtain a position as a web developer with a company offering advancement  opportunities and career growth. Work Experience Web Developer Werner Publishing - Los Angeles, CA July 2012 to June 2015 Rresponsible for all development related aspects of Werner  Publishing family of websites. Responsible for websites improvements, marketing  launches and technology projects. Mapping existing processes to identify areas for improvement, managing the project scopes, creating technical specifications,  server administration, and designing usable web sites and web site layouts,  navigation, and content elements. Front End Web Developer ActiveGroup, Inc - Atlanta, GA May 2012 to October 2012 ild reusable code and libraries for future use, develop and style web templates for company specific applications, ensuring that templates are optimized for maximum speed and scalability, compatibility of design and functionality across a  wide range of browsers and mobile devices. Technical Support Specialist TekSystems - Evanston, IL October 2004 to April 2005 TekSystems/Northwestern University - Configure and deploy workstations and laptops for clients, ensure network connectivity, install and test hardware/software and server administration, such as adding/removing users and configuring groups and login scripts. - Recommend and implement solutions to general  software/hardware problems encountered by clients and provide troubleshooting  assistance for the Microsoft Office suite and other desktop productivity  applications.    Computer Support Technician Freelance Freelance - Chicago, IL March 2001 to October 2004 Workstation Installation: Image Windows XP operating systems and US Bank  specific applications to Dell desktops and laptops for immediate Help Desk Support Specialist Wildman, Harrold, Allen - Chicago, IL 2002 to 2004 Chicago, IL  And Dixon, LLP  - Desktop Support: Provide phone and on-site technical support to small and medium-sized business to resolve hardware, desktop application and printer  issues. (Various Clients, Chicago, 2002-2004) -Help Desk Administrator:  Troubleshoot, research, diagnose, document, and resolve technical issues  surrounding Windows NT, MS Office, e-mail, Internet connections, printing and hardware. Under contract to the legal firm of Wildman, Harrold, Allen and Dixon. Support Specialist Zevnik, Horton, Guibord - Chicago, IL March 2000 to March 2001 Zevnik, Horton,  Guibord, McGovern, Palmer and Fognani, L.L.P - Responsible for resolution of desktop and server issues by way of phone, desktop support, remote  troubleshooting and server administration. - Ensure network and Internet  connectivity, nightly tape backups, ordering equipment and imaging operating  systems on workstations. Support Specialist Digital Staffing - Chicago, IL 2001 to 2001 Education Bachelor's in Business Administration North Central College Naperville - Naperville, IL Skills PHP, Javascript, Wordpress