Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Chicago, IL Flexible multi-media developer with generous years of experience in user interface design, user experience design, and responsive web development. I have a natural born drive to deliver exemplary customer satisfaction and a real determination to succeed. I'd love to be apart of your team! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Americaneagle.com - Chicago, IL 2018 to Present Creates new web apps with Angular/React, manages Angular templates/components, updates Vue view logic, creates MVC components in CS, creates and compiles SASS modules, creates vanilla JavaScript and jQuery based widgets and web functionality, creates and manages client side APIs and web services, ensures pixel perfect UX/UI design replication for both mobile and desktop    ? Issue resolution via JIRA, Trello, & Confluence  ? Daily source control management via Git & VS TFS  ? Sass/ES5/ES6 compilation via Gulp, Node.js, and Webpack  ? Local web builds via Node.js & IIS  ? CMS module, template, & resource package creation Full Stack Developer In The Swim - West Chicago, IL 2017 to 2018 Managed e-commerce product stores. Modified search and cart functionality and implemented product filtering capabilities. Created graphics for new sales and promos. Re-designed landing pages, created variant  data packages for product layouts, optimized page load times, and improved user functionality.    ? Wrote and developed new landing pages in PHP  ? Maintained and altered existing legacy PHP code  ? Created and maintained XML templates within ASP.Net e-commerce platform  ? Created and maintained CSHTML landing pages within ASP.Net e-commerce platform  ? Implemented new search and filtering functionality with JavaScript and jQuery  ? Created and launched A/B tests via Optimizely to improve conversion rate  ? Optimized web page load time and mobile responsiveness Front End Developer Helping Hands Saving Lives - New Orleans, LA 2015 to 2017 Created graphics for new fundraisers and events. Designed, wrote, and maintained custom HTML, CSS, and PHP coding for establishment website. Modernized website code and imagery.    ? Wrote email forwarding handlers for contact form data in PHP  ? Designed user experience and interface in agreement with brand aesthetic  ? Implemented e-commerce transaction and donation system Front End Developer Big Ed's BBQ - Waukegan, IL 2013 to 2015 Managed and secured SSL certified e-commerce product store via proprietary Liquid code language. Created graphics for new content/events and maintained brand aesthetic across social media platforms. Designed, wrote, and maintained custom HTML, CSS, and PHP coding for establishment website. Modernized website code and imagery every year.    ? Researched customer base browsing style and developed user interface and site personality  ? Wrote email forwarding handlers for contact form data in PHP  ? Created brand aesthetic across Social Media Platforms  ? Implemented calendar functionality for live in house events Education Bachelor's in Telecommunication Ball State University - Muncie, IN 2009 to 2013 Skills HTML5 (6 years), jQuery (5 years), Javascript (5 years), CSS3 (6 years), CSHTML (3 years), SASS (3 years), Angular (3 years), Vue.js (1 year), UI, Bootstrap, Node, User Interface, Front End, React, Front-End Links http://www.github.com/matthewlgage