Front End//UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>//UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End//UI Developer - The Home Depot • Over 6 years of experience in the IT industry working with Web Based Applications and UI applications in various domains like Financial, Life Insurance and Health Care.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process with expertise in Planning, Reviewing Specification, Documentation, Scheduling, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of applications.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Flash and Hybrid Web Development.  • Extensive experience in Cross-browser HTML5, CSS3 & JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers and mobile devices.  • Experience in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBCJMS, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts, Web Services, Java Script and HTML.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script, JQuery, Object Oriented Design, JSON, and XML.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.JS Node.js & Twitter Bootstrap.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like SAAS, Angular.JS/2/4, Backbone.JS, Knockout.JS, and Node.JS, Express.JS.  • Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES).  • Working experience with Responsive Web Design.  • Strong experience with JQuery, JQuery plugins (Validator, Drag and Drop, AutoComplete), AJAX, Dynamic HTML (DHTML) and JSON.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Hands on Experience developing SOAP and REST web services in Java using JERSEY and APACHE CXF.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Having good administration experience in maintaining Atlassian products like JIRA, Confluence, Fisheye, Bamboo, Crowd etc  • Experienced working in both AGILE and Waterfall based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's.  • Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level and possess excellent presentation, interpersonal skills with a strong desire to achieve specified goals. Work Experience Front End//UI Developer The Home Depot - Austin, TX January 2018 to Present Austin, TX Jan 2018 - Present  The Home Depot is an American Home Improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction product, and services.  Role: Front End//UI Developer  Responsibilities:  • Contribution Front End Transformation (FET): physical redesign of Front End across mainline, service desk, pro, and garden that includes new self-checkout hardware and more self-checkout machines  • SCO Refresh: replace legacy SCO lanes with new hardware solution (outside of the FET stores) to be completed by end of FY2018.  • Worked on React JS for building encapsulated components, to pass rich data through app and keep state out of the DOM.  • For the data communication between various components used Input, output, directives and shared services.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS. Authored REST based Web API wrappers to integrate with conventional Web Services.  • Extensively used services to access data required for the UI components. Defined security policies and enforced HTTP and SOAP securities.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • worked on various face of testing Unit test, Snapshots tests for react components test, Automation end to end test. with Gherkin & Cucumber  • Designed and developed React.JS component required for the project.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Coded extensively using JavaScript, MVC Framework, and Angular.JS to make rich internet web application for a Single page app.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Contribution on working Thd Vault system connect with the new Self check out recycler.  • Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • The Vault Balancing System provides functionality to manage vault tasks. This includes issuing and balancing tills for register and self checkout, managing the bank deposit and balancing the vault.  • Developed enterprise-level JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, Restful-based web services,HTML, Angular JS ,Javascript and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  Environment: JQuery, Javascript, Node.js, React.js, bootstrap.js, Oracle, PL/ SQL, JDBC, coherence, Mongo DB, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), SERVLET, MAVEN, ITEXT, Jasper report. Front End/Web/UI Developer Capital One Financial Corporation - Rolling Meadows, IL May 2016 to December 2018 is a U.S - based bank holding company specializing in credit cards, home loans, auto loans, banking's, and savings products.  Role: Front End/Web/UI Developer  Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built. Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS. Authored REST based Web API wrappers to integrate with conventional Web Services.  • Coded extensively using JavaScript, MVC Framework, and Angular.JS to make rich internet web application for a Single page app.  • Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  • Utilized java, Eclipse/J2EE, Tested programing code& Applications, Collaborated with team and management.  • Prepared unit test cases and reviewing test result. Designed and Developed front end using JSP and JSTL.  • Created &maintained a centralized repository of UI components, participated in usability testing & research.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive Web design and media queries.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Light box plugins using JQUERY.  • Involved in building Single Page Application (SPA) using MVC Angular JS framework and Angular UI.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular JS framework.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Redesigned pages to improve application design and UI to attract the customers by taking inputs from senior management.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Worked extensively on two-way, one-way data binding, built-in components and developed single page applications using Angular JS. Used Bootstrap responsive's CSS to adjust to phones, tablets and desktops.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used Dojo Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front- end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY,Angular JS, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JSON, XML, AJAX Controls, Data Visualization, Adobe Flash CS3, SVN, Github, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver. Java UI/Web Developer GalaxE Solutions - Somerset, NJ February 2015 to April 2016 Somerset, NJ Feb 2015 - Apr 2016  GalaxE Solutions is a full service consulting firm focused on delivery excellence in the area of IT solutions across multiple technologies. GalaxE Solutions is an industry leader in designing and deploying systems that enable agile business processes to allow clients to transact and share information across internal networks and the Internet, targeting business results, competitiveness, and efficiency. I was involved in a project to develop a customer service representative tool for different clients with particular variances set up to them to access a website through which clients can access their users data and provide them optimistic solutions.  Role: Java UI/Web Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on design and development of UX, UI, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX. Worked on Angular JS and also on JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 in the front end development.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Worked closely with back- end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience. Created various interactive plugins, widgets or design UI/UX.  • Developed Angular-JS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models and used Httpservice for rest service invocation. Design User Interface for the project using HTML5, CSS3 and Flash.  • Used JQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Worked with Node.js JavaScript library with a REST full JSON interface. Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions.  • Used JSON objects effectively for efficient client side coding.  • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  • Involved in development/conversion of numerous existing UI screens to Angular JS for the Admin and Task UI modules.  • Contributed as key resource of the "Angular JS Framework Team" in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular JS based UI.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers like IE Firefox, Chrome, and Opera for cross-browser implementation.  • Followed agile methodology and iteration planning. Creating framework for ATDD test automation practices  • Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Designed and Implement the GUI changes using Swing Panels, JSP components and JSF.  • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  • Successfully configured & managed the Internet Information Server (IIS) which handles the project.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.  • Configured Git and maven plugins in Jenkins server.  • Documented design solutions and implemented according to the design.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, MS Office and SVN, Web Services, YUI and SQL Server 2008. UI Front End Developer Giftcertificates.com, NE April 2014 to January 2015 Apr 2014 - Jan 2015  GiftCertificates.com provides comprehensive incentive solutions for organizations who want to reward their employees and customers. They wanted to enhance their website to attract customers both individual as well as corporate clients.  Role: UI Front End Developer  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed high quality POC's by using JavaScript, backbone JS, Knockout JS, JQuery HTML and CSS.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library. Implemented Restful web services API using HTTP and REST principles.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules. Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Currently participating in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, DHTML, EXT JS, Backbone.js, Node.js, knockout.js, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, XML, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Oracle, Windows. UI Developer Cigna Health-Care Insurance, PA November 2012 to March 2014 Nov 2012 - Mar 2014  CIGNA - Connecticut General Life Insurance Company is one of the largest healthcare providers in the United States, providing managed medical, dental care products, group indemnity health insurance and related services  Role: UI Developer  Responsibilities:  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards. Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, PHP, APACHE, MAC OS, ECLIPSE, SVN. Education Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application AMCOST College - Vidyanagar, GUJARAT, IN 2008 to May 2011 Saradar Patel University Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, NODE.JS, JSON Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JQuery, SASS, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON,  JavaScript Librarie ExtJS 3.0/1.0, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js/2/4, React.js  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBean, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle,  Webstrom, Tatastrom, Sublime text.  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite)  Wire Frame Tools (wire frame) Adobe Illustrator CS3  Debugging Tools Firebug, BugZilla,explorer,FileZilla  Database PL/SQL (Oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS