UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - IBM Piscataway, NJ Work Experience UI Developer IBM - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved designing an application using HTML, JS, SASS, React JS, Redux, Node JS and Java services. And also involved in automation testing using selenium web driver.  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance.  • Worked with Product Owners, Business analysts and UX teams for the functionality, requirements.  • Develop the web pages by following mocks to meet the functionality requirements..  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Using Redux for the state Mangaement.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented reusable React components and functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed Navigation bar, menu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  • Used Redux to manage the whole state developed the well-designed store, actions and reducers.  • Implemented React router for building the single page application.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Implemented React container and presentational components.  • writing unit tests for React Components, Module Reducers, Module Actions and maintain code coverage.  • Writing the Automation testing scripts using selenium webdriver.  • Trnsforming the Automation from selenium to Jest and puppeteer.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Providing code review and code merging support to ensure that only quality code was accepted creating a stable code base.  • Worked with QA team to test and validate the functionality of the application.  • Support End to End testing of the application.  • Provide developer support during product releases through maintenance and bug repairs..  • Participating in all phase of SDLC, Agile and SCRUM.  • Used CA Rally to track and maintain user stories, bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with the team to create useful and innovative tools and solutions to increase efficiency and performance from development to production.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, React JS, Redux, ES6, Node, webpack, Lodash, Mocha, Chai, Selenium, Jest, IntelliJ, GitHub, CA Rally, Agile Methodology, CRS, and Jenkins. Front End Developer Sabre carporation, South - Lake, TX, US August 2017 to July 2018 Sabre Hospitality solutions (Synxis):  Sabre Hospitality Solutions provides distribution, operations and marketing solutions to the hotel industry. Delivered primarily through a Software as a Service (SaaS) model. Its integrated reservations systems, property management system, distribution and marketing services help hotels increase revenues, identify savings, and improve customer service. Additionally, It includes hotel operations management through the Sabre Property Management System, a Web-based system for hotels to manage inventory and reservations, guest profiles, staffing, back office and payment system integration.  Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular2/4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Worked in an Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS).  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Designed the page using Bootstrap and some custom CSS.  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular.  • Created Angular Services for passing data.  • Designed and implemented State Management using NgRx.  • Implemented dynamic pagination to reduced work load on the Server.  • Used Angular Animations to improve user's experience.  • Implemented Directives for different DOMs manipulation.  • Designed Pipes for Data manipulations and language translations  • Worked on unit testing for the Angular application using karma.  • Called the Restful web service calls for ajax methods.  • Developed CSS3 to style page layouts, navigation and page-loading spinner.  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Collaborated with the front- end design team and back- end team and started converting the static files with the dynamic content with the data is retrieved from the database by the API calls.  • Assisted in production support and troubleshooting.  • Supported front- end development and data visualizations for UI improvements.  Environment: Angular2/4, SQL server 2012, IIS 7, HTML, CSS3, Mecurial, Web API, JSON, Web API, Karma. UI Developer NIKE - Memphis, TN January 2017 to July 2017 NALC Quality Audit Project:  The North American Logistic Center(NALC) is a largest distribution center of Nike which distributes footwear, equipment, and apparel from one facility. Developing a website to monitor the quality of their products by using web technologies. This is mostly used by auditors to scan the products from different departments and monitor their Quality.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Single Page Applications (SPA) using React and Redux.  • Developed reusable components using React JS, HTML, and SASS.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Involved in building reusable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed Redux reducers using Immutability helpers.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library. Worked on React.JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components.  • Designed Dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation. Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using JS, jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Worked on connecting React components with Redux store.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using a React library.  • Used Redux Thunk middleware.  • Used React Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Oracle for the application on devices.  • Worked retrieving data from backend using JSON API.  • Used ECMAScript (ES6), JSX, and Types with React JS in component development.  • Used Jest to test React components.  • Developed visually appealing designs focused on usability and SEO/ Web Standards.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using bootstrap breakpoints and media queries.  • Assured front- end code compatibility and responsiveness with multiple browsers.  • Experience with React JS and Redux design patterns.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard and performed unit testing throughout the application.  • Used JIRA to track and maintain tasks and issues.  • Used GIT to update Bitbucket repository and participated in code reviews  • Followed Agile methodology and scrum meetings.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, React JS, Redux, ES6, Node, webpack, Lodash, Mocha, Chai, Selenium, Jest, IntelliJ, GitHub, CA Rally, Agile Methodology, CRS, and Jenkins. UI Developer eviCore Healthcare, TN October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed static and dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Involved in Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the web application.  • Involved in various SDLC phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Use Bootstrap for creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Handled all the Client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, jQuery and XML.  • Created extensive single page application by using Angular two-way data binding in connecting client side, directives and filters for the user interface MVC architecture.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used AngularJS directives, factories, and services for developing single page web applications.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and JSON.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Designed Dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using JS, jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Used NPM and Gulp as task runner and Git for version control. Used Atlassian tools BitBucket,Confluence. Used JIRA tool for project management and bug tracking.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Designed, added, and maintained new database tables for new functions in database.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS, Gulp, Node.js, Maven, ES6, Atlassian Tools, Jira, Mongodb, AWS. Front- End Developer Axis Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed static and dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, AJAX. AngularJS.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML, XHTML, CSS3 and bootstrap and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Experience following an initial base markup based on annotated wireframes.  • Developed the Responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Worked through Cross browser compatibility issues with layout and by using CSS.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing JavaScript code for form validation and functionality.  • Experience in API or service integration. Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Experience working in a Scrum-based team/model, to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Participate and contribute throughout the entire Development process (analysis, design, unit test, system test, deployment, production support)  • Work closely with the Back- end development team to produce best-in-class applications and customer experiences.  • Used SQL Server database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Involved in Unit testing and integration testing. Worked with the QA team to track, communicate and effectively fix all bugs that have been raised during testing.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, DOM, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Apache Tomcat , SQL and Agile methodology. Education Bachelors in Mechanical Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Skills React, Front-End, Front End, UI, Javascript Additional Information Professional Skills:  • 7+ years of experience in Designing and Development of User Interfaces for Web & Enterprise based Applications using various Web development Technologies.  • Extensive experience developing applications using ReactJS, Redux, Angular2/4, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, SASS, bootstrap, unit testing and automation testing.  • Much familiar with Git and strong knowledge on Testing applications using Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Selenium, Jest and Tracking tools CA Rally and JIRA.  • Experience in managing all aspects of the software development life cycle (SDLC), from initial capture of requirements through development, testing, delivery and enhancements.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library. Worked on React.JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components.  • Designed Dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation. Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using JS, jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Developed Redux reducers using Immutability helpers. Worked on connecting React components with Redux store. Used Redux Thunk middleware to communicate with server and client and for actions.  • Extensive experience with Angular MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters working with animations, routing and states  • Implemented React container and presentational components. Wrote unit tests for React Components, Module Reducers, Module Actions and maintain code coverage.  • Worked as UX designer experience using Adobe Photoshop.  • Good knowledge on Search Engine Optimization (SEO)techniques.  • Performed test-driven development TDD in web development.  • Hands on experience in working with source control tools like GIT.  • Proficient in using Unit testing along with Jasmine, Karma, Mocha test runners.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked with Product Owners, Business analysts and UX teams for the functionality and business requirements.  • Possess extensive experience in analyzing the Business Requirements, Functional Specifications, and Technical Specifications.  • Practiced organization wide iterative agile development process.  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  • Result oriented, punctual, can work well under pressure, communicate effectively and interact supportively within a team.  • Good communication skills with good presentation skills.    Technical Skills  • React JS, Redux, Angular2/4, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, SASS, AJAX, JSON, bootstrap, ES5, ES6, Node.  • Lodash, Git, Rally, Jira, webpack, node, Unit testing and automation using Selenium and Jest.  • Adobe experience manager, Webstorm, Intellij, Agile Methodology.