Graphic and Web Designer Graphic and Web Designer Freelance Creative Services Ashland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic and Web Designer Bright Earth Foods - Ashland, OR November 2013 to Present Primary responsibilities include:  • Managing all label files.  • Packaging and label design.  • Communicating with private label customers.  • Helping facilitate in-house design projects.  • Creating web and print graphics.  • Designing email newsletters.  • Managing product pages for online store.  • Managing organic certification documents and processes.  • Ensuring Compliance for FDA, USDA, and FTC food and cosmetic labeling guidelines.  • General tech support for software and hardware.  • Work with others in the organization to develop creative solutions to help make the company more efficient. Volunteer Front End Web Developer Southern Oregon Repertory Singers 2018 to 2019 PHP During this volunteer position, I was responsible for creating and maintaining web pag- Food Labeling Compliance es, updating concert information, and working with other members on a project to sell  Digital Asset Management digital copies of concert albums using CD-Baby.com.  Graphic Design (Print / Web)    facebook.com/kboekhoff1  Contact Me  @kevin_boekhoff Email: boekhoffk@gmail.com  Phone: (971) 237-4350  linkedin.com/in/kevin-boekhoff  Mornings and Evenings are usually the best to contact me.  @Kevin_Boekhoff Find more online at kevinboekhoff.com Freelance Creative Services Bigcommerce January 2016 to January 2018 Shopify Graphic / Web Design and Web Development  Mailchimp Working with local businesses on a variety of projects including food packaging  Wordpress design, medicinal labeling compliance, and web design projects primarily on Email Marketing Design Wordpress and Squarespace.  Search Engine Optimization  HTML Education BS in Emerging Media and Digital Arts Southern Oregon University - Ashland, OR 2018 to 2020 High School Diploma Sheridan High School - Sheridan, OR 2007 to 2011 Links http://www.kevinboekhoff.com