Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer & Graphic Designer Los Angeles, CA My name is Ryan Pivovar, and I’m a web developer, designer, and musician based in Los Angeles. I have been a developer and designer professionally for 5 years.    In my spare time, I work on several projects primarily in React. My current focus has been working with a CSS-in-JS package called styled-components, and implementing project-wide testing with Jest and Enzyme.    These projects include a productivity app for building stronger relationships with team members, and a card game called Congress: the Card Game that aims to educate people on our elected officials through gamification.     Hello!    My name is Ryan Pivovar, and I’m a web developer, designer, and musician based in Los Angeles.    I currently work as a contractor at CreativEngine, a web development agency based in Los Angeles. CreativEngine is the most popular vendor used by senators and congresspeople in the United States Congress. Our in-house technology stack includes the use of Node, React, Angular, MySQL, MSSQL, MySQL Workbench, Azure Data Studio, JavaScript, PHP, ColdFusion, and CSS preprocessors Less and Sass. All sites at CreativEngine are tested in IE 10/11. We work with a Jenkins pipeline.    In my spare time, I work on several projects primarily in React. My current focus has been working with a CSS-in-JS package called styled-components, and implementing project-wide testing with Jest and Enzyme. These projects include a productivity app for building stronger relationships with team members, and a card game called Congress: the Card Game that aims to educate people on our elected officials.     I’m also currently working toward getting an AWS Cloud Practitioner Certification, and I’m moving toward the use of Drone (a similar tool to Jenkins) with Kubernetes as pipeline tools for my personal projects.    I look forward to hearing from you all!    Thanks,    Ryan Pivovar  ryanpivovar@gmail.com  (915) 494-3508    www.pivovar.site  github - github.com/rpivo  design portfolio - behance.net/rpivovar Work Experience Web Developer CreativEngine - Los Angeles, CA April 2019 to June 2019 CreativEngine is the most popular vendor used by senators and congresspeople in the United States Congress. We’ve built over 70 sites for Congress. My time there has consisted of working with a team building sites for the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Homeland Security. At CreativEngine, we have a custom-built CMS called Amend that is widely used in the Senate and the House. Our in-house technology stack includes the use of Node, React, Angular, MySQL, MSSQL, MySQL Workbench, Azure Data Studio, JavaScript, PHP (legacy), ColdFusion (legacy), and CSS preprocessors Less (legacy) and Sass. All sites at CreativEngine are tested in IE 10/11. We work with a Jenkins pipeline. Web Developer Hemper - Los Angeles, CA January 2017 to March 2019 Hemper is an eCommerce startup business focusing around a monthly box subscription of marijuana accessories. Hemper’s team consists of mostly designers. At Hemper, I facilitated front- end updates to a growing online store and, along with the company’s CTO, helped the business transition to more stable cloud services by practitioning AWS cloud services. This was especially useful during marketing campaigns when site usership could spike up to 500% or more. At Hemper, our technology stack included JavaScript, Node, React, Ruby, Liquid, Sass, and Amazon web services EC2, S3, and Cloudfront. Front End Developer Get Seen Media - Los Angeles, CA May 2014 to January 2017 Get Seen Media is a marketing consultancy agency that primarily builds tools for insurance companies to market to online users. This included building landing pages and aggregation tools that dynamically generated appropriate insurance companies for users based on their information. At this role, I worked heavily with form data and validation in both JavaScript and PHP, and developed a lot of design and UI material.   Education Bachelor's in Composition University of North Texas - Dallas, TX May 2007 to March 2012 Minor in Computer Science University of North Texas - Denton, TX May 2007 to March 2012 Skills Node.js (3 years), React (3 years), Angular (2 years), Front End Web (5 years), Full Stack Web (4 years), Back End Web (4 years), Content Management Systems (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), Joomla (3 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), SQL (5 years), PHP (3 years), Jekyll (4 years), Static Site Generators (4 years), Version Control Systems (5 years), Git (5 years), Graphic Design (5 years), Web Development (5 years), Illustrator (5 years), Photoshop (4 years), Indesign (2 years), Sketch (5 years), Cinema 4D (3 years), After Effects (2 years), Management (2 years), Progressive Web Apps (4 years), Print & Display Design (4 years), Motion Graphics (2 years), UI/UX Design (5 years), CSS Animations (5 years), SVG Animations (4 years), Responsive Design (5 years), SEO (4 years), Google Analytics (4 years), Google Search Console (4 years), Google Tag Manager (3 years), SEMRush (2 years), Google Tag Assistant (4 years), jQuery (5 years), MySQL (5 years), CSS (5 years), MSSQL (3 years), Vue (3 years), Shopify (2 years), Coldfusion (2 years), GraphQL (2 years), Gatsby.js (2 years), Jest (2 years), Enzyme (2 years), Styled-Components (1 year), Sass (2 years), Less (2 years), Front End, HTML5, HTML, Angularjs Links https://pivovar.site https://github.com/rpivo https://stackoverflow.com/users/7386637/rpivovar https://www.behance.net/rpivovar https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-pivovar-b5620078/