Sr. Business Systems Analyst Sr. Business Systems Analyst Sr. Business Systems Analyst - Meijer Grand Rapids, MI • Extensive knowledge in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methods like Agile-Scrum, Waterfall, Spiral, Waterfall-Scrum and good understanding on Extreme Programming (XP) & KANBAN.  • Specialization in developing and executing IT and business strategies for Lean manufacturing, Value chain streamlining, SKU Rationalization, Demand Forecasting and supply chain optimization processes like Just in Time(JIT), warehouse-slotting, route planning and Vendor management system, Supplier Management System, Order Management System, Inventory Management System and Customer Relationship Management.  • Understanding of E-commerce process and extensive knowledge on B2C, B2B business models.  • Expertise in performing GAP Analysis (AS-IS and TO-BE), Cost Benefit Analysis, Feasibility study, Risk Analysis, Root Cause Analysis, SWOT Analysis and Impact Analysis for planning and execution of business decisions.  • Experience in eliciting Business Requirements using Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions, Interviews, Focus Groups, Document Analysis, Brainstorming, Requirement Workshops, and Survey/Questionnaire.  • Proficient in preparing wide range of documents including such as Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD), Systems Requirements Specification (SRS), Use case Specification, Configuration document, Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) & RACI matrix.  • Assisted Scrum Master in facilitating scrum events like Backlog grooming, Sprint Planning Meeting, Daily Scrum, Sprint Demo and Review Meeting and Sprint Retrospective Meeting to improve team's performance.  • Assisted Project Manager and Product Owner to plan, schedule, track and improve team's efficiency by creating Work Breakdown Structure, Critical path Analysis, End to End Task and Milestones List using MS Project.  • Expertise in creating Unifies Modelling Language(UML) diagrams like Use Cases, Activity, Sequence , Data flow and ERD diagram using MS Visio and worked on both High Fidelity and Low Fidelity Mockup Screens and wireframes.  • Skilled in working with different web services such as RESTful Web Services and SOAP Web Services  • Understanding of web service concepts like HTML, CSS, JS, WSDL, SOAP, REST, JSON under various architectures like Three-Tier Architecture, N-tier Architecture and Service Orient Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in API Testing to check if the API's interact correctly with the data as defined in the API documentation.  • Assisted the team in implementing Salesforce platform on different clouds like Sales, Service, Marketing, Commerce and Chatter. Administered and helped developers in customizing the user management, workflows, validation rules, page layouts, profiles, roles, sharing rules, reports, communities and case management.  • Understanding of Data warehousing and ETL process. Strong knowledge of Databases, Data Table Structures, Data marts, Data Analysis, Data Integration, Data Modelling, Data Mapping, Data Migration, Data Extraction, Data Transformation, Data Loading, OLAP operations like drill down, roll up, slicing and dicing.  • Skilled at designing and implementing SQL queries using joins (inner joins, outer joins), unions, select within select, order by, group by and aggregate functions to extract data from different data sources.  • Thorough understanding of Business Intelligence (BI) and experience in creating interactive, analytical and operational dashboards for data Analysis and generating data reports as per Business requirements.  • Worked in Test-Driven Development, Acceptance-Test-Driven Development and Behavior-Driven Development environments, where I have developed feature files in given-when-then format (Gherkins format) using Cucumber  • Assisted the QA team to design Test plans and Test Cases for User Acceptance Testing, Black-box Testing, Functional Testing, various System Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Security Testing, Load/Stress Testing, and Performance Testing in both manual and automation testing environment and creation of Test plans, Test cases and Test scenarios for validating it against business requirements document.  • Experienced in defect tracking, defect analysis & ability to organize, document & track changes using JIRA.    Skills and Tools:  SDLC Methodologies Agile-Scrum, Scrum-Waterfall, Waterfall, XP, Spiral and Kanban. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Business Systems Analyst Meijer - Grand Rapids, MI October 2018 to Present The scope of the project was to move on-premises ERP system of a retailer to cloud platform using Amazon web services and enhance features in extended warehouse management system and RFID integrations to provide real time insights for warehouse monitoring and have a unified communication with vendors, suppliers and transportation systems.  Responsibilities:  • Interviewed Subject Matter Experts and performed extensive Document Reviews to develop a thorough understanding of business processes & analyzed the supply chain to aid Business Process Improvements.  • Participated in SAP Business Blueprinting- Creating Process Definition Document, User Requirements Specifications, Key Design Decision Description and GAP Analysis and Testing Strategy documents.  • Performed Document Analysis and created process flow diagrams to understand the AS-IS process and collaborated with the team to design the TO-BE process based on the gathered requirements.  • Participated in Scrum ceremonies, extensively used JIRA for converting requirements to User stories, assisted the Product Owner in writing acceptance criteria and framing Definition Of Done (DOD).  • Worked closely with the technical team to convert the functional requirements into technical specifications like Prototypes, Graphical User Interface (GUI) and User Interface (UI) mock-ups using Balsamiq and Lucid Chart.  • Created Use Case diagrams, Use Case Templates and process flow diagrams using Visio for both systems.  • Assisted Data modelling process by creating conceptual and logical ER diagrams to help development of an accurate Data Warehouse Structure to transfer data from legacy to new system.  • Extensively involved in mapping data from sources like POS, ERP (CSV, excel) to the target database (in HANA).  • Participated in data cleansing and construction for the facility and assisting with data verification.  • Performed CRUD operations on SQL using SELECT & JOIN for drill downs to pull data while being actively involved in reading data from varied file types, created standard and ad-hoc reports using SQL and SQL script to load data.  • Assisted the Architects in creating and configuring elastic load balancers (ELB) and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Acted as Point of Contact (POC) between technical teams and documented Networking design for VPC Peering projects and worked with Project managers and leads for guidance on AWS Virtualization.  • Performed API Testing using Postman tool to check if the API's interact correctly with the data in JSON, XML format using REST standards, defined them in the API documentation prepared using SWAGGER tool.  • Assisted creation of Test Cases, Test Plans, Test Scenarios using HP ALM and Requirements Traceability Matrix.  • Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and actively participated and facilitated testing of the system during Smoke Testing, Integration Testing, Black Box Testing and Regression Testing with the help of QA and documented the defects in the Jira.  Environment: Scrum, MS Visio(v16.0), Amazon S3, JIRA(v7.4x), Confluence(v6.3.4), Web Services, SOA, REST, Balsamiq, MS Office Suite (MS word, MS Excel, PowerPoint), Informatica Power Center(v9.6), Postman(4.11.1), Swagger Sr. Business Systems Analyst Salesforce - Indianapolis, IN March 2017 to July 2018 Project was based on Salesforce Implementation for an Ecommerce application (B2B). Then to configure Salesforce clouds by creating groups with separate custom profiles and custom page layouts for various internal customers. Project was capitalized to improve the sales cycle by coordinating with the user groups by developing integrations as required by the business.  Responsibilities  • Engaged with the sales team to gather business and user requirements. Facilitated ongoing support requests and administrative needs of users.  • Worked on creating mock ups and wireframes for VisualForce pages, Home, App pages and Tabs using Balsamiq.  • Facilitated meetings with Salesforce Admin, Developers and Architect to determine the data that should be integrated into Salesforce platform and involved in CRM process like Design, development, planning, testing and integration of Salesforce Cloud services, data and accounts.  • Assisted in creating various supplier communities in salesforce in order to meet the business requirements.  • Developed reports, dashboards and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity using Tableau.  • Assisted developer in creating Email templates in HTML, Custom and Visualforce format. Also created Visualforce Pages to provide UI to the custom objects.  • Performed logical data modelling and created Entity Relationship (ER) diagrams and used SQL queries for manipulating data for integration of Salesforce and the legacy system.  • Created workflow rules, validation rules, approval processes and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Experience on translating business process into Custom Objects. Then creating Look-up relationships and Master-detail relationships for the custom objects to define dependencies.  • Configured Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created description for various Profiles, Roles and Page Layouts and assisted administrator in configuring the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements. Knowledge on using languages like HTML, DHTML, HTML5 in attaching page content like data, images and videos.  • Responsible for maintaining the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Exported Manual Test Cases from MS Excel template directly to HP ALM/Quality Center and facilitated in executing all the Test Cases in Quality Center with Pass/Fail/Blocked status.  • Creation of Change Management Tickets prior to the production release and tracking the tasks in a Project management application.  Environment: Salesforce.com: Commerce Cloud, Scrum, JIRA(v7.2.x), Confluence(v5.8.2), HP ALM/QC(v9.0), Balsamiq, Erwin, Informatica Power Center(v9.6), MS Office Suite(v14.0), Data Loader, MS Visio(v15.0), Tableau(v9.3). Business Systems Analyst Kroger - Charlotte, NC February 2016 to March 2017 The project capitalized the enhancement of an ecommerce website with salesforce service to manage their customer records, sales, support and service processes for providing appropriate business needs. The new capabilities aimed at assisting retailers in delivering more connected and personalized shopping experiences across consumers' marketing, commerce and customer service.  Responsibilities:  • Performed AS-IS &TO-BE business process GAP analysis and created business process model and notation (BPMN).  • Created UML Diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Visio. Created mock-ups and wireframes using Balsamiq to visualize the formats for page display.  • Assisted in converting functional requirements to technical specifications for development and customization of user interface and interactions in Salesforce.com that used Visualforce, Apex controllers and Force.com IDE.  • Assisted in designing Visualforce pages and controllers for distribution enhancement.  • Assisted developers in creating custom objects, triggers, and workflows to manage information on products, orders, returns by creating use-cases using Visio.  • Created workflows to work with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Assisted in creating multiple Lightning Components and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better and Enabled Aura Framework.  • Involved in migrating data from Oracle to Salesforce.com and maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by conducting Data Profiling activities such as Data Clean-Up and Data-Scrubbing to improve Data-Quality.  • Constructed SQL queries like inner joins, outer joins, unions and group by to fetch the data from in-house databases Data Loader Utility and Informatica on Demand.  • Reviewed and helped testers in creating Test cases and Test Scenarios and make sure testing was performed properly and documented the negative/positive test results by using HP ALM.  • Performed API Testing to check if the API's interact correctly with the data in JSON, XML format as defined in the API documentation prepared using Postman tool.  • Created various Reports and Dashboards to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce cloud as a Sales and Service Cloud. Actively participated in Post Production Validation (PPV) and handled issues appropriately.  • Assisted in designing and building custom applications using Force.com and Visualforce.com.  • Closely monitored testing team in UI testing using Selenium, facilitated UAT Sessions and documented the defects  Environment: Scrum, Salesforce.com: Sales, service & marketing cloud, JIRA(v7.2.x), Confluence(v5.5.2), Postman, Power Designer, MS Office Suite, Microsoft Visio(v15.0), Balsamiq, Informatica Power Center(v9.6), MS SQL Server, Data Loader, HP ALM/QC(v11), Tableau(v8.3). Business Analyst One97 Communications - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2015 to December 2015 The project involved building an Order Management System (OMS) for ecommerce application to seamlessly integrate order, inventory and delivery in featuring Purchase and provide an Omni-channel experience to customers. This OMS tracks the order from the point of order to the final delivery to customers, hence increasing the visibility across the enterprise.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing customer 'AS IS' business process and mapping 'TO BE' business processes.  • Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD) from the elicitated requirements and helped the Product Owner and Development Team in making User Stories by using Three C's and make stories to meet INVEST criteria.  • Created use case diagram, data flow diagram, activity diagram showing the workflows using MS-Visio.  • Developed mock-ups and wireframes along with the screen designs to make better UI designs.  • Designed and implemented basic SQL queries for Report / Data Validation.  • Assisted Data modelling process by creating conceptual and logical ER diagrams for a Data Warehouse Structure.  • Actively involved in the Testing functionality of Purchase Requisitions, Shopping Carts and Purchase Orders in DEV/ QA instances before Migrating to UAT and Prod Instances.  • Working with Integration Testing Lead to developing Testing scenarios, Integration Cycle Testing and Interface Testing for SD/MM/FI (Sales Order and Delivery & Goods Issue).  • Managed the testing process of the application with the client and vendor resources. Documenting positive and negative test scripts/cases, tracking & managing resolution issues, executing test scripts and documenting results.  • Used HP Quality Center for Test Estimation, Test Planning, Test Designing, Test Analysis, Test Execution, Defect Tracking and Test Result. Performed SQL validation to verify the data extracts and record counts in the database.  Environment: Scrum-Waterfall Hybrid, ASAP Methodology, SAP systems: Sales and Distributions, HP ALM(v11.5), Load Runner(v11.5), Database SQL testing, Sharepoint(2013) Jr. Business Analyst/QA Axis Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2013 to January 2015 Front End)  The project scope was to provide online banking facility to its customers. The project aimed at building software that would facilitate viewing of multiple account balances, statements, pending transactions and cancelled transactions, tracking deposits, transfer of funds between accounts, transfer history and maintenance of customer profile.    Responsibilities:  • Documented the Functional and Technical Specifications requirements based on the business flow.  • Created wireframes and mock-up screens utilizing Balsamiq and got them validated by stakeholders.  • Developed UML Diagrams for modeling static and dynamic aspects of Online Banking System.  • Created Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) using HP QC tool.  • Participated in various Scrum ceremonies like Sprint Planning Meeting, Daily Stand-up Meeting, Sprint Review, Meeting, Sprint Retrospective Meeting, and Backlog Grooming and achieved towards a release goal.  • Extensively used JIRA to record and maintain the artifacts like Product backlogs, Sprint backlog and user stories.  • Impediments list, tasks, defects, and issue tracking using in JIRA issue tracking tool.  • Worked on cross-browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers, missing images and broken links.  • Contributed to the HTML and CSS codes to make changes in the layout with positioning of images and sections.  • Upgraded the code to switch from HTML to HTML5 to make it work on the updated technologies.  • Used Firebug and Chrome developer tools to view and debug HTML, CSS and JavaScript errors.  • Used Trello as a team collaboration and project management tool, and toggle for tracking time spent on tasks.  Environment: Scrum-Waterfall hybrid, JIRA, Trello, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Git, JavaScript, jQuery, Windows, Manual Testing, Quality Center, MSSQL, MS Visio, MS Office (Word, Excel) Front End Web Developer MakeMyTrip Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to June 2013 The scope of the project was to improve an online computer reservation system. The website served as a point for selling and booking tickets for chain of hotels and buses.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on multi-disciplinary team to implement Web design style guidelines and specifications.  • Performed cross-browser, cross-platform and accessibility testing prior to each deploy, maximizing site usability for all audiences and device types (for Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox)  • Responsible to enhance the User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side using JQuery validations.  • Used Bootstrap framework created a well responsive website that can fit different devices.  • Using jQuery and JavaScript to create user interface and form validation.  • Optimized images for web page display, and feature item slides using Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls through jQuery method.  • Suggested innovative solutions to business problems, performance improvements and better user experiences.  • Assignment included developing software designs from requirements using MS Visio.  • Perform unit testing of code using Visual studio, including manipulation of data for analysis of system requirements.  • Execute all the test case and report defects, define severity and priority for each defect.  • Carry out regression testing every time when changes are made to the code to fix defects.  • Was Responsible for creating UML diagrams like use case, activity diagrams.  • Contribute to performance and load testing procedures and issue remediation  Environment: Waterfall, Manual Testing, Quality Center, Load runner, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Git, JavaScript, jQuery, Windows, MS Visio, MS Office (Word, Excel), Sharepoint Education Bachelor's of Engineering in Instrumentation Technology DayanandaSagar College of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Amazon web services, C#, Javascript, Json, Ms project Links http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ifDiM32AUrc&feature=youtu.be