Multimedia Architect Multimedia Architect Multimedia Architect Aldan, PA Work Experience Multimedia Architect Swing City Recording Enterprises - Clifton Heights, PA 2017 to 2018 Directed and Produced Company Documentary.  § Catalogued Music & Corporate Video files.  § Trained and manage video production teams.  § Built current Web Portal using HTML5 & CSS3 on a WordPress Platform.  § Designed and developed email & social media marketing campaigns using Benchmark & Constant Contact.  § Generated & presented reports to senior management and department directors.  § Presented analytics on the success, strengths and weaknesses of a various campaigns.  § Daily content and social media updates to various platforms. Multimedia Engineer American Law Institute - Philadelphia, PA 2016 to 2017 Storyboard, shoot and edit video law programs to be used as continued educational learning.  § Write, Produce and edit eLearning continuing education on Demand Videos for attorneys.  § Produce video content using robotics camera(s) and the Tricaster 40 & 800.  § Produced Social Media Marketing Materials, tracked SMM Campaigns  § Stream, monitor, record and troubleshoot live legal conferences around the country.  § Monitor and editor legal audio conferences using audition software.  § Upload edited content for on demand services. Multimedia Architect/Content Editor NL Vaden, LLC - Aston, PA 2012 to 2016 Trainer in a variety of technologies to include; Adobe CC, Video Editing, Product Photography, SEO and Analytics.  § Write, Direct, Produce and Edit eLearning content for various clients.  § Social Media Marketing Campaign Director/Marketer  § Produce/Director HD videos for micro-website clients.  § Adobe Connect Meeting Manager  § Create and edit content for B2B client campaigns.  § Produced/Directed and edited Green Screen Microsite videos.  § Technical Director/Assistant Producer of weekly TV Show.  § Design & Develop websites using WordPress Senior Front End Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA 2011 to 2012 Serve as a Front End Developer for the FAS Web Portal migration.  § UI/UX Development of Teamsite work flow  § Provide support for FAS using Teamsite and Team track, and daily updates using CMS workflow.  § Trainer for FAS updates on Portal Project. Senior Front End Developer DuPont - Wilmington, DE 2010 to 2011 Designed and administered dynamic web pages/sites using Interwoven Team Site database.  § Managed Google analytics; tracking strategies, intelligence alerts, refinement reports, custom dashboards.  § Omniture Site Catalyst; analytics tracking and code placement for external DuPont websites. Senior Webmaster IBM - Philadelphia, PA 2008 to 2010 Designed and administered interactive websites using ECM database in 36 different languages.  § Produced and edited video for web marketing and in-house training. Education Audio Engineering American Law Institute - Philadelphia, PA 2016 Delaware County Community College - Media, PA 2013 Database Design Bucks County Community College - Newtown, PA 2007 Wharton School of Business - Philadelphia, PA 2002 Skills MARKETING (8 years), HTML5 (1 year), TEAMSITE (1 year), WORDPRESS (5 years), ENGINEER (1 year), Video Production, Premiere Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    § P ROJECT M ANAGEMENT - Identifies and assess opportunities, schedules the project in logical steps and budgets  time required to meet deadlines. Consistently recognized for completing projects on time and within budget.  § T ECHNOLOGY T RAINER - Identifies and assess opportunities, schedules the project in logical steps and budgets  time required to meet deadlines. Consistently recognized for completing projects on time and within budget.  § E FFECTIVE C OMMUNICATION S KILLS - Excellent interpersonal/communication skills. Interacted with all  levels from executives and administration personnel to customers and staff, covering all ends of the spectrum.  § K EEN SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY - Solid professional standards; excellent track record of dependability.  Maintain focus on achieving results while implementing business solutions to meet a diversity of needs.  § I NNOVATIVE C REATIVITY - Consistently employ technological solutions to increase efficiency while using time  productively to track progress and meet goals.  § C LIENT R ELATIONSHIP M ANAGEMENT - Consistently demonstrate responsiveness, strong customer focus,  and ability to build good customer relationships.  § C OMPUTER S KILLS - Knowledgeable of computer programs to include Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe Connect,  Premier Pro, JavaScript, PHP, Teamsite, E-Commerce Solutions, WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, Search Engine  Optimization, eLearning Design and Development, SEM, W3C, HTML5 and Google Analytics, Social Media  Marketing Master.  § T ELEVISION P RODUCER/DIRECTOR - Knowledgeable of all phases of Television Production to include;  Program Rundown development, Directing, Technical Directing (TD), Character Generator (CG) Director, Floor  Manager, Audio Engineer, Camera Operator, Editor, Still Photography.  § V IDEO P RODUCTION/EDITING - Pre-Production storyboarding, Production Lighting, audio, full HD camera  operation Post production color correction, Tricaster, Adobe Premiere, After Effects, Audition, Media Encoder.