Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Jetblack Piscataway, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Jetblack - New York, NY December 2018 to Present Improved and expanded a scalable system of catalog tooling for a rapidly growing startup  ? SME and technical owner of algolia based search solution to surface the items from rapidly growing  catalog.  ? Aided in building and improving a tool to maintain an endless catalog of items using react js, redux js, and node js.  ? Built and integrated a feature-toggle solution using datastore, react, redux, and node js.  ? Brainstormed and engineered various features to cut down the cost of serving our customers by providing faster technical solution for slower man power. Senior Applications Developer/ Front end SME UnitedHealth Group - Basking Ridge, NJ January 2018 to December 2018 Senior Web Developer/Technical Lead January 2017 to December 2017 Technology Development Program Sr. Associate Financial Integration Service Layer January 2016 to December 2016 Designed and developed various end to end Applications: Financial Integration Service Layer  ? Developed REST APIs to serve a web application using mule ESB and mySQL backend.  ? Developed RESTful services using quick start Java/Spring project which streamed file data to be stored  as objects in MongoDB.  ? Integrated CI/CD practices in the applications using Jenkins.  ? Worked on a file streaming solution using Java APIs and Mule ESB.  ? Involved in scheduled/rotational on-call DevOps approach for over 60 finance related production  service owned by the team.  ? Worked with cross applications teams to ensure delivery of a major financial service involving  company's billing revenue management system.  ? Redesigned existing applications' modules to ensure reusability ensuring best practices.  ? Developed and owned an internal dashboard using react + redux for checking services status and environment connectivity for QAs and Cross Apps.    Led and developed various front- end Applications: Mobile Center of Excellence  ? Created and owned a react + redux quick start application for the enterprise and published/maintained  it on internal repository.  ? Modernized UnitedHealth's UI development by creating a library of various reusable react components  which can be used throughout the enterprise.  ? Led the team in developing a survey web application with thousands of concurrent users, utilized public  AWS Cloud for hosting and addition architecture.  ? Developed a conference web application using react + redux for internal usage and hosted on private  Openshift instance along with Java/Spring services.  ? Assisted in the development of ICD code lookup web application also utilizing react + redux.  ? Worked with a team to convert a mobile/web app to Alexa skill during 24-hour company-wide  hackathon and won first place. Education Biology & Neuroscience, Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ September 2011 to December 2015 Skills Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Webpack, Jenkins, Json, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Xml, Mongodb, Java, Sass, Sql, Edi, Css, Estimation, React (4 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/mihirppatel Additional Information Skills/Interests  Javascript(React, Redux, Node), Java, Babel, Webpack, HTML, CSS, Sass, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, EDI, RESTful APIs, Git, Mule ESB,  Jenkins, Docker, MongoDB, SQL, RabbitMQ, Object Oriented Programming, AWS, Cost/Time Estimation, Aligned deployments,  Agile, Sprint Planning.  Interests include learning new technology, working on side projects, and travelling.