Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Las Vegas, NV To obtain a position that allows me the opportunity to use my web development knowledge to create end to end applications. Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Shear Builders, Inc - Apalachin, NY January 2016 to April 2019 Developed and maintained existing website and corresponding MySQL database for a construction company that built health & fitness centers in Brewster, Paramus and Pittsburgh. The application developed improved construction time by allowing the efficient organization and analyzation of company data. Corresponded with municipalities regarding inspections and approvals and maintained financial records. Front End Developer LifePlans - Waltham, MA April 2015 to November 2015 Created web-based applications in the Angular framework to handle previously hand-written healthcare forms. I was responsible for maintaining these forms as well as creating new editable forms online as was needed by the company, eliminating the need for a large variety of paper records. Front End Developer DealerRater - Waltham, MA December 2014 to March 2015 UI/UX Developer: Developed and maintained the existing DealerRater.com website. Key responsibilities included translating and re-designing .NET pages in Visual Studio, as well as improving the overall quality and reliability of the website's codebase. Web Developer Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - Boston, MA September 2013 to April 2014 Worked closely with the UI designer to redesign a responsive version of the Houghton Mifflin website, as well as maintenance of existing pages using the Foundation framework. Web Developer HID Global - Weston, MA February 2013 to August 2013 Worked closely with the designer to come up with a good look and feel for the HID Global site redesign. I was responsible for all HTML 5 and CSS development. Web Developer Fashionplaytes.com - Beverly, MA October 2012 to December 2012 Worked with a team of back- end developers to create an interactive clothing creation web application for the website. Web Developer Delta Dental - Wakefield, MA July 2012 to October 2012 Responsible for front- end development for the Delta Dental Rhode Island website, as well as its maintenance. Javascript Developer OnCam Global - Lowell, MA April 2012 to June 2012 Designed and developed the entire front- end of the OnCam Global web application which ties together cameras, switches and motion sensors. It is an intricate system capable of streaming live or recorded video through web service calls. For example, if a motion sensor is tripped, the web application pops up a notification window notifying the user of the sensor activation as well as providing the option to click a camera icon and watch a video stream of the sensor being tripped. Web Developer Building Engines - Waltham, MA February 2012 to April 2012 Contributed to the design and performed all front- end development for the redesign of the propertyhero.com website. First Advantage - Bedford, MA October 2011 to December 2011 Performed maintenance and bug fixes on a pre-existing bug tracking system in a .NET environment. Tank Design - Cambridge, MA July 2011 to August 2011 Developed and maintained various parts of the merrymaids.com website. One particular feature I contributed was the "Find a location near you" page utilizing the Google Maps API. TJX Companies, Inc - Westborough, MA February 2011 to July 2011 Developed and maintained about eight high traffic sites including tjmaxx.com, marshalls.com and homegoods.com. For this positions I worked on both the front- end as well as the back- end. Computer Sciences Corporation - Marlborough, MA October 2010 to December 2010 Performed all front end development for a site redesign. JackRabbit Designs - Boston, MA August 2010 to September 2010 Developed a redesign of the NECC (New England Cord Blood Bank) from scratch in a LAMP environment. I performed all tasks from cutting up the Photoshop documents to the final CSS.    Additional work experience available upon request. Skills .net, Application development, Html, Javascript, Php, Database, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Coldfusion, Css, Linux, jquery, Jsp, Rest, Mongodb, Photoshop, MS Office (10+ years), Dream (10+ years) Additional Information Skills:  Web and Application Development: Over 20 years experience in creating and implementing user friendly web interfaces with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular and Photoshop. Experience in creating applications in Javascript and web frameworks including Angular, and Foundation. Applications developed have been done both as a solo effort and part of a large collaborative team.  Database Management: Experience designing, maintaining and utilizing SQL Server, MySQL, MariahDB, MongoDB, and MS Access databases for various web related purposes.  Related Programming Languages: PHP, ASP, Coldfusion, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, REST, JSP, .NET.  Environments: Windows, Multiple Linux distributions, Mac/OS.