Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Web Developer Bronx, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer BOLDS Creative - New York, NY March 2015 to April 2017 Examined the core needs of client websites and assisted with updating existing content as well as implementing new landing pages, forms and 3rd party API integrations for monthly E-commerce launch campaigns. Evaluated immediate SEO improvements to boost overall site speed and traffic performance. Mastered using personalized software like Monetate to perform A/B testing scenarios of different visual marketing strategies to determine the best approach to engage new/returning users during monthly event launches. Front- End Engineer uSell.com - New York, NY August 2014 to March 2015 Exercised front- end development best practices to build enhanced web applications for the uSell marketplace website (desktop and mobile) using web technologies like HTML5, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, 3rd party API systems and much more. Followed coding standards, implemented integration test scenarios and assisted in defining the software architecture and schema with the engineering team. Tested usability features and conversion rates of the seller's checkout process system using A/B applications like Optimizely. Lead Front- End Web Developer/SEO Specialist Apogee Media - New York, NY October 2011 to August 2014 Configured clients health and wellness websites using various content management systems like Joomla, MyApogee (custom) and ActiveCollab. Implemented appealing web designs using most current web programming languages such as HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Responsive Media Queries, AJAX, etc Created and maintained database tables that interact with various health and wellness websites using MYSQL, PHP, etc.. Education B.S. in Informatics State University of New York at Buffalo - Buffalo - Buffalo, NY August 2006 to May 2010 BA in Communication SUNY Buffalo - Buffalo, NY August 2006 to May 2010 IT support to students and faculty Work Study Program- SUNY Buffalo 2009 to 2010 College Studies Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Photoshop (6 years), HTML 5, CSS3, Wordpress (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/elizabeth-graham-64552489 Certifications/Licenses Javascript Circuit May 2017 to Present JS Circuit via General Assembly Additional Information Buffalo University graduate offering a strong academic background in IT combined with excellent knowledge base in the field of communication.    Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues. Extensive knowledge of both front- end/back- end practices.    Quickly can learn and master new technologies; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies.    Technology Summary  Systems: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/2007/8.1, Mac OS  DB/Platforms: MYSQL, Word Press, Joomla, Shopify, Zendesk, Eclipse, Omniture  Languages: HTML5, CSS/LESS, PHP, JSTL, Javascript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Django, Mustache, Handlebars, Bootstrap, Regex  Applications: Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Navicat, Fiddler, Prepros, Git, Github, Tortoise SVN, MySQL Workbench, Eclipse, SourceTree, BitBucket  Computer Experience