.Net Developer .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer - CVSHealth Florham Park, NJ • Have experience in diverse facets of .NET development, application development based on analysis, design, development, and execution of business applications.  • Experience in Client-Side Technologies and frameworks such as .Net and SQL Management Studio 2012.  • Extensive programming experience using ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle database, JavaScript, Angular 2.  • Experienced in ASP.Net MVC 5.0 which helps in implementing Model, View, Controller.  • Excellent communication skills with strong background working directly with team and clients to identify business objectives and establish requirements.  • Hands on experience in design using Object oriented Programming Principles like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Worked on Token Authentication for the Security Side Applications  • Experience in developing highly interactive web application using JAVASCRIPT, HTML 5, CSS, JSON , D3.JS, Angular JS 1.2/1.5 and Bootstrap, Angular Js.  • Ability to create web applications writing on HTML, CSS, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.  • Proficiency in building responsive and mobile optimized websites using Bootstrap.  • Proficient in Writing, Analytical Skills and Verbal Communication Skills.  • Worked with resources like AZURE Cosmos DB in Microsoft Azure along with ASP.net Technologies.  • Strong team builder having excellent analytical skills with capability to handle new technologies.  • Having experience in workflow frameworks and also micro- services  • Solid skills for Management such as Communication & Time with good team skills for improving the intention to work in fast paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .Net Developer CVSHealth - Florham Park, NJ December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and deploy multiple components and Version Control, Dynamic Content, A/B Testing, Categories, Tags, and Search etc.  • Designing and defining the structure and architecture of API, and using business logic based on interactions with stakeholders and product owners and working on functioning of UI  • Designed a Web application using Web API with AngularJS/Angular2.  • Worked on Microsoft Technologies for the project such as Visual Studio 2017/15, .NET framework , C# 4.7.2, Sql Server 2017/16.  • Design and implementing components using ASP.NET (C#) and JavaScript, using latest industry standards and best practices.  • Used Bootstrap styles extensively to get the right styling for the Web Pages.  • Working on creating Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#.  • Involved in developing user manuals and help documents.  • Proficient knowledge and working experience with Angular 2, C#.Net and Microsoft SQL Server.  • Includes development of new applications, testing and supporting various platforms.  • Problem solving in troubleshooting skills along with documentation.  • Involved in code writing with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON,XML.  • Created templates and bind different components with specific models using Angular JS/ Angular2.  • Using Sql Server 2017 database as back- end along with ADO.NET Entity Framework and Linq to access the database tables.  • Participated in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data.  • Communicate effectively with the scrum master, product owners and business stakeholders/ end clients and fellow team members to facilitate understanding of deliverables, prioritization, and required effort.  • Converting solution for each existing ASP.Net 1.1 / 2.0 application into ASP.Net web application using new Kindred Standard Common Library and .Net Framework 3.5 and SQL 2005.  • Developing the view models and controller actions method to fetch the data from the back end rest services and send it as Json objects to the views.  • Writing the Contract models, Domain models to consume the Rest Services and converters to map between contract models and domain models.  • Contribute to production deployments, including technical documentation, participation in change control processes, and creation of release notes. Full Stack .Net Developer Unilever - Englewood Cliffs, NJ November 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Testing of Web Form.  • Experience in creating web applications using Bootstrap, HTML5, React JS and CSS3 taking PSD to HTML directly.  • Developed Views and WebForms using MasterPages, Layouts,HTML helper and JQuery with engine using MVC3 model.  • Work experience on Tokenization as Asp.net tokens for providing the security for all types of clients  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2 andAJAXtechnologies for front end user input validations.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.  • Implemented technical use cases by designing and developing the appropriate web pages in Asp.NET using C# code behind.  • Involved in developing ASP.NET application using MVC 3 design pattern.  • Developed and Consumed XML Web Services (SOAP).  • Developed UI with JavaScript, JSON,Node JS,HTML5,jQuery UI and D3.JS.  • Implemented MVC design pattern for developing the Web Application and used MVC5 application using Razor syntax for view engine, also used C# for the back end.  • Designed, developed and implementation of services using SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used ADO.NET as a data source for accessing databases.  • Stored Information about queries, exchanges and bindings and distributed database.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Experience migrating from Microsoft SQL to MongoDB.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for reading/updating records in the database.  • Involved in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data and ensure system integrity and security Written LINQ functions for data access.  • Worked on Message Queue Tasksfor Bypassing and receiving messages, specifying and falling when time-outoccurs and overwriting the message.  • Experience in programming tasks-stored procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL Server with TSQL.  • Participated in periodic technical reviews of various modules and developed schema to improve them.  • Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), sub-version and GitHub.  • Actively participated in Scrum meetings of the project implemented in Agile project management methodology. .Net Developer CBS News - New York, NY January 2017 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting, analyzing and understanding the business requirements from the customers and business analysts.  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for analysis, design, development, documentation and testing of projects and deliverables.  • Implemented UI using ASP.NET, C#, .NET, MVC 4.0, HTML5, XML, D3.JS, JavaScript,React JS, Node JS, CSS3, Angular JS, Angular 2, AJAX, Bootstrap, Express and server controls.  • Experience in addingMulti-factor authenticationto Asp.NET and C#for prevention of fraud.  • Designed UI using the HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery 2.1.1, Knockout.Js, BootstrapTwitter- Type ahead  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  • The tech stack is AngularJS,Angular 2 Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used WPF of .NET for creating control templates and more appealing visual appearance.  • Developed code to validate the user credentials for authenticating user to access the WCF service.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for retrieving, querying, storage, and data manipulation for achieving continuous database connectivity.  • Customized Publishing pages with workflows in SharePoint 2010 Designer.  • Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  • Used and Worked on Mongo-DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Experience in Installing, Administering, and Optimizing MongoDB instances  • Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB.  • Created and maintained databases, tables, stored procedures, indexes, database check constraints, and business rules using T-SQL.  • Written simple to complex stored procedures using TSQL to retrieve the data from SQL Server database.  • Developed extensive Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, also developed classes for connecting to the SQL Server Database.  • Handled the SQL Server data tables to the WSS custom list. Synchronized SQL data with the respective List items on the SharePoint 2010 server for daily updates.  • Used MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing for building applications.  • Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation.  • Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and effective high-quality software development. Front End Developer Extranet Software Solutions - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh January 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow- ups.  • Developed user interface usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS and Bootstrap and Azure.  • Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, jQuery to perform client-side validation  • Developed middle layer using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  • Created and used User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the Database programming.  • Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  • Used forms based Authentication and role based Authorization for security.  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, and ASP.NET MVC pattern are used to develop the UI screens.    • Involved in designing database, creating tables, writing complex queries and writing Stored Procedures using SQL 2008.  • Used SSRS to generate reports and integrated with asp.NET web page using report viewer.  • Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis reported by Help Desk  • Tested the application as per the test cases and business logic using unit test and fixed the bugs.  • Followed Agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Analysis services, C# Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    .NET Technologies ASP.NET, .NET CORE,ADO.NET, VB.NET, Ajax, Web Services, Silverlight, WPF.  Web Technologies ASP, VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular Js, Windows Azure, CSS.  Programming Languages C#.NET, Visual Basic.NET, C, C++, Java, PL/SQL  Database SQL Server SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)  Database MS-SQL Server 2016/2014, Oracle 11g, MySQL, MongoDB, TSQL  Development Tools MS Visual Studio.NET 2017/2015/2013,2012, 2010/2008, Microsoft office suite  Web Servers I Microsoft IIS (5.0/6.0, 7.0, 7.5), Windows Server OS 2008/2012.