Website Designer Website Designer Greenville, SC Highly self motivated and goal-oriented professional committed to pursuing a long-term career. Demonstrates strong analytical and problem solving skills, computer proficiency, and ability to follow through with projects from inception to completion. Work Experience Website Designer Jackson Marketing - Greenville, SC 2014 to 2015 • Conceptualized and designed client web sites and content, logos and banners with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Updated and maintained multiple websites.  • Flash Development of navigation and front- end movies.  • HTML, XHTML & CSS coding and image editing.  • Mid level use of ASP, DHTML, and JavaScript. Technical Project Manager/ Front End Design and Development - Greenville, SC 2012 to 2013 Oversee the planning, implementation, and tracking of specific short-term projects.  • Develop and design applications from inception to completion.  • Conceptualized and designed application and content, logos and banners with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search optimization.  • HTML & CSS coding and image editing Graphic Designer/ Developer Bridged Design - Herndon, VA 2012 to 2013 • Develop and design websites from inception to completion.  • Created print collateral, Proposal Graphics, and customized and manipulated digital images. Front End Developer and Graphic Designer Glytec, LLC - Greenville, SC 2012 to 2012 • Conceptualized and designed client web site and content and logos with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Develop and design a medical application operated by nurses to determine the amount of insulin to administer a patient based on the time and current blood glucose level.  • Updated and maintained website and applications.  • Created print collateral, designed logo identities, developed banner ads, and customized and manipulated digital images.  • HTML, XHTML & CSS coding and image editing. Website Designer Website Pipeline - Greenville, SC 2007 to 2008 • Conceptualized and designed client web sites and content, logos and banners with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Updated and maintained multiple websites.  • Flash Development of navigation and front- end movies.  • HTML, XHTML & CSS coding and image editing.  • Mid level use of ASP, DHTML, and JavaScript. Field Technology Specialist RBC Liberty Insurance - Greenville, SC 2005 to 2007 • Overseeing and driving day-to-day website operations.  • Played key role in company's growth: Worked extensively with programmers, clients and marketing personnel to design and update secure company website, and instructed courses to train insurance agents to navigate new site and materials.  • Maintain Easy Aps. Application and iForms using VB.  • Assist insurance agents with software and hardware issues in the field and on site.  • Designed company presentation materials, such as brochures, newsletters, and PowerPoint presentations.  • Managed the photography and prints of insurance agent conferences and courses. Project Manager/Web Designer Motion Forward and Real Internet Sales - Columbia, SC 2004 to 2005 • Duties included meeting and corresponding with clients and determining client needs and develop project plan.  • Analyzing and communicating client's business requirements to ensure accurate and timely implementation and to ensure delivery of the ideal business solution.  • Designed a high volume of professional custom websites using HTML, CSS and search engine optimization on monthly deadlines.  • Client, project and staff management.  • Lead 6 person team. freelance Web/Graphic designer Greenville, SC 2004 to 2004 I've worked with clients to improve their web and print identities. In addition to my work with naming and branding, I have created print collateral, designed logo identities, developed banner ads, customized and manipulated digital images, and designed static web comps, parlaying them into working web sites. Work Study ITT Technical Institute - Greenville, SC 2003 to 2004 • Re-image and build lab computers quarterly set to specifications by course.  • Networked and troubleshot computers according to specific lab requirements.  • Add and replace hardware and software when needed. Education ASSOCIATES DEGREE IN SPECIALIZED TECHNOLOGY WEB AND GRAPHIC in MULTIMEDIA MANAGEMENT ITT Technical Institute - Greenville, SC 2003 to 2006 Skills CSS, Photoshop, Git, HTML 5 Additional Information • Proven ability to quickly learn and apply new technologies.  • Obtained Project Management skills that represent my commitment to personal and professional excellence and my excellent written and oral communication skills.  • Exceptionally well organized; strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve employer objectives.  • In-depth experience applying graphic design principles to produce innovative and tastefully created print documents and Web sites.  • Intrinsic creative talent and lifelong interest in offset printing; offer a keen eye for quality design and document layout.  • Certified in computer graphics and Web Design through an intensive 3-year classroom program.