UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Carlsbad, CA • 7+ years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements Analysis and Debugging, Applications Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Expertise in web and mobile/tablet UI development with experience in developing hybrid mobile applications using HTML5, JavaScript and other JS frameworks.  • Expertise in Client Scripting language and server side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript withEcmaScript5 and EcmaScript6, TypeScript, jQuery, Angular1.x,2, React, Redux, Backbone, Node.js.  • Experience with Gulp/Grunt task runner and combined with Node, Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries.  • Experienced in MEAN Stack development.  • Experienced in collaborating with Design team/UX team/ business steak-holder to understand and translate the requirement into web applications.  • Worked with JavaScript task runners to automate the development process. Used enhanced features of grunt.js and Gulp.js to implement browser Sync, dev and prod bundle generation, dev server etc.  • Experience in creating user interface widgets using jQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Rich experience with development using Angular 1.x extensive features for loading views in a Single Page Application, MVC structure for JavaScript files, data-binding using Angular JS directives and building custom directives.  • Expertise in React JS and working with Redux.  • Experience with Handlebars.js to build dynamic HTML templates, and Underscore.js to handle and manipulate data from backend with a RESTful JSON interface.  • Experience in developing kiosk app for Chrome OS using web development technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other JS frameworks.  • Expertise in writing vanilla JavaScript with ES5 and ES6 Features.  • Experience in the developing applications for different platforms like web browser, iOS, Android, and Chrome OS.  • Incorporated the require.js features to build modular structure of JavaScript for better code maintenance and smoother name-spacing of variables.  • Involved in web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design using flex box features of CSS3 and experience in using CSS Preprocessors like SASS, LESS.  • Worked with AGILE Methodology in recent projects and participated in SCRUM meetings as well in previous projects.  • Expertise in debugging skills using Safari Web Inspector, Chrome Developers Tool, and Firebug.  • Experience in using HighCharts, and D3.js Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven front- end.  • Expertise in loading dependencies using Load JS.  • Experience in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Chrome.  • Strong expertise in the iterative Agile and Scrum development methodologies for software development.  • Experience with Jasmine, Mocha, Chai and Karma for Unit Testing.  • Experience with TDD, BDD.  • Experience with Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to create Designs and Templates.  • Experience in creating user flows, wireframes, mockups and prototypes to improve the user experience in both website and web app  • Experience using JIRA for defect tracking.  • Excellent communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's and during the sprint meetings for Agile as well as Scrum development methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Thermo fisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA July 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time lines for the project.  • Developed highly interactive web applications using JavaScript, HTML, Handlebars, CSS, LESS, JSON, Angular JS, Express JS and Restful API's  • Designed the front- end using HTML to mark up for Webpages, and CSS to create style sheets.  • Maintained, enhanced and recommended solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI.  • Modified the UI screens created using HTML, handlebars, JSP, CSS and JavaScript.  • Collaborated with teammates and updated application versions using GIT and Git Hub.  • Developed Responsive Web designs using CSS media queries.  • Developed reusable components using Angular JS which can be incorporated into any major application on our website.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Firefox, Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Involved in Agile methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Our development is behavior driven and I was involved in writing Unit Test Cases using Karma-Jasmine, Mocha-Chai.  • Worked on calling the Restful Web Services using Angular $resource and $http.  • Created single page applications using Angular Routers.  • Extensively used CSS-preprocessors like LESS.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs using AJAX and JSON.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating angular JS with LESS CSS.  • Developed several smaller independent applications working in conjunction on our pages as opposed to having a monolithic application like we previously did.    Environment: HTML, CSS, LESS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, Express JS, Node JS, Handlebars, Karma-Jasmine, Mocha-Chai. MEAN STACK UI Developer U.S. Bank - Irvine, CA July 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • As a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications and managed in developing of Account landing page, Account summary/overview and Login page.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript, Angular1.x, Angular2 Node.js and jQuery, making use of Bootstrap framework. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Enhanced an existing Angular1.x application to Angular2 with Typescript which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance  • Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Created custom Components and Directives for re-usable components.  • Used Express JS and Node JS to for server side scripting.  • Created Angular2 Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectable across the whole system, such as to build the custom filter.  • Highly used Angular2 Router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular2 Components.  • Actively involved in coding and designing using C#, XML, ADO.NET, WCF, JavaScript, React JS, HTML, and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  • Used RxJS Observables to handle HTTP requests and Operators to transform the data.  • Used ReactiveX (RxJS) for subscribing to Observable streams containing data.  • Used RxJS Subjects to Pass and Listen to Data.  • Worked with LINQ as well as TDD and other agile methodologies.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  • Created unit test cases of Angular2 components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Extensively used Angular CLI to create custom Components, Directives and to run Unit tests.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Involved in creating custom components and library components for displaying data using react with Redux, EcmaScript6.  • Experience in working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Experienced in working with React life cycle methods and working with React States using Redux.  • Used React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used React.js for developing UI using sorting, pagination and rendering for searching the statements in the webpage.  • Used React-Redux thunk as middleware to handle asynchronous actions in the application and to make RESTapi calls.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Used CSS Grid system for the layout of Application.  • Developed web applications using Restful and SOAP protocols.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach to UI development.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React, Redux, Node.js, Highcharts, D3.js, Bootstrap, XML, Eclipse, GIT. Sr. MEAN Stack Developer LA USD - Los Angeles, CA January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript, Express, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MongoDB database.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript with ES5 and JQUERY.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Extensively used/modified jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Using Yeoman, Bower, Grunt, SASS, LESS to manage code architecture and scalability  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques. Developed call back functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Used Load JS to load dependencies asynchronously.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Implemented responsive web design (RWD) and mobile friendly design using Ionic framework; fully utilized its JavaScript UI library, including navigation, modal, slide box, scroll, action sheet and more and AngularJS.  • Involved in creating AJAX calls using AngularJS to handle data operations including ordering and filtering.  • Performed a lot of DOM operations for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Developed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using Bootstrap, JavaScript with ES5, and AngularJS.  • Managed advanced techniques for single page business solutions and front- end MVC patterns.  • Used CSS and Boot Strap to create RWD for different screen sizes and pixels.  • Used Behavioral Driven Development (BDD).  • Worked with Ecma Script6 features. Used Babel, webpack with ES 2015, React JS.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Mocha and Chai.  • Create guidelines and wireframes to help communicate product vision to key team members.  • Transform wireframes into pixel-perfect designs utilizing the Adobe Create Cloud suite.  • Turn designs into interactive prototypes with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and the Bootstrap framework.  • Implemented data visualization using Highcharts.  • Worked with the business analysts and back- end developers to gather requirements, improve application functionality, and add new features.  • Worked on JavaScript API WebGL for rendering interactive 2D and 3D graphics within compatible web browser without using plug-ins.  • Worked with java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage service (S3), Simple queue and Simple DB.  • Hosted and tested the application in AWS servers before publishing it in actual production environment.  • Ability to communicate effectively, both written and verbal, with technical and non-technical cross-functional teams.  • Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based environment.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML, MV* Framework, AngularJS, Node.js, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MongoDB, Tortoise SVN. Web UI Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, Vanilla JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components using Backbone.js.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS/LESS).  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed, developed, and implemented Single Page Application (SPA) by consuming JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the application.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Implemented Ext JS Data Grid, Charts, Forms, and Layout Manager Components.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts, fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle with Agile Methodologies.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSP, Web Services, jQuery, Java Script, Ext JS, AJAX, SVN, Oracle, Eclipse, Angular.js. Front End Web Developer Qualcomm India Pvt. Ltd December 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, and HTML.  • All the user interface layers, web pages are created and integrated to maintain the data flow and data integrity using ASP.Net user controls and Web Controls.  • Worked on ASP.NET client side state management (view state, cookies and query strings) and server side state management (application state, session state and profile properties) using C#.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  • Deep understanding of JavaScript(ES5) and the jQuery framework.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed Custom Tag Libraries for the use in web pages by using JSTL packages for the development of the Web Pages.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Worked extensively on Spring MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Enhanced and built reusable components across different modules using Custom directives and CSS classes.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache Tomcat, PHP, and MySQL.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, REDUX, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, SVN, XML, AJAX, DREAMWEAVER, IIS, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, ECLIPSE, JAVA, jQuery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Typescript Angular1,2, Backbone.js, React.js, Redux, Express, Node.js, Gulp.js, Grunt.js, RESTful Web service, High Charts, npm, bower.  Languages: C, C++, Java, C#  IDE& Tools: Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, JS Fiddle, Web Storm, Sublime,  Visual Studio, IntelliJ  Application Servers: IIS, WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat  Debugging Tools: Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, JIRA, Firebug, Bugzilla, IE Developer, Chrome Developer, Safari Developer  Databases: Oracle11g, SQL server, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, Linux  Version Controls: SVN, CVS, GIT