IT & Web Development Specialist IT &amp; Web Development Specialist Seeking opportunities that allow and encourage me to enhance my skills, creativity, knowledge and experience in various programming languages, tools and frameworks, enabling me to improve quality and productivity. Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT & Web Development Specialist Design Science - Philadelphia, PA November 2018 to Present - Services provided include Microsoft 365 admin, server admin, devops, Wordpress development, data management, communications support, networking and information security.  - Creating and maintaining various maintenance logs for accurate tracking of distributed hardware and inventory.  - Assisting staff with any IT requests including software and hardware, Windows and MacOS systems.  - Coordinate with directors and CEO to implement SEO and regulatory compliance policies on company devices and website.  - Work with design team to manage UI/UX implementation on company website. Web Developer Freelance - Philadelphia, PA February 2017 to November 2018 - Networking with clients, 3rd parties and other developers to ensure best possible solutions for site development.  - Implementing core security updates and database backups for Drupal.  - Creating and maintaining additional pages and features on the site as per client request.  - Testing for cross-browser support and device responsiveness. Web Developer American Bible Society - Philadelphia, PA June 2015 to October 2018 - Slicing designs from PSD and implementing UX/UI design patterns using standard practices in HTML5, CSS3, Sass, jQuery, JavaScript and Foundation.  - Building and maintaining mobile first blog platforms, sites and landing pages for clients using modern technologies and practices.  - Documenting core development processes and creating/maintaining web style guide.  - Back- end development using LAMP stack with ExpressionEngine CMS, Docker, Vagrant and AWS. Front- End Developer (Internship) Advertising Specialty Institute - Trevose, PA May 2015 to June 2016 Internship duties included front- end work on ESP, a cloud based platform built on Angular.js which hosts nearly 1 million promotional products for businesses and corporations. Underwent daily code reviews, training and learning various front- end industry standards. Technologies used: AngularJS, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, VisualStudio, Git Web Developer Freelance - Philadelphia, PA December 2014 to May 2015 Developing fully responsive landing page for client using Bootstrap and PHP.  - Maintaining clear and consistent communication with client to ensure satisfactory final product.  - Using SEO to help ensure client gets better search results.  - Testing code for cross-browser support and device responsiveness. Education Bachelor's in Liberal Arts Eastern University - Saint Davids, PA September 2008 to May 2011 Skills Wordpress, Javascript, PHP, Front End