UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - LogMeIn NJ • 8 years of experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML 4.01/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, BackboneJS, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and BackboneJS.  • Developed Responsive Web designs (RWD) using CSS3 Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Strong experience with JQuery, JQuery plugins (Validator, Drag and Drop, AutoComplete), AJAX, Dynamic HTML (DHTML) and JSON.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Proficient in TDD (Test Driven Development) by writing test cases using Jasmine, J-Unit Framework.  • Experienced in working with AngularJS MVC, MVVM (Data Binding), factory, service, $http, security.  • Experienced in working with NodeJS and npm modules like http, q, path, fs, mongodb, express and templating engines.  • Experienced using the task runner like grunt, karma test runner, server, watch and live reload.  • Experienced in using npm module bower for managing UI dependency.  • Expert debugging skills using browser developer tools like Firebug, Http Watch and Chrome developer tools.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP and XML.  • Experience working on software methodologies such as Agile/Scrum, Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in working MVC, MVVM and MV* Architectures.  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Involvement in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, WebStorm.  • Utilized the latest front end Technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3 for layouts.  • Experience on working with CSS2/3Background, Media Queries, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviours including the Box model.  • Web application development for backend using AngularJS 2.0, Node.JS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using core JQuery along with AJAX/JavaScript.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Client side technologies such as JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSL, Web Services etc.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Highly Curious about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions. Work Experience UI Developer LogMeIn - Jersey City, NJ July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Complete Front End using HTML, CSS, Angular 6, ADP custom Angular Synergy components.  • Created authentication using Microsoft Active Directory for angular and secured the routes.  • Worked with Microsoft Graph API to get the user details and email and auto populate fields.  • Performed Form validations for the Start Verification Page which included components like textbox, drop downs, multiselect search dropdowns, Date pickers and Radio Buttons  • Worked with custom ADP Synergy components which is similar to Angular Material and ADP VDL CSS framework which is similar to bootstrap to improve the UI and UX.  • Each and every input field was validated based on the requirement and used Custom Validators when Required.  • Created Modal to add Beneficial Owner and Individual Owner.  • Performed CRUD operations based on Beneficial and Individual Owners and Performed Validations on the Modal form.  • Developed a Save as Drafts Functionality which displays the user specific drafts and user can edit the draft and can update existing draft or submit the Form.  • Developed CRUD operations for the Drafts as well  • Created a check client Status search page which is used to search the status for the user based on the input.  • Solved Cross Browser Compatibility issues and made the application compatible across all the browsers.  • Mocked Up the JSON when the Backend API was not available and developed the Front End.  • Used concepts Reusable Components, ViewChild, Angular Services, Observables, @Input, @Output Decorators, Http Client, Pipes, Angular Router to achieve all the functionalities needed.  • Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives.  • Used Angular Routing to Navigate between Components, Navigating Pages. Implemented Lazy loading in the navigation of Components.  • Wrote unit tests for testing using Jasmine, Karma as a test runner and used Protractor for e2e testing.  • Developed save as a Drafts API by using Spring Boot. Used Hibernate, Swagger, Flyway and Oracle Database.  • Deployed the application on local tomcat server for testing.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Angular 6, Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Swagger, Flyway, OracleDB, Jasmine, Karma, Rxjs, GIT, Apache Tomcat. UI Developer Sabre Corporation - Southlake, TX July 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed responsive designs using HTML5 and CSS3 for hand held devices.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, DOM and JavaScript.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Designed data formatted web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS and deploy the script by client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Responsible for designing Front-side of the website like embedded graphics, and interactive documents using JavaScript, XML, HTML and CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js, D3.js and MySql.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash, Dream weaver, and Photoshop.  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone.js, Angular. Js, Node.js, Java, CSS and HTML.  • Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, Web server speed, Data Processing using D3.js, JQuery and MySql.  • Developed a modern web workflow using Grunt, Bower, Browserify as a part of my project.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Created dynamic HTML5 pages with JavaScript and CSS3 for their Intranet software product.  • Used JSON format to serialize and transmit structured data over network connection.  • Implemented and used web services with the help of WSDL, SOAP and REST to get updates from third parties.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Provided SQL scripts and PL/SQL stored procedures for querying the oracle database.  • Created and tested scripts using JQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE, etc.  • Developed consumer based applications using Python, Java Script, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Used Python Programming and language to develop a working and efficient network within the company.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Developed presentation and UI components using JSP, Struts Tag Library, AJAX, Java Beans, XML, HTML, CSS, Custom Tag and JavaScript.  • Implemented build scripts using ANT to create WAR and deploy in application server.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files & debugging and added unit tests to the code base using Jasmine.  • Designed various tables required for the project in MySQL database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Prepared Unit and System Testing Specification documents and performed Unit and System testing of the application.  • Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JSP, XHTML, DHTML, XML, DOM, Java Beans, JSON, Ajax, MySQL, Pl/SQL, Web Services, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Ember.js, D3.js, Grunt.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, Bootstrap, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows. UI Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Angular JS and Node JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller)  • Using Angular JS 2.0, we created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  • Creating UI controls using Typescript, CSS, HTML5, and Knockout JS.  • Made extensive use of promises in Angular JS for application control flow.  • Extensively worked on applications using JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Developed REST API applications using Angular JS and Spring MVC.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript.  • Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Designed and added custom UI Themes to the web page using SASS CSS pre-processor instead of inline- styles or Less.  • Responsible to manipulate any HTML5, CSS3 using Typescript to make the page have a dynamic outlook.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used GRUNT for setup a proxy for you redirecting XHR requests on your own system within the grunt connect server to another system  • Developed the client interface for back office bolster and worked cooperatively in Agile scrum group on the outline and improvement of use based MVC system utilizing Angular JS, HTML 5.0 and CSS3  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5 semantics new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design and CSS3 media queries.  • Coordinated team application of Test-driven-development (TDD) strategies to optimize system quality and to enable rapid refactoring and Agile Methodology.  • Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Provided inputs on making choices of JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js and Experience with client side templating like Handlebars.js.  • Using complex Object Oriented JavaScript concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked with GIT version control, vagrant environment using node.js, Gulp for compiling, and the JIRA ticketing system  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.    Environment: HTML 5, JavaScript, backbone.js, Python, Polymer, Typescript, D3JS, Node.js, Spring, Hibernate, knockout.js, SCRUM, TDD, Grunt, AJAX, CSS 2/3, JSON, JQuery, XML, Apache, Angular JS. Front End/UI Developer Rita's Water Ice - Philadelphia, PA March 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Enterprise subject matter expert for Content Management Communication with clients and business to ensure quality and troubleshoot user errors.  • Extensively used Debugging Cascading Style Sheets to change the styles now and in the future.  • Developed front- end web pages using JSP, Java Script and HTML, CSS3, JQuery, Angular.js and Ext.js.  • Creating interactive prototypes using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript front end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used Angular.js and Node.js framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with the Laravel PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  • Extensively used CSS3 media queries to support Responsive Design.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js, Require.js, Ext.js and JQuery UI.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Extensively used JQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Built a robust and secure CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM for few projects as per clients' needs and requirements where HTML, CSS, AJAX and JQUERY were extensively used.  • Designed UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to construct conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic WebPages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Created pages in Mockups and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the layouts.  • Developed a functionally rich User Interface like using JavaScript and CSS framework.  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Programmed various JQuery plugins such as Buttons, Calendar, Grid, List box, Tab Container, Accordion, Menu, Dialog boxes and Toolbars.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Angular.js, Require.js, backbone.js, Node.js, Ext.js, XML, W3C, JSON, DOM, DHTML, Photoshop, Flash, Dreamweaver, JSP and Windows. Web/UI Developer ETRADE Financial Corporation - New York, NY October 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Extensively used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML5 elements.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Involved in Writing jQuery based AJAX Requests.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, and JSON, Angular JS.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library.  • Developed the custom data grids upon JQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Used Bootstrap and Backbone.js in effective web design.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, XUL, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Dreamweaver, Chrome, CVS, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Front End Developer Aadi solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML, and CSS.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal portals.  • Developed front- end UI pages and necessary backend classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Implemented validations using JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to interact between JavaScript and HTML.  • Used JQuery plugins such as Date picker, Accordion, Tabs, Slider and Dialog.  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers.  • Involved in code generation, executing unit test cases.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Used SOAP UI for testing web services and verifying the request and response XML.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Worked on tools like Tortoise SVN and JIRA for bug tracking.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, SVN, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010. Web Developer Ecolab - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, and AngularJS, Ajax.  • Involved in developing responsive web pages using media queries and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for the all the client side UI validation and implementing the business logic based on user generated events.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS, and Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Developed AngularJS Filters in the view templates for the text manipulations.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed AngularJS modules to separate application views, controllers and models.  • Used firebug, chrome developer tools and IE developer toolbar for debugging JavaScript and code refactoring.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.  • Used CSS Image Sprites to reduce load time of web page by decreasing the number of images which requires less number of server requests.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Used GIT for version control.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, DOM and Bootstrap Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), Html (9 years), Html5 (8 years), Javascript (9 years), Json (9 years)