Full Stack Lead Web developer Full Stack Lead Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Lead Web developer - Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Mahwah, NJ Work Experience Full Stack Lead Web developer Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ February 2019 to Present Planed to migrate legacy applications to Single Page Applications using React, Angular and Redux pattern.    ? At Angular applications, Architecting for routes with lazy loaded module, core module for root and child.    ? Prepared for singleton service with core module and multi instance services for lazy loaded module.    ? Configured CORS(cross origin resource sharing) for approve origin headers at server side and put http headers at client side with angular http interceptor.    ? Wrote angular guard for authorizing about pages, menu and navigation.    ? Wrote reusable child components with push change detection strategy and immutable data.    ? Wrote angular test bed for unit testing with karma. Lead Web developer Cleary Gottlieb Steen Hamilton January 2018 to February 2019 Maintained, built various line of business applications ranging from small to medium. Most application are built by Angular, React, Redux and bootstrap UI applications.    ? Built application called "Cleary Loop" from scratch which is feedback system using angular 7 and ngrx(redux) pattern for better components communication and depends on single source of truth. And using module lazy loading, rsjx's subject and observable for direct commination between components.    ? Built asp.net core web API which is consume by angular web applications. Lead Front- End web developer Merrill Lynch January 2017 to January 2018 Maintained, enhanced real time trading CRM application suites which include various technologies. At front- end, it used angular 2/4 with webpack module loader, private npm registry for reusing modules and various backend technologies such as message bus, websocket, signal R, WCF, Web API and WPF at backend.    ? One trading tool is upgraded from Angular 1 to Angular 2. Started using singleton pub/sub service to communicate between angular 2 components. Websocket service was wrapped by observable with RSJX reactive programming.    ? Maintained Private Merrill npm repository, rewrite connection wrapper library such as SignalR Client, websocket, pubSub services and http client with customer headers.    ? Took care of memory leak by using profiler and used proper memory release of timer and observable.    ? Closely worked with UI/UX designers to build reusable components library, backend developers who built message bus, nodejs and various backend APIs.    ? Responsible for prototyping with newest front end technologies and tools such as Angular2, Babel, ES6, Typescript and WEBPACK to build products in various environments such as DEV, SIT, UAT and Production. Tried to improve performance by immutable objects with push change detection strategy.    ? Clean responsive design by using angular material layout, flexbox design. Some are created by ng-bootstrap with bootstrap layout.    ? Integrated with google chart API, d3, c3 to draw multiple charts, updated analytical data for real time. Net Developer Cleary Gottlieb Steen Hamilton January 2016 to December 2016 Enhanced application called "PeopleHub" which is about all employees in organization. This firm is international, so all codes must compliance with globalization, localization. I added feature called Temporary Office Transfer. This app is asp.net mvc 3 application.    ? Implemented App called "Arrivals" from scratch which is showing, managing tasks, and tasks status for person when they join to firm and leave firm. This app is integrated with active directory groups. This is single page application and built with angular and bootstrap at front end. Personalized by user who belongs to which active directory groups.    ? Built web API service which is broker between SharePoint and Open XML Office to create a report. When users select elements from SharePoint form, JavaScript grab information that user selection and passed information to WebAPI. And WebApi de serialized objects and passed those to Open XML Office. And then created word document report. Senior .net developer Bank of America January 2015 to January 2016 Build compliance application from scratch. Joined many sessions in architecture of application. I proposed and used WCF and Web API separated layers to increase performance and security. We can added server resources at both layers under load balancer.    ? Created entity classes by Entity Framework 6.3 for data access layer with code first approach;    ? Build WCF services and separated proxy project for clients to avoid source control complexity. ASP.NET MVC5 is main project template.    ? Implemented generate repository patterns along with unit of work. Used ASYNC methods for performance. Used Automapper tool for conversion of type in each layers.    ? I used Ninject as DI container to loosely couple of layers and archive for NUNIT testing. All services were covered with test case methods.    ? At UI side, I used Angular (1.3) and Kendo UI along with bootstrap. There were multiple single pages and handled by Asp.net MVC route as well angular routing module.    ? Created angular directives as building blocks and increase reusability and maintainability.    ? Used angular custom services across persisting data for controllers. For AJAX request, I used both $http service as well ng-resources.    ? I used bootstrap container and grid system for formatting layout and getting responsive design. Occasionally I used HTML5 attributes and CSS3 attributes to getting modernize UI. Sr. Software Engineer Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ June 2014 to December 2014 • Build Product Hub(PHUB) Portal from scratch. Home page had regional sales of Bank of Tokyo and showed who sold products and their details. Products page had details of product's information. At portfolio, user can choose criteria and multi select dropdown and save results information as portfolio name.  • Most of entity classes are directly one to one representation of table and used CRUD methods.  • Used Jquery DataTable plug-ins, wrote custom plug-ins and build custom modules with reveal module pattern javascript.  • Introduced jquery's deferred object and promise pattern.  • Integrated graphs to website using HighChart.js.  • Build a custom tool for mapping with excel columns and mssql tables. Read SQL's schema data; dynamically crated SQL tables from client. Used jQuery upload control at front- end and uploaded results to Database.  • For compatible with existing store procedures, I used dapper.net ORM for data access. I used ASP.NET MVC4 as main UI Technology. Senior .NET Web Developer Tranzact September 2013 to June 2014 • "Tranzact" is a solution provider for MetLife Insurance Company and Direct TV.  • I was responsible for maintaining MetLife enterprise projects. There were public facing web site and also agent facing intranet site  • At the backend project used Request Response pattern, MSMQ for reliable message and front end web project communicate with message Bus.  • Used Custom workflow manger to navigate through with business rules.  • Those projects used Castle Winsor as DI container. All Backend services classes, handler classes has respective test class and practice Test Driven Development (TDD).  • I used MVC4 as framework Web Project and outputs are HTML files. Used default, custom binding to get model. Used JQuery promise object to get ordered of synchronous calls and eliminated callback hell. Lead .NET Infrastructure developer New York University Medical Center November 2007 to May 2011 Build and maintained custom tool named "ADAPT Tool" using JavaScript, C#, ASP.NET, Active Directory, MS SQL DB and Oracle.  ? This custom tool is for automating a work flow. For example, when user join to organization, it can create user account at active directory, mail box at evenly distributed exchange servers using POWER SHELL and legacy COM component. When user get terminated, it can disable Active Directory user accounts and mailboxes, moved AD accounts to a disabled OU(Organizational Unit).  ? Implemented a process using window service to permenently delete AD Users, mailbox in exchange.  ? All operations were logged to database, files, window events log. So can easily recover AD objects from logs. Education M.S. in Computer Science The City College, City University of New York May 2007 B.S in Geology University of Yangon - Yangon, MM October 2000 to January 2003 Links https://github.com/ttacompu/starwar https://starwarcompu.herokuapp.com