Web System Engineer Web System Engineer Web System Engineer - Wells Fargo • 6 Years of Experience as a User Interface/ Front End Developer (UX) in developing web applications using HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, XHTML, XML, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, PHP, AngularJS, Angular5, React, Redux, NodeJS, TypeScript. Solid knowledge of DOM manipulation, CSS selectors and preprocessors (LESS, SASS) and experienced in CMS (Content Management Systems).  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as AngularJS.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile methodologies.  • Hands on experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome and checking cross browser compatibility.  • Have Experience in JavaScript (including AJAX, DOM manipulations, JSONP, event models etc.) and have experience on Angular2.0  • Deep understanding of React.js and its core principles.  • Expertise working on Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions along with experience in Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation  • Worked on RWD (Responsive Web Design) and implemented applications based on Angular.js  • Adept in designing UI patterns and applications with the help of Sublime Text, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and GIT.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Expertise in database development using SQL and PL/SQL creating tables, stored procedures, views, indexes and triggers.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Experience in Linux system administration, DevOps, AWS Cloud platform and its features.  • Experience in creating test suites using jasmine,Karma and worked on tools like NPM (Node Package Manager), Bower and Grunt.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Experience working with various Web and Enterprise Application servers like Apache TOMCAT, JBOSS, Web Logic and IBM Web Sphere.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Extensive knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Extensive experience working in Agile and Waterfall (SDLC Methodologies) environments.  Web Technology: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 6, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap  Designing Software: Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, MS office, Sublime Text Editor, Notepad++, Atom. Work Experience Web System Engineer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked in creating pop-up models form credit bridge onboarding and accounting using React JS.  • Implemented state-management using Redux-saga.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop Single Page Applications.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Worked in migrating Credit bridge business service rule integration from prime react to wfria (internal library).  • Implemented ESLint library throughout the project and cleared all the bugs & errors and implemented all the Proptype validations.  • Created global calculations across the application using single Redux store.  • Intensively worked with Git hub in creating, merging branches and followed the Airbnb style guide while writing code.  • Involved in designing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, React Js, Redux.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Responsive Design, DOM, Firebug, JSON, GitHub, Agile, Windows, jest, Enzyme. ReactJS Developer Charter Communication - Denver, CO December 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop Single Page Applications.  • Worked on React Native for implementing mobile interface.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Managed the state using Redux, created single source of truth i.e. Store to manage the whole application.  • Created global calculations across the application using single Redux store.  • Created unit tests using Enzyme, Mocha, Shallow.  • Involved in designing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, Polaris, React Js, Redux.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with Polaris that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Extensive utilization of Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, ReactJS, NodeJS, Responsive Design, DOM, Firebug, JSON, GitHub, Agile, Windows, Mocha, Chai. UI Developer State Street - Quincy, MA December 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing a responsive platform application and in migrating the application to a new platform.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP and making using of Bootstrap framework and testing the functionalities using JUnit.  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS.  • Web application development for backend using Angular JS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Also worked on Angular 5 to implement updates.  • Implemented concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS.  • Worked extensively on web 2.0 migration from Conventional Web Frame work to Ajax driven framework and extensively used jQuery, AJAX and MVC in Presentation Layer.  • Extensive use of Twitter Bootstrap framework to achieve RWD, i.e., make the portal compatible for various screen resolutions which are trending in the market today.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery.  • Extensive usage of BOOTSTRAP and LESS CSS for Responsive design.  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with existing styles and new CSS that was implemented.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers which includes IE6.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, Firebug, JSON, GitHub, Agile, Windows. Front End /Web Developer Spinlogics - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and develop Trust Verification Portal using latest technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Translated the user requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, and prototypes.  • Developed a single page application using JavaScript framework AngularJS. Designed and created Element and Attribute directives using AngularJS.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons, also involved in extensive HTML5.  • Developed the code using SASS framework, which in turn would generate plain CSS for the dynamic pages.  • Extensively worked on CSS Media queries, CSS Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements.  • Heavily used $http, $resource for making ajax calling to restful API and Services to communicate between the controllers.  • Used Custom directives for code reuse across the application.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM Manipulation.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used JavaScript Cookies concept to remember information about the user.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Used Agile SCRUM methodology and involved in all the business meetings and status update meetings as a part of SCRUM.  • Involved in writing Unit test cases for Angular JS using Jasmine and Karma.  • Communicated and was involved in testing with QA team which involved cross browser testing, loading and performance checking.  • Involved in Code review and bug fixing.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standard and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.    Environment: HTML5, SASS, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Testing, Quality Center, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse. Web Developer Blaze Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Implemented page designs in standard-complaint dynamic HTML and CSS.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using web development technologies like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed home page web application using HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, and AngularJS.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using framework like AngularJS.  • Developed and improved application using Bootstrap.  • Implemented client-side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Written stored procedures and triggers for improving the security, speed and efficiency of the website by using them in several situations like updating tables, adding new member, tracking of modifications database transactions etc.  • Worked with jQuery widgets to create more interactive web pages.  • Responsible in code optimizing and test across browsers.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and develop strategies.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Eclipse, JSON, Agile Methodology. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering in Science and Engineering Lamar University - Beaumont, TX May 2017 Technology Amrita University - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2012 Skills Cvs (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Eclipse. (2 years), Html (3 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Maven (Less than 1 year), Microsoft access (Less than 1 year), Ms access (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Sql server. (Less than 1 year), Subversion (Less than 1 year), Svn (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), version control (Less than 1 year), Windows 8 (Less than 1 year), Front-End