Sr. Web Developer Sr. Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Swiss Army Web Designer/ Developer Huntsville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Phacil, Inc - Huntsville, AL February 2017 to February 2019 Position required active CompTIA Security+ CE certification as a prerequisite to hire.     Graphic Designer/Web Designer >> Web Developer >> [Lead*] Web Developer    This position was filled to support a contract at Army ACC. Most work was done using Notepad and Sharepoint Designer.     I designed and assisted in the development of numerous JavaScript libraries and services for use across Sharepoint. Some of the code required a bit of reworking as we adapted pre-existing procedural code into manageable, safe namespaces. During the second year I kind of took more of a programming lead role, overseeing the complete redesign and redevelopment of dozens of existing sites as well as the creation of numerous others, utilizing and building upon the prior year's libraries.    “[Derrick] brought a skillset to our team that we didn’t even know we needed.”   –Tamara Olson, Program Manager, during speech a Quarterly Organizational All-Hands Meeting (October 2017)    This position was extremely challenging in that our toolsets were limited to Office 365 apps and native Windows applications (and Sharepoint Designer 2010+2013). I created several “white papers” for dissemination as training material for fellow developers and designers and worked diligently with many team members teaching one-on-one and group training sessions on programming methodologies, design patterns, and troubleshooting/debugging, among other tangential topics.    * I was never given the title of “Lead” though it was an ambient expectation and responsibility on my part to perform the role given my proactive disposition, broad knowledge, and expertise in my primary job area.     Awarded “Exemplary Service to the United States Army Contracting Command”, October 2017 Jr. Software Engineer Canvas, Inc August 2016 to September 2016 Part-time role, brought in to assist in catching up and working through backlogged tasks. Majority of tasks were OOPHP programming tasks and research tasks. Application was a fully custom built in-house CRM platform hosted in the Google Cloud. Other technologies/frameworks/tools utilized in this position include jQuery, CodeReview, JIRA, Scrum Standups, HTML/CSS, and custom JavaScript. Linux Debian environment. The application itself was a SaaS application responsible for maintaining and cataloging government contracts, time keeping and accounting, internal company information reference source, travel itineraries and scheduling, and employee management, among other miscellaneous uses. Web Applications Engineer AvKARE Inc November 2015 to July 2016 Researched various technologies applicable to company needs. Redeveloped the company's web presence and site (Symfony3 (PHP), AngularJS, MySQL, RestAPI), developed a real-time communication application with AngularJS and Socket.IO (MEAN Stack) featuring Drag-and-Drop file sharing and full emoji integration. Other technologies and tools regularly used include SCSS, Gulp, Browser-Sync, GIT/BitBucket, MongoDB, ExpressJS, SlickJS, Bootstrap, MomentJS, and various other JavaScript libraries. Development environment consisted of OS X development machines with Debian servers. Senior Front- End Developer IoStudio Nashville August 2015 to November 2015 8-Week Temporary Contract - In this position, I was responsible for numerous development tasks including JavaScript/jQuery, SCSS, PHP, Drupal, Symfony2 development, and integration of various tools and libraries. Actively participated in daily SCRUMs in a team-based environment organized through JIRA ticket queues and collaboration. The main project I worked on was for the U.S. Department of Commerce's veteran employment initiatives such as the Employer Roadmap utility. Also assisted in the support, development, and/or planning of other large projects such as a redesign of Virtual Job Scout and the National Guard website. Technologies/Tools used include JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Symfony2, Drupal, SASS/SCSS, Gulp (Automation), Capestrana (Deployment), SocialShareJS, Waypoints, GIT/Stash, JIRA, SourceTree, and Development/Staging/Production environment. The development environment consisted of OS X development machines with Linux servers, orchestrated by Gulp-based CI with Capistrano deployments Software Developer Dynetics Technical Services June 2015 to August 2015 Note: Federal custom application development position contracted to NASA via Marshall Space Flight Center Information Technology Services Contract (MITS).    3-Month Temporary Contract - This position is comprised primarily of software development to maintain, provide feature upgrades, and extend internal NASA.gov websites and affiliated resources. However, secondary responsibilities lie with the appraisal, documentation, migration, and/or retirement of dozens of softwares and web applications in use or previously used by NASA and affiliated entities. The software programming primarily consisted of PHP, HTML, and JavaScript with varying databases (depending on the application) of Oracle and MySQL. PHP Developer Image In A Box, LLC December 2014 to May 2015 6-Month Temporary Contract - At Image In A Box (IIAB), I used my skills in web development and design to take ideas and plans of small business owners and turn them into profitable, marketable online assets. Client projects consisted of custom-developed Wordpress themes and plugins (all PHP and JavaScript), eCommerce site development (WooCommerce), and site maintenance and updates. Projects were developed with the past and future in mind, built to be scalable, responsive, efficient, and search-engine friendly while tracking and recording all changes through GIT repositories. Technologies utilized include Slick.js, Node.js, Bower/Grunt, SASS/SCSS, PHP, MySQL, Apache (MAMP), Wordpress, GIT, Foundation.js, BitBucket, SourceTree, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, WooCommerce, Symfony2, CakePHP (briefly) and more. Consultation Agent Geek Squad July 2013 to December 2014 At Geek Squad, I put professional knowledge of computing devices and IT to work solving hundreds of clients' electronic device problems. Utilizing my education, experience, and technical intuition, I spent the majority of my time listening to customers and troubleshooting their devices. These steps, in turn, I used to determine the gravity of their issue(s), devise solution(s), and enact proper procedures to rectify the problem(s). I also assisted clients in proactive steps in securing their devices through best practices, system security software installations, and proper maintenance. I use Windows XP, 7, and 8/8.1 devices on a daily basis in addition to a myriad of Android platforms, iOS devices, OSX systems, and others. During my tenure at the Geek Squad, I've mostly remained in the top 10 most profitable and efficient agents in not only the district but the entire Geek Squad district. For the month of August 2014, I was the number 1 most profitable agent in the market (in Revenue/Hour). Owner/Web Developer Echotech Design Services May 2010 to May 2014 At Echotech Design Services, I offered web design, development, and marketing options to local businesses so as to enhance their online presence. I spent considerable time developing these options for clients, visiting clients to gather information and materials, and meeting with clients to share ideas to help materialize their vision. I produced all of EDS's marketing materials and campaigns and developed its website. Languages and technologies I used mainly consisted of PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS/3, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQueryUI and occasionally JSON, AJAX, Google Analytics, SEO, and SMM. All of the sites I have designed and developed with cross-browser compatibility (at the time of development) in mind: Internet Explorer7+, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Opera, and Safari. Webmaster/Web Developer Echotech Design Services September 2012 to January 2013 Field: Government Contracting    Note: Federal IT Support Position Contracted to DoD  At Systems Integration Solutions, I took my knowledge and expertise of web design and programming and put it to use maintaining, updating, and expanding a large web-based information network for the U.S. Department of Justice and U.S. Air Force using a variety of languages and technologies including: MS SQL Server, SQL, ColdFusion, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and Visual Studio. In addition, I was responsible for delivering customer support services to thousands of end-users and ensuring that the most up-to-date information was available to them through the portal. While at Systems Integration Solutions, I received a security clearance. In January of 2013, I was laid off from SIS due to government budget cuts. IT Technician Echotech Design Services October 2010 to March 2011 Field: IT Services Salary Range: Variable    At Huntsville Computer Services, I spent the majority of my time troubleshooting and resolving customer's technology issues including but not limited to: malware detection and removal, hardware installations, software installations, computer tune-ups, device cleaning, custom computer building, software troubleshooting and client education, field service calls for in-home solutions, network installations, operating system troubleshooting and installations, laptop hardware replacements and repair, laptop LCD replacements, and device repurposing. Web Developer/IT Technician Rackley Technologies, LLC July 2008 to October 2008 Field: Commercial Applications Salary Range: Very Low ($10-20k)    At Rackley Technologies, I spent the majority of my time designing and developing websites for clients as well as maintaining and updating sites for the company's existing customers. I also served as a part-time IT technician for the numerous field calls the company would get for network installations and network maintenance. Some of the technologies I used while with Rackley Technologies include: MS SQL Server, SQL, C#, ASP.Net, PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LotusNotes, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, and Visual Studio. Education None in (dual) Computer Science / Information Assurance (hiatus) Athens State University - Athens, AL January 2015 to May 2016 None in (dual) Computer Information Technology / Game Design & Development Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH January 2013 to January 2015 Associate in Information Technology / Web Design University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Huntsville, AL December 2010 to November 2012 Skills Web Development (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Git (4 years), HTML 5, jQuery, AngularJS 1.x (2 years), GulpJS (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Sharepoint (2 years), Atlassian Suite (4 years), Symfony (4 years), JetBrains Suite (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to February 2020