Sr.UI Developer Sr.UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.UI Developer - Staples Replenishment and Global Monitoring and Alerting Tool Looking forward to work in a team where my experience and knowledge will be an added driving force to win as a team and deliver the best product for the customers. Work Experience Sr.UI Developer Staples Replenishment and Global Monitoring and Alerting Tool - Framingham, MA January 2017 to Present Customer: Staples  Location: Framingham, MA  Role: Sr.UI Developer  Domain: E-Commerce  Duration: January 2017 - Present  Description:  Staples auto restocking is an e-commerce product where in a customer can select his products of choice and set up monthly frequencies for purchases through monthly subscriptions. In this application, user can enroll, modify and skip his subscriptions and these constitute the major features of the application.  Staples Replenishment is a web based front end application for automatically ordering ink cartridges for HP printers and it is developed based on Internet of Things (IoT).  Global monitoring and alerting tool - Provides and maintains monitoring and alerting solution for B2B(Contract) Order Management, Supply Chain and Payment for critical processes and functions.    Responsibilities:  • Proof of Concept discussions for new features / widgets to implement using Angular 6.  • UI screens were developed based on wireframes designed in responsive way.  • Data validations were implemented for critical functionalities using Angular 6 and JavaScript.  • Latest features involving Audio/Video support for webpages were accomplished using HTML5/CSS3.  • UI components involving event handling, closures are developed using TypeScript.  • Utilized various custom components created form validations and other interactive features across important modules.  • Advanced JavaScript features were used for global functionalities focusing on the reusability of the components developed.  • Updated node modules and package.json to upgrade the project from Angular 2 to Angular 6  • Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Experience in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Involved in the UAT Build, Configuration, Integration and Deployment of application activities and coordinating them from offshore team.  • Worked on Defects/Bug fixes as per Weekly Sprint Planning.  • Developed Omniture tagging frame work for analytics on multiple pages.  • Used SCSS Mixins and Partials to reduce the redundant CSS code.  • Visual Studio Code editor is used for developing UI modules.    Project: DELL Advantage  Customer: DELL  Location: Round Rock, TX Front end Developer March 2016 to January 2017 Description:  Dell Advantage is an application for large scale retail customers for bulk ordering of products and provide a better user experience with latest web development techniques.    Responsibilities:  • Played a key role in the analysis and design discussions for the development of File Upload module involving XML where the parsed data exchanges between different layers of the application.  • Strong working knowledge and experience in AngularJS 1.X development using data-binding, developed controllers, directives, filters and integrated with the backend-services.  • Extensive use of jQuery framework to complement with AngularJS 1.X as needed in the application.  • Color scheme of the website and layout design is maintained using HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries for form validation and other interactive features.  • Strong working knowledge in using Bootstrap CSS for responsive UI layouts.  • Employed popular design patterns such as MVC, Dependency Injection and Singleton in the course of development for the E-Commerce application.  • Worked on supporting the REST web-services and integrating with them for the data exchanges between front end and back end layers.  • Unit test cases were developed using Jasmine and Karma for all the services and controllers and performed Peer level testing and code reviews.  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Been involved and worked closely with the Tech team, BA, QA and the Customers in the story pointing sessions and the agile team meetings.  • Worked on Defects/Bug fixes.    Project: The Hartford Insurance  Customer: The Hartford Insurance Web Developer Windsor, CT July 2015 to March 2016 Description:  The Hartford Insurance web application is an improved version of existing web application which features adding new vehicle (multiple vehicles), customer profile updates and discount/coupons addition to the purchase as new enhanced modules for rich user experience.    Responsibilities:  • MVC features like controllers, routers in AngularJS and JavaScript were used for developing UI screens to Add vehicle, Edit vehicle modules.  • New directives for print options from different screens and date picker masking were implemented for addressing cross browser issues.  • Integrated Google places API for auto-completion of address fields.  • Log4javascript and log4js UI log utilities were used to override AngularJS 1.X default logs for personalization and other performance tracking details.  • UI screens were developed based on wireframes designed in responsive way.  • Twitter Bootstrap plugins and CSS3 media queries were used for better responsive development of the application.  • Data validations were implemented for critical functionalities using AngularJS 1.X and JavaScript.  • AJAX and dynamic HTML components for video playing and pdf generations were implemented.  • Supported back- end developers for implementing AJAX and dynamic HTML functionalities using jQuery.  • Supported integration of REST and SOAP web services with front end screens.  • Used GruntJS for package management.  • SVN is used for version control and recently migrated to GIT control system.  • Page loadings were minimized by using sprite images for better image optimization and adjustments along with the usage of content analysis tools.  • Agile software development practices were followed with JIRA tracking for issues.    Project: Steganography Research Project - Digital Forensics Research Assistant Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX September 2014 to May 2015 Description:  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for development of all UI components of application using HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript when developing page navigation, and form validation.  • Consumed data from Skype application API and Posted data back to API for sending secret  messages from one-to-one skype clients within the network.  • Developed the UI of application to support secret communication between two people using mobile carrier.  • Implemented text and emoticon steganography for sending ciphered messages.  • Responsible for testing of the application properly in the different mobile frames and tablet frames.    Project: Opensols Infotech  Customer: Opensols Infotech.  Location: India Web Developer January 2012 to June 2013 Description:  Customer login application to track customer login, logout, session management, maintain history and preferences of browsing.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design of business requirements for the application development.  • Created web pages in Site Core and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Responsive web application development using HTML, jQuery.  • Responsible to make sure that look and feel of the UI designs works same in different versions of different browsers (IE 7/8/9, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari, Opera).  • Actively used XML (documents and transformations) for creating templates with dynamic data from XML file.  • Defined the site layout and developed Wire-frames using Adobe Illustrator.  • Involved in Form validation implementations, Layout designs, and mock up screens development.  • Worked closely for better understanding of functional requirements with BA group.  • Followed waterfall software development with scrum status meetings, paired programming.  • Actively participated in discussions with clients on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes. Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT