UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Instructure Manhattan, KS Work Experience UI Developer Instructure - Salt Lake City, UT May 2016 to Present Maintained and contributed components and utilities to React based open source design system used by multiple products, engineering teams, and millions of users.  • Collaborated with product designers to create reusable UI components. Some strong examples of my work can be seen at https://instructure.design using the search bar. Look for the following: DateInput, Calendar, Responsive, Focusable, DrawerLayout, View  • Creating components entailed gathering requirements from product design, rigorous technical reviews to compose an API, non-negotiable (at a minimum) WCAG AA compliance, internationalization, responsive behavior, automated unit tests, and documentation including usage guidelines and examples.  • Created an example generation process to reduce hundreds of lines of repetitive code and massive developer maintenance costs to a simple config file which could automatically produce all permutations of a given component. This was adopted by multiple internal teams as an integral piece of their visual regression testing process.  • Regularly provided technical assistance to over 200 engineers consuming our libraries and resources which entailed reproducing issues and debugging in a variety of development environments and consultation on best practices to implement design comps. Front End Volunteer Work Relevate - Manhattan, KS October 2017 to June 2019 Volunteered for a small non-profit (myrelevate.com), completely overhauled the UI for their previously unusable site.  • Imposed consistent design standards by creating a component library myrelevate.com/styleguide. Created documentation to codify best practices by displaying examples. Also allowed for copy paste code segments to simplify the developer experience.  • Minimized pain of adoption by ensuring the result was compatible with the current stack. Created a custom Django template tagging process to reduce copied html and instead provide a clean API similar to React component props.  • Updated the majority of legacy code to conform to new design standards, including accessibility practices and responsive layout. Teaching Assistant BYU CS - Provo, UT January 2016 to April 2016 • Mentored students on best UX design and coding practices in one on one and classroom settings.  • Assisted with development of relevant curriculum and future projects. External Relations Assistant and Graphic Designer BYU Department of Mechanical Engineering - Provo, UT December 2011 to August 2014 • Responsible for redesign of 5 major department publications including the course text for ME EN 191 New Student Guide, the Faculty Coach and Liaison Guides, and the Department Profile  • Published sketches in Handbook of Compliant Mechanisms for Dr. Larry Howell and in Fundamentals of Product Development for Dr. Christopher Mattson and Dr. Carl Sorensen Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Brigham Young University - Provo, UT April 2016 Skills CSS (4 years), Django (2 years), html (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), Python (2 years), Unit Testing (4 years), React (4 years), Webpack (3 years), Front End, UI Additional Information Skills  • Languages: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Python  • Accessibility: WCAG AA and AAA compliance  • Frameworks: React, Django  • State Management: Redux  • Build Tools: Webpack, Babel, PostCSS, ESLint  • Visual Regression Testing: Storybook, Happo  • Unit Testing: Mocha, Chai, Karma, Enzyme  • Software: Jira, Jenkins, GitHub, Gerrit, Sketch, Invision