Web UI Developer Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web UI Developer - Transfuture Brooklyn, NY Technical Skill Sets Work Experience Web UI Developer Transfuture - Brooklyn, NY March 2017 to Present New York Times  Description: Transfuture is a leading NYC-based web design agency working with business and nonprofits in Manhattan. Transfuture deliver the best web design and development services available anywhere. It provides Intelligent planning, thoughtful design plus progressive technology. Transfuture design professional websites and mobile solutions that are rich in value and effective. Worked on NewsWeek app provides weekly news details according to different categories which is top news, latest news and popular news. User can search most top and latest news and they can read different news and articles. User can also have access to add news and articles into their account using signup with their account. User can also delete news if they don't want more.  Responsibilities:  • Developing sites includes designing, coding, and implementing new enhancement projects.  • Performed Web application development using ReactJS and NodeJS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM). Deal with client side applications using React JS and working knowledge on Grunt and Gulp.  • Expertise in React JS framework and integrate them to Node JS server-side code.  • Expertise developing Responsive web design (RWD) application with client scripting language and serve scripting languages like Node.js, Express.js, React.js  • Experience in building application with React JS in MVC architecture.  • Worked with React.js to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with REST API for rendering data trough virtual DOM.  • Experience in implementing SPA's with React Router.  • Made the Node.js EXPRESS Server to construct MVC framework from front- end side React JS to back- end side Node JS using PostgreSQL  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, JavaScript and React.js.  • Basic knowledge of redux library to store large chunk of data in centralized manner for the better performance of application.  • Experienced in working with basic Redux architecture using complex ObjectOriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Knowledge of redux library components as Reducers, Action Creators, Action Types and Centralized Store to improvement of web application performance.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM). Deal with client side applications using React JS and working knowledge on Grunt and Gulp.    • Implemented effective SEO strategies for various clients with the goal of improving overall visibility on internet and in turn increasing revenue.  • Responsible for analyzing, designing and coding and successful deployment of the application on production servers.  • Evaluate the request for enhancements and analyze the high priority bugs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React, Redux, AJAX, Bootstrap, media queries, Windows,  Sublime Text, WebStorm, npm and yarn packages, Webpack, Babel, Git (version Control), ES6. UI Developer LForm Design - Montclair, NJ August 2016 to February 2017 Dauphin-Furniture  Description: LForm Design is a manufacturing, Digital marketing and Web Design and development Company. Base on client scale, LForm Design creates a website using CMS or develop from the scratch. Since nowadays people are most like to search on mobile/tablet/i-pad, All the web development done in responsive manners with mobile first approach. LForm Design not only just build the website but also make sure to create an action plan and determine the timing of each step for advanced search engine optimization to get client at higher rank on internet.    Responsibilities:  • Developed various new functionality, including both front- end and back- end for Web-application.  • Worked with designer who designed user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, React.js.  • Headed in all phases of the project (Documentation, Designing the forms, coding, manual testing, defect fixing).  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefine components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and YARN.  • Basic knowledge of redux library to store large chunk of data in centralized manner for the better performance of application.  • Developed ReactJS pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router.  • Experienced in using ReactJS Props property for sharing data into higher level components to Lower components.  • Used React data control type State for data that is going to change according to user interaction. Also used setState method to set state according to changing data.  • Developed Routes file for different React Component like Header, Footers and UserProfile page, etc and include them in specific components file according to their needs extracting from React.Component class.  • Creating new React components and containers from user stories and mockups.  • Creating ReactJS and Node.JS applications for backend.  • Used SASS Pre-processor for CSS processing to build partials and integrate them into main CSS.  • Used partials from bootstrap framework to design different form layouts.  • Write qUnit Test cases to test JavaScript functions.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used loggers for server-side logging.  • Perform unit testing and integration testing before delivering the build to the QA team.  • Follow the Agile methodology and TDD for all projects.  Environments: HTML, CSS, Object Oriented JavaScript, React JS, React Components, Bootstrap, media-queries, restful web service, Express, Node.js, Full-stack MVC architecture, Qunit Test, PostgreSQL, Algorithms and Data Structures, npm and yarn packages, Git, Heroku. Front End Developer Codewrap - Vadodara, Gujarat June 2014 to May 2016 FoodNetwork.com  Description: Code Wrap are making Business, Blog, Portfolio and E-Commerce types Websites. Worked on Recipe World Website which gives online facility to users connects to their favourite recipes. User can search their recipe using title of recipe and they get whole recipe information which they want. User can add and store their recipe data in their account and they have delete and update facility to change their info.  Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on design and development of UI HTML, CSS, JQuery for vend-x.com for different clients.  • Developed the UI layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements. Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5 (new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Worked closely with back- end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  • Created various interactive plug-ins, widgets or design UI/UX.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Provide different look for different clients with same functionality.  • Implemented User Authentication using passport and locals in express application.  • Elegantly implemented page designs in standards-compliant dynamic XHTML and CSS.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.  • Created the Technical detail document for the new developer to understand existing functionality of application.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, REST Web Services, GIT for code repository, Linux, AJAX, Express, MySQL, Sublime Text. Jr. Programmer E-Intelligence - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2013 to May 2014 BVM, MBICT  Description: E-Intelligence is a leading Search Engine optimization, digital marketing management and Web Designing Development Company. Worked on Student DashBoard System for Government collages like BVM and MBICT for 2 years as a junior programmer. Student DashBoard system is one of the best institution student portal. The website provides online facility to students and faculty to access their profile, assignments, files, projects etc. Student can upload and download their assignments and faculty can do update and delete operation according to their needs. Also worked on Administrator part to provide security and login system to each student and faculty.    Responsibilities:  • Perform all the task assigned and keep mentor updated on the progress of project.  • Design and developed login functionality with client side session management using JavaScript local storage and cookies for employee management project.  • Worked on client side validations for new user registration using JavaScript RegX and jQuery functionalities.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Developed user interactive report page with Insert/update/delete CRUD functionalities.  • Designed various screens/web pages for the events organized by different local collages with HTML and CSS based on responsive design.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the div base layouts.  • Prepared Technical as well as user guide documentation for the comprehensive reorientation of projects.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, Linux, GIT for code repository. Education Bachelor's of Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University - Anand, IN August 2009 to June 2013 Skills React, Angular, Javascript, Front End, UI, Front-End, User Interface, Jquery, Angularjs, Java