Technical Support Representative Technical Support Representative Web Developer Salt Lake City, UT Specializing in JavaScript, React, and Ruby on Rails, I have hands on experience building web apps from the ground up. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Representative Netflix - Salt Lake City, UT July 2018 to February 2019 • Used creative problem solving skills to diagnose and resolve issues on all supported platforms and devices for Netflix subscribers around the world.  • Appointed to the mentor program where I was responsible for training and providing guidance and support to new hires.  • Team leader in Return Call Rate, a metric used to judge performance. Consistently a top performer site-wide. Office Automation Specialist Florida Department of Law Enforcement - Tallahassee, FL June 2017 to May 2018 • Maintained a statewide data communications network consisting of multiple host computers, over 10,000 workstations, and other interfaces.  • Troubleshot and took corrective action on FDLE information systems, operated diagnostic equipment, and monitored resolutions.  • Worked with law enforcement agencies' IT staff and FDLE's network team to create, submit, and approve network diagrams.  • Promoted to Career Services from a temporary position one month before my evaluation period ended. Front- End Developer / Project Manager Florida Lobby - Tallahassee, FL January 2011 to June 2017 • Automated legislation data on the site by collaborating with FL House and Senate websites. Was promoted to Project Manager for my efforts.  • Consulted with clients to define project scope, build budgets, develop schedules, and manage expectations.  • Designed and developed all front- end elements of the website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created wireframes and flow charts for features requested by the clients.  • Together with the senior developer, implemented new features and mockups to production.  • Interviewed Florida lawmakers and staff for insights into legislation and to publish unique content for the site. Education Certificate in Full Stack Web Development University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT 2019 Associate in Information Technology Tallahassee Community College - Tallahassee, FL Skills Javascript (6 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), React.js, Redux, ES6, JQuery, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Python, Git, GitHub, SQL, PostgresSQL, JSON, AJAX, HTML5, Front End, Node.js, MongoDB, Express.js, RESTful APIs Publications Query https://github.com/bweegee/query 2019-04 • On-the-fly assessment app for teachers and students. Currently in use by DevPoint Labs. (React.js, Rails)  • Designed models and controllers, including custom routes for specialized data requests.  • Developed views for student results, contributed to quiz CRUD actions, and refactored components to utilize React hooks. Additional Information Skills  Languages JavaScript (React, Redux, Vanilla, ES6, jQuery), Ruby (Ruby on Rails), Python  Web HTML, CSS, Sass, Styled Components, AJAX, JSON, RESTful APIs  Extras PostgreSQL, SQL, Git, Agile Methodologies, Vim, Linux, Heroku, SSH, LaTeX