Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Texas State Department of Transportation • Over 3+ years of experience designing and developing User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap3/4, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 6, JSON, and AJAX that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Noteworthy understanding with various MVC JavaScript frameworks like Node.js, Ext.js and Express.js.  • Skillful in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS3 Media Queries and Bootstrap also, created responsive web application for various devices.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM and have knowledge on Extreme programming (XP) software development methodology  • Experience in working with AngularJS (6 Months) to implement Single page applications (SPAs) using Directives, Modules, Expressions, Routers, Views, Model and Controller.  • Very well versed with Agile methodologies very effective team player in evolving design to best suit target goals.  • Knowledge on docker based container deployments to create shelf environments for developments and containerization of environments delivery for releases.  • Experience in designing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with CSS media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Extensive used Angular components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  • Good experience in third party REST API integration, using open source build (lint and concatenation) and package management tools like GULP, GRUNT, NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experience in working on CSS preprocessors like LESS/SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Gulp.  • Extensive experience working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment and worked in SCRUM and Enabler Teams.  • Solid experience in creating User Stories and Information flows. Creating prototypes and responsive screens.  • Experienced in Unit Testing using Karma, Jasmine end-to- end test using Protractor and experienced in TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Deep understanding of JavaScript concepts such as Objects, Closures, Hoisting, Prototype, Callback, DOM manipulation/scripting, Prototype, Libraries, promises, async and sync functions.  • Experience with Application Servers and Web Servers such as Web Logic, J boss, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in source code management/review and branch configuration using VCS like GIT, SVN(Tortoise), VSTS, TFS (Team Foundation Server). Work Experience Front- End Developer Texas State Department of Transportation October 2017 to Present The Texas Department of Transportation is a government agency in the U.S. state of Texas. Though the public face of the agency is generally associated with the construction and maintenance of the state's immense state highway system, the agency is also responsible for overseeing aviation, rail and public transportation systems in the state.    Responsibilities:  • Developing web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, JavaScript and Angular 6 to design a user friendly and multi functionality responsive interface.  • Analysis and Involving in PI (Program Increment) planning all the user stories and Working on 3-week sprint basis.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and development of the application for dynamic user experience.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Used CSS3, Bootstrap and wireframes and Mockup's for getting the dashboard responsive.  • Research, analysis to build the business workflows using REDHAT (Having multiple servers) server.  • Testing the workflows built in REDHAT(PAM) server using Angular 6 and Working as a team with the back- end developer and developing the APIs using standard methods. by extracting the API's and building UI.  • Red Hat JBoss BPM used for business processing modeling and Integrating workflow into applications.  • Coding and testing Workflow through JavaScript framework (Angular 6) by creating modules and components adding Functionalities and coupling them together into a functional app and designing few HTML templates based on the requirement and adding API's to the component.  • Used Node JS as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interacting with SQL Database.  • Created, developed and tested own API's using Swagger/Postman.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 6.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with GitHub.  • Created reusable templates and dynamically rendered them according to business logic.  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [Common core things including form validation], @angular/router [Routing for our entire app], @angular/forms [Creating Reactive forms and perform validation], rxjs [for Observable].  • Implemented Reactive form throughout the application and performed both angular build in form validation and custom validation.  • Completed routing and navigation of application by configuring Router module with child route and route guard.  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Code built and Deployed to QA. Giving the Demo for the developed pages for the approval.    Environment: Angular 6, Agile, Apache Tomcat v9.0, Target Process, JSON, NPM, Visual Studio code 1.22, IntelliJ, Microsoft SQL server 2012, Web API 2, Bootstrap, REDHAT JBPM, Eclipse IDE, HTML5, CSS3, Swagger/Postman. Developer Polaris - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to December 2015 Polaris Industries is an American manufacturer of snowmobiles, ATV, and neighborhood electric vehicles. Polaris is based in Roseau, Minnesota, USA.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the internal teams and got the requirements for the project.  • Worked on designing wireframes and mockups as per requirements and involved in the development of POC's for initial approval of the application.  • Developed various interface screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery controls for Client-Server interaction.  • Designed and implemented the whole web site using HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, Flash, MySQL and JavaScript.  • Tested cross-browsers compatibility on a range of projects.  • Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.  • Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Worked closely with Technical Development Manager to help track, prioritize, estimate, and recommend resources for all Technical Development Team projects.  • Involved in background grooming sessions with the analysts to clear backlogs and discuss issues.  • Have created data fix script to fix the data issue in production environment.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, MySQL, Ajax, XML, UNIX. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills Front End, Javascript, Front-End, HTML5, User Interface, Bootstrap Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Servlets, XML, NPM, TypeScript, SCSS, SASS, ECMA Script (ES6, ES7).  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, J Boss.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAX- B.  Databases MY SQL, Oracle 11g, MongoDB.  Frameworks/Libraries AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 6, NodeJS, jQuery, D3JS, Bootstrap, Hibernate.  Programming Languages JavaScript, SQL.  Tools Jasmine, GitHub, Karma, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools, Maven, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Net beans, MS Office, JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum.  Version Controls GIT, VSTS.