UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Cisco Systems • More than 5+ years of professional experience in web UI development using Angular.js, React.js, Redux, NodeJS, NPM, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  • Developed websites using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML 5, CSS3(including Responsive web design), Bootstrap, Cross-platform Application, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp.  • Experienced in client-side design and validation using HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience on working with GitHub & Bitbucket (Git Client), Project Management Tool JIRA and many editors like NetBeans, WebStorm, Visual Source Code, and IntelliJ.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Experience in agile methodologies such as scrum and Test-Driven Development (TDD) using Jasmine for unit testing.  • Proficient with Angular.js to build single page application with creating custom directives, services, filters, and routing.  • Good in communicating with cross-functional teams in the enterprise at all levels.  • Excited to learn and implement new and emerging technologies. Work Experience UI Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI layout, coordinated project activities and involved in the Application development life cycle (SDLC)- Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Create and modify final designs using wireframe layouts as a structure.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Involved in developing HTML, JSX and JavaScript for client-side presentation, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Re-engineered the existing legacy application into a web-based application using the latest web technologies.  • Involved in User Interface (UI) and User Experience (UX) design using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript and used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, router, Animations and Redux.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp.  • Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with two-week iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Used karma to test the project with Jasmine as a Framework & confluence for documentation.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS, JSON, Gulp, Grunt UI Developer Philips Respironics - Pittsburgh, PA September 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script, AngularJS as per the requirements and provided the client side using jQuery validations.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js.  • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  • Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams.  • Used Java script and Angular JS for client-side validations.  • Developed J query events, effects, and traversing to control DOM object to meet the business needs.  • Developed J son objects for Data models and controllers which flow to Mongo DB.  • Followed the approach of Test-Driven Development and Continuous Integration.  • Worked on Web Content Management (WCM) Tools and technologies like Angular JS, HTML5, jQuery, CSS/CSS3, JSON and other web technologies.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like AngularJS, ReactJS.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, jQuery, Angular JS 1.x, React JS, JSON Front- End Engineer Macy's.com - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Angular.js  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful using AJAX, JSON.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used pure JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Working experience in MongoDB and experience with CRUD operations on MongoDB collections and documents.  • Worked extensively on Angular JS in creating Controllers, Client and Server-side validations are done by AJAX calls using $http and JSON parse.  • Used Angular JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Responsible for Campaign (Macy's web pages) creation/updating and triaging related issues.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Mongo dB, React JS Software Developer Aspire Software Solutions - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2013 to July 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed E-commerce enterprise applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, JavaScript and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Designed and Developed Java Script framework for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web platforms.  • Developed secure web applications by using client scripting such as JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed jQuery library for visual effects, event handling, and document manipulation.  • Used Local storage and web storage using JavaScript for maintaining user details.  • Implemented JavaScript prototype for validation of the user.  • Responsible for creating web applications as per the client requirements and gained experience in Project Planning, analyzing business requirements for Identifying UI.  • Involved in software coding, testing, and debugging for web presentation layer using HTML and CSS.  Environment: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Software Developer (Intern) Cygnet Infotech Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery to enhance functionality and user experience on web pages.  • Developed Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Worked collaboratively with colleagues to build, design and deliver high quality solutions in line with the guidance and best practices of the department.  • Assist team with testing code in multiple browsers.  • Worked with Senior Developers to edit existing projects on certain client websites.  • Participated in weekly team meetings to discuss current projects and strategies on producing efficient work.  • Help develop and follow best practices and development standards  • Performs other related duties as assigned.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap Education MS in Computer in Computer and Information Systems Security University of the Cumberland's Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/akhilkidarakuzhiyil