Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Tmobile Columbus, OH • Over 8+ Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Proficient in developing web pages with HTML5/CSS3 & Bootstrap from PSD template.  • Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  • Involved in designing UI patterns and developing applications with the help of Eclipse, Sublime text, SCSS, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE tech including Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, JSF, AJAX, JNDI, Balsamiq, Java Beans and Web Services.  • Strong in design and development of Webservices using WSDL, WCAG, SOAP & applied CORS.  • Specialized in RDBMS design using normalization techniques and expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Highly skilled JavaScript Developer, seeking to use proven skills in UI prototyping to enhance user experience and deployed new features with higher performance.  • Extensive experience working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular.JS, XSS, ES6, Node.JS, Redux, React.JS, Ext.JS.  • Strong knowledge in and Responsive Web desig, Vue.JS.  • Skilled in creating Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, SAML, XAML, Typescript and JavaScript using W3C standards.  • Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and polishing the interaction details for specific features. Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Tmobile - Van Nuys, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Created dynamic web pages those are more user-interactive using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap for client-side validations and Angular 2.0 to design the front- end and redeveloped the existing module with Angular 2 by writing the code in TypeScript for SPA's.  ? Worked on continuous integration technologies such as CircleCI which utilized tests developed for front and back ends in Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma, and Protractor.  ? Implemented various screens for the frontend using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Designed professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like , Bower, Html5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular Js 1.X/2, j Query, XML, Jasmine, Ajax, Jason, Bootstrap. Used tools like JSLint, YUI compressor.  ? Worked on Continuous Integration with the use of GITLAB repository for version control and used Source tree to create the feature branches for the stories that are worked upon and using tools like ALM, Jira to work on the assigned tickets.  ? Used GitHub UI, Git bash to commit, changes to the repository for maintaining various versions of the agile process.  ? Worked on various JavaScript library included but not limited to Node, Gulf, Grunt, npm, Bower, Karma, Jasmin, Protactor.  ? Used Maven as a build tool and created the framework with selenium, selenium grid, java, TestNG, BDD cucumber-JVM and page object page factory design pattern.  ? Worked on JUnit with selenium and cucumber-JVM in a page object model and cleaned up the duplicate code and maintained a good standard of coding. Later we created the new test framework with TestNG.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for back- end logic implementation development. Used SonarQube for code coverage. Also, worked on SSL installations, on Apache-Nginx server.  ? Developed and performed test cases using Karma in the unit test, and used the Protractor and Enzyme. Also, wrote unit tests using Jest and Enzyme for test-driven development.  ? Created preparation processes for ceremonies and templates to be successful as a scrum team for being successful for sprint planning, standup, refinement sessions, review, and retrospective  ? Designed and coded application components in an Agile/TDD environment utilizing a test-driven development and SDET approach and pair-programming.  ? Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins. Also, Worked on CI/CD integration and development using Jenkins and TeamCity.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery framework using Maven, Jenkins and Chef in Linux environment. Created Mac OS X Mail stationery templates/template installer applications  ? Maintained client communications including email, slack, and daily standups.  ? Develop unlimited and customized variations of assets including format, size, color and zoom, by working with only one set of assets Using AEM.  ? Utilized JSLint to maintain consistent style amongst all the developers and Used GIT for version control.  ? Develop the build script using GRUNT task runner and build the project with different tasks to JSHINT, JSCS, Concat, Uglify, Annotate, and Rev the CSS and JS files.  ? Developed a single page, UI-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6.  ? Worked with ReactJS, Redux, JavaScript (ES6, ES7+ES8) for building isomorphic and single page applications with GraphQL on server side.  ? Designed and Developed Web applications using CSS pre-processors like LESS, SASS/SCSS and excellent experience in CSS methodologies like OOCSS, BEM and SMACSS.  ? Built single page application using Vuejs components and solved data issue using DOM update cycle with Vue.js.  ? Designed, developed and wrote UI/UX standards for responsive web applications in which includes Front- End programming using HTML5, CSS (Less), JavaScript (JQuery, KendoUI) & JSON.  ? Designed Wireframes, Sitemaps, Mockups, Prototypes, Storyboards using tools like ( XD, Sketch InVision , Axure, Zeplin, Balsamiq)  ? Created rich web UIs that merge with back- end components using JavaScript and AngularJS 4, 6 in conjunction with HTML5 & CSS3 and Used Material-UI Design library for Rich UI/UX designs.  ? Implemented CORS[cross-origin resource sharing], allowing the request through different hosts and JSON formatters for sending data in camelCase.  ? Developed web page applications that meet the requirements as specified by ARIA ( Accessible Rich Internet Applications), Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0.  ? Implemented tokenizer and validation framework to prevent cross-site-scripting (XSS) and CSRF attacks across the application.  ? Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, SASS, ExpressJS, LESS JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJs based on the W3C standard.  ? Used CSS preprocessors such as SASS and Stylus with BEM methodology, to create more structured and understandable stylesheets for easier collaboration with the development team.  ? Developed Enterprise level applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java 8 Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MySQL, MVC Architecture, Web Services and AJAX.  ? Wrote GraphQL schemas and async resolvers for MongoDB data manipulation, implemented back- end server with Apollo Express.  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  ? Designed and developed Restful API and services using best practices to interact within the microservices and with the front- end using Spring MVC and Spring Rest. Security is provided via tokens(jwt) and Spring Security.  ? Worked with Docker Containers, microservices, container orchestration frameworks such as Kubernetes and Amazon ECS, AWS SDK for .NET, AWS toolkit for MS Visual Studio.  ? Worked with various IDE's like sublime, Notepad++, Cscope, eclipse, Source insight, Mocha, Chai, Jest  ? Build webpack bundler with babel loader for react and es6 pre-sets. Different bundling for development, staging and production.  ? Tested front end performance with Chrome Devtools and making appropriate optimizations in Webpack such as bundle splitting and asynchronous module loading using webpack bundle analyzer.  ? Created a custom hybrid mobile application using Angular 4, React Native, Ionic 2 and TypeScript stack for IOS and Android platform deployment    Background Skills:  React, Redux, Angular 2, Javascript, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ES6, Redux, Ajax, SCSS, VueJS, CORS, WCAG, XSS, SASS, LESS, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Java, MYSql, Mongodb, Webservices, Rest, Microservices, Webpack, Karma, NPM, BOWer, Jasmine, Nginx, Github, Protactor, Selenium, SonarQube, Enzyme, Mocha, Chai, Scrum, Agile, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, TeamCity, JSON, XML, Jira, Babel, Linux, Mac, UglifyJS, Ionic, iOS, Android, React Native. Sr. UI Developer Freddie Mac Mortgage - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, Visual Studio, ES6, EmberJS, JAVASCRIPT, Rest, NodeJS and Angular JS.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, AngularJs, Bootstrap, LESS and Sublime Text Editor.  ? Wrote gulp & grunt tasks for sass compile, jshint/eslint, uglify, minify, Revisioning and automated tests.  ? Used Acquia Cloud for active passive configuration of software load balancer (nginx) and a reverse proxy cache (Varnish).  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT & Github.  ? Implemented unit test cases using Jasmine, Mocha Chai, Selenium, Avoriaz, Karma and E2E testing using protractor.  ? Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on UI/UX platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies  ? Worked with Docker Containers, microservices, serverless architecture, container orchestration frameworks such as Kubernetes and Amazon ECS, DevOps models, developer tools, AWS SDK for .NET, AWS toolkit for MS Visual Studio, and Jenkins.  ? Customized both JIRA and Confluence to integrate into the pre-existing systems with an eye towards making the programs extensions of Linux systems, and not hindrances to their systems.  ? Configured Alert manager to send alerts to Ops Genie and HipChat.  ? Worked on JSLint to maintain consistent style amongst all the developers and Used GIT for version control.  ? Implemented user facing changes, that includes JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS. Used tools like JSLint, YUI compressor  ? Developed Ionic, Cordova and Google Cloud for hybrid mobile apps[Android & IOS].  ? Did UI development with technologies like HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Reactjs, AngularJS, Angular2, TypeScript, JavaScript.  ? Designed professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like Html5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2, j Query, XML.  ? Build responsive and attractive websites for my clients using modern programming tools (e.g. ES6, React, Redux, Flexbox, etc).  ? Build and maintained client-facing and internal web and debugging applications using React, Redux, Next.js, and Azure.  ? Developed Angular 4 web applications connected to a Laravel Backend serving JSON Data and expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, magento, CakePHP, Laravel, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks.  ? Worked on HTML/CSS, Ajax/JavaScript (JQuery, ExtJS, etc.), SVN, GIT and MySQL and Apache, demonstrating vast LAMP architecture experience.  ? Developed web page with ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications) & WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines)  ? Implemented tokenizer and validation framework to prevent cross-site-scripting (XSS) and CSRF attacks across the application.  ? Implemented CORS for accessing resources from servers at different origins.  ? Developer applications using HTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, CoffeeScript and TypeScript to make the products user friendly  ? Developing dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, D3JS, AngularJS, React.JS, Node.JS, LESS, SASS.  ? Developed the spring boot applications using Java 1.8 using the advanced version of Eclipse IDE which is Spring Tool Suite (STS) and Maven as the build tool.  ? Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Unix/Linux operating system, Webservices, backed by MySQL, Oracle and Mongo db.    Environment: UI React, Redux, ES6, Redux, JSON, Angular 2+, Typescript, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ajax, Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), XSS (cross site scripting), CORS, SASS, LESS, Java, Oracle, MYSql, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, Visual Studio, XML, Sublime Text, Grunt, Gulp, nginx, Github, Chai, Jasmine, Selenium,Scrum, Agile, AWS, Docker, Kubernestes, Jenkins, Jira, Linux, hipchat, JSLint, Ionic, Cordova, iOS, Android. Sr. UI Developer Mercy Health System - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Used JavaScript for client-side scripting to reduce server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  ? Used CVS & SVN as a version control system, an important component of Source Configuration Management (SCM) with support tool as Jira.  ? Worked on JUnit with selenium and cucumber-JVM in a page object model and cleaned up the duplicate code and maintained a good standard of coding. Later we created the new test framework with TestNG.  ? Designed UI web applications using front- end technologies like Html5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular Js 1.X/2, j Query, XML, Selenium, Jasmine, Ajax, Jason, Bootstrap.  ? Worked in an AWS, Agile environment and also Installed and Configured Drupal on a Linux server and other servers.  ? Worked on agile methodology for software development and working on Atlassian products kind of Jira, Hipchat, confluence etc  ? Integrated with Hipchat for team chat, Jenkins for continuous integration, or other systems using Bitbucket webhooks  ? Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  ? Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, HTML5, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  ? Implemented AJAX calls with Ext JS and handled request and responses for various modules like Bootstrap.  ? Worked with front- end grid tool sets like Bourbon, Neat, SCSS.  ? Developed application using technologies like HTML5, SCSS, BootStrap, Reactjs, AngularJS, TypeScript, JQuery, Redux and ES6.  ? Designed, developed and tested web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, WebServices (REST/SOAP)  ? Developed website using UI/UX on Unix/Linux operating system, backed by MySQL, Oracle and DB2.  ? Worked on vesatile environment like IRAD, Eclipse, Weblogic, NetBeans, Sun ONE Studio, Web Sphere Studio 7.0 8.0, Jbuilder, Web Gain Business Designer Structure Builder, Elixir Case, and Visual Source Safe and Erwin for Data base Scheme Design.    Environment: Javascript, HTML5, SASS, LESS, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, SCSS, Typescript, AngularJS, Jquery, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Soap, Rest, Webservices, PL\SQL, Oracle, DB2, Eclipse, Weblogic, CVS, SVN, Jira, Selenium, Jasmine, Agile, Linux, AWS, JSON, ML, hipchat, Angular.JS, Sencha Ext.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, Require.JS MYSQL, SQL, Server, DB2, HTML, Netbeans, JBoss, ClearCase, Selenium, JQuery, AJAX. Frontend Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Create new interfaces using java, spring mvc, struts, Struts, Soap, Rest, Webservices, hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  ? Developled support tools such as NodeJS, NPM, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, GitHub, SVN, JIRA.  ? Worked on BDD approach with cucumber-JVM in selenium web driver.  ? Applied automated testing of JavaScript applications using Selenium - custom Selenium extensions developed for testing components not normally available via to HTML inspection tools.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using ML, JSON, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS.  ? HipChat was used by the team for client communication.  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  ? Custom HTML markup was written in combination with Vue.js to stream-line JavaScript development.  ? Developed a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js  ? Created Modules using Typescript, AngularJS, Jquery.    Environment: Javascript, HTML5, Ajax, Bootstrap, SCSS, Typescript, AngularJS, Jquery, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Soap, Webservices, PL\SQL, Oracle, DB2, Eclipse, Weblogic, CVS, SVN, Jira, Selenium, Agile, Linux, AWS, JSON, ML, hipchat, Angular.JS, Sencha Ext.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, Require.JS MYSQL, SQL, Server, DB2, HTML, Netbeans, JBoss, ClearCase, Selenium, JQuery, AJAX. Frontend Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React JS, created HTML navigation menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  ? Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Bachelor's