Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - MasTec Advanced Technologies Hayward, CA Solid understanding and practical experience of software development life cycle (SDLC)  principals and experience working with Agile software development methodologies.  Work knowledge of Windows, Linux and Mac OS in a client-server environment. Able to  work under tight deadlines and rapidly changing priorities. Liaise with business analysts  and user representatives in application design and document reviews. Work well in a  team as well as independently. Well organized, and capable to quickly learn new  technical skills problem solver. Work Experience Front End Web Developer MasTec Advanced Technologies - Hayward, CA May 2016 to Present AngularJS Services were used to share the data across the application. Dependency injection can be  achieved by services. Auto Mappers were used for mapping of one object to another object, which were having the same properties.  Developing Servlets & JSP pages for administrative tools, using custom tags. Configuring the data source in the hibernate configuration file. Extensively used DOM Parser to Parse  the XML document. Implementing MVC architecture using hibernate value objects and  mapping XML files. Configuring JMS and JNDI in Rational Application Developer. Using  commons and log4j logging framework. Working on Unit and Integration Testing. Using  JavaScript for client-side validations in the JSP and HTML5 pages. Performing unit testing,  system testing, and integration testing. Developing SQL queries in Oracle. Implementing the back- end in Java using Spring, and with hibernate deleting the irrelevant payment  methods from the system, refactoring the server side code, creating new reports.  Deployed on AWS. Junior Java Developer  • Involved in various phases like design and development using Rational Unified  Process.• Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Sequence  Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.• Developed a web-based reporting  for Credit Monitoring System with HTML, JSTL 1.2,• Custom tags.• Developed user  interface on Jakarta Struts 1.1 Framework using JSP 2.0 and HTML.• Used Java/J2EE  Design patterns like Business Delegate, Session Facade, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and  responsibilities across various layers of processing.• Developed Struts Action Class which route submittals via Business Delegate to Business appropriate components and render  retrieved information.• Used Web services for the transmission of large blocks of XML  data using SOAP.• Used XML and SOAP with SAX parser to transfer data between applications.• Used Entity Java Beans for persistence.• Used SQL stored procedures with  JDBC API for storing, updating user request.• Participated in database design using  Oracle10g.• Used Web-sphere Application Server 5.0 for deploying various components  of the application.• Used WebSphere Application Development 5.1.2 for developing the application. Front End Developer Mezan Motors - Hayward, CA August 2015 to May 2016 Intern in Software Engineering with extensive education and experience? Fast learner  with strong time management and multitasking skills? Strong work ethic in the team to drive process efficiency with troubleshooting skills? Extensive hands-on experience in  object-oriented analysis, design, component-based development? Experienced in web  front- end development and built using Vue.languages: Java, JavaScript (Vue.js,  Riverview), node.js, RESTful API, Python, HTML, CSS, Geodatabase: Microsoft SQL Server,  MySQL platforms: Windows, Mac OSX, Oracle Linux Virtual Box, Jenkins sales manager Kahkshan Rugs - Palo Alto, CA April 2013 to February 2015 Maintains expertise on Company's products/services to effectively manage sales teams of Comcast Ethernet, Internet, Voice, and TV services to small-to-medium business  customers. Ensures competence and continuity of qualified small-to-medium business  Account Executives through optimum selection, training and development, appraisal, and motivation techniques. Monitors employee performance, and counsels and advises  to ensure compatibility, maximum effectiveness, and continued growth on a constant  basis successfully rehired over 50% of the Sales team during the transitional period Ensures  accurate forecasts of annual, quarterly, and monthly revenue and unit numbers through experience with processing and analyzing of data. Coordinates efforts with other internal  teams and groups to ensure effectiveness and efficiency. Possesses excellent written and oral communication, interpersonal skills, and planning and organizational skills. Coaches  develop, appraises, and motivates individual Sales representatives to achieve and exceed assigned objectives. Logistics Operations assistant FHI Logistics - Kabul, AF March 2010 to July 2012 Kabul  Generated all documentation and information required for customer shipments.•  Processed and entered all customer orders into the database and provided proactive  customer service for all accounts.• Maintained excellent working relationships with customers by efficiently responding to all inquiries and complaints concerning work  orders, invoices, and shipments, • Prepared packages for shipment, pickup or courier  delivery to customers.• Updated tracking spreadsheets with the latest tracking number  and location information.• Checked the accuracy and integrity of files and resolved  errors.• Coordinated shipping requests for expedited delivery and documented  accurately to ensure correct billing.• Maintained accurate stock records and schedules.• Ensured accurate account invoicing through collaboration with the  accounting department.• Education AS degree in computer science in computer science Chabot College - Hayward, CA January 2019 to Present design Codify Academy - San Francisco, CA May 2018 Skills Marketing (Less than 1 year), Problem solving (Less than 1 year), Systems analysis (Less than 1 year), Telecommunications (Less than 1 year), time management (Less than 1 year), Javascript, Front End, React, UI Additional Information Skills  • Complex Problem Solving • Critical Thinking  • Systems Analysis • Systems Evaluation  • Judgment and Decision Making • Active Listening  • Reading Comprehension • Programming  • Time Management • Telecommunications  • Writing • Design  • Engineering and Technology • Administration and Management  • Customer and Personal Service • Monitoring  • Science • Technology Design  • Sales and Marketing • Installation