Sr. Angular JS Developer Sr. Angular JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Angular JS Developer - Verizon Salt Lake City, UT • Having 8+Years of experience in Software Design, Development and Testing. Expertise in Designing and Developing Web applications  • Expertise in Designing and Developing Web applications.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML4.0/5,XHTML,CSS2/CSS3,JAVASCRIPT,JQUERY,NodeJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, AJAX, JSF, JSP, JSON, Bootstrap, BackboneJs, Responsive designing.  • Expertise in implementing offline web applications using Service workers.  • Experienced in designing Responsive web Applications.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Experience in creating and consuming Web Services by using Rest Web Services.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility and SEO/web standards.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Highly experienced with using Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Worked on IDE's like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  • Worked in various version control systems - SVN, GIT & TFS.  • Experienced in designing Using Web Standards and developing table-less layouts.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Experience and expertise in ReactJS by implementing charts.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, D3js, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop.  • Extremely proficient in making AJAX driven web service calls using Java  • Script and JQuery framework.  • Extensive experience in writing Unit test cases using selenium webdriver and experience in implementing data driven and keyword driven frameworks.  • Advanced level skills in using Web Services technologies like UDDI, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Extensive knowledge-based in JavaScript, especially using JQuery in AJAX-driven web applications.  • Experienced in developing table-less layouts.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience and expertise in Nodejs.  • Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  • Skilled in working with software tools like Dreamweaver and Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Managed on-site and off-site SEO for all company clients.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like ReactJS.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, Backbone.Js, JSON and HTML5.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Experience and expertise in angular 2 by developing individual components.  • Experience and expertise in client side validations by using angular 2 framework.  • Good exposure in adding dynamic features for the web components in angular 2.  • Experience in working with Application Servers including Apache Tomcat.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience with task runners like Grunt, Gulp to minify CSS/JavaScript. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Angular JS Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX December 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Experienced assistant lead offers to handle all regular duties assigned, but also supervise employee duties and roles. Motivates team members and keep management update on team performance.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS.  • Involved in writing the front- end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Worked on Creating an AngularJS Application using a MVC framework.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind AngularJS template(views) to JavaScript object(models  • Created features like dropdown list, search function and card model by using AngularJS material.  • Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  • Built factories to utilize AngularJS services such as $http and $resource to consume the Restful APIs for data parsing from based backend server.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Developed digital card single page application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON.  • Developed AngularJS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes.  • Developed AngularJS Filters to manipulate text within HTML views.  • Developed AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Used handlebars.js for templating client side presentation logic and separate data.  • Designed responsive webpage using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Developed CSS media queries to make the application responsive website design (RWD).  • Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSS preprocessors SASS and LESS.  • Created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations (DOM) and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Developed the Buttons like popup windows and the modal windows by using the JQuery.  • Worked with Adaptive web-designing and developing CSS Media Queries in order to make the application compatible with iPad (Landscape and Portrait) and PC.  • Performed UNIT testing with Jasmine.  • Created a pageless web application called using Handlebars.js and jQuery with modular, object-oriented JavaScript.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed a real-time collaborative module in node.js that enabled users to create real-time block diagrams.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Experience and expertise in angular 2 by developing individual components.  • Validating user actions on the client side and providing responsive feedback by using angular 2.  • Worked on angular 2 components for the separation of concerns.  • Used React JS for the responsive design in user components.  • Involved in designing mockups for the angular 2 component development.    Environment:HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSF, Angular 2/4, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse , Dreamweaver, HTML 4, JQuery, NodeJS, Angular.JS, Handlebars.JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, Rest web services. UI/Web Developer World Fuel Service - Miami, FL September 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation of various projects.  • Managed as assistant lead for the team, communicating company goals and deadlines, updating management on team performance and project reports.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Involved in Wireframe creation and converted the wireframes into HTML5 and CSS based prototypes.  • Extensively worked on Bootstrapping for grid and Kendo spreadsheet with AngularJS.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap  • Developed SEO strategies for client based on keyword research, keyword strategy, competitive analysis, domain authority, current ranking and other factors that contribute to developing a successful SEO campaign.  • Designed Dojo widgets and reusable modules with Dojo.  • Worked with NPM to set up the environment and install tools for AngularJS based Application.  • Added Responsive features to fit modern website requirements in different devices by using CSS3 Media Queries.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS MVVM framework.  • Used and implemented different open source AngularJS Material libraries like material, angular-aria and animate to make different features of the applications which included navbar, show and hide buttons.  • Implemented applications using CSS, HTML framework such as Kendo UI, Semantic UI.  • Utilized modules for the flow control inasynchronous non-blocking of I/O with the help of Node.js.  • Using node.js recreated API's in the backend using Mongodb and separated it to the frontend.  • Designed and developed the API service for client small business site using Node.js.  • Used AJAX to consume data from Back End Restful Services.  • Experienced in NPM and Browser sync to developed web programming.  • Integrated REST web service calls to get data from response and display them on UI and also used AngularJS services like $q, $http, $broadcast, $emit, $on.  • Client Side validations were done using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Used CSS preprocessor LESS and WEB Essentials for converting LESS to CSS file while deployment.  • Followed Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Created the Setup Automation Wizard Pages and Rules Configuration Pages using, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap etc.  • Response UI and website layout is achieved using Bootstrap framework and Angular.js which helped in bootstrapping web application efficiently without registering call backs which helped in code debugging.  • Worked extensively on JSON request and response payload, defining or changing their structures.  • Developed internal and external validation code using JavaScript and bootstrapping.  • Using the Angular JS MVC framework that connects to internal and public RESTful API's.  • Used Bootstrap Carousel, Accordion and other controls to build fluid and responsible web pages.  • Participated extensively in developing the cross browser compatible websites and performed cross-browser testing.  • Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Designed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs, templates and banners using Adobe Photoshop CS5 and Adobe Illustrator CS5.  • Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine and Karma with angular 2 integration.  • Worked on angular.js 2 validations to provide the better security in web applications.  • Worked on custom components by extending existing components.  Environment: HTML5, HTML4, CSS3.0, CSS2.0, JavaScript, Polymers, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, Dojo, JSON, XML, REST, Responsive Web Design, Web pack, AngularJS/2, JSP, MVC, Jasmine, Karma. Sr. Web Developer Nordstrom - Seattle, WA March 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed responsive SPA's using AngularJS, JQuery in conjunction with CSS3, HTML5 and Bootstrap.  • Consumed Restful Web Services for JSON data using JQuery, AJAX and AngularJShttp & resource services using ng-Resource module.  • Used NodeJS for event looping, callback functions and REPL environment.  • Worked extensively on CSS to implement backgrounds, layouts, positioning, text, borders, margins, padding, tables, and behaviors.  • Created Angular directives, services, and controllers for a complete ground up development and migration of existing JavaScript and java web application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions and Node.js.  • Worked with various service components such as $animate, $compile, $filter, and $http.  • Built e-commerce websites using Magento, PHP, XML, JavaScript, HTML, and Sass  • Created the Node.js Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front- end side AngularJS to back- end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast services.  • Instantiated Controller objects using specified constructor functions via ng-controller directive.  • Implemented services to share code across the application using Dependency Injection.  • Used scopes to watch expressions and propagate events and used self-defined filters to format the values of expressions for user display.  • Retrieved data from back- end systems involving Restful services http services  • Given major contribution in client-side coding using Angular.JS framework and specific framework.  • Used Bower package manager to restore client-side packages and Yo for scaffolding.  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed the main website to improve user experience and add new functionalities using AngularJS.  • Developed interface to manage user menu and bulk update of attributes using AngularJS and JQuery.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Used JavaScriptDOM manipulation and JavaScript events to generate data end-results in UI.  • Resolved angular scope issues and worked with IBM Web sphere as the application server.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, NodeJS, Yeoman (Grunt, Bower, Yo), Sass, Bootstrap, DOM, XML, Firebug, Jasmine, SVN, Apache Tomcat, Adobe, Flash, Java/J2EE. Front End Developer Scantron Corp - San Diego, CA October 2012 to January 2014 Scantron Corp manages online lead-generation brands. The company connects consumers with service providers that offer various rates on home loans, auto insurance, auto loans, life insurance and other recurring monthly bills. Experian promotes greater financial health and opportunity among consumers by enabling them to understand, manage and protect their personal information, helping them control financial aspects of key life events, and make the most advantageous financial and purchasing decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Built CSS and JavaScript system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Worked with backend programmers to troubleshoot Java Script related issues with front- end connectivity  • Implemented JQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface.  • Built user-friendly web pages to arrange text, pictures, and videos with CSS style sheets.  • Created SEO proposals based on strategic research, offering several options in a clear, concise way that met client needs.  • Developed web Single Page Applications using ANGULAR JS.  • Worked with media queries and CSS preprocessors to make the application responsive design.  • Experienced MVC pattern as the development Front End framework to build support portal module.  • Executed the User Authentication functionality by making Restful API calls to the database.  • Worked with back- end side to configured applications with Apache Server.  • Worked on fixes, enhancements, code changes for C#, Python based backend.  • Developed the front- end framework, monitoring dashboards and real-time monitoring user interfaces using Angular Widgets using Custom directives.  • Used templating libraries like handlebar.js to create html templates that could be re-used across the application.  • Developed desktop and responsive WordPress themes using HTML5, CSS3, Sass, jQuery, PHP, MySQL and Git.  • Used AJAX for asynchronous communication between client and server.  • Develop various screens for the front end using Angular JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Created database tables and manipulated data using MySQL, SQL server, SQLite.  • Attended the daily scrum meetings to track the progress of each sprint.  • Wrote and maintained the technical documents for the project.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part widget based application.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Involved in parsing JSON API to JDOs and use them in frontend handlebar.js.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Created an internal browser based text editor using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, handlebars.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Developed programs to port the XML data to database to make the website XML driven.  • Involved Finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Designed the email blasts using Adobe software and then implemented them using HTML and Java script.  • Demonstrated implementation and up-gradation of JavaScript Library. Involved in configuring the Git repository and maintain the version control using Git.  • Implemented AJAX functionality to speed up web application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, Backbone JS, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, Sass, Git, MAC, UNIX / Linux. Front End Developer AT&T - Richardson, TX June 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities  • Worked with Development Manager and Team Lead in the Team of 7 people.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs following client branding standards.  • Coordinated with team members to meet scheduled deadlines, review completed work requests.  • Taken Responsibility in Conducting Daily Scrum calls with development team and involved in Sprint planning.  • Used Angular JS to develop single web page weather application.  • Experienced using independent libraries such as Kendo UI.  • Used Protractor for End to End Testing of Angular application.  • Developed applications using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3 based on the W3C standards.  • Made the application Responsive using Bootstrap and CSS properties.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in C# classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Worked as team in designing, implementing and querying MySQL, SQL server, SQLite database.  • Hand-on experience with transformers, exception handling, testing & security of Mule ESB endpoint through Oath.  • Experience in JavaScript libraries like ui-bootstrap.  • Created Menus/Modules and Filter SaaS part of BEM requests Migration.  • Wrote extensive unit tests using automated TDD tasks.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  • Utilized AngularJS Route for creating Single Page Application (SPA), and incorporate Model-View-Whatever (MV*) development pattern allowing efficient unit testing, and appropriately utilizing Controllers, Services, and Factories with dependency injection.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods.  • Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues.  • Organized the internal site for managing environments, and project details using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery easing the scrolling pages to tabbed template structure.  • Created and maintained the framework and layout of each portal with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, PHP, APACHE, MAC OS, ECLIPSE. Intern Web Developer Costco Wholesale Corporation - Issaquah, WA March 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities  • Involved in the designing of Java Server Pages required for the application  • Involved in the unit testing of the application.  • Implementing the business logic required for the application  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries  • Developed the code according to the functional specifications, detailed design, and coding and efficiency standards. Execute the unit test cases  • Developed Ant builds script and ant task classes to clean, compile, copy, run, and doc, deploy, jar, war and ear files, and develop web services.  • Responsible to introduce JQuery into the application for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON with JQuery to fetch and post the data to the backend.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Used Waterfall methodology as a Software Development Life Cycle and involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, and testing.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content Managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Worked on multiple styles, colors, fonts and backgrounds in CSS.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by C# and ASP.Net, JavaScript.  • Worked extensively on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes and Pseudo elements.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deployed the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Created web forms for uploading multiple files to share point document library.  • Created Mockups and Wireframes for the development of variations of a layout to maintain design consistency throughout the site.  • Delivered the best design aesthetics under tight deadlines, while effectively managing trade-offs between businesses needs and portal user benefit.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with ASP.Net validation controls.  • Developed JavaScript to manipulate DOM and CSS dynamically.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, API, MVC, Adobe Photoshop, XML, API, MySQL, SQL server, HTTP Web Server, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), Drupal, Java, NET, C#, Angular, AWS, API, Telecommunication, MVC, Scala, Cobol, Java J2Ee, PHP, Android, Git, MySQL, ASP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Jasmine, XML, JSON, Media Queries, JavaScript  Languages Scripts JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Typescript.  Libraries Angular Js, Node Js, React Js, RequireJs, Backbone Js, Knockout.js, express.js  Frameworks Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS/2/4  Tools SVN, GIT, Grunt, Gulp  Web Services RESTful, SOAP, XML  Editors / IDE Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual studio  Database MySQL, PL/SQL (Oracle), Mongodb.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, web logic.