Sr.Net Developer // Front- End Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> // <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer // Front- End Developer - AT&T Portland, OR * 7+ years of strong professional .Net Development experience in various applications based on Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Client/Server, N-tier architecture, Web based Technology  * Experienced and fully engaged in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes gathering and analyzing business requirements, functional/technical specifications, designing, developing, testing, deploying the applications and providing production support.  * Keen understanding and implemented experience in Waterfall and Agile(SCRUM) methodology.  * Create Controllers and Controller Actions, Action Results, Views, View Models, Html Helpers, Partial Views, Layouts Filters, Routing using ASP.NET MVC.  * Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, VB.NET, LINQ, .NET Framework, Entity Framework(EF)6.0/5.0/4.3, Web Services, Service Oriented Architecture(SOA), CSS3, Web API, Winforms, WPF, SilverLight(4.0/3.0), BootStrap, HTML5, SOAP, JQuery2.x/1.x, AngularJS1.4x.  * Proficient in developing customized behaviors using scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX and Razor Syntax.  * Good working experience in writingJQuery 2.0/1.0, AngularJS, JQuery / AngularJS AJAX based web applications to improve the response time and extensively implemented update panels, script manager and triggers.  * Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, RESTfull Services and Web API.  * Good exposure of Object Oriented analysis and design, Searching and sorting techniques, data structures and algorithms.  * Experience with code-first approach and database-first approach of EntityFramework.  * Expertise in implementing SOA architecture through WCF services which used to rapidly building service-oriented applications that communicate across the web and the enterprise with features Serialization, Vesrionsing, Interoperability and hosting.  * Solid experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) based on client side JavaScript framework AngularJS, and backbone employing ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  * Extensively used LINQ (LINQ to XML , LINQ to SQL), ADO.NET Entity Framework, ADO.NET and T-SQL in developing Data Access Layer.  * Expertise in Implementing Lambda expressions or LINQ Query Expressions for standard query operators that allow traversal, filter, and projection etc.. Operations applied to any IQueryable<T>, IEnumerable<T> different data sources.  * Experienced in building animations for desktop applications using Windows Presentation Foundation(WPF) and Extensible Application Markup Language (XAML) files in Visual Studio and Expression Blend.  * Good experience in design, modeling and development of Databases MS SQL Server (T-SQL), PL-SQL and implementation of database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions Triggers and Cursors.  * Experienced in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports for report generation, integration into .NET applications.  * Created Error and Performance Reports on SSIS Packages, Jobs, Stored procedures and Triggers.  * Experienced in Version Control Systems using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server 2012/2010/2008, GIT.  * Experience on using Azure Cloud Services and IBM MQ.  * Used Jenkins for continuous integration and JIRA for bug tracking.  * Experience working with source control tools VSS, TFS, Git.  * Experience in back- end Database programming using Oracle, MS SQL Server  * Experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, Oracle.  * Excellent Written, Verbal Communication, Analytical Skills skills with a customer service oriented attitude and worked onsite with the offshore team as coordinator to provide the update on the daily basis.</T></T> Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Developer // Front- End Developer AT&T - Redmond, WA July 2017 to Present Project: ANT (Automation Network Testing)    Application in pronghorn is where you can combine business logic and visual interfaces to solve specific business use cases. Examples of Applications might be an application to manage firewalls, or perhaps something to compare various devices on a network. It can be as complex as a large visual application that does lots of things, or as simple as a headless set of REST calls to manipulate data retrieved by pronghorn.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the web pages using Visual Studio 2015 and ASP.NET, Web forms, C# and ASP .Net Web API, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS and Angular JS.  • Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving task completion, user stories, and iterations.  • Responsible for developing the reusable Components on UI(Views) by developing the Partial Views, View starts, and reusable components for implementing the business rules with C# and OOPS Concepts.  • Implemented Partial views (user controls), Master Pages, Strongly Typed Views and Complex Views.  • Implemented MVC Architecture on client side and creating Models, Controllers, and Views Scope etc Using AngularJS Coded frontend interface with CSS3, Bootstrap and HTML5.  • Developed MVC application by using Layouts to have consistent look of and to add styles to each page in application and Involved in development of MVC 4.0/5.0 patterns for client server interaction.  • Implemented UI using AngularJS, ASP.NET MVC 4.0/5.0, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX and Kendo UI Controls to create responsive web pages, developed Layouts.  • Worked on JavaScript, JQuery with Ajax / Server calls for the client validation and to get server data.  • Converted JavaScript to JQuery, and moved server side code to client side using JQuery to speed up the website.  • Worked on Angular JS of Scopes, Models, Directives, Filters, Services, Dependency Injection, Routing and Prototyping.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components.  • Agile methodology and SCRUM for the development and Responsible for attending daily scrum meetings to accommodate client's requirements.  • Implemented Web API Services for CRUD operations with HTTP verbs GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTFULServices using Web API which return JSON data.  • Experience in MongoDB installation, patching, troubleshooting, performance, tracking/tuning, back - up and recovery in dynamic environments.  • Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Used ADO.Net extensively for database interactions using Data Reader, Data Adapter, Data view and Datasets.  • Experience in integrating databases like MongoDB, NoSQL with webpages like HTML, PHP and CSS to update, insert, delete and retrieve data with simple ad-hoc queries.  • Built WCF clients to make synchronous calls to Web Services over HTTP and SOAP.  • XML Serialization and Deserialization was used before and after data transmission.  • Responsible in developing Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Scripts, Cursors, triggers for database transactions on SQL Server 2012.  • Performed complex parameterized SQL queries to multiple tables in SQL server 2012 and implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables in Domain layer.  • Created SSIS packages for importing data from various data files/excel to the data source.  • Created complicated reports like parameter based reports, sub reports, well formatted reports, matrix reports, chart and tabular using SSRS 2008.  • Implemented Unit Testing through MS Test and created tests for all functions used in the application.  • Utilized the TFS source control software to keep track of new and past versions of code written in my application.    Environment:C#4.0, .NET 4.5, ASP.NET4.0, MVC 4.0/5.0, HTTP, ADO.NET, AJAX, TDD, Entity Framework 6.0, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery2.0/1.0, Kendo UI, TFS 2012/2010, WCF, Restful Services, SOAP, Web API, XML, Microsoft Enterprise Library, SSRS, LINQ, SSIS, Windows XP, MS Test, PL/SQL, SQL Server 2012 , IIS 7.0, VisualStudio 2015/2013/2012, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008. Sr .Net Developer / Front- End Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA January 2016 to June 2017 Project: Microsoft Merge    MERGE puts lots of options for getting there at your fingertips. You can Manage, Explore, Reserve. And Go Everywhere. Book Connector and shuttles, find routes and schedules, explore the Guaranteed Ride Home program, and Reserve and modify your Connector trips and Track shuttles in real-time.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) on .Net Framework 4/4.5 using MVC4/5, Web API, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React JS andAngular JS.  • Utilized the AngularJs directives, factory, service and filters. Created several custom directives to reuse them across the application.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement.  • Used $route Provider, $location, $route Params services to setup routing, navigate inside the angular app and $cache Factory for caching data in Angular JS.  • Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Experience in developing Html pages based on DIV layout, Web Accessibility, Web Usability and Cross browser platform.  • Architecting, design and implementing ASP.NET MVC AngularJS SPA web solutions with industry best practices and design patterns.  • Unit testing is performed by using Jasmine Framework along with chutzpah.  • Using C# as a language the candidate should have the ability to create a service hosted in Azure with published API interfaces.  • Thoroughly followed theAgile Methodology in the entire project. Participated in daily Scrum, Sprint Planning and Retrospective meetings.  • Used $http service to call Web API Get, Put, Post and Delete methods.  • Used Entity Framework code first approach to interact with SQL server database.  • Wrote SQL Queries, stored procedures and functions to handle business rules data integrity and various data transactions.  • Monitoring and Telemetry (Building Real-World Cloud Apps with Azure).  • Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, REST Services and Web API.  • Maintained code in different repositories/website locations to support application and to continue development of newfeatures.  • Created custom directives and services to reuse common functionalities across the application.  • Used TFS and Visual Studio Team Services.  • Experience in creating Single Page Application using Angular.js or React.js. Familiar with using Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Developing complex Stored procedures, UserDefinedFunction and Triggers in SQL Server 2014.  • Unit testing, debugging, problem solving and documented the whole testing phase. Sr.Net Application Developer / Front- End Developer Microsoft - Seattle, WA July 2016 to April 2017 Project: Lobby Experience    The Lobby Experience project drove an IT initiative to develop technology that would help improve the visitor experience in Microsoft lobby spaces. This technology supported two distinct components of the lobby experience: Arrive, Depart. The technology was developed in FY15 specifically for a pilot effort at a single building in the Puget Sound. For FY16 this will be scaled out at an enterprise level for multiple locations in the Puget Sound. The development of an enterprise technology solution that will be a fully scalable and supportable across all Microsoft buildings in the Puget Sound.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the web pages using Visual Studio 2015 and ASP.NET, Web forms, C# and ASP .Net Web API, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS and Angular JS.  • To develop and deliver codes for the work assigned in accordance with time quality and cost standards.  • To provide client support by presenting data, information, ticket resolution and day to day support activities like monitoring client requirements.  • Developed and Deployed Back- End DB to Azure Cloud Service.  • To interact with the Customer and internal teams to gather requirements for development purposes.  • Involved in Test Driven Development, created unit test project and written various test methods to test various MVCcontrollers before proceeding with the actual implementation.  • Developing a web application using HTML5, Bootstrap, AngularJS 2.0, C#, ASP.NetMVC, jQuery, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2013 and SQL Server 2012.  • Extensively used TFS Command line and Power shell for automation.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Experience in developing Html pages based on DIV layout, Web Accessibility, Web Usability and Cross browser platform.  • Designed the CSS framework for the application using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Work as an application developer on the .Net Plot form, Standard and Visual Studio Ultimate Edition.  • Experience in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Extensively used/modified jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Worked on developing a financial application system to handle all the bank transactions using SQL, PL/SQL on Windows environment.  • Followed Dependency InjectionDesign patterns in AngularJS.  • Created Restful services using ASP.NET Web API for exposing these to mobile device Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and documentation of assigned modules.  • Critically analyzing application performance and suggesting improvements where appropriate.  • Analyzing changes to design specifications and determine the application impact utilizing designpatterns and existing code where applicable to incorporate and test new requirements.  • Analyzing and fixing logged application defects, comparing the system behavior to the design specifications.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Created reports using Crystal Reports with Standard, Summary, Cross Tabs, SQL, Command Objects, Selection Criteria, grouping, sub reports etc.  • Created Restful services using ASP.NET Web API for exposing these to mobile device.  • Create various data objects in Azure databases to maintain user specific data.  • Experience in Managing SQL server using Power Shell scripts.  • Extensive experience in XML and Web Services, WCF services, Restful services.  • Strong in Classic ASP/SQL Server web apps developing C# ASP.NET skills and SOAP/XML.  • Creating and maintaining unit tests for application functionality.    Environment:C# 4.5, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET MVC 4.0/5.0, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, ADO.NET, VB.NET 7, Entity Framework 6.0/4.0, WCF, Web API, IIS 7.0, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, TFS 2010, XML, LINQ, NUNIT, BootStrap, AngularJS, Microsoft Enterprise Library, SSIS, SQL Server 2012/2008 R2, SSRS, Windows XP, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008, SSRS, SSIS, SQLServer 2012. Sr.Net Application Developer Blast Radius - Chicago, IL September 2014 to December 2015 Project: ISACA    ISACA is an Independent, Nonprofit, Global association, engages in the Development, adoption and use of globally accepted, Industry-leading knowledge and practices for information systems. ISACA is the voice of the information systems audit, IT governance, risk management and cyber security professions. By offering industry-leading knowledge, standards, credentialing and education, ISACA enables professionals to apply technology in ways that instill confidence, address threats, drive innovation and create positive momentum for their organizations.  Re-Designed ISACA Website Using .Net Tools such as C#, ASP.Net, Web API Site core CMS (Content Management System), Site core MVC etc.,    Responsibilities:  • Developed the web pages using Visual Studio 2015 and ASP.NET, web forms, C# and ASP .Net Web API, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed enhanced web pages using MVC 5.0.  • Experience in designing and development of applications using MVC design patterns including Controller Actions, View Engine, HTML Helper methods, Entity Framework Model.  • Used Razor view engine to render view into Html form to the browser.  • Involved in creating various Site core items like Templates, Layouts, Renderings and Content.  • Used jQuery for client-side validations and Improved performance by extensively coding with JavaScript libraries for Client-side validations to eliminate round trip to the server.  • Used TFS and Git Hub for Version control.  • Designed and developed UI layers using ASP.NET MVC 4, Razor Views using Visual Studio 2013 and .NET framework 4.5.  • Created different Angular directives which are used across the different templates in the Single Page application.  • Use Window Azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session.  • Implemented functionality of building different screens, menus and controls using Sitecore CMS.  • Designed Web Forms using different ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controls, and other third-party controls.  • Involved in integrating .Net controls into Site Core.  • Design and developed the Services API Layer with using ASP.Net Web API (MVC Framework) following the Rest API standards and returns the JSON data to Presentation tier.  • Used jQuery to navigate to different pages of the application using DOM elements, and to create AJAX pages.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Creating controllers and views and passing the models to controllers from WCF.  • Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications.  • Created Restful Web API's to expose the analytics data to the clients.  • Thoroughly followed theAgile Methodology in the entire project. Participated in daily Scrum, Sprint Planning and Retrospective meetings.  • Designed and developed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js 2.0, Knockout.js and Bootstrap.  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript Ajax, jQuery and Type Script extensively used Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.    Environment:Visual Studio 2015, .Net Framework 4.5, Azure, MVC 5.0, Entity Framework 6, Site Core CMS (Content Management), C#, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Kendo UI, Knockout, AJAX, Type Script, REST API, Web API, SQL Server 2014/Oracle, Windows 7. Sr .NET Developer Kantar Media - West Chester, PA August 2013 to July 2014 Project: Customer Service Collections    Kantar is home to some world's leading research, data and insight companies. Kantar Media provides strategic advice and competitive intelligence to the world's leading brands, publishers, and agencies helping them navigate and succeed in multimedia industry. This includes analysis of paid media opportunities, brand reputations, corporate management and consumer engagement through media and evaluating broad range of insights from audience. SRDS.com connects you to access different media types like Print, Digital, National, Local, Direct Marketing, Out of Home Events, Consumer and Business Magazines, Radio, TV & Cable Media etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) on .Net Framework 4/4.5 using ASP .NET MVC4/5, ASP .Net Web API, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Angular JS.  • Extensively used Angular JSon frontend. Utilized the Angular JS directives, factory, service and filters. Created severalcustom directives to reuse them across the application.  • Designed the application using an MVC architecture that promotes a clear separation of presentation, business logic and data access tiers.  • Implemented client-side validation using JavaScript, jQuery.  • Database first Approach to create Entity Models for the solution in C# using Entity framework 6.  • Experience in architecture, design and development of Client-Server and Distributed Web Applications with ASP.NET MVC 5.  • Developed web pages for the application using Asp.Net MVC 5, Asp.Net Web API, J Query, Angular Js, Type Script, CSS, HTML 5, and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Involved in migrating ASP.NET Web forms project to ASP.NET MVC.  • Using C# as a language the candidate should have the ability to create a service hosted in Azure with published WEBAPI interfaces, call web services located in EY from the Azure environment, ability to create user pages in Share point, and then make the SP page call the authentication service.  • Responsible to improve the responsiveness of the overall application using HTML5, Angular Js.  • Thoroughly followed theAgile Methodology in the entire project. Participated in daily Scrum, Sprint Planning and Retrospective meetings.  • Developing complex Storedprocedures, UserDefinedFunction and Triggers in SQL Server 2014.  • Created Directives to reduce the complexity of user interface design.  • Good Knowledge in Relational Database Management Systems like Main Frame and SQL Server.  • Developed Business tier to communicate with Data Tier.  • Design and develop rich user interfaces with HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript.  • Used Sub Version for Version Control in team environment.  • Unit testing, debugging, problem solving and documented the whole testing phase.    Environment:Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 4.5, MVC 4, Azure, Entity Framework 6, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL Server 2014/Oracle, Web Forms, WEB API, Type Script, Windows 7, Sub Version. Net Programmer Excel Gyan - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to June 2013 This is a Human Resources application, which consists of more than 4 branch offices and a central repository at the head office. The system automates the company's activities including recruitment, transfer of employees, promotion, demotion, retirement, leave management, salary raise, time and attendance management and overall performance evaluation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development process, established the goals of the application, data collection and analyzing the data as well as business flow.  • Used Agile Extreme Programming (XP) methodology as the software development process in building this application.  • Used Microsoft Visio for designing UML Diagrams.  • Designed and developed .NET applications usingASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Creating user interface using ASP.NET Web Forms and controls.  • Used validation controls and data-grid controls extensively.  • Worked with ADO.NET to access database objects and developed data layer for the application.  • Implemented Business logic and User Controls using C#.NET.  • Responsible for writing and calling Web Services by adding web references to the application.  • The backend, database connectivity modules were designed using ADO.NET with SQLServer as the database.  • Involved in writing complex queries using Inner Joins and Outer Joins.  • Involved in client interaction for the change requests and follow-ups.  • Assist test team in understanding and setting up the environment.  • Developed several reports for various functional requirements using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services).  • Involved in writing Custom Exception Handlers by inheriting the Exception class to handle specific exceptions and display relevant messages to the end users.  • Implemented the Incremental testing plan on the components developed using features of TRACE and DEBUG classes in .NET.    Environment: .Net Framework 2.0, Visual Studio.NET 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, Jquery, SQL Server 2005, ADO.NET, Web Services, XML, HTML, CSS, VBScript, JavaScript, T-SQL, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Visual Source Safe, Windows Server 2003. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (7 years), ASP (7 years), ASP.NET (7 years), C# (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C# .NET, C, C++, VB.NET  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC6.0/5.0/4.0/3.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX  3.0/2.0, Angular JS, JQuery, Web Services, VB Script.  Xml Technologies: XML  IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2015/2012/2010/2008, SQL Server Management Studio, Sql Server Management R2  .Net Frameworks: MS.Net Framework 4.5/.4.0/3.5/3.0  Databases: Ms SQLServer 2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MS Access, Oracle11g/10g/9i/8i  Reporting Tools: MS Access, MS Excel, Crystal reports 9.0, SSIS, SSRS  Modeling Tools: UML, MS Visio 2010/2007, MS Office  Version Control Tools: Team Foundation Server(2012/2010/2008), Visual Safe Source, GIT  Middleware: WCF, ADO.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, Enterprise Library 5.0/4.0/3.1  Servers: Windows Server 2008/2003/NT,Microsoft IIS(7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0)