Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Seattle, WA Experienced Front End Developer with 4 years of work experience in structuring, developing, and implementing websites, innovative use of technology and SEO to drive traffic and engage users. Efficiently completed projects and satisfied consumers with attractive, user friendly websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Infoway Solutions LLC August 2016 to October 2016 Created a Facebook mobile application by using Facebook's API and AngularJS to utilize Facebook authentication as well as extracted user data, fetched and created Facebook posts.  ? Designed and developed PubNub real-time chat application using AngularJS and PubNub data streaming API so that users can create channels, store and publish chats. Front End Developer Touchstone Pvt Ltd January 2013 to May 2014 Designed and developed dynamic browser compatible UI interface for online shopping portal called edabba.com campaign for India and Middle East using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript  ? Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events.  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implemented Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries.  ? Provided technical support to other web design team members  ? Managed the daily content related to activities for HDFC Bank websites such as payment functionality of the UI. Front End Developer Epigram Pvt Ltd January 2012 to September 2012 Worked one-on-one with clients to develop layout, color scheme for their websites and implemented it into a final interface design using HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript  ? Designed & developed User Interface for various genres of clients such as medical, educational software & entertainment.  ? Specialized in sites for new range of products and worked on various elements including online video commercials, product calendar, payment methods, gift vouchers.  ? Created and edited blog content & online marketing materials. Front End Developer Red Ark Pvt Ltd March 2011 to August 2011 Identified and collected design elements for forthcoming campaigns and web projects of Pfizer.  ? Recommended an action plan to resolve site development related problems or changes that might impact product offerings, branding and promotional efforts Junior Front End Developer Digital Driftwood Pvt Ltd May 2008 to November 2008 Developed the front- end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits like YAHOO USER INTERFACE(YUI).  ? Reduced the project time by 35% by implementing various site development strategies that improved technical performance.  ? Achieved an appreciation letter from the client for outstanding performance Education Master's in Information Systems Seattle Pacific University Master's in Information Systems - Seattle, WA 2015 to 2017 Master's in Business Administration Griffith University - Gold Coast QLD 2009 to 2011 Bachelors of Commerce in Commerce Mumbai University Skills AngularJS (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Javascript (4 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS3 (6 years), bootstrap (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS  TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML5  CSS3  JavaScript & JQuery  Bootstrap  Ajax  Angular.JS  GitHub  SQL  CONTENT SKILLS  Writing & Editing  Google Analytics  DESIGN SKILLS  Photoshop  Flash  Photoediting & Retouching