Security Research Analyst Security Research Analyst Security Research Analyst - SiteLock Security Experienced, well rounded IT professional with a passion for learning.  Excels in an environment where problem solving skills are key to success.  Excellent communication, troubleshooting and interpersonal skills.    Authorized to work in the US for any employer. Work Experience Security Research Analyst SiteLock Security November 2018 to Present I work with a small team of highly experienced Security Researchers to identify trends in malware and remain the thought leaders in web application security. My daily tasks include locating and decoding malicious code to identify trends. Create passthru style detection signatures base on ClamAV's software. Once a trend is identified, I create clean signatures in Regular Expression to automate the removal of malware from live web applications. Our small team maintains a data base of over 10 million signatures, the largest in our industry. Aside from my daily tasks, I am responsible for maintaining a database which collects log files from over 25 thousand server shards to compile digestible and usable data enabling the company to predict volume trends days before they occur. Security Analyst/Team Lead SiteLock Security September 2017 to November 2018 Responsible for leading a team of IT Professionals to perform live and static vulnerability assessments on web applications of various platforms; Analyze compromised web applications to both identify and remove malicious code from applications; Identify and patch cross site scripting and SQL injection vulnerabilities; Developed an internal training website with video training on various subjects; Developed SiteLock Scholars to mentor candidates interested in growing in the web application security field; Developed more advanced and practical use training modules to standardize, strengthen and grow junior associates; Lead on creating and implementing a Sprint/Agile process for developing tools to reduce the level of effort needed to clean applications; Current project manager in the sprint process working to identify inefficient workflow processes, identify low risk/high gain tools to eliminate them; Currently responsible for administration and maintenance on various internal servers which comprise the current CRM and the SECCON department server; Business Owner/Web Developer/Dev Ops Tech X Pro July 2017 to July 2018 Organized and coordinated with a team of IT and Marketing Professionals to develop customized web applications to suit client needs; Experience with WordPress, WooCommerce and others; Experience with PHP, HTML, CSS and BASH; Experience with LAMP stacks. Front End Web Developer January 2017 to March 2018 Worked closely with business owners to create marketing goals and strategies; also worked closely with clients to develop their website while following closely to SEO friendly guidelines. Software Support Engineer IPRO Tech March 2017 to August 2017 Certified Administrator for Automated Digital Discovery; Supported enterprise level networks and software that spanned over many machines; Maintained tickets in a ticketing system; Experience with networking and services. Systems Administrator GoDaddy June 2014 to January 2017 Maintained enterprise level Windows/Linus systems; Performed day to day operations including monitoring, resolving, escalating issues for all server platforms, environments, applications and configuration; Patching systems with latest security patches; Performed expert troubleshooting on DNS and web servers; Shell scripts to automate virtualized server setup; Cron Scripts to automate web server maintenance. Education High Tech Institute - Phoenix, AZ June 2004 to July 2005 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, SCRIPTING, MYSQL, LINUX, WORDPRESS, Microsoft Office, SQL, Security, training Links http://linkedin.com/in/Marciano-travis-ballestero-3789a856 Additional Information SKILLS    ? LINUX  ? MYSQL  ? PYTHON  ? SCRIPTING  ? SOLARIS  ? PHP  ? WORDPRESS  ? JAVASCRIPT  ? HTML