Web/ UI Developer Web/ UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web/ UI Developer - Bridge2Solutions Inc Atlanta, GA • Overall 8+ years of experience in creating web and mobile applications using the web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, XML and AJAX.  • Extensive knowledge in DOM (Document Object Model) and AJAX to create interactive/dynamic feature WebPages.  • Strong knowledge in Object oriented JavaScript.  • Expertise writing semantic, modular front end code using HTML5 and CSS3 more effectively.  • Extensive experience building application using AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQueryUI, CSS, Bootstap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  • Experience developing SPA (Single Page Application) using AngularJS and Backbone JS.  • Experience in using various jQueryUI controls and corresponding event handlers etc.  • Build Responsive Web applications using CSS3 Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, LESS to make the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices.  • Experience in developing Internet facing web and mobile application with cross OS/Browser support.  • Strong Experience in Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Optimized HTML and JavaScript code to reduce web page loading time. Also worked with QA team for cross browser testing, loading and performance checking.  • Good knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), flow chart, class diagrams, User Diagram, activity and sequence diagrams.  • Understanding user requirements, mapping them to system requirements and doing changes in the project as required.  • Performed troubleshooting to identify software performance issues.  • Ability to work independently and assume complete responsibility of work.  • Comprehensive knowledge of all phases of SDLC. Used Agile and Waterfall methodologies for various projects.  • Used version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  • Worked with senior developers to correct issues with the current applications and collaborated with senior software engineers on more complex projects.  • Confident and effective written and verbal communication skills.  • Hard working, self-motivated, innovative and passionate about technology Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web/ UI Developer Bridge2Solutions Inc - Alpharetta, GA December 2016 to Present Bridge2 Solutions is a leading marketing solutions platform providing innovative marketing and fulfillment solutions to leading financial institutions, loyalty programs and Fortune 500 companies. I have worked on as a Front End developer. These applications features include travel related search for Flights, Hotels, Car, Cruise and Vacations.  • Creating exciting and interactive user interfaces on both the web and mobile web using AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented client side validation for portals using AngularJS Forms and controls to reduce the validations on server side.  • Used AngularJS $http, $q services to perform AJAX requests and to enable communication between views and server.  • Create interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and jQuery/jQueryUI.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like test driven development, scum, and pair programming.  • Applied jQueryUI autocomplete to improve searching and filtering.  • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.  • Part of review team to suggest design solutions, make recommendations for the integration of new technologies, and resolve integration issues.  • Designed Responsive layouts using Bootstrap and help maintain live style guide for CSS3 based reusable components extending Bootstrap.  • Design page into Responsive Web Design with grid-based layouts utilizing Media Queries targeting various devices like mobile, tablets, and desktop.  • Used the Angular UI route to organize the pages. Used Angular filter to display sorted data.  • Implemented reusable components for better maintenance by adding custom AngularJS directives, filters and services.  • Experience in create wireframes and adobe Photoshop for UI mock-ups for review with the end users.  • Designed custom reports and charts using D3 and C3 libraries for various applications.  • Solid understanding of MVC and ability to write clean, concise, maintainable code.  • Involved in updating the pages using HTML5 and CSS3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3 effects to enhance user experience as per the user requirements.  • Implement the complete SDLC with Agile process.  • Worked on different version control systems like SVN, GIT. UI Developer Rate Genius, Huston, TX June 2015 to October 2016 RateGenius is the leader in the lending industry, dedicated to the well-being of their customers, working with lenders to get the best rate and most savings.  • Gathered and investigated the necessities and changed over them into user requirement specifications and functional requirement specifications for the designers and developers to comprehend them according to their viewpoint.  • Developed the user interactive web pages in an expert way with the use of jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 according to client requirement.  • Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different palaces.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows Agile methodology.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, and AJAX.  • Actively utilized JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to make interactive web application like auto complete validation.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS and MVC framework for data access.  • Has worked on AngularJS which combine web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Used CSS3 make attractive user interface application.  • Used jQuery plug in for drag and drop, widgets, menus, user interface and forms functionality.  • Implement jQuery based Ajax request using jQuery.get or jQuery.Ajax.  • Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depend on the user interactions.  • Debug the application using firebug to traverse the document.  • Involved in testing and fixing bugs.  • Write readable, maintainable and efficient code.  Environment: HMTL5, JavaScript, jQuery, C#.Net, AJAX, JSON, CSS3, AngularJS, SVN. Front End Developer Barclays - New York, NY March 2013 to March 2015 This tool is designed to help internal support team and application teams to monitor and live status of all middleware servers and domains. Dashboard module displays server details like servers running or stopped, server CPU, memory usage, list of servers under domain, link to admin console, and displays exception details if occurred etc. Key Performance Indicator module displays KPI usage for different services like BusinessWorks, ActiveMatrix BPM, Business Events, Informatica and Composite. Enterprise and Data Integration Portal module contains composite pages for all services under Enterprise and Data Integration and deploy those pages on Barclays Live Weblogic Servers.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Developed Web Java/J2EE application (JSP, EJB) using Struts/Tomcat/Xerces for Sybase, JBuilder.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Experience in Web development with JavaScript, Dojo, JQuery, JSP, XML, and HTML.  • Developed Broker Administration UI as SPA (Single Page Application) with JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML5, and CSS.  • Designed Frontend with JavaScript Framework in Angular.js and jQuery.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Used Perl, Php and MySql to develop several web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Implemented in web development with help of DOJO to achieve one stop approach.  • Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQLServer Database.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Proficient use of developing applications using Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans and ANT.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies project management site and Mercurial.  • Design and Develop programs in C/C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Have used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Code development using PL/I, COBOL, JCL and DB2.  • Developed using VB, Asp, C/C++, some java, javascript, vbscript, SQL, ADO record sets.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository.  • Design, Implement and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper.  • Involved in the development of Services using Oracle BPM, WSDL and XSD.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  • Troubleshooted issues concerning Apache Tomcat during deployment.  • Moved Application from Solaris to LinuxRedHat for system benchmark.  • Responsible SAS reports, analysis using SAS macros in UNIX operating system.  • Used Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript.  • Developed multiple web applications using Drupal, Zend Framework.  • Design and implement existing and new website features using ASP.Net.    Technologies: Java, Swing, WebSphere, Node.js, Angular.js, DB2, Netbeans, Jboss, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP , Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBMMq Series, Apachi Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby Wordpress, Drupal , .Net , ASP, C++, Mainframe, COBOL , PL/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP Java Developer AT&T Inc - New York, NY October 2011 to January 2013 is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States,and also provides broadband subscription television services through DirecTV; combined with AT&T's legacy U-verse service, this also makes AT&T the largest pay television operator.  • Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  • Used MS Visio to come up with the required diagrams for the design part.  • Developed and designed Interfaces using Swings.  • Used Event Handlers to perform the required functionality of the events.  • Implemented the statistics like UNIVARIATE, CORRELATION, REGRESSION etc using JAVA classes and methods.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Involved in developing business components using POJO.  • Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot WebLogic.  • Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  • Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Involved in writing client side validations using Java Script.  • Troubleshooting WebLogic Server.  • The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back- end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.js.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed the Portlet Web Interface using Ajax, JSF.  • Defined ExtJS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using ExtJS and Sencha Architecte.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular.js and Bootstrap.js and using Subversion for version control.  • Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  • Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application  • Development/Deployment of jar files into ILOGRule builder.  • Design, Implement and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper.  • Involved in the development of Services using Oracle BPM, WSDL and XSD.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  • Troubleshooted issues concerning Apache Tomcat during deployment.  • Moved Application from Solaris to LinuxRedHat for system benchmark.  • Responsible SAS reports, analysis using SAS macros in UNIX operating system.  • Used Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript.  • Developed multiple web applications using Drupal, Zend Framework.  • Design and implement existing and new website features using ASP.Net.    Technologies: JAVA (Swings), JDBC, Web Service, Spring, Java, EJB, Java Script, Weblogic, Hibernate, Log4j, Ant script, TOAD, Putty, WinScp, Net Beans and Oracle Net Beans IDE, MS Visio, Oracle, JUnit. Software Developer Teaneck, NJ March 2009 to September 2011 Pitch is a pluggable product to different CRM systems. Mainly targeted to sales personnel to deliver targeted marketing messages, design and conduct a sales cycle customized to organization's business work flow and even measure user interaction and content usage metrics via an integrated analytics data engine. Pitch currently supporting for Exchange, SharePoint, Dropbox and Salesforce. Main features are offline access to documents and appointments.    • Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQLServer database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.js.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed the Portlet Web Interface using Ajax, JSF.  • Defined ExtJS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using ExtJS and Sencha Architecte.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular.js and Bootstrap.js and using Subversion for version control.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US Skills AJAX (6 years), Bootstrap (7 years), JavaScript (8 years), jQuery (8 years), Subversion (6 years), Front End, Angular, UI, Angularjs, User Interface, React, Front-End, Java Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX,C,C#,.Net  Libraries and Framework jQuery, angular.js, Handlebar.js, Node.js, Require.js, Bootstrap, D3, C3  IDE's and Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, Webstrom, Sublime Text  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop, Axure RP  Version Control and CMS Subversion (SVN), GIT  Server Environment Java/ J2EE, JSP, PHP, REST  Databases and Tools SQL, MySQL, Oracle10g, MS Access    Operating Systems MAC OS X, Linux, Unix, DOS, Windows