Front- End Developer/Support Specialist - Wand Support <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Support Specialist - Wand Support Minneapolis, MN I am a self-taught front- end developer. I focus on writing clean and efficient code. I am proficient in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap. Over the past year, I have worked with my Wand Corporation in building responsive digital content. Work Experience Front- End Developer/Support Specialist - Wand Support Eden Prairie, MN December 2018 to Present 55344  • Worked with a team of developers to resolve front- end and CSS issues.  • Developed production ready, cross browser and frontend development.  • Excellent telephone skills and good ability to use Remote Access.  • Turn design pages and components into HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Good customer-service skills.  • Patient and able to walk customers through troubleshooting and repair process.  • Assisted the System Engineer in debugging HTML products in the company. Army Pilot Minnesota National Guard - Saint Paul, MN March 2014 to December 2018 55107  • Pilot, Navigate and communicate under combat and non combat conditions.  • Operate aircraft in all types of weather conditions during the day and night, and under night-vision systems.  • Perform aerial route, zone and/or area reconnaissance in support of combat operations.  • Routinely participate in real-time and training operations that include combat, combat support or combat service support operations.  • Perform administrative or liaison missions to transport passengers, mail or cargo. Maintain aviator flight requirements according to current aircraft Aircrew Training Manual. 47D/F Helicopter Mechanic Minnesota National Guard - Saint Paul, MN March 2012 to March 2014 55107  • Perform routine and scheduled maintenance tasks, including: inspecting aircraft for discrepancies, corrosion detection and quality control  • Apply information from operating manuals, publications and diagrams when troubleshooting and for routine, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance.  • As the assistant platoon sergeant, gained leadership experience by ensuring soldiers adhered to the Company standard operating procedures; assigning duties to soldiers based on skill level; and resolving any conflicts. Skills Visual studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Front End, Front-End, CSS3, Bootstrap