UI Developer /Angular Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer /Angular Developer - Staples Inc Boston, MA • 6+ Years of hands-on experience in web designing and User Interface Development/ Front End User Interface using Web Technologies.  • Sound working knowledge on web development and UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NgRx, jQuery, Angular 2/4, React JS, Node JS and AJAX.  • Experience with creating prototypes/wireframes of websites from PSD images and working with CSS pre-processors LESS and SASS.  • Has good understanding and knowledge with implementing Web services with SOAP and REST.  • Hands-on experience of Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern in designing and developing modern single page applications (SPA) in Angular.js.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML.  • Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), Flow Chart, Class Diagrams, User Diagram, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Worked closely with information architects, developers and others to produce a team driven product that lead to top notch user experience.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Knowledge on relational databases, schema, views, triggers, procedures, functions, query chaining, joins, with also an understanding of NoSQL databases and big data.  • Developed Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using jQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Integrated social media and other content, along with E-commerce and related services, throughout the user experience.  • Close communication with other development teams that included and front- end designers to ensure that the user interface remained true to spirit in all aspects.  • Actively involved in SCRUM meetings discussing the requirements, integration of modules and best developmental practices for solution.  • Have profound expertise in designing and deploying rich Internet/Intranet based web applications with ASP.Net and SQL with MVC based development.  • Developed POC on Angular 2/4 components and templates for the application.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills including polished presentation skills.  • Experience in third party libraries like Ng Prime, Angular Material Design.  • Experience in Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques to develop web applications.  • Utilized testing tools Karma (Unit tests), Jasmine and Protractor ( End-to- End testing).  • Efficient Management of Jira for bug & issue tracking.  • Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision possessing excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills. Work Experience UI Developer /Angular Developer Staples Inc - Boston, MA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on web applications from scratch using angular 2/4 to develop single page application.  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Execution of legacy ruby automation test cases in the CI/CD pipeline  • Build the infrastructure and continuously improved the build infrastructure for DevOps engineering, there by implementing scalable infrastructure.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Web pack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Extensively worked on the CI/CD tools such as Jenkins, Git, gradle, and Maven, created workflows in Jenkins.  • Troubleshooting any operational issues in the CI/CD pipeline  • Performed CRUD operations in the MongoDB/database.  • Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for various environments and worked on Kubernetes environment.  • Managed Docker orchestration and Docker containerization using Kubernetes.    • Used Kubernetes to orchestrate then deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine, Kubernetes, Docker. Web/UI Developer/ Reactjs Developer Guild Mortage - San Diego, CA May 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone Js, React Js, Redux and Ajax.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Typescript and Angular js, created HTML navigation menu.  • Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involves investigation of the AngularJS UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods.  • Hands on experience while migrating the Application from Angular Js to Angular 4.  • Built Reactjs modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file up loader.  • Worked with the development team, involved in creating MVW (Web API) to implement ReactJs framework for client side rendering to optimize the front- end.  • Created Reactjs directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Implemented Reactjs client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back- end.  • Developed Reactjs pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the applications used in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used Reactjs in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual.  • Involved in Test Driven Development with Unit and Integration Testing of the Application.  • Incorporated MVC architecture using spring framework.  • Incorporated ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a Spring Framework & Hibernate.  • Performed regression testing, wrote unit test cases using JUnit.  • Implemented Ajax to create highly optimized, browser-compliant JavaScript and HTML.  • Implemented the Persistence Layer and Data Access Service Layer using Hibernate and HQL queries.  • Used Concurrent Versioning System (CVS) as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate.  • Used Agile Methodology for development process.  • JavaScript used for the Client side validation.  • AJAX used for the Asynchronous data populating on pages.  • Developed logging & debugging modules which writes to the application log file.  • Node-powered workflow and build system involving gulp, webpack, PostCSS, and other tools.  • Used Maven for the build and deployment process and overall project management.  • Documented the application for the new features and functionalities.  • Used Grunt, Gulp, Web pack as debugging tools.    Environment: Java1.6, Angular js, Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 3.1, JSP, Servlets, UNIX, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 0.3, Eclipse, AJAX, XML, Restful Web Services, SQL, Maven, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Node JS, Windows7, SQL Developer, CVS. UI Developer /Angular Developer US Bank - Minneapolis, MN March 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Supported production and performed troubleshooting to resolve bugs.  • Engaged in Agile methodologies of Scrum for software development.  • Work in a collaborative effort to evaluate, edit, enhance, format, or delete current static pages associated with the agency external web site.  • Stored all the static content in CMS (Drupal), with the help of web services got the content and displayed on the web browser.  • Trained other programmer of Application Architecture and work flow.  • Worked to develop a fully responsive theme for Drupal using CSS and Drupal Theming techniques.  • Proficient in working with AngularJS to create Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular1.5 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management  • Angular routing for html page to add the template.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like AngularJS.  • Code Reviews for every Screen and new functionality.  • Used Angular JS to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Experience with source control tools like GitHub and JIRA.  • Having good knowledge with AWS Cloud system and data security implementations.  • Used Angular.JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with Java Web services.  • Good knowledge on Maintaining continuous integration and continuous Deployment AWS Code Deploy.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked closely with tester for Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AngularJS 1.5, GitHub, AWS, Maven, Git, MVC, Mongo, Agile methodology and Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, NodeJS, Drupal, Java Spring boot, LESS CSS, IntelliJ IDE, Sublime Text, Windows. Front end Developer TEAQ Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete Agile Scrum methodology and User Interface web development in accordance with requirement.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS, and jQuery, AngularJS.  • Worked with business system analysts & Backend team to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Maintaining the dynamic and secure websites and web-based applications, including widgets, and templates.  • Built the Responsive Web pages using Bootstrap and Media queries to support various kinds of devices.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5 and CSS3.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, and CSS layouts.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Developed various customized views and templates using Handlebars, JavaScript, HTML.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS Framework.  • Developed Web Application to replace the existing and legacy Website using Angular JS Framework.  • Angular JS created Custom directives for data manipulations.  • Created Angular JS controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Designed various routing mechanisms and Implemented $http functionality in AngularJS in order to AngularJS retrieve data from web servers.  • Used Jasmine to test Angular.js controller by built test cases.  • Using Npm and bower front- end package manager to install and handle all the packages.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.    Environment: XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, Eclipse, Agile Methodology. Web Developer Byte alpha solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to August 2013 Front end developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed programs to port the xml data to the database to make the website XML driven.  • Story board design and multiple role web authentication.  • Worked with CSS Selectors, classes, pseudo classes, and Inheritance and cascade concepts.  • Used CSS to embed the online videos for product introduction.  • Developed UI using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans for Web development.  • Implemented Caching, Session State, Cookie Management, view state, POST and GET techniques.  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Worked with several jQuery plugins to make Rich Internet Applications to look intuitive.  • Built dynamic e-mails by using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in debugging the Java code to understand the interaction between modules in the project.  • Used AJAX, JSON along with jQuery to request data and response processing.  • Usage of Dependency Injection, DOM manipulation, Directive and Module design.  • Developed applications for the web site in certain media sections.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews and functional testing.  • Good knowledge in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Providing best marketing strategies to land the websites on the best results in the search engines.  • Experience in participating support calls and war rooms for the systems failure.  • Designed XML files to maintain contents like video, images, audio and display them in flash application.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Optimizing the website using search strategies like link building, online submissions, social bookmarking.  • Usage of AJAX programming to interface with MYSQL database.  • Making website GUI design by using Twitter Bootstrap.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, DOM, XHTML, Twitter Bootstrap, MYSQL. Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Web Technologies HTML-4,5, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, React JS, JSON, CSS-2,3, XML, Angular JS, Node JS and Twitter Bootstrap  Databases NoSQL, SQL server and MongoDB  Software Lifecycle Methodologies Waterfall, Iterative, Agile and Scrum  Version Controls GitHub, SVN  Architectures REST, MVC  Build Tools Grunt, Gulp  Defect Tracking, Analysis and Testing Jira, Karma and Protractor  Server-Side Technologies PHP and C#  Operating Systems Windows, Linux