Java front- end developer Java <span class="hl">front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java front- end developer - Amobee Sterling, VA ? Around 7 Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  ? Experience in developing using Java/J2EE, TypeScript HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring Framework, Structs, JSON, JSP/Servletsand Angular6.  ? Proficient in Angular6 Templates, Directives, Routing, Navigation, Components, Services and Data Binding.  ? Good understanding on latest approaches in HTML5/CSS3 development, JavaScript Frameworks jQuery.  ? Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Animations, Text, Borders, Margin, Padding, and Table.  ? Proficiency on Responsive Web design using Custom CSS, Bootstrap, cross browser and adapt to the changing environment.  ? Expertise with jQuery UI in building more responsive and interactive web pages using Widgets, Interactions, Effects and Utilities ? Good Knowledge in working with the Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  ? Experience with Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Micro-Services.  ? Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Working experience in Version Control Management using TortoiseSVN, GitHub and TFS.  ? Experience with Postman and Fiddler for API testing to verify the CRUD operations.  ? Hands on experience in front- end Unit Testing such as Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai and Integration testing tool for Angular.  ? Has the motivation to take independent responsibility and be a productive team member, accompanying a strong programming and analytical background. Work Experience Java front- end developer Amobee - Champaign, IL August 2017 to Present Description: AmobeeInc., a marketing technology company, provides platform-based video, mobile, display, and TV advertising solutions for agencies and brands worldwide. The company offers Amobee INK, a cloud-based and cross device audience targeting technology that addresses the limitations of the antiquated cookie and other solutions that rely on a single-ID for audience targeting; Amobee Impact that features a range of mobile and cross device advertising formats that deliver consumer engagement; and Amobee Brand Intelligence that provides monitoring of brand and product market position, related trends and sentiment, ecosystem, and relevant consumer interests using real-time and historical data from across the digital ecosystem.  Related Technical Skills: VS Code, Eclipse, Angular6, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSP, Postman, Java/J2EE, Mocha, JSON, JIRA, GIT, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, AJAX, Maven, Fiddler.  Responsibilities ? Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  ? Developed various features in Angular6 like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements. Used the http services in Angular6 to make REST API calls and exchange data in JSON.  ? Implemented classes, interfaces and methods, constructors and objects definitions using TypeScript.  ? Utilized Observables to handle asynchronized requests. Implemented customized Angular pipes and directives.  ? Utilized Angular router module to build the navigation for the single page application through different modules and components.  ? Utilized Angular6, HTML5, CSS3 to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  ? Refactor & adapt legacy code base into Angular6 framework.  ? Designed interactive web pages with front end screens using HTML and CSS technology for the e-statement server as per the requirements.  ? Performed MVC design pattern (Strategy, Dependency Injection, Factory, Singleton) for designing application, JSP and CSS as the view component.  ? Utilized AJAX for developing asynchronous web applications on client side.  ? Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  ? Designed and developed Micro services using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with Angular6 in creating the Application.  ? Utilized Fiddler to test the Rest API.  ? Wrote Unit Test cases for Angular6 with help of Mocha testing framework.  ? Developing automated Build files using Maven and GIT for version controlling.  ? Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals. Front- end developer HelpSystems - Minneapolis, MN March 2016 to July 2017 Description: HelpSystems Insite helps to create dashboards and share them with groups or individuals. Users can knock down even more walls and achieve a holistic view of users' business by pulling in data from other systems alongside IT operations information. This can include dashboards for forecasts, inventory levels, sales, churn, or other important metrics. It helps manage, configure, authorize, and deploy software across IT organization, navigating between connected products with a single interface. It's easy to connect HelpSystems Insite with organization using standard authentication methods and role-based access.    Related Technical Skills: AngularJS, Java/J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring MVC, JIRA, Agile(SCRUM), Mocha, Spring Boot and Eclipse.  Responsibilities ? Designed layouts on the front- end and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript.  ? Using AngularJS Router to build single page application for navigate through the different models and components.  ? Utilized AngularJS created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations and to display data.  ? Used UI Bootstrap for creating dynamic user interface using AngularJS ? Built the front- end validations and utilized dynamic two-way binding of AngularJS.  ? Created Page Layout Using HTML semantic elements, and established engineering practice of front- end development using modern design patterns including responsive and adaptive web design using CSS.  ? Worked with the Bootstrap Grid structure and the CSS media queries to make the application responsive.  ? Created custom factory service that relies on Angular $http injection to make AJAX calls back to a server and used Restful web services to update and modify data at the server side.  ? Developed MVC Controllers and deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using Spring MVC. Created Restful web services to get the response in front end for online transaction.  ? Utilized Mocha Framework to create test suites for unit testing the UI.  ? Performed JIRA for tracking and bug management.  ? Followed Agile methodology (SCRUM) during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups. Front- end developer KeyedIn Solutions - Bloomington, MN November 2014 to February 2016 Description:KeyedInProjects provides an orderly, repeatable structure for the prioritization and selection of the right projects to achieve business objectives, goals and strategy. It ensures users receive complete visibility into project progress and status at the different project levels within organization. Easily configure users own project hierarchy to support individual business needs to ensure project team; executives and stakeholders can review high-level summary information or drill into the detail. It combines both the project and business worlds to provide a single integrated view of resource capability, financials and risk, helping to remodel and shape the business to successfully deliver project portfolio. It can accurately forecast the cost of delivering entire portfolio of projects. By forecasting all project costs and resource demand, users can easily see the estimated cost or budget for each project, rolled up to program and portfolio level. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Urbana-Champaign, IL Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Minnesota - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Web Technologies: Angular4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery & jQuery UI, AngularJS.  ? Enterprise Technologies: JDK, J2EE, Servlets, Spring Framework, Structs, JSP, ASP.NET MVC5, WCF, Entity Framework.  ? Languages: Java 8, C#, T-SQL, PL/SQL, XML.  ? IDE Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio 2013, Visual Studio Code, SSMS.  ? Version Controls: TFS, SVN, GIT.  ? SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile (Scrum).  ? Testing & Others: Mocha, Jasmine, Postman, JUnit, JIRA, ANT, Fiddler, Postman, Chai and Maven.    Related Technical Skills: C#, ASP.NET MVC5, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Visual Studio, Agile(SCRUM), SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2013, Entity Framework, JIRA, WCF.  Responsibilities  ? Involved in developing the UI using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used C#, ASP.Net MVC5, Entity Framework and LINQ to design the application.  ? Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility and Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  ? Worked on design patterns like Dependency Injection, IOC implementation to avoid tight coupling of components.  ? Worked on Forms based authentication and Role-based authorization in application.  ? Created WCF Service to retrieve and send information from client side without Post Back and consuming existing Web Services using SOAP.  ? Implemented data access layer using Entity Framework to connect and retrieve or manipulate database for enhancements.  ? Used JIRA for requirements gathering and bug tracking.  ? Worked on writing SQL Queries, Triggers, Views, Stored Procedures, Joins queries for combining data from tables in SQL Server.  ? Worked on TFS Source control for managing the source code.  ? Worked in Agile Scrum Methodology and involved in daily sprint meetings.  ? Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/ amendments in the development of the application.    Client: Preforce Minneapolis, MN  Project: Helix ALM Aug 2013 -- Oct 2014  Title: Java front- end developer  Description: Helix ALM (formerly TestTrack) is an integrated suite of application lifecycle management tools that encompasses every stage of the development process. It reduces product development risk by increasing the visibility of users' project's overall health. Users can automate traceability across all work items and data - from requirements capture and risk analysis through testing and defect resolution. Disparate teams and departments can work together easily, because of advanced collaboration and reporting features. Helix ALM manages and links all development artifacts to provide a single source of truth. So, the requirement linked to a test case is always current. The status of a fixed defect is always up to-date. And reports are always accurate.    Related Technical Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, JSON, Web Services, Maven, Java/J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, Eclipse, SOAP.  Responsibilities  ? Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery and implement Client Side ( Front end) validations using JavaScript.  ? Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized XML documents using Spring framework.  ? Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  ? Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery to simplify client-side scripting, effects, modal windows.  ? Developed model methods in backbone like to JSON, get, set, fetch and sync.  ? Designed and implemented a custom Web services client in play.  ? Performed functional testing using SOAP UI and created mock services for testing on developer.  ? Wrote scripts for build, deployment, maintenance, and related tasks using Maven.    Client: Hundsun Technologies Hangzhou, China  Project: Insurance Claims management July 2012 -- July 2012  Description: Insurance Claims management helps insurers manage and evaluate insurance claims. It allows agents to manage the claims process with automated workflows, ensuring that all claim details are recorded within a centralized system of record. Claim details can include litigation, negotiation, settlement communications, relevant policy information, and claim assessments. It helps insurers reduce claims management costs, reduce fraudulent claims, and enhance customer experience. This application has multiple modules which are Claims Resolution Tracking, Compliance Management, Policy Administration, Case Management, Electronic Claims and Forms Management.    Related Technical Skills: JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, ANT, Agile (SCRUM), JIRA, JSP, CSS, HTML, Eclipse, Java.  Responsibilities  ? Developed client and server-side validation for the application using JavaScript and Validation controls.  ? Performed JavaScript and Struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Light box plug-ins using jQuery.  ? Developed JSP pages using Struts Custom Tag Libraries such as CSS, HTML tags, Bean Tags, Logic Tags and Template Tags.  ? Developed JavaScript code implementing the Ajax technique for the online payment pages on the client-side.  ? Used jQuery plug-in for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface, and Forms.  ? Involved in fixing the bugs at Development and production levels.  ? Deployment of Application in the Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  ? Utilized JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs and life cycle traceability.  ? Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.