Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front end developer - Revelex Inc Deerfield Beach, FL Work Experience Front end developer Revelex Inc - Boca Raton, FL January 2017 to Present Implements white label application interfaces to meet client expectations and date lines while maintaining and debugging legacy systems issues.  • Creates new user interfaces following provided designs and ensuring all clients compatibility.  • Implements application responsive behavior across all supported browsers.  • Designs and implements global UI components.  • Solves issues reported by clients.  • Provides training to support specialist and clients. IT Technical Support Union Siti Inc - Hialeah, FL June 2016 to December 2016 Troubleshoots issues and provides customer support ensuring customers obtain maximum benefits from the company.  1  Front End Developer    920 NW 48th PLACE 786-857-4591  DEERFIELD BEACH, FL, 33064 aarrodriguez89@gmail.com    ? Contributes to quality of services by responding customer service tickets using Zendesk software.  ? Providing first-line investigation and diagnosis of issues found in the web management system.  ? Helping customer to obtain the products they paid for locating bank transactions in merchant  platforms and accredit them to customers' accounts.  ? Protecting company profit by disputing client chargebacks and winning a 95% of them. Full stack software engineer University of Informatics Sciences - Havana, CU September 2012 to May 2016 Cuba    Implements a core web based software for historical records management. Customizes core application for different clients.  ? Contributing software extensibility from the requirements definition through successful  deployment.  ? Provides system understanding through properly documented architecture design.  ? Designs module and develops components according to customer specifications, minimizing  future impact of changes to existing software functionalities.  ? Ensuring the system reliability using testing techniques and solving bugs found during the quality assurance process. Full stack junior software developer University of Informatics Sciences - Havana, CU September 2011 to July 2012 Cuba    Assists in the design and development of penitentiaries management solutions.  ? Implements relevant functionalities to support data insertion and data analysis in the system.  ? Maintains high quality standards throughout all the software development process by using  testing techniques.  ? Documents functionalities developed by creating architecture designs. IT Network Administrator VE August 2010 to May 2011 Medical Center Lara, Venezuela    ? Provides technical support for Galen Lab software deployment and manages SQL databases.  ? Maintains network performance by monitoring, analysing and troubleshooting network  problems.  ? Designs and conducts training programs for software users.    2  Front End Developer    920 NW 48th PLACE 786-857-4591  DEERFIELD BEACH, FL, 33064 aarrodriguez89@gmail.com Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Process Business Management UCI University of Informatics Science - Havana, CU 2007 to 2012 Skills Javascript, Front End, UI, React, CSS3, HTML 5