Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Los Angeles, CA Hello My name is Brian Castaneda,     Since earning my bachelor’s degree in computer science and web development from Cal State Bakersfield University, I've developed an eye for detail and have served as a web developer at WePromote, Google, 789inc, and others as one of California premier digital marketing and web development firms. In this position, I have managed web development projects for clients in diverse industries including technology, manufacturing, pharmaceutical, health, F&B, retail and Known for creating robust, high-speed web and mobile apps, my web development work has helped grow revenues, accelerate customer acquisition, increase web traffic and deliver an industry-leading competitive advantage    Experience in Angular, JavaScript(ES5+)/TypeScript, MongoDB and Nodejs, Go, Python & Tensor Flow, Docker, GraphQL, Terraform, AWS, Microservice architecture, HTML and CSS. Also know SCSS/SASS or React-Styled-Components.  Advanced knowledge of WordPress, jQuery, Bootstrap.  PHP, JSON, and working with APIs.  Version Control with Git / Github / Bitbucket / JIRA.  Creating responsive email templates for use in marketing.  Amazon Web Services or any other public/private cloud environment.  Strong UI/UX skills and understanding of Usability  E Commerce sites and Services Sites that I have developed and or been a part of:    Lockjawgarage.com  Newyorkersapparel.com  ganoexcel.us  wholesomeculture.com  brighton.com  reddressboutique.com  saveit4thetrack.com  Php and WP related    Wepromote.com  localsocialpro.com  Athensservices.com  GIpropertyservices.com  Ganoexcel.us  Gipropertyservices.com  connectingdotbydot.com  mmprintedbags.com  encorepros.com  Formosi.com  Thesmartmushroom.com  happyfishmarket.com  n2amotors.com  covina.life  trinitygold.us  homesbyamerica.com  rektroofing.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Local Social Pro/ Giraffe Builder - Los Angeles, CA January 2019 to Present • Develop and maintain PHP based applications for integration, automation, and web applications.  • Build real-time data driven applications that connect internal vendor applications with external data providers and web services using CURL, REST, AJAX, XML, JSON frameworks and other custom formats.  • Perform local testing and work with QA team to resolve issues.  • Ability to effectively manage multiple challenging and diverse projects. Front End Web Developer Wepromote - Beverly Hills, CA September 2018 to January 2019 • Development  • Lead development efforts for all major features for the Meteor App on the Web  • Web Team Leadership  • Manage the engineering team to ensure productivity  • Work with other Tech Leads and Product Manager to understand product vision  • Work with Program Manager and other Tech Leads to understand technical deliverables  • Ensure developers understand requirements, produce supplemental technical tasks where required  • Manage estimation process for sprints  • Productivity Management  • Oversee task management for team  • Managing team in coordination with Project Manager to ensure developers are not over utilized  • Ensuring developers have a reasonable brief to work against  • Assisting with estimates where required  • Assisting with clearing blockers and dependencies at Tully  • Resource Management  • Additions & transfers from team where applicable  • Interviewing new developers for local hires  • Quality Control  • Provide technical documentation where required  • Ensure overall code quality and code coverage  • Individual code reviews  • Ensure development best practices are followed  • Communication  • Daily check in with developers  • Provide development update on weekly status call  • Oversee Tully Technical Demos where applicable  • Lead Monthly Retrospectives for Web team  • Reporting  • Point of escalation for Dev Team’s dependencies and risks for delivery  • Reports & Escalation to Project Manager where required  • AQA  • Input and direction to automation framework  • Ensure test coverage from developers  • Assist with functional tests where required  • DevOps  • Advanced knowledge in JavaScript and JavaScript libraries  • Proficiency using CSS3 and HTML5  • Experience with React, Redux, and NodeJS  • Experience with utilizing REST APIs  • Experience with testing frameworks like Jest  • Experience with mobile first development and responsive design  • Effective verbal and written communication skills and the ability to interact professionally with a diverse group of people.  • Experience translating comps and wireframes into re-usable code templates. Web Developer New Yorkers Apparel - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to September 2018 • Web Order Processing For All   • Uploading Product And Publishing Content Daily  • Visual Merchandising  • Refresh Web Banners  • Streamline Navigation And Increase Online Presence  • Creating Visuals And Content For Email Marketing  • Organizing And Planning Studio Photoshoots  • Reporting Web Analytics And Sales  • Creating Interesting Design Layouts  • Working With Sales Team To Promote Inventory  • Maintaining Newyorkers Account  • Growing Email List Through Email Marketing  • Design And Implement Social Media Coordination Through All Channels (Instagram, Facebook, Etc) Web Developer ZeroSix Media - Los Angeles, CA September 2017 to January 2018 • Development of WordPress themes and plugins that support the pages of the website and blog. This included new projects as well as maintenance, enhancements and optimization.  • Ensuring Web projects fully support and exploit SEO best practices to help our search engine rankings, using proper tags and attributes and full responsiveness  • Ensuring all Web projects are streamlined with efficient code, optimizing page load times, and an excellent user experience  • Creating HTML email templates including integration with marketing automation platforms (e.g. Marketo), populating templates with content, proofreading and testing each email, ensuring broad email platform compatibility, and resolving relevant integration issues.  • Daily activities include creating, testing, enhancing and optimizing Web templates and pages, creating new product and landing pages based on your templates, overall website maintenance, performance enhancement and troubleshooting, creating HTML email templates, testing and troubleshooting all emails, ensuring email client cross-platform compatibility, and interfacing with IT for systems integrations and problem resolution Web Designer/ Developer 789 inc - Covina, CA January 2016 to August 2017 Code design critiques, and inspire and empower colleagues.    Interface with clients as needed to share design concepts and explain design decisions and recommendations.    Collaborate with developer and UX team to ensure that:  All functionality and design meet client expectations.  The product incorporates the best UI solutions possible.  The design vision is carried through to product launch. * Make meaningful contributions to a shared set of best practices, standards, and living application design guidelines. A-C Electric, Software Developer Intern A-C Electric - Bakersfield, CA October 2016 to January 2017 Interning with the systems development team this summer. Cultivating Computer Science major topics and interest in web design. Implementing HTML 5,javaScript,Ajax,jQuery and C# skills. Building SNAP 3 and utilizing these skills and more with the development team. Facility Supervisor CSU Bakersfield - Bakersfield, CA September 2013 to October 2016 Bakersfield, California    Ensure a safe environment for staff and participants and maintain responsible operations of the SRC facility and programs.  Maintain familiarity with Emergency Action Plans and, during major emergencies, notify all persons in the SRC  facilities if necessary and assist in the evacuation of the facility.  Respond to all injuries and assist in immediate first aid and proper emergency procedures.  Maintain fitness/cardiovascular area with an emphasis on cleanliness and preventative maintenance.  Conduct regular rounds to all areas within the facility and to campus facilities (tennis courts, sand volleyball courts,  intramural fields, & soccer fields) used for recreational purposes to ensure that activities are conducted safely and appropriately and to record participation numbers.  College Peer Advisor Web Developer Formosi - Torrance, CA January 2016 to May 2016 Develop new user-facing features  Build reusable code and libraries for future use  Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability  Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to back- end  Collaborate closely with other team members and stakeholders  Design digital products that are thoughtful, beautiful, and usable and that adhere to client brand guidelines and specifications. Focus primarily on iOS or Android native application design.  Evolve rough ideas into pixel-perfect interfaces.  Apply strong design knowledge (layout, color theory, typography, iconography) to all designs.  Communicate clearly and effectively with your team. Have the humility to admit when you don’t have an answer, and work with your team to figure out the right answer. Front Desk Receptionist Holiday Inn - Tehachapi, CA August 2015 to May 2016 Tehachapi, California  Handle guest check in and checkouts professionally and in a welcoming and specialized manner  Make changes and confirm reservations by means of the Lodging Management Systems  Post charges of food, room, liquor and telephone to system and manual ledger  Represented the Hotel in regard to guest complaints and situations that require instant action  Facility Supervisor College Peer advisor Golden Valley High School - Bakersfield, CA August 2013 to July 2014 Bakersfield, California  Experience in Word, Excel, and power point.  FAFSA/DREAM ACT aid and submission  Guide students in accessing the many academic resources available at CSU's statewide, and provide referrals.  Give individual and online peer advice on effective time management, studying and exam preparation.  Act as an informed resource for all students regarding matters related to registration, CSU mentor, major declaration, and schedule planning during registration periods. Customer Service Representative Sport Chalet - Bakersfield, CA July 2012 to April 2013 Sport equipment knowledge, customer support.  Responsible for greeting and selling customers who visited the housewares department.  Assisted store marketing team in placing and setting up sales floor marketing displays.  Organizing and sorting of inventory.  Monetary transactions.  Data Entry Specialist California Student Oportunity and Access Program Cal-SOAP - Bakersfield, CA July 2012 to September 2012 Bakersfield, California  Compiled and sorted documents before it is entered  Customer care FAFA/DREAM ACT Submissions Activities.  Maintained and updated files as necessary  Store completed data entries into appropriate location  Accurately processed any updates or change requests for all accounts in multiple database systems  Acticities and Interests  - entrepreneurship, coding, volunteering, running, learning languages, music, poetry Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University Bakersfield - Bakersfield, CA 2017 Skills C++ (4 years), Javascript (4 years), SQL database (4 years), PHP (4 years), HTML 5 (6 years), Git (5 years), C# (2 years), Visual Studio (4 years), Node.js (Less than 1 year), bootstrap (5 years), Material Design (2 years), Ecommerce (4 years), Wordpress (5 years), CSS3 (4 years), Web Design (4 years), JSON (4 years), Python (3 years), Front End, Jquery, UI, HTML5, Front-End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/briancas/ Certifications/Licenses scuba diver Present Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows (2000, XP, Vista), Mac OS,  Linux  Professional: Self-motivated, creative thinker; detail-  oriented; excellent time management skills  -Databases: Oracle 8.x/9.x, SQL Server, MS Access