Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Microsoft Cleveland, OH • Over 6 years of experience in designing and developing in IT industry using JavaScript libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, React JS, Node JS and jQuery with ECMAScript 2015/ ES6 Specifications.  • Sound working knowledge on web development and UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NgRx, jQuery, Angular 2/4, React JS, Node JS and AJAX.  • Knowledge with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC).  • Experienced Web UI Developer with strong record of corporate client satisfaction.  • Well versed with multiple version control tool GIT Hub.  • Exposure to REST-API Design. Proficient with testing REST APIs, Web & Database testing.  • Highly expertise in modern web architecture using advanced libraries and frameworks like ReactJs, AngularJS& Angular 2/4/5, Material Design, Redux, Knockout, Node, ECMAScript5, ECMAScript6 and Typescript.  • Developed custom NodeJS proxy used to send requests to client's APIs, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Implementing many directives from Angular2 in order to create all the functionalities related to the user interface, creating models and controllers with the help of JavaScript.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Expertise with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, and object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficiency in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Worked with front- end build environment of Grunt and Git version control system.  • Familiar with open source tools: Package Mangers (NPM/Bower) and Atlassian tools (Confluence, JIRA and Stash).  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Followed W3C standards for building and rendering web pages including HTML, CSS and Ajax for web applications, which includes WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) guidelines.  • Knowledge in HTML5/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, LESS, YAML.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Experienced in monitoring the Production Environments under 24/7 under on-call rotation to meet the Service Level Agreements set by the management.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on web applications from scratch using angular 2/4 to develop single page application.  ? Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  ? Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  ? Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  ? Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  ? Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  ? Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  ? Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  ? Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems  ? Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  ? Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  ? Involving in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  ? Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  ? Involved in Agile process, two-week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  ? Using REST client to check the response of various API's as a visual documentation for back- end implementation and client-side consumption. Handling various exceptions based on the response.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Working on the unit test cases to test the functionality of the code written not only through the component level but also through the DOM level using Karma test runner and Jasmine framework.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular2&4, RxJS, Typescript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API's, Web pack, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA and Visual Studio. UI/React JS Developer Vizient - Irving, TX June 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Worked with React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience working on Redux Uni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior.  • Worked with the development team, involved in creating MVW (Web API) to implement ReactJS framework for client side rendering to optimize the front- end.  • Created ReactJs directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Implemented ReactJs client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back- end.  • Developed ReactJs pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the applications used in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used ReactJs in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual.  • Used Saga Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture, building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used Redux to maintain state of react application. Used Redux-Thunk and Redux-Saga for asynchronous calls in the different applications  • Implemented stable React JS components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used React JS for Templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Utilized React and created efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Performed Unit testing with Jest.  • Working on tools like Grunt, Gulp and Jenkins  • Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Developed server side JavaScript using Node JS.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NODE JS, REACT JS, Redux, JQUERY, JIRA, AJAX, JSON, XML, NodeJS UI Developer JLL - Chicago, IL December 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed the chat application single handedly to be responsive for 3 applications (auto, home and service online).  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • Highly used Angular router to build single page application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implement functionality such as Searching, Filtering, Sorting and validating data using Angular framework.  • Developed and tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular and Advanced JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing reusable components using Custom Directives and routing based on states using UI-Routing in AngularJS.  • Developing Angular factories that can be reused where ever they fit in by injecting them.  • Sending requests and responses in Micro services through SPRING - REST Controllers through HTTPS.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with REST template based on Restful APIs.  • Used AngularJS native features extensively to develop Mobile First Application.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Followed Agile and Cassandra and reactive programming methodologies.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Used GIT version control.    Environment: Java, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, AngularJS, NodeJS, Reactjs, JSP, AJAX. Web Developer Millennium Techno soft Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Built rich prototypes for designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScriptand jQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap.  ? Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap extensively for redesigning the internal web pages and applications.  ? Created Pseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  ? Worked with jQueryFusion Charts for generating reports.  ? Extensively used CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors issues with CSS.  ? Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT version control system.  ? Performed cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  ? sed AJAX, JSON along with jQuery to request data and response processing.  ? Usage of Dependency Injection, DOM manipulation, Directive and Module design.  ? Developed applications for the web site in certain media sections.  ? Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  ? Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews and functional testing.  ? Good knowledge in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  ? Providing best marketing strategies to land the websites on the best results in the search engines.  ? Experience in participating support calls and war rooms for the systems failure.  ? Designed XML files to maintain contents like video, images, audio and display them in flash application.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  ? Optimizing the website using search strategies like link building, online submissions, social bookmarking.  ? Usage of AJAX programming to interface with MYSQL database.  ? Making website GUI design by using Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Developed test cases for TDD in QUnit, Karma and Jasmine.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.    Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JSON, JQuery Fusion Charts, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Web Service, Grunt, Agile Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, DESIGN PATTERNS, DTD, Git, Front End, UI, Javascript, Front-End, React Additional Information TECHNICALSKILLS:    Web Development Technologies HTML5, AJAX, JSF, JQuery, CSS, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript, JSON, Node JS, React JS  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js/Angular 2/4/5, node.js, React JS  Databases and Programming My SQL, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Big Data, IBM DB2, Mongo DB.  IDE  Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, JS fiddle, Atom, Web Strom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio 2012, 2013.    Web/Application Servers Web Sphere 7, Web Logic, WAS, Apache Tomcat 6.0, JBoss 4.0 , XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML Schema, SAX and DOM Parsers, JAX-WS, CXF  Web services REST API  Networking Project Server MS IIS, DNS  Design Methodologies UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Design Tools Rational Rose, Star UML.  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Version Control SVN, Git, IBM Clear case, Subversion  Methodology Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, TDD