Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior AEM Developer - Verizon Wireless Hilliard, OH • 7 years of experience in analysis, design and implementation of web applications using Java and Adobe CQ.  • Worked on developing and delivering end-to- end CMS infrastructure to many large organizations.  • In-depth knowledge of the object-oriented programming, object oriented analysis and development using J2EE technologies.  • Experience in developing Content Management System based using Adobe CQ 5.5, CQ 5.6, AEM6.0 and AEM 6.1.  • Hands on experience in developing Templates, components using JSP, OSGI bundles, sling services, custom workflow process and customizing out of the box widget and components.  • Worked on Adobe CQ/AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM.  • Excellent work experience in CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, Template development, Component Development and installation of author and Publish instances.  • Design, develop and support CMS components, integrations and applications.  • Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting AEM/CQ 5.5+ installations.  • Implemented Adobe CQ templates, components, workflow, style sheets, Meta tagging and performed CMS administration tasks.  • Strong knowledge on employing Java Content Repository (JCR) for developing applications on Adobe CQ.  • Extensive experience in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, unit testing, integration, code review, implementation and support activities.  • Extensive experience of Front End Technologies like HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON.  • Experience in using JQuery and JavaScript libraries.  • Experience working in Agile Methodology development environment.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM/CQ5 using Apache Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Practical experience with unit testing including deep understanding of Mock Testing Frameworks likeEasyMock.  • Experience in developing applications using Java IDE tools like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experienced in Databases like Oracle and SQL Server and writing SQL Queries.  • Self-motivated team player with and ability to learn new technologies and tools quickly.    AEM EXXPERIENCE  Hands on experience on:  • Designing templates and overall site structure  • Custom Workflows  • Custom Widgets  • Personalization  • UI customization Content Finder, Side kick, Welcome page  • Component development  • Translation MSM concepts  • Replication Agents  • Dispatcher and server management  • JCR event handling  • Sling Scheduler  • DAM  • CRXDELite  • OSGI  • And other concepts Work Experience Senior AEM Developer Verizon Wireless - Hilliard, OH July 2016 to Present Description:  Senior AEM developer for the KMS/AEM simplification project this project is to simplify the content that the users need and use on a daily basis. This project will migrate content that is currently being maintain in documentum into CQ5.The project will include new formatted templates to ease the writing of content and UI for the display of content to the end user  Responsibilities:  • Installing author/ Publishing instances.  • Gathering business requirements and converting them to technical solutions  • Involved in preparing the Business and Functional documents  • Analyzing, designing and layout of the components  • Implemented Adobe WCM, CRX, JCR, Sling, OSGI, CRXDE, WCM, and DAM  • SOAP web service was integrated with Adobe CQ to get specific information from the external application  • SOAP UI was used to test the external web application response  • Solid understanding of all Adobe CQ building blocks and the CQ development and deployment process  • Developed custom components that are reusable in Adobe CQ across all three sites  • Worked on Sling servlets to handle POST and GET requests.  • Configuring replication, reverse replication agents and Dispatcher cache.  • Experienced in creating AEM clustering and Package Creation/ installations, tree activations.  • Developed OSGI components/services, sling Servlets, and AEM components/templates.  • Worked on the issues like Disable Targeting and JQuery Versioning which usually arise when upgrading from CQ5.6.1 to AEM 6.1.  • Build new Jenkins Jobs for the new AEM instances.  • Configured Replication and Dispatcher Flush in the AEM.  • Experience in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers  • Developed CQ Templates, Components, Widgets and OSGI Bundles in the AEM instances.  • Involved in SDLC stages of application including Requirements analysis, Implementation, Design and Testing.  • Integration of AEM Forms for customer experience in across multiple channels.  • Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Developed Custom Components and Workflows.  • Implemented Easy Mock for testing.  • Also, been working with the Cloud Versioning called Cloud Forge and also been in to using the Team Forge the way to handle the agile methodology.  • Worked with DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication, JCR, XPath and other AEM APIs.  • Involved with the training of Content Authoring to the new AEM Content Authors.  • Experience with backup & restore of CQ instance.  • JIRA/Bitbucket was used to handle the production/ET tickets and bug reporting Issue tracking tools  • Used GIT and SVN versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven.    Environment: Java (jdk1.6,1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, jQuery , Adobe CQ5.6.1, AEM6.1, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, Forms, Team Forge, Cloud Forge Jackrabbit, JIRA. Senior AEM Developer Country Financial - Bloomington, IL December 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded all the current AEM 6.0 instances to AEM 6.1.  • Developed CQ components, Workflow and Integrating CQ with other applications.  • Development components using slightly.  • Developing Pages/Templates/Components in Eclipse/CRXDE Lite.  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles.  • Export/Import of Content via package manager.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  • Developed custom widgets wherever required.  • Involved in migration of project from AEM 5.6.1 to AEM 6.0.  • Participated in Code migration and resolving code conflicts while moving to different environments.  • Worked on Author instance to help authoring complex components on pages.  • Developed web applications in CQ5 systems in coordination with software development teams.  • Conducted detailed analysis of user requirements and formulated technical requirements.  • Developed OSGI Services and Components.  • Key contributor for AEM 5.6.1 - 6.1 upgrade  • Participated in meetings related to application architecture, designing and development.  • Performed Unit Testing on developed modules and involved in trouble shooting the components and Interacted with the testing team to track the defects.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Adobe CQ5.  • Analyze functional and business requirements for optimum utilization of CQ5 components and performance.  • Give backend production support when there is any deployment.  • Tested the changes in Development, QA, Stage environments thoroughly before going to production.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Cognos DQM, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, XML, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.0, CQ5, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Windows, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services, Tomcat, Maven. Senior Adobe CQ5 Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Map existing site pages to CQ5 templates  • Conducted detailed analysis of user requirements and formulated technical requirements.  • Developed web applications in CQ5 systems in coordination with software development teams  • Testing and Deployment of components into various environments.  • Participated in meetings related to application architecture, designing and development.  • Developing Pages/Templates/Components in Eclipse/CRXDE Lite  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles  • Export/Import of Content via package manager  • Performed Unit Testing on developed modules and involved in trouble shooting the components.  • Interacted with the testing team to track the defects.  • Analyze functional and business requirements for optimum utilization of CQ5 components and performance.  • Assisted in functioning of CQ5 solutions by documentation and validation procedures of non-functional requirements  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML 5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JAVA, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Adobe Creative suite.  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure  • Train business users on how to use CQ5 to modify content and publish  • Attend daily scrum calls  • Give backend production support when there is any deployment  • Test your changes in Development, QA, Stage environments thoroughly before going to production.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe CQ5, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, SQL, Adobe Creative suite, JSON, CRDXE Lite. Adobe CQ5 Developer TD Bank - Middletown, NJ November 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:    • Developed Templates and Components.  • Created Tagging and workflows.  • Manage content from CQ5 into intranet Portal Content.  • Handled setting replication agents and other activation issues as worked in distributed environment.  • Developed various components and templates for company Public Website.  • Synchronization between dev/QA and productions.  • Responsible for Group and User management.  • Organized and managed rollout of system to initial deployment location.  • Exercised significant on-the-spot issue management and end-user'  • Integrated all issues, code fixes, and releases into deployment.  • Tracked and communicated project status to upper management through weekly reports.  • Worked with global cross business stakeholders, presented to executive management, conducted user interviews and worked with external resources to deliver results.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSON, HP-Unix 11.23, CRX, PL-SQL, UNIX, MS Project, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Day CQ5.3, CQ 5.6 Apache Sling, Apache Felix Junior Front End Developer OSI Consulting - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh April 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed Templates and Components.  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Wrote script for AJAX implementations in the website.  • Performed XML Transformations from value objects to XML and from XML to HTML data.  • Implemented Design patterns for recurring problems.  • Responsible for the process of UI design for Internet sites and applications.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.    Environment: Windows, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS Skills HTML (8 years), jQuery (8 years), AJAX (7 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), JSON (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Content Management System: Adobe CQ5/AEM, JCR, Sling, Apache Jackrabbit, WCM,  DAM, Package Manager, CRXDELite, Workflow, OSGI  Languages: C, C++, Java, SQL  Web Development: XML, HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, PHP    Technologies: Servlets and JCR, XML, DOM, SOAP, RESTful  Database: [ ] SQL Server [ ] My SQL  Web Servers: Apache Sling, Apache Felix, IHS  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere Application Server  Build Tools: Maven, Apache Ant  SDLC Methodology: Waterfall, Agile  IDE: CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad ++, Edit plus    Operating Systems: Windows 7/Vista/NT/XP, Unix and Linux    Debugging Tools: Firebug, Firebug Lite, Google Chrome Web Debugger