Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - SnapDiligence Houston, TX Work Experience Software Engineer SnapDiligence - Houston, TX September 2017 to Present Responsible for building internal projects using React.js, Redux, Material UI, Ant  Design and LESS CSS on the front end  ? Built Node/Express web REST APIs for internal projects  ? Implemented basic changes to the REST API in C# .NET  ? Implemented basic changes to stored procedures in Microsoft T-SQL Server  ? Worked on setting up version control and project management environment  ? Worked on Python 3 web scrapers for data extraction Software Developer AdGooroo - Chicago, IL January 2016 to September 2017 Responsible for building the next generation of the AdGooroo Insights  dashboard platform ( http://beta.insights.adgooroo.com/login ) with Node.js/NPM, React.js and Redux  ? Used ES6 Babel, Webpack, React Bootstrap, Material UI, ImmutableJS,  Isomorphic Fetch, Lodash and more to build AdGooroo Insights  ? Worked with C# developers and made API fetch calls to the .NET API app Senior Front End Web Developer Cvent November 2013 to December 2015 Front End coding (HTML5, CSS, Javascript, jQuery)  ? Utilized responsive web design frameworks such as Zurb Foundation/Twitter  Bootstrap  ? Managed and wrote scripts for SEO/Analytics teams  ? Lead and integrated a LESS CSS environment on our websites  ? Created a couple of jQuery plugins for the US and India web teams  ? Assisted with small web design needs using Illustrator and Photoshop Front End Web Developer Plow and Hearth - Madison, VA January 2013 to November 2013 Provided HTML, CSS, JQuery/Javascript solutions to complex problems in a fast  paced office environment.  ? Core member in the largest web migration project in company history. The  brand websites were migrated over from old eCommerce platform built in the  1990's in ASP classic to a modern eCommerce platform built with an ASP.NET  backend.  ? Provided Javascript solutions for the various SEO feeds  ? Worked closely with other IT, Design, Marketing/SEO professionals and third  party members  ? Involved in A/B Split testing and other usability tests Web Developer Intern StudioBanks - Charlotte, NC January 2012 to May 2012 Created web applications using HTML5, CSS3, PHP 5, MYSQL, JQuery for various  types of companies such as investment firms and consulting companies.  ? Cross-browser testing on all major browsers(IE6-IE9, Firefox, Chrome, Opera,  Safari)  ? Experience using the CodeIgniter PHP Framework  ? Experience using Photoshop  ? Marked up Photoshop designs using HTML and CSS  ? Worked in a Mac environment Web Developer Intern Cook Media Inc - Charlotte, NC November 2010 to January 2012 Updated various websites using XHTML, CSS and PHP  ? Managed MySQL tables  ? Created blogs using a content management system (WordPress) Education B.A in Software and Information Systems University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 2009 to 2012 Skills Git, Javascript, PHP, jQuery, MySQL, HTML 5, MongoDB, React (3 years), Redux (3 years), CSS Links https://michaelgillam.io https://github.com/spartan082189 https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-gillam/ Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages/Frameworks: React, Redux, Node, Express, JSX, MongoDB/Mongoose, HTML5,  CSS3, SASS, LESS, jQuery, ES6 JavaScript, PHP, Python 3+    Project Management: JIRA, Trello, Aha!, Basecamp  Software: Slack, WordPress, Affinity Photo, Affinity Designer, Photoshop, Visual  Studio/Visual Studio Code, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, UIKit, Ant Design    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Mac