Production Artist/Graphic Designer Production Artist/Graphic Designer Print Production / Graphic Designer Osceola, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Artist/Graphic Designer Mark-It Graphics - Osceola, WI March 2017 to Present Laying out art to print on large scale media. Color work and correction, creating prototypes for POP displays, preflighting of art to ensure it is production ready. Digital and screen printing knowledge. Designed company website. Freelance mrodriguezdesigns.com June 2011 to Present • Hiphopalbumdebate.com - Promotional marketing design  • North Jersey Driving School - Promotional marketing design  • Ebeneezers - Promotional marketing design  • Debrah Lach Realty Team - Logo and Business card design  • Northern Management - Front end development & design  • Creative Concepts - Front end development & design  • Never Satisfied Customs - Front end development & design  • Michael Rodriguez Plumbing - Logo Design Store Manager/Graphic Designer/Notary The UPS store - Forest Lake, MN October 2015 to March 2017 Invoicing via QuickBooks, money handling, making bank deposits. Keeping up on inventory, ordering of supplies, stocking supplies. Handling shipments via UPS, USPS, DHL, and Spee-dee. Hiring, Firing, Interviewing, and training. Handling all customer complaints, and UPS corporate issues. Keeping up on all social media. Created print ready designs to send to production. Creating designs for walk in customers. Large and small format printing. Attended Biz to Biz each Thursday. Handled marketing via social media. Bartender/Waitress Ebeneezers Irish Pub - Minot, ND June 2014 to September 2015 Preparing and mixing of drinks, handling money, counting till, stocking, deep cleaning, opening and closing of bar, keeping up on bar standards. Waitress Olive Garden - Maplewood, MN October 2009 to March 2015 Customer service, interpersonal skills, multi tasking, memory skills, attentiveness, anticipate needs of guest, handling money, and verbal communication Web Designer/ Front End Developer Comfy Chair Consulting - Minneapolis, MN January 2013 to March 2013 Updated websites, designed and built two auto service websites, worked on design for an application, and worked in Shopify to create a store theme Education Associate of Applied Science in Web Design and Interactive Media College of Design - Minneapolis, MN June 2009 to June 2012 Skills HTML & CSS (9 years), Computer oriented (Mac and PC) (10+ years), Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), Graphic Design (9 years), Learn and Adapt quickly, Highly Organized, 55 WPM, Customer Service (10+ years), Retail Management (2 years), Quickbooks (1 year), People Person (10+ years), Sales (10+ years), Printing Knowledge (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), illustrator, css, adobe indesign, Microsoft office (10+ years), Adobe, Photoshop, Prepress, Layout, Print Production Certifications/Licenses Notary Public July 2016 to January 2021