Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> excellent customer support Los Angeles, CA Results- oriented, meticulous and innovative Web Developer with 9 years experience building various types of both web and mobile apps using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, React Native, Node, Python, database, working in a team set up with the capacity to train others in web management, is desirous in establishing a career with a world-renowned IT company . Work Experience Full-Stack Developer Self-Exmployed - Los Angeles, CA September 2018 to Present Built both Web and Mobile Apps.  • Good experience in building mobile application for both Android and iOS using React Native  • Used React for developing UI/UX based Web application  • Hands on experience in developing user interfaces for Desktop, Mobile and Tablet using JavaScript, Pug, Sass and AngularJS & React  • Strong experience in integrating various third-party services such as Ticketmaster, Foursquare, and Facebook.  • Actively involved in defining the requirements for the application, prepared functional specifications and actively involved in the database design for the module. Full-Stack Developer DCG Technical Solution Inc - Los Angeles, CA January 2017 to September 2018 Around 2 years of experience in developing Web and Mobile App using React and React Native.  • Hands on experience in working with agile software lifecycle methodologies  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team  • Well experience in building a prototype application in a short period  • Built production guide application  • Enrich app's user interface, user experience and performances  • Deploy the products to Apple App/Google Play store  • Responsibilities include bug fixing, adding feature requests, enhancements and new development. React & React Native Developer IOV February 2016 to January 2018 Contributed to the project in the following fields:  • Set standards and rules for development flow, methods, and coding styles  • Used Grunt for building the project  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Experience in pixel-perfect UI/UX of the app with wireframes  • Deployed new technologies and libraries to the project  • Hands-on unit test for better integration and keeping the code base robust React Native Developer OB1 January 2015 to February 2016 Worked as a React Native Developer for OB1 to develop blockchain e-commerce application.  • Focused on performance, usability, and up-to-date practices  • Clarified and communicated project goals by creating personas and use-cases, content plans and information architectures, wireframes, and prototypes  • Collaborated closely with graphic designers to create beautiful, functional, and fast interfaces  • Built Mobile Application using React Native for both Android and iOS  • Based on internal tester's feedback fix found and improve the UI/UX and performance of the application   • Set CI/CD flow for easy deployment for building and easy user testing Web Developer Upwork April 2013 to February 2016 • Developed and designed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Angular 2.0, ReactJS and jQuery.  • Worked in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), application design, functional and technical specs, and use case development using UML.  • Created SPAs with multiple views using route services and developed/tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular 2+ and Typescript.  • Also used Express.js on the top of Node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database.  • AWS Infrastructure Setup Web Server, App Server, and PDS Server.  • Created Single Page Applications with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 2 framework and React JS. Front- End Developer Gelato April 2015 to October 2015 Built cloud-service application  • Integration of AEM with Adobe Marketing cloud and other third-party services.  • Used React.Js to create more responsive WebPages, which can be compatible with all the browsers and compatible with the different devices.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mockups. Full Stack Developer Student Coding Dojo May 2011 to February 2013 2 years of experience in getting a solid knowledge of Full-Stack development.    • Extensive training in web applications based on Object-Oriented Programming (OOPS), Internet Technologies, Web-based, Client/Server, n-tier and Service Oriented Architecture(SOA).  • Involved in web application development for the backend system using Angular, HTML5, TypeScript, WIJMO, SASS, and CSS3.  • Graduated an immersive onsite boot camp (Coding Dojo) where I enriched my different programming skills Education High school or equivalent Cathedral High School - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to September 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Application City University of New York - New York, NY September 2012 to September 2015 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (4 years), Javascript (10+ years), React (6 years), React Native (5 years), Angular (2 years), Vue (3 years), Python (3 years), Django (2 years), Node (3 years), Express (2 years), MySQL (5 years), NoSQL (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), Git (4 years), webpack (5 years), Firebase (3 years), Blockchain (Less than 1 year), AWS, Java, Nodejs, JQuery Certifications/Licenses Driver's License