Sales and Service Rep Sales and Service Rep Sales and Service Rep - Bank of America Plano, TX Work Experience Sales and Service Rep Bank of America - Richardson, TX June 2014 to Present • Assist and educate customers on self-service banking options (for example, mobile, online, ATM) and building and deepening customer relationships by ensuring the customer's needs are met by partnering with specialists and business partners.  • Coordinate with retail customers in building and deepening relationships by uncovering financial needs and recommending the best products, services, and solutions to meet those needs.  • Open deposit accounts and sell banking products (examples: credit cards, CDs, IRAs, loans).  • Attend diligently to customer inquiries and concerns, creating customized solutions.  • Facilitate customers/clients connection to the appropriate teammate in helping them achieve their financial goals; making sure all sales, service, and specialized needs are met; and help drive overall revenue growth.  • Process transactions accurately and efficiently during high customer traffic aiding the developing of customer confidence and trust, based on established policies and procedures while recognizing and referring cross-sell opportunities.  • Manage risk in every business, product and service transaction leveraging available tools. Senior Design/Intern Front end Developer Concentrix - Richardson, TX January 2019 to May 2019 ·       Work on phase 2 of a modern browser visual design tool which allows for the creation and documentation of high level application flows for Interactive Voice Response(IVR) systems.  ·       Make application production ready  ·       Improve UI/Usability by adding more features to make it more visually acceptable  ·       Get it ready for automation testing by improving the code and finding the right tool that can be used for testing.   ·       Implement additional features such as Validation, Import Prompt List, Redo Prompt IDs, Dialog State Count and Change Tracking Teller New York Community Bank - New York, NY September 2012 to February 2014 • Demonstrated outstanding customer service, resolved customer concerns and helped build customer loyalty.  • Achieved sales goal of 6% or more each quarter by identifying customer needs and referring financial products and services.  • Mentored and coached new bank tellers.  • Ensured compliance with banking policies and audit procedures; maintained and balanced cash drawers on a daily basis.  • Developed and maintained good working relationships with customers, clients and co-workers.  • Maintained appropriate cash limits, cashed checks, established deposits, and issued cashier's checks, cash orders, traveler's checks, money advances, and fund transfers. Education B.S in Computer Science &Engineering University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX July 2019 Skills C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, LINUX, Customer Service, Salesforce (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  • Proficient in Java, C++; familiar SQL, Python, Javascript, C#, Salesforce  • Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS, Linux