Web Specialist Web Specialist Web Specialist - Forty Niner Shops, Inc. Long Beach, CA Web development experience with a background with Information Technology and Management. Previous experience as a Frontend Developer for a start-up Artificial Intelligence firm, manager for programming events at a convention promoting Japanese Animation and a Facilities Coordinator for the College of Engineering. Familiar such as writing reports, project management, coordinate facility usages, supervise facilities and communication between all departments, deans, directors, CEO, and all employees and staff. Hard working, quick adaptation, detail orientated, able to multitask effectively, willing to learn. Excellent presentation and communication skills. Open to new ideas. Work Experience Web Specialist Forty Niner Shops, Inc. - Long Beach, CA October 2015 to Present Forty Niner Shops Inc. at California State University Long Beach. Web Development both Frontend and Backend. Designing and maintain the company's e-commerce site. Other duties include involvement with the IT Department.    • Following ATI compliance and WCAG 3.0 Standards.  • Adobe Acrobat PDF Web Accessible, created and leaded standards. Known to be only one who masters on making PDFs accessible.    Involved in projects:  • Amazon at the Beach  • Digital Display Boards  • Long Beach Craft Beer Festival  • Drupal Migration  • Forty-Niner Shops, Inc. Web Manual standards for Web Specialist/ Webmaster Front End Web Developer Intern Datumix, Inc. - Long Beach, CA February 2018 to December 2018 Start-up company that emphasizes in the area of Artificial Intelligence (AI), designing UI design for the Datumix's project. Project involves mainly with the aid of Google APIs and creating functions and components using Vue.js, server programming (PHP), and python.    • Front End Web Developer Intern focused, the only Front End Web Developer for the company.  • Period of leading and management for newer Front End Web Developer Interns Full Stack Web Developer Intern Rhapsodielle Inc. - Los Angeles, CA October 2016 to November 2016 Agile based environment for an e-commerce website for Rhapsodielle Inc. Los Angeles branch. Front- end and Back- end design, designing and creating new widgets, working with the company employer to design and deploy the website until its launch date.    • Created custom widgets and theme optimisation in liquid (Shopify), resulted in saving company costs  • Search Engine Optimisation (SEO), site forwarding, Secured Sockets Layer (SSL) setups and teaching Check - In Manager Anime California - Garden Grove, CA August 2014 to August 2015 Assistant Check - In Manager (2016), Duties include communication between departments, directors, managers, filing schedules for panelist(s) and guest(s) of honor, filling in programming operations staff shifts, head count sign in/out for programming staff, panelists and guests.    • Anime California 2014, Programming Division, August 2014 - September 2016 IEEE - Student Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers - Long Beach, CA March 2013 to March 2014 organization held at CSULB, constructing a robotic arm from using a 3D printer to print parts, soldering electrical systems, using engineering tools such as SolidWorks and programming tools such as Arduino to program the arm to do simple tasks such as lifting a cup. Project was completed in a year. Student Volunteer CSULB Job Fair 2013 to February 2013 escorting and aiding employers representing from numerous companies such as Nippon Shokken USA, Raytheon, FDIC, State of California, and etc. Networking opportunities and representing CSULB. Member Association for Computing Machinery - Long Beach, CA March 2012 to April 2012 Hosted by professors of the Computer Engineering and Computer Science department of CSULB. Contest held every spring of the CSULB academic year. Contest tests working in teams and completion of programming problems within a time limit and collecting the most points. Points are gained by the difficulty of the problem. Won 3rd Place out of 6 teams. Equipment and Facilities Coordinator Federal Work Study - CSULB Department College 2010 to 2012 for the College of Engineering. Communications with the staff and assisting the College of Engineering's Facilities Coordinator. Writing surveys, moving equipment, issuing keys, organizing work orders, and class schedules. Education Bachelor's in Geography California State University, Long Beach - Long Beach, CA August 2010 to Present Certification in Responsive Website Development and Design Specialization University of London & Goldsmiths, University of London - New Cross, Greater London January 2016 to February 2016 Skills Apache (2 years), C+ (2 years), Content Management (4 years), Content Management Systems (3 years), PHP (3 years), ASP (3 years), CSS (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), MySQL (1 year), Javascript (3 years), Git, Wordpress (2 years), Shopify (2 years), Big Cartel (Less than 1 year), Jquery (Less than 1 year), CSS3, Front-End (2 years), HTML5, Node (1 year), Google Analytics (1 year) Links https://github.com/johnjimysom Certifications/Licenses Web Accessibility June 2017 to Present W3C Standard applications and accommodations for ADA for public entities such as the California State University schools. CSU Data Security & Privacy October 2015 to Present California State University Data Security & Privacy  Requirement to maintain any web data or any involvement handling CSU data.    Issued by LawRoom (acquired by EverFi) Responsive Website Development and Design Specialisation February 2016 to Present Issued by: Goldsmiths, University of London    • Responsive Web Design course taken online  • Understanding and design responsive web page designs adapt to different screen sizes using responsive grid layouts.  • Identify the key functional elements of web pages.  • Applied concepts such as Accessibility, Bootstrap, JavaScript concepts, objects, arrays, templates with Handlebars, and etc.  • Completed in February 2016 and certified. Additional Information SKILLS  • Web Development: XHTML/CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, WAMP Server (PHP, MySQL, Apache), MAMP  • Other skills: Dreamweaver, Photoshop CC 2017, OpenCanvas, SAI Paint Tool, Responsive Web Designer Certified, CSU Data Security & Privacy Certified, Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI)  • Content Management Systems: Wordpress, Weebly, Drupal, Shopify  • Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and SSL competent, domain site forwarding  • Web Application/ Widget Developer  • Version Control: git  • Proficient in C++, Java, Javascript, PHP, Python, qGIS, ArcMap 10.6  • Javascript Frameworks: Vue and Angular  • Microsoft Office: Excel, Word, PowerPoint