Software Engineer Software Engineer Lead Front End Developer Lehi, UT Hello, I'm Fred and I write some pretty awesome code. With my background in design and my passion for programming, I pride myself in creating an attractive and user driven front end while maintaining a functional and organized back end. I thrive on finding creative solutions to programming conundrums. With 7 years of experience in front end development, I've been able to help focus various teams in moving to newer tech. I have also planned and developed new features as needed on multiple projects. I love the challenge of learning new languages and tech and I can pick it up quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Total.Care - Lehi, UT October 2018 to April 2019 As part of the core team at Total.Care I implemented new features and fixed bugs to improve the platform. I also helped to improve the process for clients to install the software on their systems by creating bash scripts.    Javascript Lead Front End Developer Blade HQ - Pleasant Grove, UT August 2017 to July 2018 As the lead front end developer I helped focus the efforts of the new platform build moving toward ReactJS. Updated the look and feel based on the new design and moving to the current version of bootstrap. Trouble shooting and fixing bugs on the old platform, while working with the back end developers to update the database.    Bootstrap, Javascript, ReactJS, PHP and Git Web Developer Namify January 2016 to August 2017 I planned and developed new features for the axomo platform while fixing bugs. I used AngularJS, Javascript and AJAX on the frontend while using aspx.net, C# and SQL on the backend. I also used Visual Studio for our IDE and version control. One of the main projects that I worked on was the axomo.com product builder. This feature helps clients design, create, and save their promotional products.    Bootstrap, Javascript, AngularJS, AJAX, asp.net and SQL Software Engineer Gwazoo August 2015 to December 2015 I was apart of the planning and development of the new site that was implementing newer technologies from the previous version. On the frontend there was AngularJS, Javascript. On the backend there was NodeJS, Docker, and RethinkDB with Github for version control.    Javascript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Docker, RethinkDB and Git Graphic/Web Designer & Developer Boostability July 2012 to October 2014 I would design and develop custom websites based on client specifications using the Wordpress content platform. I used HTML5 and CSS3 to enhance the look and feel of the themes. As the graphic designer, I handled the specialty info-graphic and motion graphic design requests from clients.    HTML5 and CSS3 Web Designer/ Developer Canyon View Solutions December 2011 to May 2012 Using a client brief and working closely with the team lead, I designed & developed custom websites based on clients needs. I used HTML5 and CSS3 to enhance the look and feel of Wordpress themes.    HTML5 and CSS3 Education MEAN Stack in Web Developer Bootcamp Dev Mountain - Provo, UT January 2015 to March 2015 Bachelor's in Arts and Visual Communication - Graphic Design Utah Valley University - Orem, UT August 2006 to August 2013 Skills Javascript (4 years), MySQL (2 years), C# (2 years), CSS (8 years), Git (4 years), HTML 5 (8 years), Asp.Net (2 years), AngularJS (3 years), Angular (1 year) Links http://fredrickjones.com Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8l3ll0-twtixvmi6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.