Lead Front End Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> LEAD FRONT- END - BLUEGREEN VACATIONS Boca Raton, FL Professional web development leader with more than ten years of UI/UX designer experience, specializing in front- end development for rich Internet applications. Agility, quick-thinking and an open communication mentality have proven me able to build and nurture client relationships, as well as project manage from concept to execution by directing with user-centered design principles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Front End Developer Bluegreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL 2017 to Present • Manage team of front- end web developers to achieve company goals, department priorities and project load completion for 4,000+ person company.   • Identify opportunities to create business value and improve UX, by developing wireframes, sitemaps, prototypes, accessibility and design patterns.  • Developed reusable blocks of front- end code (HTML/CSS/JS), that integrates with existing Sitecore CMS platform. This allowed website administrators to build and test page concepts and changes with minimal coding knowledge. Senior User Experience Designer Bluegreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL 2013 to 2017 • Developed more than ten custom WordPress themes and plugins, from the ground up, which integrate with new and existing websites resulting in a 60% time savings for future website build outs.   • Co-directed the design team and back- end developers to define website structure and flow, to optimize existing web technologies and industry trends that allow for the best possible experience for users and administrators.  • Save company actual dollars by teaching in house HTML5, CSS3, LESS/SASS, Bootstrap (v3) and WordPress fundamental classes for both beginner and intermediate associates. User Experience Designer Bluegreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL 2011 to 2013 • Advocated web interaction design best practices, by collaborating with designers and art directors to evolve website concepts from flat static files to responsive website templates.   • Aided leadership in developing detailed schedules and milestones for   • large-scope projects, while aligning websites with current and future user   • and business needs.  • Completed detailed programming and development tasks for front- end public and internal websites, as well as challenging back- end server code. Education Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design The Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2001 to September 2004 Skills HTML5 (10+ years), INTERACTION DESIGN (6 years), WIREFRAME (5 years), Adobe (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Front End, Front-End, Javascript, UI, User Interface