Associate Front- End Developer Associate <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate Front- End Developer Lewisville, TX www.spencepeacock.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Front- End Developer EzLynx - Lewisville, TX January 2019 to Present Working with AngularJS/Angular4-7 for updates to current web application. Also assisting in developing new features.     Technologies used: Angular, Bootstrap, Material, MVC .NET, C#, JS Freelance Web Developer Self Employoed - Lewisville, TX June 2017 to Present I build various websites using bootstrap, angular, node.js for various individuals seeking political office in Denton county.     I also build twitter/reddit bots to monitor relevant content and automate some of the more mundane tasks of running a political campaign. Software Support EZLynx - Dallas, TX November 2017 to January 2019 Assist in troubleshooting user reported issues.   Answer tickets via freshdesk.   Submit JIRA tickets and follow up until there is a resolution  Assist with setup of a customer portal which is implemented using an IFrame on the customers website so that their customers can gain quotes, print off ID cards and make changes to their insurance policies. Customer Relations || COMMUNITY OUTREACH - Lewisville, TX May 2015 to March 2017 In the community outreach position I worked hand-in-hand with the directors of various state housing finance agencies to deliver results to tens of thousands of homeowners. This was accomplished by using a MySQL generated app to draft reports. Those reports were audited to ensure accuracy and compliance with US treasury guidelines.   I also had the pleasure of going to homeowners’ assistance events across the country to meet with homeowners and find programs to help them stay in their homes. Deed In Lieu Nationstar Mortgage - Lewisville, TX November 2012 to March 2015 I made over a hundred outbound calls a week to homeowners in the deed in lieu application process. I also took inbound calls regarding home loan modifications, deed in lieu applications and short sale listings. Additionally I worked with hoa, cities, counties and 2nd lien holders to negotiate a lien release to proceed with our process of signing the deed over form the homeowner to Nationstar. Bankruptcy Loss Mitigation Nationstar - Lewisville, TX May 2010 to November 2012 I took inbound calls regarding a range of customer/attorney inquiries ranging from payment application, load modification assistance to bankruptcy filing. Our goal was to solve any customer complains on the first call Education Certificate in Full-Stack Python-Django, Full-Stack Ruby on Rails, Full-Stack Mean Coding Dojo - Dallas, TX May 2017 to August 2017 B.A. in POLITICAL SCIENCE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Skills HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Ruby (2 years), Django (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), Angular2 (2 years), Node.JS (Less than 1 year), MySql (2 years), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), .NET (1 year), SAAS (1 year), C# (1 year), Front End, Angularjs, HTML5, Jquery, Front-End, Node, Git Links http://WWW.SPENCEPEACOCK.COM https://github.com/shpeacock