UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Citibank Irving, TX • UI developer with 4 years of experience in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular.  • Experience in developing RWD (Responsive Web Design) with cross-browser compatibility using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular.  • Excellent understanding of DOM (Document Object Model) along with DOM functions.  • Worked in MVVM architecture developing apps, custom components, directives and routing which meet the requirements of business model.  • Generated optimal solutions by debugging and testing code using Chrome Developer Tools (CDT) and Fire Bug.  • Developed ADA Compliant web applications that meet the WCAG standards.  • Experience in working with different Internet Development Environments (IDE) like Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Sublime, Dreamweaver, Eclipse.  • Knowledge in AGILE and SDLC based development environment.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to learn new technologies quickly and handle them with accuracy and efficiency. Work Experience UI Developer Citibank - Irving, TX November 2017 to Present Project: Web Accessibility Remediation  The project is based on converting legacy web pages which are built with JSP and Rest API Java to Angular 5. Another key goal of this project is making the website ADA compliant meeting the WCAG standards.  Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with journey owners and business analyst to gather the business and user requirements.  • Engaged in grooming to point the stories in a sprint based on the business requirements of the feature.  • Worked with the UX designers to get the wireframes needed for the web application.  • Used reusable angular components to build the apps to meet the Citi DDL guidelines.  • Worked closely with the backend developers to get the swagger document of the API's to make the micro services calls from Angular.  • Created Mock API Server in Angular to mock the micro services and responses.  • Used classes and interfaces in typescript to type the data from the micro service response based on the swagger document.  • Experience in Unit Testing using Jasmine and Karma frameworks in a TDD environment.  • Experience in using Angular CLI commands to run various builds locally replicating higher environments like Prod.  • Experience in using Jenkins for builds and Release Lifecycle Management for auto deployment.  • Experience in using metric tools like Sonarqube and implemented Site catalyst tracking the usage of web pages by end customers.  • Used ARIA tags to develop an accessible web page meeting ADA guidelines.  • Used chrome developer tools, Firebug, Fireeyes and aXe to debug and solve the accessibility issues. Also developed web pages that are accessible by screen readers like NVDA.  Technologies: Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Sonarqube, NVDA, Fireeyes, aXe, Jenkins, RLM, Git, Bitbucket, Jira. UI Developer VF Corporation - Greensboro, NC December 2016 to October 2017 • Gathered business requirements, done user research and coordinated with different teams to generate use case and user scenarios.  • Used Bootstrap and CSS3 for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), modules and reusable components using Angular 2 framework.  • Implemented table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Used Technical Specification WAI-ARIA to increase accessibility of web pages developed using Ajax, HTML and JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic client-side to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, TypeScript, jQuery, Angular 2/4, Agile. Front End Developer Fairway Market - New York, NY June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of commonly used angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations etc.  • Redesigned application using jQuery which resulted in 30% decrease in response time, and 25% less code.  • Developed responsive designs using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to client for review.  • Tested scripts using jQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE, etc.  • Worked with architects & Developers to enhance application functionality and add new features.  Technologies: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University May 2015 Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srivatsan-pillapakkamsridharan-57670593 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.  • Programming Languages and Database: Core Java, C++, C, SQL, MySQL.  • IDE's: Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Sublime, Dreamweaver, Eclipse.  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, MacOS.  • Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile (Scrum).