Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Disney Orlando, FL • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies, solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, ..Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Good Knowledge in various phases of SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects, Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Web2py, Webapp2, and with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy..  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Extensive experience in Python web frameworks like Django, Pyramid, and Flask in implementing MVC, singleton, factory architecture.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django..  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/Python, Flask/Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS) such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, and Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.  • Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij, TOAD.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good experience in Python scripting, Shell Scripting (Bash, ZSH, KSH, etc.), SQL Server, UNIX, and Linux.  • Hands on experience in developing the projects cloud computing platforms like Google cloud.  • Hands on experience in writing ETL script using python Django setting for database operations and other activities (involving extracting, transforming and loading).  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  • Experience working with Docker components like creating Docker Images, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and configurations.  • Good knowledge of TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Good understanding and knowledge in machine learning python library such as Scikit-Learn.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Object-Oriented Programming using Python and C++.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 2, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.JS, TypeScript, Node JS, Backbone JS, React JS  • Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team work individually.  • Solid understanding of web technology and experience using or creating web-based REST APIs.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Pylons, Web2py and Python Servlet Engine (PSE).  • Familiarit with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Good understanding and knowledge of Apache Airflow.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally GIT, Accurev, SVN, and CVS. Good programming, problem solving skills, commitment, and result oriented, with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies.  • Proficient in using Relational Database Systems (RDBMS) and NOSQL Databases like My SQL, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, etc.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ, Kafka for scalability, performance and building.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, Linux and UNIX, experienced in Shell scripting and UNIX commands.  • Good experience in Python scripting, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX, and Linux.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla/Jira.  • Experience on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, NOSE and Robot framework.  • Extensive experience in processing large datasets with millions of records for data transformation including data cleansing, data scrubbing, data profiling and applying business logic rules to incoming data.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude, detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Disney - Orlando, FL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using Node JS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked with the team to customize word press security installations.  • Used python scripts to Work with Facebook Platform Python SDK to access and post on Facebook page's wall.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Self-motivated team player with good Analytical, Logical and Problem Solving ability.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Knowledge and experience in writing web proxy in Python scripting.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MY SQL using Toad.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Script, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, Pycharm, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. ython Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server. AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up REST APIs using Django.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Created tables on top of data on AWS S3 obtained from different data sources.  • Migrated the data from cluster into the AWS environment.  • Implementation of AWS lambda with python scripting code.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Contributing in the design and creation of RESTful APIs using Python/Django/Django Rest Framework.  • Implemented Amazon Web services (AWS) Rest API Gateway using AWS Lambda.  • Developed AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto Scaling for EC2 instances.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  • Maintenance and continuous development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Also worked on creating custom ETL scripts using Python scripting for business related data.  • Developed ETL processes using Python to feed data into MS SQL Server.  • Performed robust regression automation testing of multiple platforms using Selenium WebDriver and Robot framework.  • Developed applications and methods with Python scripting for ETL, with MS SQL and Oracle.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Worked on Solr, ElasticSearch, Kafka, Flume, MongoDB , Cassandra and RabbitMQ.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Unit Test Python scripting library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python scripting and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MongoDB HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, AWS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful, IDLE, Windows 2008 Server, pandas library, Nginx, GitHub and Windows, Linux. Sr. Python Developer Verizon - Alpharetta, GA March 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed a portal to manage the entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF and REST.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system  • Developing Python scripting Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST scripts for API Integration.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python scripting matplotlib library.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and AWS architecture.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Created hourly or daily builds automatically and also deployed builds to production environment. Used Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD).  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Applied REST API development via Django REST Framework model to develop an information management system.  • Involved in testing RESTful API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python scripting for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations.  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Used Robot framework for test Automation integrated with Jenkins.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Panda API, MySQL, PyScripter, Django 1.4, MySQL, Teradata, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, SQLAlchemy, Git, Jenkins. UI Developer Frontier Communications - Everett, WA November 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Emails format vary from agency to agency for travel mails or for product order mails.  • First we have to check how many different pattern emails are available and maintain a config file that have the email format and a template file name which parse this type of email content.  • Written scripts to save emails content as HTML files, for ease while parsing data.  • Written scripts to identify the email format and select template file name from config file and run the template file and write parsed email content into data files.  • Implemented a loader functionality which loads parsed data files into MySQL tables.  • Email parsing templates code is developed by crawling team.  • Provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and integrated the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Wrote application front end developed and designed all the UI screens with HTML, JSP, Ajax, angular JS and CSS.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Deploying application in Docker Container for custom environment and hosting in Elastic Beanstalk.  • Used various transformations like Source Qualifier, Expression, Aggregator, Joiner, Filter, Lookup, Update Strategy Designing and optimizing the Mapping.  • Developed Workflows using task developer, and workflow designer in Workflow manager and monitored the results using workflow monitor.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, MongoDB, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Written an automated script that will check and inform through mail whether there is any new format e-mail appears or not. If yes inform the crawling team and once the code developed, add new email format details in config file so that new email formats also get parsed.    Environment: Python 2.7, Vim, BeautifulSoup, Requests, MySQL, CVS. Front- end/ WebDeveloper Polaris Software Lab - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Assisted with migrating, flattening to a temporary stand-alone wordpress site.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++ module to deliver certain formats of data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Configured SQL Developer to work with oracle and Oracle to work in the complicated queries required for the DAO layer development.  • Responsible for investigating the issues, defects, determining problem root cause, formulating correctiveaction recommendations & implementing them.  • Used UML to design various data models including data flow diagrams, work flow diagrams and interaction diagrams.  • Designed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams depicting flow of the application using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and used PHP for backend programming.  • Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of a prepping website.  • Designed, prototyped, engineered, and usability tested a complete financial and money managing application.  • Improvised an interface for R IT Library by automating actions carried out manually by the current system.  • Designed and documented an innovative approach for reserving tickets online via a web-based application.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML and Web Services.    Environment: C++, XML, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python, PHP, Rational Rose. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Skills CSS (9 years), database (9 years), Django (9 years), HTML (9 years), MySQL. (9 years)