Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Princeton, NJ • Have over 6 years' professional front- end development experience in developing cross platform and responsive web application.  • Experience in React, Redux, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Vue.js, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, Node.js, Bootstrap, and Material-UI.  • Expertise in developing React UI components and containers, and managing control states using Redux.  • Experience in developing Vue.js components and templates, and using Vuex to manage data and states.  • Expert in Model-View-Controller (MVC) and Model-View-View Model (MVVM) to develop Single Page Application (SPA) such as AngularJS.  • Experience in developing React Single Page Application (SPA) with React-Router, and form validation with Redux-Form  • Strong Experience in developing event-driven application using AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Professional experience in DOM manipulation with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Strong knowledge in Restful web services with React, jQuery, AngularJS and Vue.js along with JSON to fetch back end response data for user interface.  • Expertise in Axios and fetch API sending AJAX request to back end.  • Outstanding knowledge in debugging and troubleshooting code.  • Experience in front- end unit testing tools such as Firebug, Chrome Inspector, Jest and Jasmine.  • Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Programming with JavaScript, Java and Python.  • Deep understanding in databases such as MySQL, MongoDB and Firebase.  • Expert in developing responsive web application with Bootstrap and Material-UI.  • Strong experience in Agile process to manage software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, implementation and maintenance of the project, such as JIRA.  • Experience in using IDE/Editor tools such as IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Xcode, Atom and Sublime text.  • Experience in using version control tools such as GIT (Github and Bitbucket), package management tools like NPM, and build tools such as Webpack.  • Excellent communication skills and efficient problem solving skills to work independently and as a team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer BED BATH & BEYOND - Union, NJ June 2016 to December 2017 • Developed the front- end web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React-Bootstrap, Axios, JSON, React and Redux.  • Used React to develop reusable components and containers such as product list and product detail page.  • Used HOC (Higher Order Component) for component logic reusing.  • Used the React-Router to achieve URL navigation, indexRoute and dynamic routing functionality.  • Used componentWillMount() life cycle function to set up initial state for class component  • Used componentDidMount() life cycle function to add side effects such as sending AJAX calls  • Improved application performance by overriding shouldComponentUpdate() life cycle function  • Used Redux architecture to achieve the state management for data and UI control.  • Used Reducer to store all the requested data in different states and handle different actions.  • Implemented Action creators to generate actions to send data from application to the store.  • Applied the Redux-Thunk as the middleware to write action creators to delay or dispatch the asynchronous actions.  • Used the Redux-Form to achieve the form functionality and form validation.  • Implemented responsive design and testing using CSS Media Query and React-Bootstrap.  • Worked on CORS (Cross-origin resource sharing) issues by setting the header file attribute Access-Control-Allow-origin to *.  • Used Jasmine and Chrome Developer tool for testing and debugging.  • Used NPM to manage the package and dependencies, used Webpack as the build tool.  • Configured Webpack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Used Git for source code management, code check in, check out control, and team collaboration.  • Worked in Agile process and attended daily scrum meeting with JIRA.    Keyword: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React-Bootstrap, JSON, React, Redux, React-Router, Redux-Thunk, Redux-Form, Jasmine, Webpack, Git, NPM, Agile Front End Developer TOYSRUS - Wayne, NJ April 2015 to May 2016 • Developed the front- end web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, React and Redux.  • Developed reusable components and containers such as shopping cart and featured item detail page by using React.  • Used HOC (Higher Order Component) for component logic and function reusing.  • Used the React-Router to implement routing functionality to achieve Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used componentDidMount() life cycle function to add side effects such as using fetch API to achieve data from back- end.  • Improved application performance by overriding shouldComponentUpdate() life cycle function  • Achieved state management and UI control by using Redux  • Implemented Reducer to store all the requested data and listen to different actions to update the global state.  • Implemented Action creators to generate actions to control the state in the global store.  • Applied the Redux-Thunk as the middleware to dispatch the asynchronous actions.  • Achieved the form functionality and form validation by using the Redux-Form.  • Implemented responsive design and testing using CSS Media Query and Bootstrap.  • Applied unit test and debugging with Jasmine and Chrome Developer tool.  • Used NPM to manage the package and dependencies, used Webpack as the build tool.  • Used Git for source code management and team collaboration.  • Worked in Agile process and attended daily scrum meeting with JIRA.    Keyword: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, React, Redux, React-Router, Redux-Thunk, Redux-Form, Webpack, Git, NPM, Agile Front End Developer EDMUNDS - Santa Monica, CA February 2014 to March 2015 • Developed the front- end web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, and AJAX.  • Followed the strict patterns of implementing Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using AngularJS Framework.  • Rendered HTML Snippet with AngularJS built-in directives and custom directives.  • Added forms with AngularJS providing data-binding and validation of input controls in registration and shipping modules for quickly fill out information.  • Implemented view navigation to controllers and views with ngRoute.  • Adopted AngularJS built-in services such as filters to format price and amount.  • Implemented asynchronous communication with RESTful web service by AngularJS $http service.  • Applied AJAX calls with fetch API and JSON parsing with AngularJS factory.  • Built Presentation layer using CSS Media Query and Bootstrap to implement responsive web design for friendly displaying.  • Debugged the web application with Chrome Element Inspector and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Used NPM to manage the dependencies, packages and scripts of the application.  • Used Git for team collaboration and source code check in and check out.  • Fixed the cross browser compatibility issues for Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and IE.  • Worked as a team member of the Agile project, attending monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums meeting with JIRA for task assignment.    Keyword: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, Restful, MVC, Webpack, NPM, Git, Agile, JIRA Front End Developer PNC BANK - Pittsburgh, PA January 2013 to February 2014 • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and Bootstrap to display products list on the website.  • Designed the front- end applications using web technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap to decorated navigation bars, buttons, and display menus.  • Used Bootstrap implemented autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and also used jQuery templates for mark up.  • Used AJAX, JSON with jQuery to request data and response processing  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, jQuery, and JSON.  • Worked on cross browser testing in IE, Firefox and Chrome.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  • Debugged and tested the application using Jasmine and Chrome develop tool.  • Maintained the code based and source code check in and check out with Git.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Used JIRA to deal with the agile development environment.    Keyword: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, SPA, Jasmine, JIRA, Git Front End Developer ALTARUM INSTITUTE - Ann Arbor, MI June 2011 to December 2012 • Responsible for creating efficient design, developing interactive user interface using HTML, CSS and make layouts of the webpages.  • Wrote business logic and implemented page rendering by using JavaScript & jQuery.  • Wrote client side presentation and data validation on the client side and its form by using HTML and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery plugins for autocomplete, slide show, dropdown menu, and tab navigation.  • Used AJAX to request JSON data and send responses.  • Worked with back- end developers to test and debug system implementation.  • Worked to solve Cross-Browser issues.  • Worked to troubleshoot latency issues.    Keyword: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Debug Education MS in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Michigan Technological University Skills AJAX (5 years), CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), JSON (6 years), JavaScript, Java, Python, SQL MySQL, MongoDB, Firebase AngularJS, Bootstrap, Material-UI, Express.js, Spring-Boot (6 years), HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, React.js, Redux, Vue.js, Vuex, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, Firebug, Node.js, Lodash, ES5, ES6. (6 years), IntelliJ IDEA, Xcode, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Sublime Text, Eclipse, Notepad++ (6 years), MAC OS, Linux, Windows (6 years) Additional Information Skills  • Programming Language: JavaScript, Java, Python, SQL  • Database: MySQL, MongoDB, Firebase  • Framework: AngularJS, Bootstrap, Material-UI, Express.js, Spring-Boot  • Web-related Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, React.js, Redux, Vue.js, Vuex, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, Firebug, Node.js, Lodash, ES5, ES6.  • IDE/Editors: IntelliJ IDEA, Xcode, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Sublime Text, Eclipse, Notepad++  • Operating System: MAC OS, Linux, Windows