Sr. Front- end developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Front- end developer - Spencer Savings Bank • Over 6 years of professional experience as a Front- end Developer in design, development, deployment, debugging and testing of various Client/Server, and Web-based applications.  • Work experience in Finance, E-Commerce, and Insurance domains.  • Expert in developing user interfaces using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Good understanding of MVC architecture for web applications design and hands-on experience in implementing front- end MVC pattern.  • Expertise in Bootstrap to develop responsive web applications.  • Proficient in using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Dropzone.js, Lightbox to implement dynamic web pages and DOM manipulation.  • Expertise in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Experienced in ReactJS and working with Redux architecture.  • Hands-on experience with implementing AJAX in web clients to asynchronously communicate with server resources.  • Experience with producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers by D3.js.  • Experience in RESTful Web services with XML and JSON data formats communication.  • Hands-on experience with CSS pre-processors such as SASS and LESS.  • Expertise in mainstream browser tools like Chrome Element Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester for testing and debugging.  • Experience in detecting HTML and CSS features in various browsers using Modernizr.  • Efficient in working with NPM, Webpack, Gulp task runner to manage projects and Bower package manager to install libraries and dependencies.  • Experience in using Git as Version Control Tool.  • Expertise in various JavaScript testing tools and frameworks for automated testing (Jasmine, Karma etc.) and Test-Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Worked in Agile/SCRUM development methodology.  • Highly self-motivated, dedicated, quick learner, great team player and adapt to any new environment and work on any project. Work Experience Sr. Front- end developer Spencer Savings Bank - Elmwood Park, NJ June 2015 to Present Project: Online Credit Card Management System    Spencer Savings Bank is a full service, mutually owned and operated community bank in New Jersey. It offers personal and business financial products and services.    The project is to develop a personal credit card management system utilized by customers. The goal of this project is to make customers easily manage and update their account information, check their payment history records, subscribe activities and review statements. There are five main modules in this system: Activity, Rewards, Statements & Documents, Information & Services and Help & Support. My work was to develop the front- end of Activity, Statements & Documents, Information & Services.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process via Agile methodology.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system, as well as HTML 5 and CSS 3 to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Extensively worked with JavaScript and jQuery to perform DOM manipulation and render dynamic content onto webpages.  • Used AngularJS as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Used AngularJS two-way data binding for automatic synchronization between the view and the model.  • Developed AngularJS Services and Factories to consume the web services.  • Used AngularJS properties and directives for form validation  • Created Custom Directives for custom validation to verify the user information and display different kinds of tables.  • Created Custom Filters to sort and format the records displayed in the web page.  • Utilized RESTful services, got JSON response from back end through AJAX and presented the JSON data on the webpage through different visual effects.  • Implemented multiple charts by combining ReactJS and D3.js.  • Integrated ReactJS with existing AngularJS application to greatly increase performance.  • Introduced Normalize.css and Modernizr.js into the project to enhance cross-browser compatibility for IE users.  • Installed and maintained front- end libraries and their dependencies by Bower.  • Created unit test cases for the Angular application using Jasmine and Karma to test individual functions/modules.  • Integrated Webpack into the project for front- end development tasks such as transpiling, minifying, auto loading, and deploying.  • Collaborate with other programmers on application code quality, overall design, and ensure application quality of services such as reusability, reliability, scalability and security.  • Utilized GIT for group collaboration and version control.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap 3, AngularJS 1.5, ReactJS, RESTful, Jasmine, Karma, Bower, Webpack, Modernizr, WebStorm, Agile, Git Front- end Developer Zazzle - Redwood City, CA November 2014 to June 2015 Project: Online Design Studio    Zazzle is an online marketplace that sells multiple products and allows customers to create their own products.    The project aims for allowing customers to have much more options to easily customize their products and can see how the final product will appear before it is made. My duties were creating and redesigning multiple webpages of online design studio.    Responsibilities:  • Updated and created multiple pages and interactive contents by using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX.  • Architected, designed and implemented Single Page Applications by AngularJS.  • Leveraged two-way data binding through $scope in applications built on AngularJS  • Implemented Factory, Service and Provider to organize code and allow for easier future maintenance.  • Implemented AJAX for accessing application data without refresh the whole pages for better user experience.  • Used AngularJS $http calls to asynchronously pass JSON data between the HTML page and Web API.  Implemented Dropzone.js inside AngularJS allowing users drag and drop an image onto it.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Worked with Bower front- end package manager to install libraries and dependencies.  • Applied Gulp to perform code minify and uglify and compile LESS to CSS.  • Collaborated with the team using GitHub version control platform.  • Worked on Agile methodology and actively participated in daily SCRUM meetings.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript/jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, XML, RESTful, Jasmine, Karma, Agile, GIT/GitHub, WebSotrm. Front- end Developer FoodEasyGo - Boston, MA March 2013 to November 2014 Project: FoodEasyGo Online Delivery Platform    FoodEasyGo is an online delivery platform that offers multiple choices of food for people around Boston areas.    This project was to develop the customer's account web page. My work scope was mainly to develop the front- end of modules including account settings, credit cards, store credits, and rewards.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the Application as Single Page Application using Angular JS MVC framework.  • Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Built Responsive Web Pages using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Created Routing hierarchy for different views by using AngularJS UI Router and isolating scopes in custom directives.  • Utilized AJAX to request JSON to get customer's information.  • Handled browser compatibility problems for different browsers such IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Conducted extensive functionality testing by writing behavioral driven tests in Jasmine integrated with unit test runner, Karma.  • Worked with version control tool Git to manage the code.  • Utilized Agile/Scrum to manage development lifecycle    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Jasmine, Karma, Git Front- end Developer Amica Mutual Insurance Company - Lincoln, RI November 2011 to February 2013 Project: Online report claim service and Rating tool    Amica is a direct writer of personal insurance with auto, homeowners, personal excess liability and marine coverage. The company is known in the insurance industry for its financial strength and exceptional customer service.    The project aims at developing the online claim report service for the customers and adding the reason for the claim. This claim retrieves the customer rating and forwards the request to the action team. My work was to develop the Customer center, Membership center, Agent center and Back Office Integration modules    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement analysis and design phases to comprehend technical assessments, and to participate in implementation with minimal errors.  • Redesigned the code base for the website with the proposed wireframe to develop well responsive application using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Deployed Bootstrap to apply responsive utilities and appropriate positioning of elements to the application.  • Designed payment and customer information page for collecting and validating customer sensitive information such as credit card, billing address, SSN, etc.,  • Used GitHub extensively to collaborate with the team.  • Involved in cross browser compatibility and functionality checks, unit and integration testing.  • Worked on documentation and involved in maintenance and support.    Environment:  HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Git Front- end Developer State Fund Insurance - Boston, MA June 2010 to October 2011 Project: Online Insurance System    State Fund Insurance is an independent insurance agency offering insurance products and services from the top carriers in the country.    The project was to provide insurance service, which supports existing customers to manage their accounts, to report claims of accidents and to review insurance policy and history records, by a single sign in interface. Besides, it also helps new customers to quote insurance policies which best suit their requirement, and to sign up for an account if necessary.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Used AJAX to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Implemented cross-browser compatible solutions for all major browsers  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Created technical documentation for milestones reached.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, GitHub, Sublime Text. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering Worcester Polytechnic Institute - Worcester, MA Skills AJAX (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), JSON (5 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Web Technologies  HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, CSS 3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, D3.js, JavaScript, AJAX, DOM, jQuery, jQuery UI, Angular JS, ReactJS, JSON, RESTful Services    IDE, HTML Editor WebStorm, Sublime, Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio  Testing & Debugging Tools Chrome/Safari Web Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester, Jasmine, Karma  Operating System Windows XP, Windows 7, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS  Web/App Servers Apache, Tomcat 7.0, HTTP Web Server  Application Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Access, Visual Studio, Eclipse  Database MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB  Methodologies Agile, TDD