Senior Front- end Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- end Developer - ChalkLabs Bloomington, IN * Overall 7 years of professional experience involving full stages of SDLC for Web Applications and client server multi-tier Applications with J2EE technology.  * Extensive experience with web technologies Angular4, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, JSON, XML and Bootstrap  * Solid knowledge on Angular4 Modules, Service, Routing, Pipe, Forms and HTTP Services.  * Expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and client-side validations with JavaScript  * Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM), Advanced JavaScript and Standards of ECMAScript versions.  * Experienced in CSS Box Model, Pseudo-elements, Navigation, Selectors, Animations and CSS preprocessors such as SASS, LESS, etc.  * Proficient with Core Java, have knowledge of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics types.  * Good knowledge in implementing Java EE design patterns such as Dependency Injection, Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Facade and Strategy.  * Experience in various Relational Database Management Systems like MS SQL, Oracle, MySQL and DB2.  * Good knowledge in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers, Tables of Oracle and have experience working with MongoDB (NoSQL DB).  * Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architectures(SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) and Restful Web Services.  * Experience on various Spring framework modules like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring cloud.  * Efficient use of Postman and Fiddler to test REST/SOAP API Services.  * Experience with JUnit, Jasmine, Karma and Mocha in developing test cases and determining product functionality.  * Experienced with ANT and Maven Java build automation tools deployment to different environments.  * Hands on experience in software configuration/change control process and tools like SVN, GIT and TFS.  * Familiar with Agile/Scrum and Waterfall development methodologies.  * Outstanding written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Work Experience Senior Front- end Developer ChalkLabs - Bloomington, IN January 2016 to Present Project: Pushgraph  Description: The Pushgraph platform is currently being used to develop sustainable, cost-effective solutions for government agencies, and medical and pharmaceutical companies. Pushgraph provides insight and helps customers make better decision by providing visual analytics and predictive analysis on structured or unstructured data. Some of its uses include identifying disease precursors and pathologies, interrelationships between drugs and diseases, and intelligent targeting for research programming decisions. Pushgraph makes organizing and viewing data easy, with semantic search capabilities, in-memory computing, and predictive analysis.  Responsibilities  ? Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES 6), TypeScript, JSON, Angular4, Bootstrap and AJAX.  ? Built Angular4 framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular4.  ? Configured TypeScript application through tsconfig.json file for various purposes like transpiling, debugging, tracing, generating separate folder for distributable etc.  ? Developed applications using Angular4 - Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Created classes, interfaces, methods, components and modules in Angular applications using Typescript.  ? Used CSS to apply unique styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  ? JavaScript functions were used to enable and disable buttons to prevent missing information for records.  ? Implemented security using OAuth as Authorization tool for web services authentication by using the REST API.  ? Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using flex, flash Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  ? Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Used Postman and Fiddler to check the response of various API's and handled various exceptions.  ? Used Jasmine and Karma to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives and various parts of Angular application.  ? Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies, had sprint planning every two weeks and setup daily meetings to monitor the status.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Angular4, TypeScript, UAT, JIRA, Postman, Fiddler, Karma, Jasmine, Agile(Scrum), Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Front- end Developer Liscio - Bloomington, IN January 2014 to December 2015 Project: Liscio  Description: Liscio is a cloud and mobile solutions company dedicated to developing technology innovations that simplify the way clients and accounting firm staff connect and engage. The only client experience platform of its kind, LISCIO offers a simplified environment to organize and manage client workflow, communications and relationships within an accounting firm. It offers features like secure messaging, secure file sharing and storage, centralized access to reports, metrics and other information and also a built-in CRM to store information on new leads and prospects to nurture future clients of the firm.  Responsibilities  ? Designed business applications using web technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and Java based on the W3C standards.  ? Written Custom Directives in AngularJS, making use of modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement by business users.  ? Added animation to the application using AngularJS animation and used bootstrap to make the application look responsive.  ? Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  ? Created responsive web pages by using Bootstrap Grid System, navigation, forms, panels, image carousels, and Button and form inputs.  ? Developed CSS style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  ? Designed the application using MVC, Session Facade, Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  ? Used Spring core for dependency injection/Inversion of Control (IOC) and implemented using spring Annotation.  ? Designed and developed application using JSP and Spring Handlers to authenticate the access level for the users.  ? Developed unit test cases using Mocha and Karma as unit test runner for various application modules.  ? Performed GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system.  Environment: Java, Eclipse, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Spring Framework, Mocha, Karma, JSP, GIT, JIRA, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, JavaScript. Front- end Developer Stonegate Mortgage - Indianapolis, IN May 2012 to December 2013 Project: Online Loan Information Exchange  Description: This website is used by both internal Stone gate employees and external customers. Here external customers mean Third Party Loan Originators (TPO) or brokers and Correspondent Financial Institutions (CFI) or small banks. In other way OLIE is divided into three sub applications Retail, CFI and TPO. A borrower can approach to Stone gate directly or TPOs or CFIs to get a loan. To get the loan process from open till close need to go via a certain workflow with various loan statuses. Here a loan status can start with Mortgage Adviser and closes with Closer.  Responsibilities  ? Involved in various levels of the development life cycle by Gathering Requirements, Analyzing, Design and Development.  ? Worked on routing to load controller type using MVC5 Web APIs for reaching appropriate action in the web application.  ? Used MVC5 Razor-View Engine for re-using the individual user controls by not coupling them with underlying data elements.  ? Used ASP.NET MVC5 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  ? Involved in creating templates, pages and full sites in jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap and other front- end technologies.  ? Developed and exposed ASP.NET Web API services to clients to upload/send files into our processing folders and it will return XML format data with the generated contract number.  ? Used Entity Framework Code First for database table creating, data access logic, querying and manipulation data.  ? Working in Agile (Scrum) Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software.  ? Used JIRA for issues and project tracking.  Environment: C#, Visual Studio, ASP.NET MVC5, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, XML, Entity Framework, Web API, Agile and JIRA. Front- end Developer Indiana State Department of Health - Indianapolis, IN October 2011 to April 2012 Project: State Wise Investigating Monitoring and Surveillance  Description: SWIMSS is basically an application used by Indiana State of Health Department (ISDH). This application keeps record of all Indiana State HIV-STD patients. There is another system DREX which provides data to SWIMS which comes electronically via a scheduled SQL job. Here data means the Patients profile, Disease details, Lab details, clinic visit, and interview taken by the health department with patients. Apart from Electronic Data import, SWIMSS can create the data manually too.  Responsibilities  ? Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQUERY.  ? Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  ? Performed Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) web pages to separate presentation from structure to be able to define text alignment, size borders and many other typographic characteristics.  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  ? Combined Spring MVC and jQuery to perform the Ajax request and response to create and validated a form on server side  ? Used Spring MVC for loading database configuration and hibernate mapping files, created data source instance for instantiating Hibernate DAO Support's session factory object  ? Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate API to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control  ? Involved in Hibernate mappings, configuration properties set up, creating sessions, transactions and second level cache set up.  ? Used ANT build tool for automation of installation build and for running test cases to generate test report.  ? Used Maven automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  ? GIT for version control and Intellij IDE for development of the application.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Spring MVC, jQuery, Hibernate, AJAX, ANT, Maven, GIT, JUnit, Intellij and Spring Framework. Front- end Developer Bank of Qingdao - Qingdao, CN February 2011 to July 2011 Qingdao, China  Project: Budget Forecast and Reporting  Description: Bank of Qingdao is a provider of retail and corporate banking services in Shandong province, headquarters are in Qingdao, China. Budget Forecast and Reporting allows finance teams to share high-level or detailed forecasts with their employees, and users can adjust based on constraints setup up by management. Reporting module allows users to comment on and analyze revenue data in real-time. It also helps to calculate anticipated outcomes, predict risk, and report on past numbers. This application has multiple modules which are Financial Budgeting, Revenue Forecasting, Compensation Planning, Capital Expenditures and Costs, Reporting and Revenue Projections.  Responsibilities  ? Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Hibernate and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  ? Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations.  ? Performed Java spring framework while enabling neighbor and mapping statuses of enclosure interconnect ports.  ? Utilized Hibernate framework for back end and spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  ? Used Spring Framework for Authentication and Authorization and ORM components to support the Hibernate tool.  ? Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  ? Worked with jQuery for providing end user screen customization as well as animation.  ? Used jQuery to manipulate the DOM objects for User interface look and feel and for Ajax calls.  ? Written unit tests for JavaScript based Application using Chai testing frameworks.  ? Performed Maven to define the dependencies and build the application.  ? Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, jQuery, Hibernate, AJAX, Spring Framework, Maven, SVN, Chai, Eclipse, Servlets. Education Master's Skills JAVASCRIPT (7 years), BOOTSTRAP (6 years), JAVA (5 years), JIRA (6 years), MVC (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Enterprise Technologies: JDK, J2EE, Servlets, Spring, JSP, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, Entity Framework  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular4  Language & Database: Java 8, C#, SQL Server, T-SQL, Oracle 11g/12c, PL/SQL, XML, Python  IDE Tools & Web Servers: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio Code  Testing: Mocha, Jasmine, JUnit, Karma, Postman, Fiddler  Others: Maven, TFS, SVN, GIT, JIRA, ANT