Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - First Citizens Bank Edison, NJ Employer E-mail: sroy@marlabs.com  Contact#: 732-476-5503    • 6 years of professional experience in web development as front end and full stack developer in Banking and e-Commence.  • Highly skill with JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks (jQuery, Angular JS), server side JavaScript (Node JS).  • Experienced in UI design using HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS and JavaScript.  • Hands on experience in Responsive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap.  • Solid knowledge in CSS3 preprocessors styling as LESS and SASS add nested rules, variables, selector inheritance to CSS3.  • Expert in using Angular JS to design Single Page Application(SPA) including Directives, Routing, Data-binding, Filter, Dependency Injection, Services, Controller and Scope.  • Extensive experience in web application development using MEAN stack (Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node JS).  • Experienced in Server Side programming using Node JS and Express JS Framework for building MVC layers for front end and creating Custom Http Services, File Manipulation, and RESTful Services.  • Experience with data visualization using D3.js and Angular-Fusion Charts.  • Solid understanding in JavaScript design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Facade, Factory and Observer.  • Experience working with AJAX with JSON data format to consume RESTful web services.  • Experience in implementing front- end layer in web applications which are built with Servlet, JDBC, Spring MVC 4.0, Hibernate 4 and Apache Tomcat web server 7.  • Hands on experience in deploying Log4J to record server activity and errors.  • Solid knowledge of traditional relation database Oracle and MySQL and NoSQL database: Mongo DB.  • Strong knowledge JavaScript builds tools: GRUNT and GULP.  • Expertise in testing framework like Jasmine, Karma JUnit and QUnit.  • Strong knowledge of debugging with Firebug and Chrome Developer tool and troubleshooting existing code.  • Extensive Experience in version control tools like SVN and Git.  • Experienced in Agile/Scrum methodologies and Test Driven Development (TDD) testing methods.  • Experienced in programming on Mac OX, Linux, Windows and shell scripting.  • Familiar with several of IDE: WebStorm, Eclipse, Visual Studio and Dreamweaver.  • Quick learning and strong problem-solving skills with ability to work both independently and in team environment. Work Experience Front- End Developer First Citizens Bank - Raleigh, NC December 2015 to Present Project: Online Personal Banking System    First Citizens Bank provides a full range of banking products and services to meet individual or business financial needs. It offers investment banking, sales, fund management, transaction banking and other financial services.    Online Personal Banking System re-engineered the existing online personal banking system which includes like User Account, Order Product, Transaction, Loan Application, and Credit System to add more for the personal banking department of First Citizens Bank. This project implemented new features including Multi-language support, Advanced Fraud Protection, Automated Billing and Mobile Optimization.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing the front end application, user Interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used HTML5 created forms and tables to display client's personal information data which is fetched from back- end by using AJAX.  • Created Single Page Application for account, payment option and recipient's management.  • Created Angular custom directive for event handling and rendering custom Layouts for different HTML pages.  • Created Angular custom service such as factory and service for sharing different reusable functions and objects across the whole application.  • Involved in creating visualization reports, like tables, graphs using D3.js.  • Implemented Client Side Validation in different modules by using Angular Form Validation and HTML5 new input types (like email).  • Used Bootstrap UI to create drop-down menus, forms and modular effects for styling the web page such as creating a modular effect to display a form which is needed to be filled in order to modify user's information.  • Used AJAX to consume RESTful web services to fetch JSON/XML data and implement asynchronous communication with server side and then rendered the data on HTML using Angular JS.  • Used grunt to assist performing unit testing for modules.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used continuous integration tool Jenkins to deploy application.  • Involved in configuring and maintaining GIT repository.  • Involved in Agile development with Test Driven Development approach.  • Used Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL) and Servlets for server side communication and for navigating among modules.  • Participated in server side controller layer development using Spring MVC, providing RESTful service and responding in JSON format.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 1.7, AJAX, D3.js, Angular JS 1.4, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, grunt, RESTful, JSON, XML, Git, Spring MVC, JSTL, Servlets, Agile Front- End developer Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC December 2014 to December 2015 Project: Customer Identity Management System    Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation. Fidelity offers investment management, fund distribution, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.    Customer Identity Management System is a project which belongs to the Anti-money laundering (AML) system. It enables account security administrators in Fidelity to receive reports and alerts on all aspects of user access, including unsuccessful login attempts, password changes and geography and browser data. There are four modules for this system: Access module, Single sign-on module and Multi-factor authentication and Password management module.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the client to clearly define project requirements and plans.  • Created neat and user-friendly webpages using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Angular JS form validation and used AJAX to send the form data to the server in JSON format.  • Implemented pagination and dynamic tag filter directives using Angular JS.  • Implemented fundamental web functions using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Angular JS.  • Employed Express JS to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and created RESTful web service with Node JS.    • Involved using D3.js to process data in JSON format and visualize them as report.  • Conducted unit testing using Jasmine with test runner Karma.  • Conducted multiple times of testing compatibility using testing tools such as Chrome Inspector, Firefox Firebug, and IE Tester.  • Involved in Creating RESTful Services using Node JS and Express JS as part of MEAN stack implementation.  • Worked to call REST services (JSON) from client side. Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and supportive.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages with Agile/Scrum along with TDD.  • Assisted the Quality Assurance team in the final testing.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 1.5, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node JS, Express JS, Servlets, JSP, MVC, Hibernate, Spring, Angular JS 1.2, Jasmine, Karma, RESTful, D3.js, Node.js Front- End Developer China Citic Bank July 2013 to June 2014 Project: Personal Banking    Personal Banking project was used to help personal customers get banking services online. It includes Mobile Banking, Bill Payment and small loans. It is also responsible for maintaining personal information online, like address, telephone number and personal credit history and transaction history and employment status.    Responsibilities:  • Understood the requirements from the business to clearly define the project plan documentation and was also involved in brainstorming sessions.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Implementing dynamic functions by using JavaScript and used AJAX and to retrieve the JSON data from server side.  • Handled browser compatibilities in JavaScript using IE, Chrome, Firefox and Firebug.  • Used Bootstrap and jQuery to create small widgets and responsive web page.  • Involved in TDD for developing and performing test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for each story card in a sprint.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript 1.5, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Eclipse Front- End Developer China Minsheng Bank May 2012 to June 2013 Project: Individual Loans Application    Individual Loans project including two parts. The Individual Automobile Consumption Loan was designed for assisting individuals to buy private automobiles (commercial vehicles or second-hand vehicles). Min Yi Dai Loan is a convenient credit loan program helping individuals meet consumer needs based on the credit standing of the borrower such as purchasing cars or real estate, travelling and studying abroad.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance.  • Developed UIs using HTML, JSP, jQuery, CSS, JavaScript.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  • Used CSS Media Queries and CSS Bootstrap to design responsive web pages for better user experience.  • Involve in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Involved in implementing all components of the application including database tables, server-side Java Programming (JSP) and client side web programming.  • Implemented Hibernate to create, retrieve and update database.  • Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment:  HTML, JSP, jQuery, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, MySQL, JSP, Hibernate Front- End developer Mogujie May 2011 to May 2012 Project: e-Commerce Application    E-Commerce application project was designed to help customers use customizable templates to find their desired products. This feature is also included in the shopping cart. Based on customized results, the purchase amount changing will reflect in the shopping cart.    Responsibilities:  • Designed UI Components Using HTML, CSS to improve customer experience.  • Utilized jQuery to enable navigating functions to different pages based on user customized templates.  • Responsible for client side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented JavaScript to store the customer information for the further use and make the web page more interactive.  • Used JDBC to fetch data from MySQL database for Creating, Reading and Updating.  • Implemented asynchronous request handling by user using AJAX and JSON.  • Worked under Agile methodology and version control tool Git.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript 1.3, JDBC, MySQL, AJAX, JSON, Git, Agile Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Front- End Technologies: \ IDE & Tools: \  HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, \ WebStorm, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, MS Visual\  CSS, Media Queries, jQuery, Angular JS, \ Studio, Apache Tomcat 6/7, TDD\  Node JS, Express JS, JSON, D3.js, AJAX, \  Ruby on Rails, RESTful \    Server Side Programming: \ Version Controls: \  Servlets, JSP, Spring 3/4 MVC, Hibernate 4, \ Git, CVS  Node JS, Express JS\    Debugging Tools: \ Design Pattern: \  Firebug, Chrome Developer \ MVC, MVVM, Factory, Singleton, Observer\    Operating Systems: \  Windows, Mac OS X, Linux\