Associate Developer Associate <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate Developer - JP Morgan Chase, OH ? 8 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of Java/J2EE applications.  ? Extensive Experience in Front End Technologies like JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Jquery, DOJO, XHTML.  ? Excellent hands on experience with XML, XSL, XML Schema, HTML, CSS.  ? Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Analysis (OOA), based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  ? Experience on Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, MVC, Front Controller.  ? Experience working with J2EE application servers like IBM WebSphere, BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat.  ? Extensive experience with MVC architecture using Spring 3.0 and Struts 1.2.  ? Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications.  ? Experience in using SAML for secured access.  ? Experience in Database Design, writing stored procedures, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  ? Experience in ORM frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis.  ? Experience in deploying the Enterprise Applications (ear) and Web Applications (war) on the Apps Servers.  ? Experience in Java IDE tools like Eclipse, WSAD, RAD and SpringSource.  ? Experience in Version control tools like SVN, CVS, IBM ClearCase.  ? Proficiency in System Life Cycle including managing, developing and testing the applications.  ? Exposure to all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Excellent analytical, communication and Inter personal skills.  ? Capability to adapt New Tools and Applications.  ? Good team player with the ability to manage and work independently in a time sensitive environment. Work Experience Associate Developer JP Morgan Chase, OH October 2012 to Present Project Name: Admin Center    Admin Center is a web application used by the large clients for administration of various products    Responsibilities:  ? Participate in the discussion with the business experts and users to understand the Business requirements and mould them in to technical requirements towards development.  ? Involved in Designing and Development Phases using OOAD process.  ? Programming and Development of web pages using Dojo 1.6 and JSP's.  ? Used JSF custom tags for enriching the views.  ? Integrated Spring Webflow and Rich Faces application with Spring MVC, JSON and DOJO  ? Developed some actions in front end includes Custom Grids, custom context menus etc.  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Javascript and CSS.  ? Used HTML frames to create different sections for the project.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Used Object Oriented JavaScript Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Used Ajax for doing both synchronous and asynchronous calls to the Java classes.  ? Integrated Front- end components with AJAX to enrich the front end.  ? Integrated JSP's with DOJO widgets like Data Grid, Enhanced Data Grid, DOJO tabs, DOJO DGrid, Content Panes, Tree Grid etc.  ? Used Angular, Ember, Bacon, Bootstrap and Handlebars in multiple POC's  ? Used JavaScript libraries like JQuery, DOJO for easy programming of JS.  ? Updated the required data in the Oracle database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Used Hibernate Framework to build Query service.  ? Used O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Documenting all the process changes and requirement changes.  ? UAT and Implementation support for the application.  ? Used Eclipse, IntelliJ as an IDE for development  ? SVN is used as a tool for version control.    Environment: Eclipse, JSF1.0, Spring Webflow, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, DOJO, HTML, CSS, Tomcat, SVN, JUnit, log4j, RichFaces, Angular, Ember, Bacon Front End Developer CARDINAL HEALTH, OH February 2012 to October 2012 Project Name: MDM UI    MDM UI is a solution for Cardinal Health suppliers and Data Stewarts for accessing the data and managing the accounts and parties of Cardinal.    Responsibilities:  ? Participate in the discussion with the business experts and users to understand the Business requirements and mould them in to technical requirements towards development.  ? Involved in Designing and Development Phases using OOAD process.  ? Programming and Development of web pages using Dojo 1.6 and JSP's.  ? Developed application using JSF framework to achieve MVC pattern.  ? Used JSF custom tags for enriching the views.  ? Developed some basic actions in front end includes Drag and Drop items from one grid to other, custom context menus etc.  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Javascript and CSS.  ? Used HTML frames to create different sections for the project.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Used Object Oriented JavaScript Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Used Ajax for doing both synchronous and asynchronous calls to the Java classes.  ? Integrated Front- end components with AJAX to enrich the front end.  ? Integrated JSP's with DOJO widgets like Data Grid, Enhanced Data Grid, DOJO tabs, Content Panes, Tree Grid etc.  ? Used JavaScript libraries like JQuery, DOJO for easy programming of JS.  ? Updated the required data in the DB2 database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Documenting all the process changes and requirement changes.  ? UAT and Implementation support for the application.  ? Used RSA as an IDE for development  ? ClearCase is used as a tool for version control.    Environment: RSA, JSF1.0, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, DOJO, HTML, CSS, IBM WebSphere, Web Services, ANT, ClearCase, JUnit, log4j, Windows XP. J2EE Developer PNC Bank, OH December 2011 to February 2012 Project Name: CM (Capital Markets)    Capital Markets is a solution for checking Rates, Products and Commentaries of the experts in PNC. It is a part of Pinacle portal that provided details about the rates and products to Client side admins and Client side operators. This project also provides functionality for adding, deleting and editing tiers for the companies.    Responsibilities:  ? Participate in the discussion with the business experts and users to understand the Business requirements and mould them in to technical requirements towards development.  ? Involved in Designing and Development Phases using OOAD process.  ? Programming and Development of web pages using Spring 3.0, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Java script and CSS.  ? Used HTML frames to create different sections for the project.  ? Used SAML for granting security for the operators. Used SAML response for granting permission.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Used Spring-JDBC for connecting to the database.  ? Used Object Oriented JavaScript Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Used Ajax for doing both asynchronous calls to the Spring controllers.  ? Integrated Spring and AJAX to enrich the front end.  ? Used JavaScript libraries like JQuery for easy programming of JS.  ? Updated the required data in the Oracle database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Documenting all the process changes and requirement changes.  ? UAT and Implementation support for the application.  ? Used RAD as an IDE for development  ? SVN is used as a tool for version control.  ? Used TOAD for developing simple procedures.    Environment: Eclipse, SAML, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, Spring 3.0, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS, IBM WebSphere, Web Services, ANT, SVN, IVY, JUnit, log4j, Windows XP, TOAD. J2EE Developer PNC Bank, OH September 2011 to December 2011 Project Name: AA (Administrative Advantage)    Administrative Advantage is an intranet web application used by PNC's Bank Side Admin's (BSA) and Client Side Admin's (CSA). This application is used for adding, deleting the CSA's and for maintaining the payments sent to PNC from different insurance vendors.    Responsibilities:  ? Programming and Development of web pages using Spring 3.0, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed Server side programming technique using a JQuery plugin called JQuery Datatables.  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Java script and CSS.  ? Implemented a technique, which helped in creating reports on client side.  ? Used WebServices for adding and deleting operators and companies and send response to PINACLE portal.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Used DataSources for connecting to the database.  ? Used Object Oriented JavaScript Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Used Ajax for doing both asynchronous and synchronous calls to the java classes.  ? Integrated Spring and AJAX to enrich the front end.  ? Used JavaScript libraries like JQuery and Datatables for easy programming of JS.  ? Used DHTMLX library for creating different elements in front end.  ? Updated the required data in the Oracle database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Used iBatis as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in Oracle 11g database.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  ? Used Eclipse as an IDE for development  ? SVN is used as a tool for version control.  ? Used TOAD for accessing the database.  ? Used Tomcat 7.0 as webserver in development environment and WebSphere v6 in test, QA and Prod environments.  ? Used IVY and ANT for building the project.    Environment: Eclipse, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, Spring 3.0, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, JQuery Datatables, DHTMLX, HTML, CSS, IBM WebSphere, Web Services, ANT, SVN, JUnit, log4j, Windows XP, TOAD. J2EE Developer JP Morgan Chase, OH April 2011 to September 2011 Project Name: IPA (Integrated Pricing Administration)    IPA is an intranet web application used by the executives of JP Morgan Chase. The primary function of the IPA is to provide the pricing details to the managers. Chase bank usually provides some Interest rates to its corporate customers and every year it upgrades the pricing details, interest details and also provides some discounts to the customers depending on their usage. This application is to monitor all the details of the customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Participate in the discussion with the business experts to understand the Business requirements and mould them in to technical requirements towards development.  ? Involved in Designing and Development Phases using OOAD process.  ? Programming and Development of web pages using Spring 3.0, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JQuery and Object Oriented JavaScript.  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Java script and CSS.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Configured tiles (tiles-defs.xml) for reusing view components as an application of J2EE composite pattern  ? Used JDBC for connecting to the database for accessing the stored procedures.  ? Used Object Oriented JavaScript Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Used Ajax for doing both asynchronous and synchronous calls to the java classes.  ? Integrated Spring and AJAX to enrich the front end.  ? Used JavaScript libraries like JQuery and YUI for easy programming of JS.  ? Updated the required data in the Oracle database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  ? Documenting all the process changes and requirement changes.  ? UAT and Implementation support for the application.  ? Used RAD as an IDE for development  ? SVN is used as a tool for version control.  ? Used TOAD for developing simple procedures.    Environment: RAD, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, Spring 3.0, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, YUI, HTML, CSS, IBM WebSphere, Web Services, ANT, SVN, JUnit, log4j, Windows XP, TOAD. J2EE Developer Ohio Department of Taxation, OH January 2010 to April 2011 Project Name: STARS (State Taxation Accounting and Revenue System)    The primary function of the Ohio Department of Taxation is the collection and administration of most state taxes, several local taxes and the oversight of real property taxation in Ohio. The department also distributes revenue to local counties, libraries and school districts. ODT constantly upgrades its services for taxpayers by providing the best user experience for filing taxes and ODT is coming with a new innovative tool built on Spring and Hibernate for best online experience.    Responsibilities:  ? Participate in the discussion with the business experts to understand the Business requirements and mould them in to technical requirements towards development.  ? Involved in Analysis and Designing Phases using OOAD process, also involved in Change Processes.  ? Involved in designing UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Programming and Development of modules involving Struts, Navigation framework, Springs, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JQuery and JS.  ? Created interface mapping between two Web Services using WebSphere Integration developer (WID)  ? Developed user interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Java script and CSS.  ? Used Struts Navigation library to dynamically assemble presentation pages from reusable components.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, Singleton pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  ? Used Web Services (WSDL) to handle minor issues that support the Application.  ? Facilitated the functionality for the front end JSPs to take the data from the model as a XML and use XSLT to convert the XSL to HTML.  ? Used Hibernate Framework to build Query service.  ? Used O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  ? Updated the required data in the Oracle database to save and update the database using JDBC, corresponding to actions performed in the front end.  ? Written JUnit Test cases for the Helper, Gateway and Action classes which support the application.  ? Development methodologies using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  ? Designed exception handling and logging framework as part of remediation strategy.  ? Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Integration Testing.  ? Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment, and User Acceptance Test environment.  ? Developed the automatic build scripts using ANT for the application to deploy and test.  ? Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  ? Documenting all the process changes and requirement changes.  ? UAT and Implementation support for the application.  ? IBN Clear case is used as a tool for version control.    Environment: Eclipse 3.3, J2EE 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JSTL 1.2, Oracle 10g, JMS, XML, XSLT 2.0, Spring 2.5, Java Script, DHTML, HTML, CSS, Apache Tomcat 5.0, Web Services, ANT, Rational Clear Case, JUnit, log4j, Unix & Windows XP, Oracle SQL Developer 1.x. Java Developer Thomson Reuters, Mi May 2009 to December 2009 Thomson Reuters was an expertise with innovative technology to deliver critical information to leading decision makers in the financial, legal, tax and accounting, scientific, healthcare and media markets with news organization. The tax domain, which I have worked, provides information, decision support tools and software applications for tax and accounting professionals.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Involved in developing the application using Object Oriented Design (OOD) techniques.  ? Developed UML use-case, class, object, sequence, collaboration and activity diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Used JSP, HTML, CSS and AJAX for the enriched front end.  ? Extended standard action classes provided by the Struts framework for appropriately handling client requests.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse 3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build, automation and version control (SVN).  ? Involved in the implementation of DAO using Hibernate ORM.  ? Used Oracle 10g as a Database and Oracle Text for searching the database using a keyword  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Used WebLogic application server for deploying the application.  ? Subversion is used as a tool for version control.  Environment: Java 1.5, Struts, JSP, JSF, JSTL, EL, JavaScript, EJB 3.0, POJO's, Hibernate 3.0, CSS, Jakarta Commons, log4j, Junit, Subversion, Eclipse 3.4, WebLogic Server 10.3, Oracle 10g. Graduate Assistant Eastern Michigan University, Mi January 2008 to December 2008 Description:  Mailing system is an intranet web application of Eastern Michigan University, which is used by the mailing department. This application helps all the departments of the University to interact with mailing department. The responsibility of this application is to ensure that the outgoing mail is rapidly processed and has it properly prepared (documented). Usage of time, manpower and paper is reduced due to this application.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering the requirements from all the departments of the university.  ? Involved in the development of the application.  ? Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Select Architect.  ? Performed system analysis and design using OOA/OOD and UML diagrams.  ? Used MVC architecture for building the application.  ? Used apache Struts Framework for implementing MVC architecture.  ? Used MS Access as a database and JDBC for connecting to the database.  ? Used HTML, JavaScript to enrich the frontend.  ? Used JSP's and Struts Tag Libraries to enrich the view layer.  ? Used Apache Tomcat as a web server to deploy the application.  ? Used Eclipse as an IDE.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Select Architect, Apache Struts Framework, MS Access, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Windows Java Developer ICICI Lombard, India February 2007 to August 2007 Description:  The client personnel require an Internet application, which is ICICI Lombard, is a health insurance company. And the primary use of its Web application is to provide the ability to search for the Physician and Facilities. It also provides proximity search and PDF provider directory. The purpose of this web application is to update the data extracts and web design to allow a potential member to search for our company providers (specialists and facilities).    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the development, testing and maintenance process of the application.  ? Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Performed system analysis and design using OOA/OOD and UML diagrams.  ? Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database.  ? Developed Persistence layer using Hibernate using java classes and Business layer using stateless session beans incorporating session facade design pattern.  ? Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Apache Struts Framework, XML, XSLT and JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing queries, stored procedures, and modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  ? Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and testing using JUnit, responsible for defects allocation and ensuring that the defects are resolved.  ? Involved in writing ANT Scripts for building the web application.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, XML, XSLT, Rational Rose, Apache Struts Framework, Spring Framework, Web Services, Oracle 10g, Beyond Compare, CVS, IBM Websphere Studio Enterprise Developer, JUnit, Log4j. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Eastern Michigan University Bachelor of Engineering Andhra University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, Struts, JavaScript, JDBC, HTML, XML, Spring framework, JSF, Hibernate, iBatis.  Languages Java, Spring 2.5 and Spring 3.0  Databases Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, MySQL, DB2.    Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, UNIX.  IDE Tools MyEclipse, Eclipse, Netbeans, RAD, RSA  Application Servers WebLogic, WebSphere, TOMCAT  Web services Apache Axis  Reporting Tools MS Project, MSExcel, PowerPoint.  Others JUnit. IVY  Build Tools ANT.