Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Ford Detroit, MI ? 6+ years of extensive experience as a Front- End UI Developer in Web development, maintaining and designing rich, usable and functional web application.  ? Expertise in Web Development Technologies for highly interactive User Interface Development like HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, AngularJS, Angular.  ? Proficient in client-side scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4.  ? Designed Web application for handheld mobile devices using Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and CSS3 features such as Flex-Box, Media Queries.  ? Strong experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SASS and LESS.  ? Highly experienced in working with new JavaScript ES2015 features.  ? Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases which include designing, developing, testing, implementation and deployment. Extensive experience with Agile and Waterfall.  ? Experience in AngularJS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Scope, Filters, Services and Routing.  ? Expertise in Angular 2, Angular 4 features like Components, Directives, Pipe, Service, Forms, Observables, Dependency Injection, Communication, Routing, Life Cycle Hooks, Lazy Loading, Route Guards and Architecture.  ? Created custom directives in Angular2 for DOM manipulation and Services and Factories for common functionalities shared by different components.  ? Created Forms with validation using Template Driven Forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validation both on server and client side.  ? Implemented Services and $Http for calling data from the backend using observables with operators like filter, map, modify.  ? Basic understanding of Node.js fundamentals.  ? Experience in unit testing by writing test cases using Jasmine framework and running tests using task runner Karma.  ? Hands on experience with Version Control System (VCS) tools like SVN & GIT.  ? Strived for elegance and simplicity in code while focusing on scalability, readability and standards complicity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Ford - Detroit, MI March 2018 to Present Project Description:   Working on a inventory management application which is an internal application. In this application, inventory department is able to order the cars and then track them through the production system and shipping process.Through this application the department gets to know that certain inventory will be gone by the time the incoming inventory is then in stock. This application helps to forecast the short term needs and also know which cars are not being sold. It also tells the inventory department what type of cars tend to sell most during a given period of time. Sales and manufacturing departments both uses this application. Whenever a car is sold, the car is deleted from inventory and made part of history file which can be reviewed manually or automatically. This is all done through the inventory management system application.  Team size: - We are 10 people in my team. 3 of them are front end developers, 3 of them are backend developer,2 QA, 1 scrum master, 1 project manager, I have been a Front End developer in the team and one of the backend developer is a team lead.  Responsibilities:   ? Responsible for creating single page user interactive web application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, TypeScript, Bootstrap, Angular-CLI and Angular 4.  ? Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax.  ? Built custom Angular components and services for single-page application. Created reusable custom directives and service.  ? Implemented data binding using Event Binding and Property Binding methods and ngModel.  ? Worked with Angular CLI to create Components, Services, Pips, Directives.  ? Consumed RESTful web services in Angular 4 with http, observables using various operators like modify, filter, map for calling data from the backend.  ? Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time and handled various exceptions based on the response.  ? Implemented Angular Router to provide navigation to different views and guards such as CanActivate, CanActivateChild, CanDeactivate, CanLoad for protecting the routes.  ? Wrote all synchronous / asynchronous unit tests leveraging Karma/Jasmine.  ? Used SASS features such as mixings, nesting selector, variables to style webpage.  ? Committed code change into repository by using version control tool Git.  ? Increase productivity, improve communication and reduce downtime by keeping track of bugs using JIRA.  ? Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involved In daily stand up meetings.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Restful APIs, Angular 4/5, Angular-CLI, D3.js, ES2015, Typescript, Bootstrap, GIT, JIRA, Agile, Visual Studio Code. Front End Developer Autodesk - San Francisco, CA January 2017 to February 2018 Projection Description:   Worked on a shopper module where user can login and can see all the new software that autodesk is providing. All of this data is coming from backend and also user can download the new updates and plugins which are required for the old software and within this module i was also working on a payment module so that user can directly purchase the license for the new software.  My role involved on the front end part of this application where I initially had to migrate this application from angularJs to angular 2.  Migrating 1.x to 2:   ? I have used upgrade module to bootstrap our application.  ? Exported all modules on ngmodule ? Migrated individual components and services to angular2 only one module at a time ? Divided routes between angular 1 & 2 routes ? Removed AngularJs when every module is migrated and as we change version (or migrate each module) it gives errors many times so it's quite different and routing is also somewhat difficult as we have to separate them.  Responsibilities:   ? Built web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery, Plugins for Drag and Drop, JSON, JavaScript, Angular and Bootstrap.  ? Used Angular 2 to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind the data to specific views and synchronize data with server and implemented one way data-binding to make the application faster.  ? Implemented Router to navigate to different views and controlling views throughout application.  ? Extensively handled JSON/XML data and applied CRUD operation on data via REST services.  ? Applied various built-in filters such as date, currency into the application and created custom filters.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for creating Responsive design.  ? Extensive experience in working with SASS.  ? Used Unit test cases into Jasmine for various use cases.  ? Used Git, GitHub for project management and version management.  ? Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility, Responsive Web Design.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Angular, Chart.js, Bootstrap, Jasmine/Karma, Agile, Atom. Front End Developer Bank of the west - Tempe, AZ January 2015 to November 2016 Project Description:   Built a Investor application where investor can login and manage their investment activity online. This application helps investors to stay on top of their investments, account activity and spending. Investors can see the charts and graph related to their investment amount. They can even trade online by paying low amount per trade for orders executed online.  Worked on the front end part of the application. I have used angularJs to build $http, $resource, $q to communicate and pull the data from the backend. I used filter to sort that data on behalf of the request coming from the user. Storing that data into a service in order to perform any business logic according to the requirement later on data could be shared among different controller depending on the requirement. Then showing the filtered data to the front- end pages which has been brought to a single page using UI routing in order to nest some of the routes. I have also used UI route to create this application. I have done form validation using different states and custom directives. I have created custom directives for DOM manipulation.  Responsibilities:   ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interactive and browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  ? Involved in creating single page application by making the use of Directives, Controllers, Scope, Services, Filters, Template and Two-way Data Binding.  ? Developed custom directives in AngularJS that could be re-used like a template across the application and can be re-used to manipulate DOM across the application.  ? Made use of ngroute and UI router to navigate to multiple views throughout the single page application and controlling multiple views.  ? Worked with form validation using built-in AngularJS directives.  ? Implemented Form validation through $valid, $dirty, and used classes such as ng-minlength, ng-maxlength and created custom validation as well.  ? Used AngularJS $http service to communicate with Restful Web Services and JSON data.  ? Used Bootstrap to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile device.  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying.  ? Used Grunt as a task runner to run common tasks and worked with Jasmine frameworks to create test cases and Karma as test runner for unit testing.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Bootstrap, Grunt, Agile Methodology. Front End Developer SpartanNash - Grand Rapids, MI October 2013 to November 2014 Project Description:   Created internal application for SpartanNash company. In this application I created different module like product details, employee details, owner details. In product details module user can check all products details like retail price, selling price, total profit , etc. In employees details user can access all employee details like Employee name, address. In owner details module user can check all owner details of SpartanNash company like owner name, agreement details.  Responsibilities:   ? Created responsive web pages for multiple client projects using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Worked with the UX team to come up with the initial design for the pages and then developed them as per the requirements.  ? Involved in software coding, testing and debugging for web presentation layer using HTML and CSS.  ? Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  ? Worked on page design & coding and developed the interactive user interface using jQuery JavaScript library.  ? Performed data binding using jQuery and JavaScript templating and implemented a responsive style jQuery carousel.  ? Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  ? Developed JavaScript (jQuery) tabs and main navigation menus using CSS sprites technique.  ? Used JSON for massive data transfer between Client and Server. The REST calls were performed using XMLHttpRequest object (JavaScript) and $http service (AngularJS).  ? Used AngularJS MVC Framework in the development for two-way data binding and to consume data from RESTful web services.  ? Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, developed routing through web pages and built a single page application.  ? Created various responsive web pages using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  ? Used Session storage to store the values with in the browser.  ? Used JIRA for tasks and bug tracking.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS. Front End Developer Creative Web Solution - Gujarat, IN July 2012 to August 2013 Project Description:   Developed customer relationship management application for our clients. This application is about giving the best Customer support System which respond customers with fast solution for queries asap. This application helps perfect management of both the side that is Customers and sales persons by the Admin and making the perfect communication between them. I worked on web technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Ajax. Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript code to build web forms, page navigation for web application and form validation to build this application.  Responsibilities:   ? Involved in designing front- end applications using web technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and pop up screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user requests.  ? Build reusable code and libraries for future use.  ? Responsible for solving page layout issues and creating an effective CSS fluid layout.  ? Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript code to build web forms, page navigation for web application and form validation.  ? Achieve technical feasibility of UI/UX designs using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  ? Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  ? Worked on cross-browser compatibility and fixed bugs for several browsers.  ? Analyzing the business requirements and provide technical specifications.  ? Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  ? Analyzed user requirements and converted into use cases.  ? Closely worked with business analysts to understand the requirements to ensure that the right set of UI modules are been built.  ? Providing Technical support on emergency issues.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Gujarat Technical University India 2012 Skills Javascript, Angular, UI, Front End, React