Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Richmond, VA ? Around 6 years of experience in Requirements gathering, Designing, Development, Implementation and Maintenance of software applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Excellent in designing the front- end pages using technologies like Angular6, TypeScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, AJAX, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and its libraries.  ? Experienced on Java/J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC and frameworks like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Structs and Hibernate.  ? Proficient in working with Angular6 Modules, Services, Templates, Directives, Routing and Dependency Injection.  ? Working experience in designing application using Bootstrap concepts like Media Object, Badges, Pagination, Navbar, Navs, Dropdowns, Alerts, Labels and Progress bars.  ? Hands on experience on working with CSS3 Background, Lists and Links, Positioning, Float, Align, Pseudo-class, Pseudo Elements, Dimension, Box model, Texts, Borders, Margin, Padding, and Tables.  ? Experience in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Factory pattern, DAO, Façade Pattern (Session Façade Pattern), MVC Pattern and Strategy.  ? Working knowledge in programming SQL queries, Triggers, Tables, Indexes, Joins, Views, Transactions and Stored Procedures in Oracle and SQL Server.  ? Good knowledge on source control and configuration management tools such as GIT, TortoiseSVN, TFS.  ? Hands on experience in setting up repositories, build/deployment in Maven and Ant.  ? Good knowledge in creating unit test cases in SPA using Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Karma, JUnit and debugging tools like Postman and Fiddler.  ? Experience working in Scrum teams in Agile methodology and Waterfall for estimating the timelines of projects.  ? Strong interpersonal, communication, technical and analytical skills with ability to learn new concepts quickly and utilize them in productive manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Applied Predictive Technologies - Arlington, VA December 2017 to Present Description: Applied Predictive Technologies (APT) is a software company that provides business analytics software, designed to help large, consumer-facing businesses "reduce the risk of any new initiative by systematically testing the idea with a subset of stores, customers, or employees. APT AIM credit card analytics tracks all past and present campaigns in a centralized dashboard to inform the optimal characteristics for each new program, including annual fees, sign up bonuses, reward offers, and credit limit increases. Each month provides new data and insights into customer performance - APT AIM credit card analytics automatically updates forecasts and models to ensure that they accurately predict customer lifetime value.  Responsibilities ? Designed and Developed User Interactive single page web applications (SPA) using Java, Angular6, TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Eclipse.  ? Implemented Angular features like components, directives, filters, pipes, routing and adopted new features from Angular6 in application.  ? For the better user navigation between the components used routing feature using Angular6 router module.  ? Utilized HTTP interceptor client Module (Angular6) to implement the caching to mutate the Http calls in the application.  ? Leveraged Angular6 resources for all data access, Encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Performed Bootstrap to style the web pages and make the application responsive.  ? Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  ? Performed Fiddler for troubleshooting, performance tuning and system monitoring.  ? Wrote test cases in an Angular Framework Jasmine to run in a Browser using Karma.  ? Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers.  ? Involved in configuring the GIT repository and maintained the version control using GIT.  ? Worked in Agile methodology, two weeks Sprint and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver in time.  Environment: Eclipse, Java/J2EE, VS Code, Angular6, HTML5, TypeScript, Bootstrap, CSS3, Fiddler, Jasmine, Karma, GIT, Agile (Scrum), MS SQL Server 2016, Maven. Front End Developer Evolent Health - Arlington, VA August 2016 to November 2017 Arlington, VA  Project: MyIdentifi Aug 2016 to Nov 2017  Description: MyIdentifi is web application, which brings together a complete set of data from electronic medical records (EMRs), claims, labs, pharmacy and self-reported and socioeconomic sources into a clinical profiling and predictive analytics engine that prioritizes patients you can impact. It supports care advisors in triaging patients, conducting assessments, developing care plans and managing their list of prioritized action items. Physician practices module keeps them connected with the extended team helping their patients. Engage module is designed for patients to easily interact with the care team when enrolled in a care program. It allows patients to access the care team roster and to initiate contact or upload biometric data while on the go.  Responsibilities ? AngularJS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Created Web Applications with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using AngularJS.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Utilized JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  ? Implemented the web tier using Spring MVC and all components therein, Simple Form Controller, Parameterizable View Controller.  ? Design and develop the useful micro services using Spring Boot.  ? Responsible for maintaining versions of source code and keep track of the changes occurred using TFS.  ? Tested the created web services of the controllers and actions route using Postman.  ? Working on the unit test cases to test the functionality of the code written in component and DOM level using Karma test runner and Jasmine framework.  ? Updated Agile tracking systems to provide transparency on product and sprint backlogs.  Environment: AngularJS, Java/J2EE, Eclipse, MS SQL Server 2014, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Postman, Jasmine, Agile (Scrum), Karma, TFS, Spring Boot, Spring MVC. Front End Developer Shengjing Bank - Shenyang, CN January 2015 to April 2016 Description: Shengjing Bank is a commercial bank, with its headquarters in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China. It was established in 1996. It has opened a branch in Beijing, Tianjin, Dalian, Yingkou, Huludao, Shanghai, Anshan, Changchun, Benxi, Panjin, Chaoyang, Fushun, Jinzhou, Fuxin, Dandong and Liaoyang. Policy Administration Tool includes features to track suspense items, save applications as drafts, and perform customer account clearance. The fully automated quoting process allows to easily and quickly produce quotes using our built-in rating engine. Policies are produced with all endorsement and exclusion forms in a matter of seconds with built-in policy issuance engine. This application has multiple modules which are Policy Generation, Policy Issuance, Policy Processing, Cancellation Tracking, Rating Engine, and Reinstatement Tracking.  Responsibilities ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  ? Implemented Model View Control (MVC) pattern to develop a web page.  ? Performed ASP.NET MVC5 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  ? Created Views, Partial Views, Strongly Typed Views, Sections, and Areas etc. in ASP.NET MVC5.  ? Designed JavaScript and jQuery extensively for performing client-side validations.  ? Worked with jQuery AutoComplete for enabling auto complete on pages and wrote custom bindings.  ? Involved in creating WCF SOAP services for various policies and benefits and consumed them into web applications.  ? Created Entity Framework Database First Model for ASP.NET application used LINQ to Entities for the data access layer.  ? Created automated Unit test plans and performed Unit testing modules according to the requirements and development standards with NUnit testing.  ? Maintained the application versioning, bug reporting, merging/ branching of development and production applications using TFS.  ? Used JIRA for Bug analysis and fixes in Web-industry standards. Updating story progress in JIRA and Stand-ups on daily basis.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC5, WCF, Entity Framework, JavaScript, jQuery, LINQ, NUnit, Visual Studio 2013, JIRA, MS SQL Server 2014, TFS. Front End Developer Brilliance Auto Group - Shenyang, CN August 2013 to December 2014 Description: Brilliance Auto Group is a Chinese automobile manufacturer headquartered in Shenyang. Its products include automobiles, micro vans, and automotive components. Its principal activity is the design, development, manufacture and sale of passenger cars sold under the Brilliance brand. Quality Control Inspection is designed to bring interdisciplinary visibility, supplier collaboration, and long-term tracking of quality resolutions to the enterprise's core. It provides customers with quality products, organizations are required to ensure that their processes are continuously monitored and product defects are minimized. Quality assurance teams need to effectively share information with a variety of trading partners that include internal departments, suppliers, manufacturers and testing.  Responsibilities ? Involved in implementation of the presentation layer (GUI) for the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  ? Utilized JavaScript, HTML, CSS to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  ? Consumed Core Java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading and Serialization.  ? Performed Spring Framework for managing transactions and dependency injection (IoC) using annotations.  ? Utilized Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  ? Developed Struts tag libraries and custom tag libraries extensively while coding JSP pages.  ? Used Struts framework to maintain MVC and created action forms, action mappings, DAOs, application properties for Internationalization etc.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Involved in ANT scripts for build creation and to push onto various environments.  ? Plan, design, and implement PL/SQL database code objects, such as stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors.  ? Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  ? Creating environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUnit.  Environment: Eclipse, Java/J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, ANT, PL/SQL, JIRA, JUnit, Spring Framework, Hibernate. Front End Developer BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd - Shenyang, CN January 2013 to July 2013 Description: BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. is an automobile manufacturing company headquartered in Shenyang, China and a joint venture between BMW and Brilliance Auto. Its principal activity is the production, distribution and sale of BMW passenger cars in mainland China. Equipment Requirement Planning is a production planning, scheduling and inventory control system used to manage manufacturing processes. It ensures materials are available for production and products are available for delivery to customers, maintain the lowest possible material and product levels in store and plan manufacturing activities, delivery schedules and purchasing activities. Equipment Requirement Planning has multiple modules which are Purchasing, Inventory, Production Manager and Delivery Scheduling.  Responsibilities ? Analyzed client requirements by interacting with various business divisions and consolidated SRS (Software Requirements Specification) Document.  ? Developed JSP pages for the presentation layer, used custom tag libraries, JSP Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  ? Developed jQuery and JavaScript functions for client-side validations.  ? Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions & also performed validations using Commons validator.  ? Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection.  ? Used Spring MVC, Spring Security modules to integrate with database to implement the persistence layer with Hibernate.  ? Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures.  ? Utilized SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  ? Wrote Apache ANT build scripts for building the application and test cases using JUnit for performing the unit testing.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JDBC, SVN, Apache ANT, JUnit, HTML, CSS, Spring DI, JSTL. Skills .NET (1 year), AngularJS (1 year), ANT (2 years), ASP (1 year), ASP.NET (1 year), Eclipse. (4 years), J2EE (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), jQuery (1 year), JSP (2 years), JUnit. (2 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), MVC (4 years), Servlets (1 year), SQL (5 years), SQL Server (3 years), testing (4 years), Front End (6 years), CSS3 (2 years), HTML5 (5 years), Node Additional Information Technical Skills  Web Technologies: Angular6, AngularJS, TypeScript, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX.  Enterprise Technologies: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Eclipse, JSP, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC.  Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Facade, Strategy, Abstract Factory, Dependency Injection, DAO.  Microsoft Technologies: VS Code, ASP.NET MVC5, Entity Framework, WCF, C#, Visual Studio, MS SQL Server.  Testing & Debugging: Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, JUnit, Fiddler, Postman, NUnit.  Others: TFS, GIT, TortoiseSVN, Agile (Scrum), Waterfall, Ant, Maven, UAT.