Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer Portland, OR • Over 8 years of extensive experience as a Front End UI Developer in various domains like Finance, Insurance, Transport and telecom.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM)  • Experience with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSONP.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using JavaScript and related technologies.  • Extensive experience in Responsive Web Design and making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Experience in using the latest approaches, including MVC, MVVM  • Experience in using the jQuery libraries Angular JS, Knockout JS.  • Experience in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++ and Visual Studio  • Profound Knowledge in developing HTML pages using DIV layout, Web Accessibility and Web Usability  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles using media queries and libraries like bootstrap.  • Well experienced in debugging websites using Firebug, Fiddler, Developer tools.  • Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Good Team Player with Excellent Communication Skills and Highly Motivated analytical  • Problem Solver and troubleshooter with more attention Work Experience Front end Developer Sun Trust Bank - GA February 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Responsible for creating web and website based applications using JavaScriptand jQuery.  • Worked on web application development using HTML5.  • Developed the front- end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits like YAHOO USER INTERFACE (YUI). Used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone JS, Require JS, and jQuery.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Designed and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Flash Catalyst.  Writing extensive Java Script functions both in Angular JS and jQuery UI Framework.  • Designed look-and-feel for web sites in Photoshop.  • Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Worked on integrating jQuery APIs with MVC pattern.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components usingjQuery UI Library.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Developed web UIs with AJAX, jQuery and jQuery UI frameworks, etc.  • Developed the application on GWT (for creating Widgets, Panel, Event Listeners and other UI Components) and deployed the application on Web Sphere Server.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, PHP, XML, DOM, YUI, Backbone JS, Require JS, Ext JS, Responsive Web Design, Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery UI, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, agile, Junit, SOAP, Windows. Front end Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL February 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities  • Created HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML pages for Presentation Layer.  • Involved in developing of design documents with UML class diagrams.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  • Designed the email blasts using Adobe software and then implemented them using HTML and Java script.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Implemented various Search Engine Optimization techniques as metadata, building inbound link, and outbound link text, meaningful title while designing web pages.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Involved in JavaScriptcoding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Applied client side validations using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built HTML and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features.  • Created Graphic User Interface (GUI) and applied to web site.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML, Ruby, JSON, Photoshop, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows. Front end Developer Key Bank - CA April 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing organization's Web site and all custom web applications using jQuery, Macromedia Dreamweaver, JavaScript, HTML and XML.  • Front- end GUI development using browser friendly JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, jQuery.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Extensively used jQuery plug-ins, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQuery components for CRM application for customer service.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Writing web pages and templates using W3C web standards.  • Designed different front- end forms using CSS.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MYSQL.  • Understand and modify existing systems as business requirements change.  • Develop system test criteria and participate in systems testing.    Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, DOM, Ruby, Macromedia Dreamweaver, MYSQL, Windows. Front end Developer Harbor Freight Tools - Los Angeles, CA January 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS2 based on the W3C and ADA standards.  • Gathered the data from the backend using AJAX and jQuery, JSP.  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  • Worked on fixing cross browser compatibility issues.  • Created Valid XHTML, CSS templates.  • Created and deploying new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created pages in Site Core and validating the HTML code withW3C Validator.  • Fixed the HTML errors in site core content editor.  • Fixed Front- End issues with the layouts.  • Highly involved in making updates to the current website and simultaneously handling other projects.  • Involved in coding pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XHTML, DOM, Usability Testing, Windows. Front end Developer CUBEFORE - IN September 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Created a website using HTML, designed all pages using CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in the design and development of user profile planning for those accessing the system.  • Client/Server monitoring.  • Analyzed user requirements and converted into use cases.  • Used detailed wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Responsible for managing website content.  • Designed layouts on the front- end using JavaScript, CSS and DHTML.  • Created multiple types of content, each with different features.  • Adobe Photoshop has been used to create different banners and designs.  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly.  • Worked closely with third party vendors.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, JavaScript, DHTML, MS-office. Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON, jsp, Angular JS, jQuery, Require JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  Operating System Windows, MS DOS, Unix, Linux  Databases MySQL, Oracle, MS Access, MS SQL.  Integrated Development Environment NetBeans IDE 7.4,Eclipse 3.7, Visio 2010, Visual Studio 2008, Dreamweaver CS3  Others MS Office 2003-2007, Adobe Flash CS5, Adobe Firework CS5, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS5, DOM manipulations.  Debugging Tools Firebug, FirebugLite, Google Chrome Web Debugger, IE developer Tools.  Version Controllers Subversion, CVS, Git Hub, Bit Bucket