Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - TD Ameritrade New Brunswick, NJ • Over 6 years of professional experience in User Interface and Web development as a Front- end Full Stack Developer.  • Hands-on experience in various domains like Banking (developing trading platform), Insurance and E-Commerce.  • Excellent HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 1.5, jQuery 2.1, Angular.js 1.4.0, Ajax, JSON skills for implementing web technologies.  • Proficient in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS3 Media Queries and CSS Bootstrap 3.3.5.  • Knowledge in using JavaScript API's like Prototype.js 1.7.3.  • Strong experience in using JavaScript libraries like jQuery 2.1 and its component jQuery UI 1.12.  • Significant experience in designing and developing Single Page Applications using Angular.js 1.4.0 and Angular UI.  • Hands-on experience in consuming RESTful Services 2.0 using JavaScript 1.5, jQuery 2.1 and Angular.js 1.4.0.  • Solid Experience of web service using Ajax for processing JSON/XML between front- end and back- end.  • Familiar with Node.js 4.4.7, Express.js 4.14.0 and MongoDB 3.2 as a MEAN Stack Developer.  • Expertise in integrating D3.js 3.0.1, jQuery Fusion Charts for visualization.  • Strong Experience in developing web based application using J2EE 1.8 technologies like JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.3.0, Maven, Apache Tomcat 8 web server.  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in application development using RDBMS like MySQL, Oracle 12g.  • Outstanding knowledge in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Expertise in JavaScript testing framework like Jasmine 2.3, Junit 4.12, QUnit 2.0.0 and Protractor.  • Experience in deploying application with continuous integration tool Jenkins 2.7.1 and bug tracking tool JIRA 7.1.  • Strong experience in testing and handling cross browser compatibility issues across various browsers and platforms using polyfill solutions like Modernizr 3.3.1 and Webshim 1.15.10.  • Good knowledge in various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory and MVVM.  • Solid proficiency with distributed version control tools GIT 2.9.  • Excellent knowledge of software development life cycle (Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation) and SDLC methodologies such as Agile/Scrum and Waterfall along with TDD approach.  • Self-starter, fast learner and consistent team player, up to date knowledge with the latest industry trends, and having the ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines. Work Experience Front- end Developer TD Ameritrade - Jersey City, NJ August 2015 to Present Project: Web Platform    TD Ameritrade is a leader in brokerage and investment services for over 35 years, offering a full spectrum of powerful solutions and innovative tools for trading and investing.  This project involved enhancement of user experience appealing for existing and new customers who can get on-the-go access to streaming quotes, equity trading, real-time balances and positions, order status, charts and news. This project includes seven modules, which are account management refactoring, trade system redesign, research facility, planning & retirement tools, client services, alert center and SnapTicket(TM).    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirement to translate functional requirements into technical requirements using MVC framework Angular.js, making multiple developers to be able to work on separate modules simultaneously.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, create a responsive webpage and implement dynamic features by using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Implemented highly interactive features and redesign some parts of products by write plain JavaScript due to some compatibility issues using jQuery.  • Used Angular.js framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Handled browser compatibility issues for different browsers related to CSS, HTML and JavaScript for IE, Firefox, and Chrome browsers.  • Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side.  • Designed and developed modules to retrieve data and improve data using Ajax calls by $http service in Angular.js.  • Used D3.js to accomplish data visualization for product report (pie chart and time series chart).  • Involved in using jQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation.  • Involved in Developing and Consuming RESTful Services using Spring3 MVC with Hibernate3 for fetching dynamic data for display.  • Created file and does Unit testing by creating Test Suites using Jasmine and track bugs by using JIRA.  • Used continuous integration tool Jenkins to deploy application.  • Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for the development process.  • Committed code change into repository using version control tool GIT.    Environment:  JavaScript 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js 1.4.0, Bootstrap 3.3.5, jQuery 2.1, Ajax, D3.js 3.0.1, Jasmine 2.3, Apache Tomcat 8, GIT, RESTful Web Service, Jenkins 2.7.1, JIRA 7.1, Agile Front- end Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ March 2015 to August 2015 Project: CRM    Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, asset management, and real estate services.  This project is refactoring a cloud-based CRM solution with a simple, elegant interface includes advanced features such as intelligent insights, multi-process management and robust sales correspondence tracking to improve business relationships with customers, specifically focusing on retaining customers, in order to drive sales growth. It consists of CRM system refactoring, Dashboard development, companies and customers' contact, deals and products management, organizer and files' new features implementation, insight data analysis.    Responsibilities:  • Provided web design and improved layouts of the web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture by using Angular.js.  • Used jQuery functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Developed APIs using Ajax, JSON to implement more robust and efficient browser and server transfer applications.  • Used jQuery Fusion Charts as reporting tool to visualize data interactively.  • Produced page contents using Bootstrap responsive layout design to fit for different device.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features using jQuery plug-ins.  • Used Ajax calls through Angular.js to populate the data tables on the front- end.  • Involved in configuring Spring MVC using annotation and RESTful web service.  • Adapted Agile/Scrum methodologies and following TDD approach.  • Used Jasmine for unit test and deployed application with Jenkins.  • Worked with GIT to optimize code repository.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects by using JIRA and checking cross platform compatibility using Modernizr.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 1.5, Angular.js 1.3.0, Bootstrap 3.3.0, jQuery 2.0, Ajax, JSON, Apache Tomcat 8, GIT, RESTful Web Service, Jenkins 2.7.1, JIRA 7.1, Agile, Modernizr 3.1.0 Front- end Developer Baidu - ??? September 2012 to August 2014 Project: Official Website Development    Baidu Inc. is a rapidly growing Chinese search engine with locations in Beijing and Shanghai, China. The company has more than 10 year's experiences in search engine. My role in the project was to build content layout, navigation and overall functionality that make the website more efficient and appealing.    Responsibilities:  • Communicate with clients to understand their business and design the website according to the system requirements.  • Design the layout and structure of the website according to the priority of their business goals.  • Developed the webpage framework by utilizing Angular.js.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website across different size of screens, set breakpoints for smartphones, tablets and desktops.  • Designed and created a dynamic web page with reusable widget using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Applied jQuery Validation Plugin to validate the user input and improve their user experience.  • Implemented MVC architecture by applying Angular.js framework.  • Used FireBug, Chrome Dev tools to track and fix bugs.  • Used third party API integrations for Baidu Maps.    Environment:  Angular.js 1.1.5, HTML5, Bootstrap 2.3.2, CSS3, jQuery 1.8, JavaScript 1.4 Front- end Developer Line0 - Nanjing, CN September 2011 to July 2012 Project: Official Website Development    Line0 is a Nanjing-based food delivery startup that guarantees delivery from local restaurants in less than an hour. The startup runs delivery services mostly for cheap franchise restaurants. My role in the project was to build the official website which provides better user experience.    Responsibilities:  • Participate in creating and designing the functionality and layout of the website.  • Add the sidebar and navigation bar for clients by using jQuery.  • Developed the web layout by using HTML and CSS.  • Integrated 3rd party API with Google Map to show the office location of the company.  • Design the story board for each employee that contains social links, photos, videos, personal information and professional skills, etc.  • Used Ajax to retrieve the JSON data from server side.    Environment:  HTML4, CSS2, jQuery 1.6, JavaScript 1.3, JSON, AJAX Front- end Developer Suning - Nanjing, CN September 2010 to July 2011 Project: E-Commerce Platform    Suning Commerce Group is one of the largest privately owned retailers in Nanjing, China. Suning has more than 1600 stores covering over 700 cities of Mainland China, Hong Kong and Japan and its e-commerce platform, Suning.com ranks among top three Chinese B2C companies. The e-commerce platform provides a wide variety of online products and services based on user requirements. My role in the project was to design and build a nice layout of the webpage.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with business analysts to understand and implement functionalities based on the requirements.  • Participate in creating and designing the functionality and layout of the website.  • Developed the web layout by using HTML and CSS, implementing dynamic functions by using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Ajax to retrieve the JSON data from server side.  • Resolved cross-browser compatibility issues for IE, Chrome and Firefox.  • Integrated 3rd party API with Google Map to show the office location of the company.    Environment:  HTML4, CSS2, jQuery 1.4, JavaScript 1.2, JSON, AJAX, Canvas, SVG Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages\ Distributed Technologies\  Java, C, C++\ JPA (ORM)\    Frameworks\ Web Technologies\  Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0 (ORM tool), \ HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, \  JDBC Framework, spring 3.x, 4.x\ AJAX and Bootstrap\    Databases\ Database tools\  MySQL, Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, \ SQL Developer, MySQL work Bench and \  SQL SERVER \ Query Browser \    IDE/Development Tools\ Interoperable Technology\  Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, MyEclipse & \ Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, \  NetBeans\ JAX-RS), JAX-B & JAX-P (SOAP, REST)\    Application Server\ Operating Systems\  Glassfish 3.0, Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic \ Windows 8.1/8/7/Vista/XP, UNIX, Linux.\  Server and Web Sphere \    Logging Tools\ Build Tools\  Log4J\ ANT and Maven\    Version control Tools\ Testing Tools\  SVN, Tortoise SVN, CVS\ JUnit\    Web Services Tools\ Methodologies\  Soap UI, REST Console 4.0.2\ Waterfall and Agile (Scrum, Sprit)\