Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - JP Morgan Chase Seattle, WA • Having 5.5+ years of extensive experience as a web application Developer.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, Jquery, Angular, Backbone, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Expertise in analyzing and debugging the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using chrome inspector and other developer tools.  • Skilled in developing web applications using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, J2EE and PHP.  • Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.  • Experience in major web applications servers, including REST ful API, Oracle Web Logic Server Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer JP Morgan Chase - Manhattan, NY January 2015 to Present Technologies Used:  Blue JS (internal frameworks), Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Agile methodology, REST ful, Angular.js, LESS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of frontend part of the application.  • Responsible for Development of the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML, Blue JS (internal js framework), CSS.  • Used Angular.JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Worked with Angular (directives, controllers, etc.)  • Coordinating with Design and API team on scoping, issue resolution, status updates.  • Ensuring quality deliverables.  • Using MVC-based Angular JS to fetch data from our REST-based APIs.  • Used angular.js for MVVM framework  • Worked with chrome debugger to locate the issue through different browsers.  • Leveraged angular.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces. Front End Developer Samsung - Seattle, WA September 2014 to December 2014 Technologies Used:  Backbone, Underscore, Angular.js, HTML5, REST ful, CSS3 and Google Analytics.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front- end part of the application.  • Responsible for Development of the User Interactive pages using web technologies like HTML, Backbone JS and CSS.  • Coordinating with client and offshore team on scoping, issue resolution, status updates.  • Worked with Angular (directives, controllers, etc.)  • Used Angular.JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Used angular.js for MVVM framework  • Leveraged angular.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Ensuring quality deliverables.  • Prepare and Execute Unit and Integrated test cases.  • Worked with chrome debugger to locate the issue through different browsers. Front End Developer Apple - San Jose, CA July 2009 to September 2014 Technologies Used:  OO JavaScript, XML, Ajax, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Spry data and Java.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front- end part of the application.  • Responsible for Development of the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML, JSP, JS and CSS.  • Used Ajax with Spry data for request data and response processing.  • Manipulate data into table view from XML using spry data.  • Prepare and Execute Unit and Integrated test cases.  • Coordinating with client and internal offshore team on scoping, issue resolution, status updates.  • Used angular.js for MVVM framework  • Discussed various ideas/suggestions for the ongoing web applications regarding the page layout and creative design.  • Ensuring quality deliverables  • Leading a team of 4(2 from onsite and 2 from offshore) as part of onshore assignments. Education BTech CS in CS Amrita Institute of technology August 2005 to May 2009 Additional Information SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, OO JS, Jquery, JSON, Angular (Intermediate), Backbone (Intermediate).  Programming Languages: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets and PHP.  Database: MySQL and Oracle.