Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Over 7+ Years of IT experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing using Java Technologies.  • Expertise in transforming the business requirement into executable collaboration flow modules.  • Experience as a Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks Backbone.js and AngularJS.  • Implementing Presentation layer using CSS Framework, React.JS, Wire-framing, and HTML.  • Setting up and configuring CI/CD on Jenkins and React apps with web hooks on GitHub  • Integrated React based web app to multiple services using REST API  • Expert in working with cutting edge front- end technologies/ framework and libraries.  • Designed & developed mobile UI components using JSX, Flex box and Dumb components.  • Hands on experience in Configuring web pack and other bootstrapped many Node applications  • Experience in JavaScript Unit Testing using QUnit, and Angular End- testing using Jasmine, also worked on Karma, Protractor and have a good understanding on Mocha.  • Worked on responsive design using media queries, Bootstrap and AngularUI Bootstrap.  • Experience in application development using Backbone.js framework - event triggering, backbone views, backbone events etc.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3, and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like WebStorm, Eclipse, Atom, Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Ability to write well-documented, well-commented, clear and maintainable efficient code for web development.  • Excellent work experience with Version Control Tools such as CVS, Rational ClearCase, SVN and GitHub  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL Web Services.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Also having Good experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript &.  • Experience in the functional usage of business applications using WebLogic, Web Sphere, IBM WebSphere Application, Portal Server (WAS/WPS), JBoss and Tomcat.  • Having very good experience and knowledge on different integration patterns like Publish/Subscribe, Request/Reply, Point to Point, Hub/Spoke, Synchronous/Asynchronous etc.  • Extensive knowledge in developing end-to- end applications using MEAN stack technologies NodeJS, Ember.js, Angular.js/2 and Mongo DB.  • Good knowledge of new features of Java Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop.  • Experience in working with cutting edge front- end technologies/frame work and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, DHTML, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML, and AJAX.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML.  • Knowledge in UI development, User Experience (UX) design, front end development, rich user interface design, documentation, web 2.0 specifications, media compatibilities (screen, mobile, touch interface), application architecture, visual design, and wireframes.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated, Self-Starter, and Team Player, can work with minimal supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in developing and maintaining services - based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and spring MVC Framework.  • As a developer involved in Agile Scrum Methodology to help manage and organize a team of 6 developers with regular code review sessions.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Involved in Web design and development, application development using Sketch, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Involved in many requirement gathering discussions and closely worked with business as an SME.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular 4, HTML5, Hibernate, CSS3, RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Configured spring with ORM framework Hibernate for handling DAO classes and to bind objects to the relational model.  • Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript).  • Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Used XML Web services which implement the SOAP protocol for transferring data between different applications.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Involved in setting up configuring the testing environment with Eclipse, JUnit, and Selenium RC and Selenium Java client driver.  • Configured and deployed the web application using WebLogic Application Server.  • Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans (EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS2/3.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Developed services with Angular 2- inject table property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Collaborated with designers to create responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) on with Angular 4Routing.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  • Worked on unit testing the application using Jasmine, Karma.  • Written Angular Material driven JSON consuming Angular functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Implemented Angular app with CRUD features utilizing all concepts of Angular 4 i.e. Data binding, Components, Directives, in-built and user-defined directives, Routing, Observables, Forms, Pipes, Services with Dependency Injection.  • Configured and deployed the web application using WebLogic Application Server.  • Used React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Wrote services to store data and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application.  • Used GIT for version control and Source Tree to facilitate it and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Node.js to run ES6 and Webpack tasks to build properly the project.  • Created custom directives and controllers to use across the application which reduces the duplication of the code.  • Maintained and provided technical support for assessment frontend and assessment engine projects using Java 8, Spring, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL.  • Worked with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  Environment: PostgreSQL, DHTML, Jasmine, HTML5, Karma, XML, CSS3, Angular JS 1.4, Angular 2, ES6, React JS, Web pack, Redux, GIT Hub, Node.js, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Backbone.JS, MongoDB, Sketch, Dreamweaver, JavaScript. Front End Developer Marriott International - Bethesda, MD April 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based System, private start-up Environment.  • Using Photoshop to change unique picture support the app.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application using AngularJS MVC framework.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application using Angular 4 web component based.  • Worked on front- end pages using HTML5, CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular Material.  • Used AngularJS UI Router to establish routing between nested html views.  • Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations.  • Apply animation when an event happened using Angular.  • Translated market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes.  • Involved in creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved in UI design and development of the Front- End architecture.  • Developed user interfaces involving HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Using AngularJS created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations and to display data.  • Built factories to utilize Angular services such as $http and $resource to consume the RESTful APIs for data parsing from the Java based backend server.  • Involved in Design queries to the back- end MySQL database to implement the GET / POST functionality for JSON contracts.  • Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSS preprocessors SASS.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Used GIT for version control and simultaneous code implementation.  • Assisted business analysts to figure out the technical aspects of the project and later analyzed the requirements to design the application.  • Updated the application using Angular 2 with Typescript.  • Worked in Agile methodology and attended daily Scrum meetings to access the current progress in a Sprint.  Environments: Angular JS, Angular 4, Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, GIT, Node.js, SASS, Karma, Agile, JSON, RESTful. Front End Developer T-Mobile - San Jose, CA March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular4.  • Developed the components using Angular 4 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Used SASS framework to minimize complexity and avoid duplication in CSS styles.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back- end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Used Angular 2 Router to navigate from one view to the next as users perform application tasks.  • Maintained and developed the CRUD operation to MongoDB database with Mongoose.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted directly with the client to provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions, and tailor application to customer needs.  Environment: Struts, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, RAD 7, Windows XP, Linux, Web Sphere App server, WebLogic, Rational Rose, Oracle. Education Bachelor's