Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Tone Boston, MA Front End Developer with more than 3 years of experience in supporting entire development lifecycles by conducting unit and integration testing and maintaining front- end/backend development. Collaborative team player with a strong career history using agile methodologies, as well as programming languages and Java frameworks to analyze data, support business analytics, and create database solutions. Analytical thinker adept at using JavaScript and Java Frameworks, such as Angular4, Angular2, AngularJS, NodeJS, React, Redux, Spring, Hibernate, Mongoose and databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle.    Select Technical Skills  Programming Languages: C • C++ • Java • Swift  Java Frameworks: Spring • Hibernate • JAX-RS• Jersey• JAX-WS  Databases: MySQL • Oracle 12c • PostgreSQL • Apache Derby• MongoDB• Mongoose  Web: HTML5 • CSS3 • JavaScript • TypeScript • jQuery • AJAX • AngularJS • Angular4 • Angular2 • Bootstrap • Ember • React • WordPress• Redux• NodeJS • ExpressJS • React Native• D3.js • Phonegap Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Tone - Spring, TX May 2016 to Present Tone/Tori is one of the global leaders in providing online digital media entertainment. As an online business entity, client needed a web application enhancement for effectively managing their sales and marketing operations with customized statistical reporting.  ? Supported the entire SDLC, identifying client requirements, drafting visual specifications, integrating services with frontend code, and performing testing phases.  ? Worked on detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal web applications as well as challenging back- end server code.  ? Technologies: JavaScript, TypeScript, NodeJS, MongoDB, Mongoose ORM, Angular2, React, Redux, ExpressJS, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Git, VS code, JIIRA, ES6, Mocha, Chai, Amcharts.js. Front End Developer Titanisu July 2014 to December 2015 Vizag, India  Worked with a Startup company to develop and maintain web and mobile applications for clients according to their specifications.  ? Meet the clients to gather requirements, design sites and outline schedules.  ? Worked on multiple projects with varying team sizes and met the deadlines most of the times.  ? Successfully completed an automation project with my team, which maximized the revenue for the company.  ? Technologies: JavaScript, NodeJS, ExpressJS, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Git, React, Redux, AngularJS, React Native, Swift, Android, Atom, D3.js, MS Project, Jasmine, AWS, Babel, Webpack. Front End Developer Vizag Steel Plant January 2014 to June 2014 Vizag, India  Developed a gate pass generation system for security professionals, designing the server-side code, user interface, photo ID capabilities, test suites, and database tables while correcting software errors.  ? Converted design mock-ups to HTML pages, prepared strategies for unit and integration testing.  ? Technologies: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Git, AngularJS, Java SE6, Oracle Enterprise Server, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Jasmine, SQL, Junit, GIT. Education Master of Science in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO Skills Javascript (3 years), Angular (1 year), AngularJS (2 years), React (1 year), Redux (1 year), Java (2 years), NodeJS (1 year) Links https://github.com/arunn2567