Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Biogen New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Biogen - Weston, MA January 2016 to Present • Played a key role in developing and launching front end for new mobile and desktop website (Alprolix, Elocate-patient, BiogenHemophilia) using CSS3, HTML 5, jQuery, Adobe Cloud Creative Suite, JSP.  • Re-designed high visibility Biogencommercial websites using Alfresco, AEM, JavaScript, jQuery plugins, Photoshop.  • Provided solid cross-platform and cross-browser development.  • Designed and Developed the Zinbryta Pharmacy Portal using Spring Framework, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP and Bootstrap. Front End Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA July 2014 to January 2016 • AT&T is the largest Wireless and Wireline service provider in USA which has business in B2B and B2C areas. AT&T Premier is a B2B online application builds for handling business customers. It has mainly two sub components "Premier Online Care (POC)" and "Premier Online Store (POS) ". POS is to buy or upgrade equipment and POC is to manage business users. There are different kind of users like Individual Responsible User (IRU), Corporate Responsible User (CRU) and Telecom Manager (TCM). POC facilitates to change rate plans, features and Upgrade Eligibility Check etc. Closely following software development life cycle.  • Part of design and implementation of Upgrade Eligibility Check.  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, Gulp, Bower, NodeJS, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Gather and refine the business requirements and collaborate with multiple teams to prepare the technical specs  • Responsible for building a custom single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using AngularJS client side MVC design.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application.  • Developed controllers, services, model and form components in AngularJS. Built application service layer using AngularJS Dependency Injection.  • Involved in fixing production issues of Inquire Upgrade Eligibility.  • Managed off-shore team to handle the requirements.  • Enhance existing application framework to support several business requirements. Troubleshooting and analyzing the server logs for WebSphere and Tomcat servers. Programmer Analyst Techaspect Solutions - Fremont, CA February 2014 to June 2014 • Designing and developing different website components using AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, HTML5, CSS Scripting and XHTML.  • Closely following software development life cycle.  • Exploring business requirements for efficient website implementation to provide customer satisfaction.  • Hands-on expertise on development work with the most recent JavaScript frameworks. I.e. Backbone and JQuery.  • Also working with CSS frameworks like SCSS used for making website responsive.  • Experience with working on WebSphere and Tomcat server.  • Troubleshooting and analyzing the server logs for WebSphere and Tomcat servers.  • Closely working with Interactive Development Toolkit (IDE) like Eclipse and Rational Application Developer WebSphere. Front End Developer Mercedes Benz - Montvale, NJ April 2013 to May 2014 • Responsibilities include Front End Development, Troubleshooting, Debugging, Bug Fixing, Selenium Testing, and Web Services Development.  • Designed and developed the Mercedes Benz Intranet Websites using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, DB2 and Vignette Content Management System.  • Extensively worked on JSP scriptlet for designing and debugging the web templates on Vignette's CMS  • Developed Automated Testing using Selenium, Junit and TestNG in intellij.  • Enhanced Registration Process using java(POJO), Rest, xml, json and maven technologies  • Developed user interfaces using Velocity, HTML and CSS.  • Involved in analyzing, developed website should be compatible for all the browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome and including devices like mobiles and iPad. Front End Developer BNSF Railway Company September 2012 to March 2013 • Developed WEB 2.0 cross-browser compatible AJAX applications with HTML-4, CSS-2 and object-oriented unobtrusive DOM JavaScript utilizing dojo libraries  • Responsible for designing page layout in JSP files using HTML4/5, CSS3 and write JSTL and Scriptlet elements and JavaScript.  • Front- end integration of advanced HTML, JavaScript, CSS with pre-built JSP pages using Eclipse with SVN/CVS for source control  • Use AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to Dynamic overlay contents on web pages.  • Responsible for designing Front- end as well as Back- end  • Working with browsers compatibility issues.  • Estimated time to develop for all approved prototypes and the implementation of those prototypes using jQuery and CSS as well as showing to project leads and receiving and implementing any changes or implementation updates  • Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  • Responsible for designing svg graphics using GIMP  • Developed the whole application around the concept of JSON Front End Developer Hot deals of USA - Piscataway, NJ February 2011 to August 2012 • As a Web Developer I Volunteered designing, maintaining and implementing new functionalities using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, and Java.  • Mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Implemented drag and drop operations, HTML, DOM effects, animations like slide shows, fade in-fade out effects on the web pages.  • Involved in the web application development for mobile platform for the same project.  • Written codes for creating different types of links in the web app like mail link, phone link, text link, map link, you tube link, iTunes links, etc  • Implemented Auto Complete search bar and Filters in the projects using AJAX.  • Handled client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Working with object oriented programming concept such as Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Encapsulation.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of the development using firebug and web tool kit. Front End Developer APCRAT INC - Vadodara, Gujarat June 2007 to September 2010 • Assist with walk-through and usability testing. Updated UI per changing needs and requirements.  • Bug fixes for existing software system and also software enhancement.  • Developing UI solutions to help users in their routine operations.  • Developing software system using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Developed Tabbed pages using Advanced AJAX and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Implement AJAX components.  • Implement XML parsing code for different application. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Gujarat University INDIA Skills JAVASCRIPT (9 years), jQuery (9 years), AJAX (7 years), JSON (6 years), JAVA (5 years) Additional Information Technologies: jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap  Programming Languages: JAVA    Operating Systems: Windows 7, MAC OS X  Content Management System: Vignette, Alfresco, AEM  Frameworks: ATG, Spring Framework  Database: MySQL  Applications/Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text 2, Intellij, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop  Web Servers: Apache, WebLogic 10