Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Charter Communications, Spectrum Mobile • Around 5 Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server web applications.  • Experienced as User Interface/ Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, React JS, Flux, Node JS and Angular JS.  • Experienced working with AngularJS MVC framework.  • Good Understanding of Node.js.  • Good experience using HTML5/CSS3 development.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web design.  • Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Experienced in developing table-less layouts.  • Good Understanding of TypeScript and Angular JS 2.0.  • Started learning Angular JS 2, TypeScript by self. Done a POC on the same.  • Good Knowledge on how to implement user-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome, IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, and Safari Web Developer.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Developed custom CQ5 templates, components, OSGI bundles using JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Develop websites using AEM/CQ, including the creation, configuration and integration of templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows, and more.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Experience in software configuration management using SVN and GIT.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Involved in the UI design and development of the Windows Azure platform to support CDN (CCM APIs)  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe AEM.  • Highly Curious about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Possess good team-management and leadership qualities.  • Knowledge of Windows Azure.  • Having Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Work Experience Front End Developer Charter Communications, Spectrum Mobile - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various stake holders (Business Team, User Testing Team and Clients) to finalize requirements.  • Worked on multiple projects, multiple platforms including web and mobile projects using Angular JS and Ionic framework  • Developed Requirement Specification document (User Story in Agile) to articulate requirements.  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, Angular.js 2 and Angular 5  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Gulp JS  • Involved in building a high efficiency Dynamic Single and Multiple Pages Web Application using Node JS, HTML, HTML5, Java Script, Bootstrap, JQuery, CSS3, Angular.js 2 and Angular 5.  • Wrote unit tests using Jasmine & Karma  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Wrote Angular JS custom directives.  • Created Restful web services/ API's using Node.js  • Developed Application using agile methodology.  • Used firebug, Chrome developer toolbar for debugging JavaScript and fixing issues.  • Created responsive web design using Bootstrap.  • Involved in creating mockups/Wireframes for Spectrum Mobile.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS2/3. Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD)  • Implemented with AngularJS using its advantage including two way data binding and templates.  • Integrated the AngularJS application with the RESTFUL Web Services.  • Worked on Angular Strap Framework and AngularJS Validations.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of AngularJS in developing the apps, controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS 2 and Angular 5 framework for UI development.  • Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS.  Environment: JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, HTML5, XML, CSS3, Tomcat, Jasmine & karma, less, sass, bootstrap, gulp, Amazon web services, PostgreSQL, Pgadmin, agile, GIT, Jira, sublime text, brackets editor, Jenkins Front End Developer Comcast Corporation - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to December 2017 Project: ZETA  Responsibilities:  Comcast Corporation is a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBC Universal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential customers under the XFINITY brand and provides these services to businesses.    Zeta is a Content Management System (CMS) that offers an intuitive UI with many options to ease content management tasks for website team/ content managers. Each Zeta CMS section in more detail and roughly the order required to build a new website.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSP and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Done unit tests in BDD format using Angular 2.0 testing library  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0. Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  • Implemented Angular2/4 Services for connectivity between web application and back end API's.  • Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4 with Typescript.  • Used ReactJS catch library and catch functions to handle error handling in angular2 application.  • Well versed with TypeScript types, tuples, interfaces, classes, modules.  • Used TSLint tool that checks TypeScript code for readability, maintainability and functional errors.  • Used SASS, SCSS for code minification.  • Used Webpack to bundle TypeScript and JavaScript modules.  • Used Scaffolding tools like Yeoman to create skeleton of web application.  • Used package mangers like Bower and NPM.  • Used a full complement of Express, Angular, NodeJS and MongoDB to store and present assessments.  • Used Mongoose for NodeJS which makes easy to access the database from Express application  • Managed source control and version control using GIT.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Implemented end to end test with Protractor.  • Involved in deploying applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx and Git.  • Experienced in using Rally for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management purpose.  • Experienced in Agile Software methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 2/4, React JS, NodeJS, ExpressJS, MongoDB, REST API's, Webpack, Yeoman, Babel, npm, Bower, TS Lint, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Rally, GIT, AWS, Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx, AEM/CQ5 and Visual Studio. Front End Developer JP Morgan Chase - Manhattan, NY October 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with BSA's and UX designer who designed user interfaces, wireframes and prototypes for a web based internal system for the look of the Chase Website.  • Worked for Chase 3.0 and Flex project to make the pages complete responsive using Bootstrap, HTML5, Media Queries and CSS3, SASS.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3.  • Developed and implemented user interfaces as per latest W3C standards.  • Developed the application using AJAX, jQuery, JSON, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed client side validations code using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Created UI designs using WCAG 2.0 Level AA standards.  • Experience in Designing and build components, templates, dialogs, Tagging, User creation, Custom widgets and workflows using the Adobe Day CQ5/ Adobe Experience Manager (AEM)  • Used AngularJS 2.0 as the development framework and done CRUD operations with $http service.  • Developed and designed modular intuitive single page application by using Angular 2.0  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS 2.0* UI-Route, Dependency Injection design pattern on Controller and Services for shared data between controllers.  • Implemented AngularJS 1.6 to 2.0 Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  • Worked on POC for the customer transactions table using react-sortable-table.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Development on Web application using React.js, Redux.js, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Worked with backend end java developers to create the jsp tags and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experienced in working with NodeJS and npm modules like http, fs, express and templating engines.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery and node.js to develop User Interface of web pages.  • Used ng-react angular module to integrate react components within angular application, Angular JS for the underlying business logic.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable)  • Worked with the team in developing the Chase store locator portal using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript.  • Designed and implemented a lead discovery web application using TypeScript, Angular 2, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MVC, and Web API.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  • Created responsive Chase header and footer for Flex project using HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Experience with full Software Development Life Cycle, Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming and Agile Methodologies.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects and screen ID's for Analytics.  • Implement the JavaScript/JQuery frameworks such as ReactJS, NodeJS for MVW/MVC framework.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) as package manager for JavaScript, GULP for task runner, which handles template cache and code minification and Bower for installing frontend dependencies.  • Did extensive JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Involved in writing unit tests for the angular JS code using Mocha and Chai.  • Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  • Worked on Client Side Validations using Angular JS Custom Directives.  • Worked in solving cross browser defects which are tested in Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  • Worked on Unit testing Frameworks Karma along with Jasmine Test Cases.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, React JS, TDD, Bootstrap, Media Queries, GIT, Source Tree, Sublime Text, Restful Web services, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, MS paint. Sr. Front End Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ October 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed mockups and prototypes using Semantic HTML, CSS3, and SASS.  • Worked on AngularJS, React and Node JS design and develop sites in an agile environment.  • Worked with dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle, Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming, and Agile Methodologies.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and converted PSD mockups into pure hand-written HTML and CSS pages ensuring section 508 compliance.  • Maintain and Refactor existing codebase into modern design patterns, including Modules, AngularJS Components, and TypeScript.  • Converted or create business logic from JavaScript to Typescript. Converted the function call to use the public library.  • Worked on NodeJS technology for rendering server side support to the application.  • Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Agile Methodology was adopted to ensure faster time to market for business users.  • Used Typescript to develop applications with Angular JS and Node also Used Grunt-ts to automatically compile Typescript.  • Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Developed AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • AJAX was used to make client server calls.  • Web services were consumed using JAX-WS framework.  • Created Utility API's for AJAX calls using JavaScript XMLHTTP Object and JQuery for making Web services calls.  • Implemented applications using twitter Bootstrap framework.  • HP Quality Center is used for defect tracking.  • Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Rally is used for Agile Planning and tracking.  • Git and Subversion were used as the code repository.  • Trackers were used for any work item that had to be checked in to repository for linking user story with commits.  • Used Maven to build and LARA is used for automatic E1/E2 ear deployments.  • Jenkins was used for continuous integration.  • Involved in code review and sprint planning.  • Fixed merge conflicts issues in GIT.  • Jasmine test cases written for this module.  • Used Atlassian tools such as JIRA and Stash for code reviews, manage and on progress of project.  • JBoss Developer studio/Eclipse were used to develop the application.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Media Queries, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, Grunt, Express, JIRA. Front End Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH February 2015 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, and Angular JS.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Extensively worked on various concepts of AngularJS like Services, Data Binding and Custom Directives Etc.  • Applied jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Watched changes in project with gulp task runner, with installation of latest versions of ES6 which will run on Node JS environment.  • Involved in testing REST based API for Windows Azure (CCM 1.0, 2.0) based on the API spec.  • Made the web pages compliant with W3C, ADA& Section 508 Compliance Standards.  • Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, Node JS.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node JS (socket.io) based on socket technology.  • Used AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Experience in working with build & deployment tool with Jenkins.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Experienced with programmatic interaction of various APIs (SOAP, REST web services, XML, XSLT and JSON)  • Developed web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Designed and implemented sharable and re-usable software service API's.  • Developed applications in React JS deployed into development.  • Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA), (especially those developed with Ajax and JavaScript) more accessible to people with disabilities.  • Built highly modular HTML5 front end that built on React JS optimizing for rendering performance.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Responsible for adding new product features, bug fixes, and transitioning Account pages to the new platform using React JS.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using React JS and jQuery.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Solid expertise in developing Html pages based on DIV layout, W3C Compliance, Section 508 standards, Web 2.0, RIA, Web Accessibility, Web Usability and Cross browser platform.  • Used React Router for navigation rendering of React components.  • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Used Flux for building client-side web applications.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery.  • Used GIT for Version Control.  • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.  Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap, Angular.JS, Twitter bootstrap, React.js, Source Tree, Node JS, Grunt, JIRA, Sublime Text. UI Front End Developer DHL - ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed web UI involving HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Developed different modules using Struts Framework.  • Developed Presentation tier as HTML, Java Server Pages using Struts MVC Framework implementing Struts validator, Tiles and Struts Internationalization  • Involved in Java application testing and maintenance in development phase and production phase.  • Involved in developing JSP for client data presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Contact with different customer for their requirements and Modified code as the customer needs.  • Participated in web server development  • Participated in portal development  • Successfully executed all the web test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Responsible for source code and version control (Clear Case), Involved in integration and deployment.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX JSON. Education Masters in Computer Science University of Central Missouri 2014 Skills AJAX (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), CSS (4 years), JSON (4 years), UI Links https://github.com/shivanampally/portfolio-sk/tree/master/Portfolio https://github.com/shivanampally/Myapp Additional Information • Technical Expertise:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, SASS, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Underscore JS, Bootstrap, Flux  CSS Preprocessors LESS and SASS  Build Streaming tools Gulp and Grunt  IDE & Tools IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse, WebStorm, Notepad++, Sublime Text  JavaScript Libraries Backbone.js, AngularJS, EmberJS, React JS and Node JS  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite)  Version Controls CVS, SVN, Git and Source Tree  Database Mongo, Postgresql and Oracle  CI/CD Tools Bamboo and Jenkins  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X