Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - WorldBank Vienna, VA • 5+ years of experienced as a front- end web development professional, experienced with all stages of the development cycle that includes analysis, development, integration, testing, and debugging for dynamic web projects.  • Well-versed in using all the advanced concepts of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and Bootstrap in converting the static designs to functioning web pages.  • Expertise in developing complex Responsive web applications that work across multi-device and multi browser environments.  • Experience in developing single page web applications using React, Redux, Webpack, Babel, and Node.js and using the Git Source code control.  • Experience in Angular (2,4) framework.  • Experience with SASS and Less Frameworks.  • Have good working experience using all the Object-Oriented JavaScript and also JSX and ES6 concepts.  • Experience working with REST A PI.  • Good understanding of HTTP requests/responses and AJAX.  • Good knowledge in using existing plug-ins and writing the customized jQuery plug-ins according to the requirement.  • Expertise in using all the performance optimization techniques.  • Used the testing frameworks Mocha and Jasmine in the development process.  • Passionate and experienced in troubleshooting the complex issues in all stages of development using various workarounds.  • Experience with cross browser implementations, older browsers and mobile browsers.  • Have working experience in agile environment.  • Ability to work independently and communicate effectively with team members along with strong teamwork and time management abilities. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Developer WorldBank - Washington, DC January 2017 to Present Description:  The World Bank is like a cooperative, made up of 189-member countries. These member countries, or shareholders, are represented by a board of governors, who are the ultimate policymakers at the World Bank.  The Directory of Services application provides an easy way for staff to find and request some of the most popular services provided by Institutional, Governance, and Administrative units at the World Bank Group.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, React-Redux and JavaScript(ES6/5).  • Delivered high performance UI components and maintainable app state management.  • Used best electron boilerplate for good maintainability and time saving.  • Used Redux for state management and high performance.  • Good usage of all the latest ES6 features in developing the components.  • Solid understanding of React Virtual DOM Algorithm, for React performance optimization.  • Build process uses Webpack, and Babel compiler is used for producing browser compatible code  • Used the testing framework Mocha for JavaScript unit testing.  • Used various Material-UI components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and react-bootstrap components.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Built highly modular HTML5 front end that built on React JS optimizing for rendering performance.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with Agile technology.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository.  • Developed reusable and optimized stylesheets using CSS3 preprocessor, Sass.  • Analyzing and resolving issues found during the testing or pre-production phases of the software delivery lifecycle; coordinating changes with project team leader and cross-work team members.    Environment and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, React, Redux, Node JS, Bootstrap, Mocha, RESTful services, NPM, AJAX, SASS, JIRA, Git, Agile. Front End Developer Fedex - Memphis, TN January 2016 to December 2016 Description:  FedEx Corporation is an American multinational courier delivery services company. Fedex Portal is an internal application used by the employees.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed single page applications using React, Typescript, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Heavily used HTML5 and CSS3 to make the overall site responsive and less complicated for the end users who use the website heavily on a day-to-day basis.  • Developed POC using Angular2,4 frameworks which was useful for the project.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Implemented HTML5 APIs such as geolocation and Web workers including other HTML5 features.  • Developed custom jQuery components without including extra libraries into the project.  • Used latest features in jQuery to improve the performance.  • Used the CSS3 latest features such as flexbox and animation properties.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Involved in writing the Unit test cases using Jasmine.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, Table Grid.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.    Environment and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React, Bootstrap, AJAX, Node.JS, LESS/SASS, GIT, Jasmine. Front End Developer Metlife - IN March 2015 to December 2015 Description:  MetLife, Inc. is the holding corporation for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC), better known as MetLife, and its affiliates.  Marketing-sup project's main objective is to completely reform an existing site which is of low performance due to heavy images and complex functionalities, and making it load completely in given time limit (1.5 sec) and to make the site responsive.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Used bootstrap for making the site responsive.  • Used all the latest available tools and techniques in making the site 100% responsive and browser compatible.  • Reduced External HTTP Requests, used grunt for minifying and lazy load technique for rendering all the images and optimizing the performance.  • Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI.  • Removed the old components such as iframe, flash etc. and replaced them with new HTML5 features such as media elements, canvas and other APIs, which improved the performance.  • Cleaned up all the HTML files and made them concise and effective my removing the heavy weight elements, and following the best practices, increase Speed with a CDN and Caching.  • Made the site render correctly even in the older IE browsers.  • Used SASS preprocessor to make the CSS effective and optimized.  • Working directly with clients to design and develop elegant solutions.    Environment and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, RWD, Bootstrap3, grunt, Nodejs, SASS, lazy loading, AJAX, Dreamweaver, SVN source control. Front End UI Developer In Cognizant - IN December 2012 to December 2015 Front End Developer Carrier, Home Comfort, India - IN January 2014 to February 2015 Description:  Today, Carrier® innovations are found across the globe and in virtually every facet of daily life. Create comfortable and productive environments, regardless of the climate.  Project's objective is to create a completely responsive website compatible in all available browsers and devices. The website contains complex jQuery components such as vertical carousels, showcasing components, date pickers etc. where all the components must be working well and compatible in all devices.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON.  • Used various responsive jQuery plugins like auto complete, carousel, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance.  • Participated in requirement gathering and coordinated with various development teams in code integration.  • Involved in production support and bug fixing.  Environment and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, LESS, AJAX, GIT. Front End Developer M3, India December 2012 to December 2013 Description:  With $30 billion in annual sales, 3M employs 90,000 people worldwide and produces more than 55,000 products.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript including Ajax controls.  • Wrote code to ensure that the application is cross browser compatibility (IE 7+ and Firefox) as per the requirements.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Managing and implementing all code changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintaining code integrity.  • Created components like Grid, Panels, Toolbars, button and Combo-box etc.  • Perform code review with peers to ensure code optimization and web optimization techniques are followed.    Environment and Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Education Bachelor's degree in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU Hyderabad Skills AJAX (5 years), GIT (3 years), HTML5 (4 years), JavaScript (5 years), jQuery (5 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript - ES6, JSX, jQuery, Bootstrap4, AJAX, React, Redux, Angular (2,4), Restful, SASS, LESS  Testing Frameworks Jasmine, Mocha  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome developer Tools, React developer Tool  IDE VS Code, WebStorm, Dreamweaver, Notepad++    Operating Systems Windows 7/XP, Linux, UNIX,  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum  Version Control GIT, SVN