Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - JP Morgan Chase New York, NY • Around 7 Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server web applications.  • Experienced as User Interface/ Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, React JS, Flux and Angular JS.  • Experience working with AngularJS MVC framework.  • Good Understanding of Node.js.  • Good experience using HTML5/CSS3 development.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web design.  • Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Experienced in developing table-less layouts.  • Good Understanding of TypeScript and Angular JS 2.0 Beta.  • Started learning Angular JS 2, TypeScript by self. Done a POC on the same.  • Good Knowledge on how to implement user-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome, IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, and Safari Web Developer.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Experience in software configuration management using SVN and GIT.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Highly Curious about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Possess good team-management and leadership qualities.  • Having Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Work Experience Front End Developer JP Morgan Chase - Manhattan, NY October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with BSA's and UX designer who designed user interfaces, wireframes and prototypes for a webbased internal system for the look of the Chase Website.  • Developed mockups and protypes using HTML and CSS3.  • Developed and implemented user interfaces as per latest W3C standards.  • Developed client side validations code using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Worked with backend end java developers to create the jsp tags and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Worked for Chase 3.0 and Flex project to made the pages complete responsive using Bootstrap, HTML5, Media Queries and CSS3.  • Created responsive Chase header and footer for Flex project using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience with full Software Development Life Cycle, Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming and Agile Methodologies.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects and screen ID's for Analytics.  • Did extensive JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  • Worked on Client Side Validations using Angular JS Custom Directives.  • Worked in solving cross browser defects which are tested in Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  • Worked on Unit testing Frameworks Karma along with Jasmine Test Cases.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, TDD, Bootstrap, Media Queries, GIT, Source Tree, Sublime Text, Restful Web services, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, MS paint. Front End Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ October 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed mockups and prototypes using Semantic HTML and CSS3, SASS.  • Worked on AngularJS, React and Node JS design and develop sites in an agile environment.  • Worked with dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle, Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming, and Agile Methodologies.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Agile Methodology was adopted to ensure faster time to market for business users.  • Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  • Developed AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • AJAX was used to make client server calls.  • Web services were consumed using JAX-WS framework.  • Created Utility API's for AJAX calls using JavaScript XMLHTTP Object and JQuery for making Webservices calls.  • Implemented applications using twitter Bootstrap framework.  • HP Quality Center is used for defect tracking.  • Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Rally is used for Agile Planning and tracking.  • Git and Subversion were used as the code repository.  • Trackers were used for any work item that had to be checked in to repository for linking user story with commits.  • Used Maven to build and LARA is used for automatic E1/E2 ear deployments.  • Jenkins was used for continuous integration.  • Involved in code review and sprint planning.  • Fixed merge conflicts issues in GIT.  • Jasmine test cases written for this module.  • Used Atlassian tools such as JIRA and Stash for code reviews, manage and on progress of project.  • JBoss Developer studio/Eclipse were used to develop the application.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Media Queries, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, Grunt, Express, JIRA. Front End Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH February 2015 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, and Angular JS.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Extensively worked on various concepts of AngularJS like Services, Data Binding and Custom Directives Etc.  • Applied jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Watched changes in project with gulp task runner, with installation of latest versions of ES6 which will run on Node JS environment.  • Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, Node JS.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node JS(socket.io) based on socket technology.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Experienced with programmatic interaction of various APIs (SOAP, REST web services, XML, XSLT and JSON)  • Developed web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Designed and implemented sharable and re-usable software service API's.  • Developed applications in React JS deployed into development.  • Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA), (especially those developed with Ajax and JavaScript) more accessible to people with disabilities.  • Built highly modular HTML5 front end that built on React JS optimizing for rendering performance.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Custom Node.js proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc  • Responsible for adding new product features, bug fixes, and transitioning Account pages to the new platform using React JS.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using React JS and jQuery.  • Used React Router for navigation rendering of React components.  • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Used Flux for building client-side web applications.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery.  • Used GIT for Version Control.  • Proficiency using GIT.  • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap , Angular.JS, Twitter bootstrap, React.js, Source Tree, Node JS, Grunt, JIRA, Sublime Text. Front End Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA January 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing the front- end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, and CSS/CSS3, SASS.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Used client side MVC framework AngularJS, Angular-Bootstrap UI for grid data, and lot of other directives.  ? Implemented an AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  ? Used Node and Bower for packaging management.  ? Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Used SVN, GIT for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Twitter bootstrap, XML. UI Front End Developer DHL International Courier Service - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh October 2011 to July 2013 Prague  Location: Hyderabad, India  Role: UI Front End Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed web UI involving HTML, CSS, HTML, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Developed different modules using Struts Framework.  • Developed Presentation tier as HTML, Java Server Pages using Struts MVC Framework implementing Struts validator, Tiles and Struts Internationalization  • Involved in Java application testing and maintenance in development phase and production phase.  • Involved in developing JSP for client data presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Contact with different customer for their requirements and Modified code as the customer needs.  • Participated in web server development  • Participated in portal development  • Successfully executed all the web test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Responsible for source code and version control (Clear Case), Involved in integration and deployment.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX JSON, UI Front End Developer SOA Software - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation front- end part of the widget-based application using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Used jQuery for markup.  • Used jQuery plugins autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Involved in daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Worked on Onsite - Offshore model.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX JSON, JIRA. Links https://github.com/shivanampally/Myapp https://github.com/shivanampally/portfolio-sk/tree/master/Portfolio Additional Information Technical Expertise:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Underscore JS, Bootstrap, Flux  CSS Preprocessors LESS and SASS  Build Streaming tools Gulp and Grunt  JavaScript Libraries Backbone.js, AngularJS, EmberJS, React JS and Node JS  IDE & Tools IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse, WebStorm, Notepad++, SublimeText  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite)  Version Controls CVS, SVN, Git and Source Tree  Database Mongo, Postgresql and Oracle  CI/CD Tools Bamboo and Jenkins  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X    Work Samples:    Git Link:  https://github.com/shivanampally/portfolio-sk/tree/master/Portfolio    https://github.com/shivanampally/Myapp    https://secure07c.chase.com/web/auth/dashboard#/dashboard/quickPay/qpSend/initiateSend    https://secure07c.chase.com/web/auth/dashboard#/dashboard/quickPay/qpRequest/initiateRequest