Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Work Experience Senior Front End Developer RealPage Inc - Richardson, TX October 2016 to July 2019 • I work at Real Page as a Dev III (Senior Developer), first in the Foundation group, then on the Accelerator team.  • In the Foundation group, I worked on setting up one of the internal property sites used for golden data of property. This was a laravel php backend, and at the time was using bootstrap, js, and vue.js on the front- end  • In the Accelerator group, I’ve worked on reskinning the eRenter’s Insurance site, but primarily the Agent Desktop Web App, which in short, is a tool for Real Page’s Call Center agents to take call, chat, and phone (through Twilio 3rd party integration) and create opportunities out of the information given and sent to our backend. This is being built in React and Redux.  • I’ve also started learning a couple of test suites for newer projects: Laravel Dusk, which is a site runner for php laravel, and jest and enzyme for react/redux, and also normal javascript as jest works with that as well.  • I currently am working on the rentjoy admin portal which allows the users to set their settings for widgets and products (chat/text) for widgets for their properties, as well as working on the repos for the widgets themselves.   • I’ve also mentored junior devs from time to time on how to accomplish fixes for certain problems, things they need to consider for the overall structure, or onboarding onto specific projects. Senior UI Developer Amplifi - Addison, TX April 2014 to September 2016 •       I was a Senior UI Developer and Integrator for Amplifi as a full time employee  •       I worked on front end integration for various e-commerce sites including: Beachbody, La-Z-Boy, Barnes and Nobles, and Transamerican Auto Parts.  •       I did various things including:  •  Various tasks including integrating Java droplets into jsp pages  • Building CSS layouts to comp for various pages  •  Javascript solutions for integration needs as per wireframes  •  Bug fixes and client meetings as needed to finish tasks. Front End Developer (Contract) JCPenney - Plano, TX October 2013 to April 2014 •       I worked as a contract front- end developer maintaining the dotcom, tablet, and mobile sites  •       The site is a an ATG Java environment. My task revolved around updating css, javascript, html, and jsp pages. Front End Developer Amplifi - Addison, TX June 2013 to September 2013 •       I was a contract Front- end developer assigned to the Leap Frog e-commerce site. I was given a second contract based on my previous performance and recommendations by a coworker whom I worked with for Nintendo.  •       The site was a Java driven environment utilizing .jsp pages as the framework for the site, so I regularly needed to work around and with the structure to implement changes and/or fixes as assigned. Primarily these fixes were to overall features and I would do the entire task if it was javascript, html related, or else do my piece then hand it over to a backend ATG developer to finish the task if it was data flow related.  •       I was assigned to this project to help try and finish out all remaining bugs to be finished as the project was overdue for launch and they needed additional manpower to get it done. Front End Developer (Contract) TracyLocke - Dallas, TX April 2013 to May 2013 TracyLocke is a national advertising agency)  http://www.tracylocke.com/  • I was a contractor for TracyLocke in downtown Dallas, working on various emails for the Pizza Hut campaign that TracyLocke had acquired.  • These were html designs that were to be implemented from the creative given, then tested internally using MailChimp to make sure they were ready for deployment.  • On the side or when it wasn't busy, I helped other groups with small odds and ends coding issues on sites they were working on for other clients and creating small code-bits such as accordions.  Html, jquery, javascript Front End Developer (Contract) Amplifi - Addison, TX February 2013 to April 2013 Amplifi is an ecommerce company specializing in Oracle ATG installations.)  http://www.amplificommerce.com/  • I was a contract Front- end developer working on revision 1 changes to the Nintendo store website under joint development with Nintendo and Hitachi.  • The site was a Java driven environment utilizing .jsp pages as the framework for the site, so I regularly needed to work around and with the structure to implement changes and/or fixes as assigned. Primarily these fixes were to overall features and I would do the entire task if it was javascript, html related, or else do my piece then hand it over to a backend ATG developer to finish the task if it was data flow related.  • Amplifi is a loose SCRUM environment and I attended daily status meetings, and in one situation also flew, with a fellow developer, out to the Nintendo Campus facility in Washington to work on site to work on several of our tasks.  Javascript, html, jquery, JSTL  Music Reports Inc Jan 2011 - Jan 2013  (music reports is a music copyright company that deals with figuring out how much various artists are owed from their players.)  http://www.musicreports.com  • I was a Front- end developer and PHP developer here, and worked as lead javascript developer on their most recent clients app: Cirque De Soleil  • I was creating a company wide intranet with php, postgres, css, html, javascript, that will allow all employees to be able to get the information they need for their various roles and allow managers of the departments to update parts of the data on their own. So in this regard it is part internal website and part cms.  • I was also responsible for rebuilding the carousel on the front page of the site, using javascript, jquery, and css. As well as maintenance and a few additional pages added to the site.  • I designed and did the modifications to get the music reports blog on wordpress up and running, modifying the various css and php pages to get it to what we needed.  • I worked in an svn environment, so am familiar with version control methodology.  php, postgresSQL, html, css, javascript, jquery, wordpress, svn Front End Developer Music Reports Inc - Woodland Hills, CA January 2011 to January 2013 •       I was a Front- end developer and PHP developer here, and worked as lead javascript developer on their most recent clients app: Cirque De Soleil  •       I was creating a company wide intranet with php, postgres, css, html, javascript, that will allow all employees to be able to get the information they need for their various roles and allow managers of the departments to update parts of the data on their own. So in this regard it is part internal website and part cms.  •       I was also responsible for rebuilding the carousel on the front page of the site, using javascript, jquery, and css. As well as maintenance and a few additional pages added to the site.  •       I designed and did the modifications to get the music reports blog on wordpress up and running, modifying the various css and php pages to get it to what we needed.  •       I worked in an svn environment, so am familiar with version control methodology. Front End Developer Mammoth Financial Services November 2010 to January 2011 November 2010-Jan 2011  Html/xhtml, css, javascript, jquery, php, photoshop, dreamweaver, eclipse, CLI (command line/language interface)  • At Mammoth Financial Services, I was hired as a Web Artist to work on various in various fields of industry.  • The system was setup so that using a command line interface we would create branches of files from the main system, update them and then resubmit them to be merged back into the master branch. Primarily this was done using putty and eclipse.  • The sites themselves were php and using a highly dynamic template system (though not an actual CMS) spread across a pair of servers, so I had to constantly be aware of what changes I was doing and how it would reflect on other sites as well as the one we were working on. Front End Developer (Contract) SyndicateBleu August 2010 to October 2010 SyndicateBleu August 2010 - October 2010  Html/xhtml, css, javascript, dreamweaver, photoshop, trouble-shooting, wordpress  • As a contractor at the Los Angeles Times in the marketing department. Primarily I am creating emails for their various email campaigns, but I am also updating several of their high-traffic event sites that make use of wordpress.  • I had a 1 day contract through SyndicateBleu at Midnight Oil Creative. At Midnight Oil Creative, I converted 2 pdf wireframes of Amazon product description pages into the appropriate code markup. These 2 pages were for 2 Activision games; Call of Duty 2 Modern Warfare:Black Ops, and Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock Front End Developer (Contract) Eleven (Independent Contracting) February 2010 to July 2010 Html/xhtml, css, javascript, jquery, actionscript 2.0, actionscript 3.0, php, dreamweaver, flash, photoshop, trouble-shooting, xml  http://www.takeittoeleven.com/  http://www.cumminspower.com  http://www.cumminsonan.com  http://www.cumminsonan.com/residential/select/  http://www.funroads.com  http://www.silverlakedental.com  http://www.palettebynature.com/v/find-perm-color.asp  • I worked as an independent contractor for the creative design agency Eleven, my primary responsibility was the maintenance of the Cummins Power Generation client picking up where I left off from Manpower below. The general roles and responsibilities are as below but include teaching others in the maintenance of the sites as well  • My secondary roles where to help out the other designers with overflow work, this included:  • The php backbone and trouble-shooting to Silver Lake Dental  • The entire action-script coding to the color picker flash app running on Palette by Nature. Front End Developer (Contract) Cummins Power Generation (Manpower) May 2009 to January 2010 html/xhtml, css, javascript, actionscript 3.0, dreamweaver, flash, photoshop, SEO, trouble-shooting, xml  http://www.cumminspower.com  http://www.cumminsonan.com  http://www.funroads.com    • I worked in the global marketing department updating their websites, creating emails, and flash advertisements, and applications.    • I was also responsible for troubleshooting the website and 3rd party flash modules to fix any front- end errors.    • I helped lead several projects through their lifecycle.    • Helped to shape the SEO on the funroads.com website, and to a degree the higher traffic cumminspower and cumminsonan sites. Front End Developer (Contract) Star Tribune News Paper February 2008 to January 2009 Feb 2008 - Jan 2009  html/xhtml, css, javascript, actionscript 2.0, dreamweaver, flash, photoshop, image ready, illustrator, trouble-shooting, video-editing  http://www.startribune.com  • I worked in the Interactive Design Department for the Star Tribune designing flash ads for their website, including floating and expanding advertisements, as well as emails for them.  • I helped troubleshoot problems with clients flash ads in order to get them to run for the paper.  • I created flash ads, and emails often under very tight deadlines successfully. Front End Developer (Contract) United Health Group July 2007 to January 2008 html/xhtml, css, dreamweaver  • I worked at the United Health Group as an interim web maintenance contractor. I helped maintain and update their intranet while they were combining networks together Front End Developer (Contract) Eagle Brook Church May 2007 to July 2007 html/xhtml, css, javascript, mysql, php, dreamweaver, photoshop, flash, trouble-shooting, video-editing  http://www.eaglebrookchurch.com  • I worked at Eagle Brook Church as an interim web master, maintaining the web site, and creating flash videos of their sermons.  • Helped to maintain and troubleshoot much of the site. web master Alebra Technologies Inc June 2006 to March 2007 June 2006 - March 2007  html/xhtml, css, javascript, asp 2.0, IIS 5.0, dreamweaver, photoshop, flash, trouble-shooting  http://www.alebra.com (my version is on my portfolio)  • I worked as the web master at Alebra Technologies Inc. I recreated their website from scratch from an old inflexible CMS.  • I maintained, troubleshot, and designed flash content for the site while I was there. Education BA in web design in web design University of Minnesota - College of Liberal Arts 2003 Links http://www.github.com/martingardner