Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Detail oriented Front End Developer. Specialized in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and more. Placentia, CA Knowledgeable, dedicated and experienced Front End Developer, credited with 2 years defining and executing as a Mid-Level Front End Developer supporting teams in scope development work items along with managing time and quality targets.     Holds a formal education with a Bachelors Degree combined with Front- End Web Development training. Illustrates experiences in Agile processes and planning and executing daily work, resolve development issues and escalate concerns where needed. Provide collaborative communications with all members and levels of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer TravisMathew - Huntington Beach, CA May 2018 to Present In charge of oversighting all front end aspects of the TravisMathew eCommerce website while introducing new technologies to increase production more seamlessly.    • Utilizing Magento to perform various front end related tasks.  • Developing responsive emails consistent with major browsers and email clients, while launching email campaigns utilizing Emarsys marketing suite.  • Implementing front end build tools to Magento utilizing node.js and npm packages.  • Consulting UI and UX strategies for our Marketing and eCommerce team.  • Maintaining and building landing pages for the TravisMathew's website. Front End Developer Sandbox - Newport Beach, CA May 2017 to March 2018 The Sandbox Agency is an international full-service advertising agency that focuses on what's most important in today's  world - collaboration. Some of their notable clients are NBC Sports, LG, American Express, Sprint and Heineken.    • Developed and styled pages from the ground up with Webpack/Gulp and Sass.  • Worked with the development team to build and maintain application platforms.  • Collaborated with creatives and developers on various projects on a daily basis.  • Increased average production rate by 10%.  • Clients: UnitedHealth Care, Monsanto, AARP Medical Supplements, and House of Lashes. Junior Front End Developer Pixel Motion - Irvine, CA September 2016 to May 2017 Pixel Motion is an innovative digital agency that combines creative excellence and industry leading talent to redefine the digital experience. Some of their clients include Rolls Royce of Orange County, BMW of Toledo, and Covert Dodge.    • Created custom mobile responsive websites and landing pages from a PSD Design on a project  based environment.  • Performed routine maintenance of existing client sites using a variety of CMS platforms such as WordPress and ModX.  • Utilized Bootstrap and jQuery for all responsive developments.  • Provided excellent project management skills by managing multiple projects and client accounts.  • Clients: Rolls Royce of Orange County, Hornburg, Agility Fuel Solutions, DC Auto Auctions,  Mikelson Yachts, Irvine Auto Center, BMW of Toledo and Covert Dodge. Education Bachelor of Arts in Sociology University of California - Riverside, CA September 2009 to June 2014 Skills CMS (3 years), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (3 years), jQuery (2 years), project management (3 years), Sass (2 years), HTML (3 years), Javascript (2 years), react (1 year), UI, Front-End, Front End Links https://ktran031.github.io/kt_portfolio https://www.linkedin.com/in/khoi-tran-js/ https://github.com/ktran031 Certifications/Licenses Front End Web Development Certificate Present Received this certificate from General Assembly. Additional Information KEY COMPETENCIES:  • Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, jQuery, React, Node, Git, Webpack, JSON, AJAX, RESTful  APIs, Adobe Photoshop, SEO and Javascript(ES6).  • CMS: WordPress, ModX, and Shopify.  • Project Management: Jira, SalesForce, Leadtrac, and Quickbase.