Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Verizon Boston, MA ? Experience in designing User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable application.  ? Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, HTML5 /DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS3, and AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Responsive design.  ? Expertise in React, Redux, Angular. Highly knowledgeable on Scalable and usable UI components and Front- end architecture.  ? Expertise working with Angular JS, React JS & Node Js framework.  ? Highly knowledgeable on Scalable and usable UI components and Front- end architecture.  ? Professional experience in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, React JS, Node JS, Express Js, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery that follows W3C Web.  ? Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Notepad, Notepad++, Sublime Text2, Atom, Brackets and Microsoft Expression Web.  ? Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like NetBeans, WebStorm, XAMPP.  ? Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments  ? Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software CVS, SCME, SVN, Perforce, Clear Case and GIT  ? Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Verizon - Boston, MA March 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  ? Developed single page application with Angular JS.  ? Good experience in JavaScript frameworks Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Ext.js, knockout.js and JQuery especially AJAX driven web applications.  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front- End Framework.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Can.js, and JQuery  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA.  ? Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Written unit test scripts to test entities with CRUD operations, analyze heap size and memory leaks with Jprofiler.  ? Developed front end using React.js, JavaScript Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  ? Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript JSON, Angular.js and REST Services  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, JavaScript ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  ? Use of ReactJS help to refresh the pages and update the changed parts.  ? To limit page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction used MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  ? Designed Frontend with object-oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.JS, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js, Pdf.js and Experience with client-side templating like Handlebars.js.  ? React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction.  ? Constructed a powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  ? Created Reusable Components in React.js with Redux architecture to implement the business logic  ? Experience with popular React.js workflows such as redux and flux.  ? Experience working on ReactJs modules like webpack, Bower, and Express  ? Expertise in React, Redux, Node.JS, JavaScript Angular. Highly knowledgeable on Scalable and usable UI components and Front- end architecture.  ? As a major role in developing React & Redux to delivery high performed features and great experience for production Architected and Developed for Large Scale Node.JS, JavaScript Application with ReactJs  ? Used Native React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using ReactJs.  ? Implemented stable ReactJs components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM  ? Used Webpack and Gulp to add dependencies, build the project immediately, once the changes are made during development.  ? Used generator, bluebird promise, Webpack build, Immutable.js, babel  ? Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  ? Built, tested, production client-side applications using ReactJS with Jest.  ? Architected Web, API frameworks with Node.js, Babel, Express, KnexJS, Vue.js, Webpack, PostgreSQL and Redis.  ? Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  ? Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML.  ? Worked in incorporating and utilizing BDD / TDD / JavaScript unit testing frameworks (Jasmine, Mocha, Chai)  ? Usage of version control repository Git, GitHub and JIRA  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  ? Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - Eclipse, Maven, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS VB on JBoss server.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular 2/4/5, AJAX, React.JS, Redux, Flux, Node Js, Express js, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Flux, JSON, Dojo, Java, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Linux. Sr. Front End Developer Diet Ville LLC - Boston, MA September 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users' screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  ? Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  ? Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  ? Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using Struts Tiles Framework, HTML, JSP.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  ? Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  ? Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap for Virtual Infotech Inc.  ? Researched future web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Backbone.js etc.to develop new web applications.  ? Oracle is used as the persistence layer, configured and optimally indexed for searches  ? Worked on Data Services implementation for the CRUD services.  ? Involved in the development of SQL, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures  ? Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database  ? Used JPA 2.0 (JDBC Framework) and Apache CXF for XML generation.  ? Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  ? Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  ? Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing Agile methodologies and procedures that are efficient, effective and meet good business practice.  ? Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  ? Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  ? Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  ? Assisted in visualization, planning and implementation of Web 2.0 initiatives.  ? Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, JavaScript, JSP, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Servlet, UNIX, Linux, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Struts, Tomcat, CRUD, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile (Scrum) Front End Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Durham, NC November 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed and designed the system.  ? Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for the design and development of the framework. The system is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture. The Views are programmed using struts, JSP pages, Model is a combination of EJB's and Java classes and Controllers are Servlets.  ? Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  ? Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  ? Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  ? Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  ? Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively worked on spring's framework.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend MS SQL server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment: Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. Java Developer Johnson Controls, Inc - Milwaukee, WI March 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  ? Troubleshooting WebLogic Server.  ? The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back- end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  ? Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  ? Used MS Visio to come up with the required diagrams for the design part.  ? Developed and designed Interfaces using Swings.  ? Used Event Handlers to perform the required functionality of the events.  ? Implemented the statistics like UNIVARIATE, CORRELATION, REGRESSION etc using JAVA classes and methods.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, Ajax.  ? Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  ? Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  ? Involved in writing client-side validations using Java Script.  ? Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application  ? Involved in developing business components using POJO.  ? Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot WebLogic.  Technologies: Log4j, Ant script, TOAD, JAVA (Swings), JDBC, Web Service, Putty, WinScp, JUnit, Spring, Java, EJB, Java Script, Net Beans and Oracle Net Beans IDE, MS Visio, Oracle, WebLogic, Hibernate. Software Developer Barclays - Ashburn, VA March 2008 to February 2009 Responsibilities:    ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQLServer database for Reports module.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.    Technologies: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, IMS, VSAM, JCL ,JIRA, JDBC, Linux, Struts, Hibernate, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, CICS, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle , OGNL, C, C++. Education M.S Computer Science Southern Polytechnic State University - New York, NY Skills React, Front End, Javascript, UI, Angular, Redux (3 years), AWS (4 years), Devops (3 years), S3 (3 years), Angular 6 (Less than 1 year), PostgreSQL (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), Redux-Saga (2 years), Thunk (4 years), React HOC (3 years), React observables (5 years), Html5 (2 years), CSS (4 years), Angular 6 (1 year), Spring Security (4 years), Spring Batch (4 years), Spring Security (4 years), Azure (4 years), React HOC (2 years), Spring Batch (4 years), Spring Security (3 years), React-Hoc (3 years), Promises (3 years), Microservices (3 years), Scala (3 years), Akka (4 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (4 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (3 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Mongodb (3 years), C# (2 years), React-hoc (3 years), Kafka (2 years), Python (4 years)