Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Blount International - Portland, OR May 2019 to Present Subject matter expert responsible for bringing strategic and tactical expertise to the  Digital Customer Experience team in the areas of site performance optimization, style  guide driven development, responsive web design and localization of global assets.  Technologies used include: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, jQuery, MySQL  • Define and build responsive, web based UIs using modern technologies as well as front- end development best practices  • Lead the UI development and assist with front- end design  • Actively participate in testing and QA as needed  • Take part in a fast-paced Agile development process with iterative releases  • Work closely with various cross functional teams to set project priorities and scoping decisions  • Collaborate with marketing departments, back- end developer and vendors to create a best-in-class user experience Webmaster/ Front- End Web Developer CU College of Nursing - Denver, CO December 2016 to April 2019 Responsible for administering, updating content for and further developing both the public-facing and internal (intranet) website for the college. Development Technologies  include: Javascript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, RESTful, CMS.  • Build custom widgets using AngularJS, HTML and CSS to unify page designs, better control data and updates and improve user experience  • Redesign the website and site architecture to reduce pages, consolidate content, improve usability and SEO.  • Represent the interests of the college by serving on the Web Advisory Committee.  • Work with IT to develop proof-of-concept applications  • Perform requirements gathering, project management and UAT testing as required by the size and scope of project Content Manager/Web Developer Self-Employed - Denver, CO May 2011 to December 2016 Web Developer/Content Manager | Self-Employed | May 2011 - December 2016  Responsible for content creation, maintenance and development tasks for a variety of  clients across multiple industries.  • PTontheNet: Edited and rewrote HTML code for 2100 educational articles in six weeks as the company migrated to a custom content management system.  • Artful Messaging: Used Adobe Dreamweaver to edited HTML and JavaScript files to update existing content and add new content to various websites.  • K2 Wellness: Wrote web content for this Massage Therapy and Nutrition company. Provided marketing suggestions and site improvement ideas.  • Savvy Boater: Performed SEO and code audits and used insights to improve the user experience for this eCommerce site.  • egoBoom.com: Worked as a content developer and market researcher for this social polling startup.  • Coleman.com: Responsible for managing, updating and maintaining the Coleman.com eCommerce site. Front- End Web Developer Janus Henderson Investors - Denver, CO September 2014 to October 2015 During this one-year contract: acted as Build Lead and coordinated with other  departments to assure new sites were built as cleanly as possible. Languages utilized  include: HTML, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery and Groovy/Grails.  • Created custom Grails, JavaScript and jQuery functions and methods to achieve  page functionality that was not available.  • Worked with the QA team to generate test cases for code and functionality.  • Built web pages based on provided wireframes and content and provided design  enhancement ideas to improve the user experience. SEO Copywriter FoodServiceWarehouse.com - Denver, CO January 2007 to May 2011 Researched and wrote hundreds of SEO-rich articles for the foodservice education center  of this eCommerce startup. The Education Center drove 30% of all traffic to the site and is, to this day, the most comprehensive online resource for foodservice education.  • Within three months of launching the education center, the Health and Safety  section ranked in the Top 10 of Google organic results for the targeted term  "restaurant health and safety".  • Performed keyword research, analyzed site and article traffic and used the data to direct the development of new content.  • Uploaded content into the custom CMS and edited the HTML to improve  readability and user experience. Education B.A. in English and Psychology in English and Psychology Purdue University 2004 Skills AngularJS, CSS3, HTML, Javascript, jQuery, Angular 2+, PHP, UI, Front-End, Front End, Angular, User Interface, React, Bootstrap, HTML5, Java, Agile Links http://jasonrahm.net http://github.com/jasonrahm00 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License