Lead Front End Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front End Developer - PNC Mortgage Dallas, TX Innovative and highly skilled Front End Developer dexterous in designing, developing and managing enterprise-level web applications. Around 7+ years of experience in delivering scalable projects to global clients:  • Having 7+ years of extensive experience in IT industry as a Lead Front End Developer with Web based applications and UI applications in various domains.  • Focused on helping agile teams with UI development for large scale CMS websites or client-side web apps.  • Experience in Web technologies using HTML, CSS, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Kendo, AJAX and JSON.  • Going through User Documents and creating wireframes in Balsamiq and taking client feedback.  • Responsible for initiating, planning, construction, execution, monitoring and controlling Web and Desktop applications.  • Developed, Configured and Deployed different Portals and UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Extensive Knowledge in CSS3 Styling Modules.  • Profound Knowledge in developing HTML pages using DIV layout, Web Accessibility and Web Usability.  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  • Strong Knowledge in JavaScript Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Professional Knowledge in complying Webpages depending up on Web Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (W3CAG).  • Responsible for Checking Cross Browser Compatibility of different elements and tags hence worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, FireFox, Opera, Safari.  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Responsive Web Design for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles.  • Consistent Experience in using the Visual Studio tool.  • Knowledge in Kendo Frame Work UI.  • Involved in resolving the Technical issues regarding the applications in the Project.  • Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Good Team Player with Excellent Communication Skills and Highly Motivated analytical Problem Solver and troubleshooter with more attention.  • Ability to learn and adapt to emerging technologies and implement them in the current projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Front End Developer PNC Mortgage - Dallas, TX March 2016 to Present Broker Portal is a web application that offers critical deal-making information to the point-of-sale in real-time so that the broker network can quickly say "YES" to borrowers with confidence and accuracy at the point-of-sale on the first time. The Broker Portal works in conjunction with other applications to instantly deliver product eligibility, up-to-date products & pricing, and automated underwriting approvals to the point-of-sale.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Used Hibernate as data mapping and persistence framework to implement data access abstraction.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created frontend using EXTJS framework.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  • Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh results from Ajax page.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, JSON, JQuery and CSS  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Worked on front- end validation through JavaScript and back- end validation using Spring Validation Classes  • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from font- end JavaScript, SenchaExtJS to server-side Java methods (ExtDirect).  • Developed Web tier by using Struts, JSP, Ajax and Html.  • Implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front- End Framework.  • Developed drag and drop functionality using AJAX and Tile framework in Struts.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Developed internal application using Angular.js and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.JS  • Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery& Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap.  • Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval  • Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and MongoDB (NoSQL) as back end database.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  • Responsible for build and release the code from Subversion and Perforce.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText  • Created web GUI: pages, tables and charts using GWT (Google Web Toolkit), java Freechart library using MVC pattern  • Worked with ILogJrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application  • Designing & implementing BPEL processes, business rules, web services using IBM SOA technologies stack.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, SenchaExtjs, Javascript, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, ApacheCxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), Mongo DB, Coherence, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pages standard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa. Lead Front End Developer Johnson Controls - Dallas, TX March 2013 to February 2016 The Balance Out Application project will create a system tool that will track all balance out key tasks using work flow technology. Tasks will have assigned owners, start / end dates, email reminders and escalations. Workflow will help insure all tasks are being completed by the appropriate owner over the 20 week balance out timeline. Provide a user workspace for the balance out team accessed via the employee portal. User interface includes links to all documents, reporting, claim management and key balance out information and provide a single document repository for all balance out documentation and provide direct linkage into the application.    • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework,  • Designed and Developed persistence layer with Hibernate, jQuery.  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, ExtJs.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) to implement user friendly and efficient client interfaces (frontend).  • Used DOJO to create interactive user interface.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience,  • Designed Front- end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed the web user interfaces for all the above use cases using JSP, Struts, HTML5, jQuery, XML and Ajax.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Design software applications using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, XML.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Worked on DB2 data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Developed the CRUD API for the POS Engine using Restful Webservices.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using TOAD.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the GreenBox response data and MongoDB data.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Developed Web service components using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, JAX-RPC with java.  • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information  • Extensively used Eclipse as the IDE tool for creating the code.  • Deployed the application under WebSphere application server and involved in resolving deployment issues.  • Design and implementation of web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, Swing, GWT, JPA frameworks; and GIT maven source code environments.  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Extensively worked with Servlets and Struts based multi tier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Hooked up the JSP plugins with spring bind and JSTL tags in the HTML pages.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in WebSphere server  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowageiText and jasper report.  • Involved in publishing the web content in the portal site by using the Oracle ECM  • Created the dynamic application prototype and implemented application UI utilizing Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Used JIRA and Green Hopper for tracking and assigning issues  • Integrated Jasper Report with Struts web based application.  • Worked on Securing WebSphere Portal with LDAP and DB2, WebSphere with LDAP.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Designed and implemented Rules infrastructure by wrapping up core JRules API.  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  • Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Apache Tomcat Server was used to deploy the application.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Built a website using Amazon Web Services(AWS) with PHP, MySQL    Environment:-Java. J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.Js, SenchaExtjs, Javascript, CSS, Ajax, Html5, DB2, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Mongo DB, Coherence, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Git, Github, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Web Developer Centene - Great Falls, MT August 2011 to February 2013 Centene is a leading multi-line healthcare enterprise that provides programs and related services to individuals receiving benefits under Medicaid, including Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). In addition, the Company contracts with other healthcare organizations to provide specialty services including behavioral health, disease management, managed vision, nurse triage, and pharmacy benefit management and treatment compliance. The system interfaces with various external systems for user authentication, getting price quotes, obtaining contracted information, sending provisioning information etc.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Used EJB, JMS, JavaScript in enhancement of the product  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS and JQuery.  • Worked extensively in dealing with cross browser issues using CSS, HTML and DOJO.  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the company's project management site and Mercurial as version control.  • Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit (GWT) API with PostgreSql  • Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles  • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages.  • Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application  • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Implemented Cognos SDK code for extracting the report schedules defined by power users.  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Generate Cobol procedures to apply business logic to the data.  • Batch program has been written using PL/I procedure  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Responsible for development and support of Service Activation System (SAS) written in JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Developed web Application for the online giving application using ASP.Net (C#), HTML  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, ibatis, Struts , JSF, EJB, Jquery, My Sql, Toad, Sql Server, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Clearcase, Mercurial, Selenium, Waterfall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA, Swing, Cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .Net, C, C++, Mainframe, Cobol, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB, ASP. Front End Developer United Health Group - Bartlesville, OK February 2009 to July 2011 The application helps the customer to get a free online quote instantaneously. This application also enabled the field agents/customer representative of the company to view prospective customers' data. Was involved in two modules of the project.  • Developed front end for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript.  • Integrated Kendo framework controls to support HTML5 Controls.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS/HTML themes.  • Followed Web Accessibility Guidelines while coding the website.  • Implemented client side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and autocomplete form validations.  • Used jQuery for interaction between JavaScript and HTML.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS.  • Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and Supportive.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Adhered to corporate standards with respect to problem, change and configuration management  • Worked on Angular JS.  • Worked on Responsive Designing for websites for Tablets and Mobiles for Expressionery site.  Environments: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JQUERY UI, AJAX, JSON, Windows7. UI Developer People's United Bank - Bridgeport, CT August 2007 to January 2009 People's United Bank is a diversified financial services company which provides consumer, commercial and wealth management services through approximately 375 branches in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, and Maine. Through additional subsidiaries, People's United provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery and JQuery UI for developing user interface.  • Implemented Graphs and Charts with animation to represent survey data for MDE Analytics application.  • Implemented ADA compliance for the application.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML5 tags as per W3C standards.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery UI framework.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Developed Architectural Design Documents and Block Diagrams.  • Participated in the research of new technologies like JQUERY for few potential mobile app development efforts.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JQueryUI, JSON, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY - TECH, TEXAS, US Skills AJAX (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Angular Additional Information Technical Expertise  ? Web Technologies: HTML/ XHTML/ HTML5, DTD, CSS/CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Kendo, NodeJS, React JS and BackboneJS  ? Concepts: Object Oriented Programming Concepts  ? Languages: C, C++, Java  ? Design: Adobe Photoshop, Balsamiq and Google Adworks    ? Operating Systems: Windows 98/Xp/7, Windows 8 Programming  ? Tools & Utilities: Visual Studio, Notepad++, Edit Plus, Eclipse IDE Debugging  ? Tools: Firebug Programming