Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Rennes Client-focused Frontend Developer with more than 4 years developing innovative applications and achieving high client satisfaction. I'm professional, detail-oriented and always enjoy to learn new technologies. Work Experience Front End Developer Humanity - Belgrade, RS January 2017 to August 2018 ? Developed new features for huge web-application (big and complicated features for customers, such as Google and Tesla), supporting and improving legacy code.  ? The part of the foreign team, communication through JIRA, Slack and business trips abroad.  ? Direct communication with product owner and customers.  ? Participating at hackathon (2nd place) Front End Developer Antagosoft - Kharkiv March 2016 to August 2018 ? Developed and implemented complex web-applications on multiple platforms.  ? Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  ? Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  ? Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  ? Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects.  ? Trained junior members of IT team from beginners to strong junior developers.  ? Made presentations about learned material to the other developers and about company problems and ways of solutions.  ? Architecture design of the web application according to technology, code review Front End Developer SeoBoost - Kharkiv May 2015 to March 2016 ? Developed, implemented complex e-commerce applications.  ? Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  ? Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes, patch sets for existing web applications, review of projects and code refactoring Education Bachelor in computer and information technology in Artificial intelligence National Technical University Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute Kharkiv - Kharkiv 2012 to 2015 Bachelor in economics in Finance and credit Vasyl Karazin Kharkov National University Kharkiv - Kharkiv 2010 to 2014 High school or equivalent in Physics and Mathematics Kharkiv Physics and Mathematics Lyceum - Kharkiv 2003 to 2010 Skills Javascript (4 years), JQuery, VueJS (2 years), ReactJS (Less than 1 year), Functional Programming, FLUX, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Optimization, Gulp, Webpack, Yii2, Laravel (Frontend), Photoshop, Zeplin, Sketch, OpenCart (1 year), Wordpress (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksandra-matviienko http://sandraf.space Certifications/Licenses IELTS October 2017 to October 2019 Driver's License January 2016 to Present Additional Information I like dancing, it’s important part of my life, taking part in a different competitions. I’m very competitive person. Also I’m interested in music creating, different kind of sport, traveling and reading. Actually, I’m a bookworm, science articles eater, very active and smiley :)