Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Pfizer Inc Columbus, OH * Around 11 years of experience developing enterprise applications using UI/UX technologies in Telecom, Health Insurance, eCommerce and Banking.  * Comprehensive work experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier enterprise, web based and distributed applications.  * Experienced in working with teams which are co-located and also lead remote offshore development.  * Experienced in full stack web / java development ranging from UI development to backend CRUD operations with Databases  * Ability to develop and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular, React, Vue, Express, and EXT.js.  * Capability in designing the applications by applying OOAD principles and developing UML diagrams, like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and etc using Rational Rose, Power Designer and Microsoft Visio.  * Strong experience in development of GUI (Graphical User Interface) using Java swing, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JSP, JSF, Ajax, Rich Faces, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  * Experienced in working with IDE Tools like WebSphere Studio Application Developer / Rational Application Developer (RAD/ WSAD), JBuilder and Eclipse.  * Worked with several frameworks like Struts, JSF, Hibernate, spring with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  * Hands-on experience on different kinds of databases Ms-Sql Server, Oracle, DB2, UDB, Mysql, Hypersonic databases and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  * Experience in development and deployment of SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) based Applications using Web Services including WSDL and SOAP (Developed Web Service client/host services using JAX-WS, REST, Axis and XML Beans.  * Ability to develop and maintain deep understanding of technologies used, both conceptually as well as in the implementation details.  * Excellent analytical, communication, organization and time management skills very good experience in programming & problem solving.  * Possess in-depth knowledge in java frameworks such as Struts, Spring, Hibernate  * Understand the back- end process from oracle database (query & pl/sql).  * Involved in performance tuning and code quality assurance.  * Skilled with Version Control like Git, Subversion, AccuRev and Maven.  * Experience in analytical knowledge on debugging and fixing defects. Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Pfizer Inc - New York, NY August 2016 to Present Description:  Pfizer Inc. discovers, develops, manufactures, and sells healthcare products worldwide. It offers medicines and vaccines in various therapeutic areas, including internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation and immunology, and rare diseases under the Lyrica, Chantix/Champix, Eliquis, Ibrance, Sutent, Xalkori, Inlyta, Xtandi, Enbrel, Xeljanz, Eucrisa, BeneFix, Genotropin, and Refacto AF/Xyntha brands.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to facilitate the digital transformation of the current investment banking division's website.  * Designed, Developed and analyzed the front- end and back- end using JSP, Servlets and spring.  * Designed JSP layout using Struts Tiles Framework.  * Developed the Reactive container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable)  * Coded all UI elements in Angular 2 and 4 while using Typescript.  * Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  * Designed entire framework to support Test Driven Development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository; Used 'Test-NG' for backend test cases and 'Jasmine' for Angular 4 test cases.  * Designed and Developed Styled components for mobile application  * Managed and implemented all codes changes using SVN.  * Used Angular 4 in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  * Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  * Involved in Agile process, Sprint meetings, attended daily standup meetings (Scrum), estimation meetings.  * Implemented React router for building the single page application.  * Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code.  * Utilized React to build reusable components with JSX including (landing, forms, and buttons), resulting in optimized rendering and performance.  * Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-full server on a different domain.  * Brief experience in implementing latest JavaScript framework Angular 4 to create animations based on CSS classes for requirement placed by the client.  * Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) integrated with RWD (Responsive Web Design) to apply layout styles for varying screen sizes and pixels  * Developed non-functional HTML5, CSS3 pages from mock ups.  * Converted landing pages to single page applications with Angular routing, filters, and application.  * Familiar using Aggregation Pipeline, Map-Reduce and Single Purpose Aggregation Operations.  * Developed components to fetch data from back end using AJAX.  * Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using Angular4  * Developed corporate global theme with Angular Material Themes utilizing directives.  * Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular 4.0, and JQuery.  * Hands on experience in Designing and Developing Single Page Applications SPA using Angular JS and Angular 2, 4.  * Created various controllers, views using MVC framework Angular 4.0.  * Experience in implementing new features using Rails J2EE in the back end and Coded front- end functionality in JavaScript.  * Attention to quality and detail, Proficient in Agile/Scrum methodology.    Environment: Angular, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, React, Vue, jQuery, Bootstrap, Express.js, Web pack, Mocha.js, Jasmine, JIRA, GitHub, rest, soap and sql. Senior Front End Developer AT&T Inc - Dallas, TX March 2013 to July 2016 Description:  AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is also the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States.    Responsibilities:  * Developed Single Page Applications (SPS) using Angular JS route providers and used Angular.  * Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular.JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  * Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  * Implemented stable components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  * Participated in requirement gathering meetings with the stakeholders for layout and color scheme development to enhance the website and implement them using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  * Developed Web API's for backend data communication.  * Developed the flux pattern by using Redux.js framework as a core dependency.  * Created Registration forms and profiles for the clients using the HTML, CSS, SQL Server, XML and JQuery.  * Created a POC on backend REST API services using Node JS and Mongo.  * Involved in configuring the GitHub repository and maintain the version control using GIT.  * Involved to implement various screens for the front end using Angular.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  * Designed React UI Components by using various frameworks, for the construction of web application.  * Developed UI and pagination using React.js and Node.js.  * Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  * Involved in designing the front- end applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  * Involved on working mobile based application by shrinking the data with the usage of Bootstrap responsive design.  * Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  * Assisted in designing and management of PostgreSQL database schemas and tables.  * Implemented a separate query processing using LINQ and created data entry web applications, with LINQ to SQL CRUD operations.  * Consumed Rest API services provided by Google Firebase to store data and media files.  * Worked on authentication/authorization for the application using Passport JS.  * Good knowledge and exposure in REST web services and handling Restful API methods around MVC framework.  * Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.  * Worked in using Angular JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  * Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS server-side technology.  * Worked on Node JS, with Socket.io to build front- end side with AngularJS to backend with MongoDB.  * Experienced in using various Angular bootstrap directives like modal, popover, tooltip collapse etc.  * Used the Quality Center tool to track the defects.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Angular-Ui, Node.js, Express.js, MEAN stack, Web pack, Mocha.js, Jasmine, JIRA, Jenkins, Git Hub, Sublime, Eclipse, MVC. Senior UI Developer ANTHEM INC - Indianapolis, IN November 2011 to February 2013 Description:  Anthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.    Responsibilities:  * Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations  * Implemented SQL queries and used stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  * Wrote complex queries in SQL involving joins to obtain required data from the persistent layer.  * Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  * Interfaced with the Oracle back- end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  * Used Eclipse for the development environment.  * Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  * Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  * Performed Client-Side validation using JavaScript and Entity Framework and Web API.  * Involved in developing Front End Programming for Web applications.  * Implemented CSS and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  * Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  * Familiar enough in working with the Application Server Microsoft IIS, has Experience in Team Foundation Server (TFS)  * Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  * Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  * Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox Firebug and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  * Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies, performed coding, debugging and testing.  * Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, Web pack, Jasmine, JIRA, Jenkins, Git Hub, Sublime, Eclipse, MVC. Web Developer The Home Depot Inc - Atlanta, GA April 2009 to October 2011 Description:  The Home Depot Inc. or Home Depot is an American home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in design and Development of UI using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  * Created an internal browser-based text editor using html, CSS, java script, jQuery  * Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  * Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.  * Used MVN commands to compile the application, build war, deploy on the server, start Server  * Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  * Developed the server side using java and front end with java scripting, XML, HTML.  * Wrote code to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  * Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals  * Elegantly implemented page designs in standards-compliant dynamic XHTML and CSS  * Designed user Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, and Flash  * Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.  * Managed server side and database using PHP and worked with PostgreSQL and Tortoise SVN  * Worked with cross browser compatibility issues to ensure the smooth running of application and all its features on different browsers.  * Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.    ENVIRONMENT: Javacsript, Html, css, sql, Jquery, json, xhtml, ajax. Web Developer Braintree Payments - Chicago, IL July 2007 to March 2009 Description:  The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850, and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's check businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Worked on developing GUI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery).  * Worked on implementing WebPages on the website using Code Igniter framework.  * Collaborated with one team member in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  * Used iBATIS framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  * Utilized CSS, Ajax, JQuery, MySQL queries for website design and development.  * Developed SQL scripts for data migration.  * Worked with technologies such as JQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive and user friendly.  * Gathered business requirements, prepared Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document.  * Created Visio charts for the workflow architecture of the system  * Used Team Studio and Build Manager tools to develop applications and promote the new design to test environment.  * Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.    ENVIRONMENT: html, css, javascript, jquery, mysql. Education Bachelor's