Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Affinity Health Jersey City, NJ • 8+ years of extensive experience as a Front- End UI Developer with solid understanding of HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular$, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Developed the UI layout and front- end programming for web application that matched requirements using HTML, CSS and JavaScript using ReactJS framework.  • Proficient in developing Responsive Web Design (RWD) quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and with CSS preprocessors like LESS, SASS.  • Worked on Single Page Applications (SPA's) using AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4 components like Directives, factories, services.  • Expertise in using XML/JSON data over AJAX to link with back- end applications.  • Used JQuery within AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4 directives as a Document Object Model (DOM) manipulation, selection library.  • Good Knowledge and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server and My SQL.  • Implemented Bean classes and configured in spring configuration file for Dependency Injection, Developed Controller Classes using SpringMVC, SpringAOP, SpringBoot, SpringBatch modules, handled security using SpringSecurity.    • Experience in developing Web based applications using HTML, XHTML, XML, JavaScript OOP, CSS, JSP, Java and JSP Tag Libraries.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap for responsive web design.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Typescript, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Fix defects and log them using Application Lifecycle Management QA tool.  • Proficiency in coordination, management, good problem solving, analytical and presentation skills.  • Knowledge on web debugging tools (Firebug, Fiddler debugging tool) and used integration Testing frameworks and libraries like Jasmine, Karma and Protractor.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Affinity Health - Bronx, NY April 2018 to Present Description:  Affinity Health Plan has been offering New York State-sponsored free or low-cost health coverage to New Yorkers who have Medicaid or no health insurance at all additionally recently affinity health plan added Medicare Advantage to seniors and dual eligible.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating the look and feel of the public website.  • Worked with designer who designed user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular2.  • Wrote Angular Unit Tests for Controllers, Directives and Filters.  • Wrote Angular2 Services to consume restful APIs and processing JSON data for rendering in UI.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript, Typescriptand JQuery.  • Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the layouts and resolve cross browser issues.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with Angular2 controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  • Involved in Agile full software development lifecycle (SDLC) designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Designed and developed Angular2 web pages on NodeJS with, Bootstrap, JQuery.  • Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, making AJAX calls, routing and rendering views.  • Actively used JSON data for creating templates with dynamic data.  • Developed using Core Java and supported Java/J2EE applications with emphasis on OOP based web forms, business logic, database access components.  • Worked on JavaScript, Typescript unit testing frameworks like Qunit.  • Used spring boot framework to create properties for various environments and use yamls for configuration.    Environment: HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, Typescript, NodeJS. Front- end Software Engineer New York Times - New York, NY October 2015 to March 2018 Project: New York Times website Redesign Project    Description: The New York Times is an American newspaper based in New York City with worldwide influence and readership. The New York Times website is changing because of several modern technologies designed to make the site faster and easier to use.    This project was focued on the redesign of the home page and Today's Paper page, including a lot of work around what a potential redesign would look and work like.    Responsibilities:  • Developed reusable components to add related articles using React, Redux, Sass, HTML5 and JSON alongside the Digital news team  • Worked with JSX and ES6 new features such as block scope, arrow functions, classes and modules (import and exports).  • Redesigned Today's Paper page to use the component itself to signal interactions of user interests by using NY times React-Tracking library.  • Implemented single sign-on authentication based on OAuth2.0 and OpenID Connect using Auth0.  Handled state management by using Redux in React application, based on Redux store, reducers, action creators, dispatch and thunk.  • Used Redux to fetch data from a GraphQL server to power New York Times desktop and mobile versions as one on Node.js.  • Created RESTful APIs in Node.js environment for the SPA to consume and test its navigation and functionality.  Used MongoDB to store member registration information and populate other member details.  Used Git for version control across common source code used by developers, and JIRA as the bug tracking tool.  Attended daily Scrum meetings and kept track of the project progress.    Environment: Node.js, JavaScript, Sass, React, Redux, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, Git, Auth0, GraphQL Front- End Developer Seamgen - San Diego, CA November 2013 to September 2015 Description:  Seamgen is an industry leading digital agency on the forefront of mobile application and web development. From design to development, seamgen build innovative and useful products that put the user first across a multitude of vertices including the healthcare, hospitality and automotive industries.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Creating Front- end Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strictly followed Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Experience with App design and UI implementation for Android Platforms using MobileUI.  • Implemented Responsive Web Designs using Angular JS and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Developed code to call the Restful Web services to fetch the data and populate on the UI using Angular JS/AJAX.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome developer tool for debugging java script and fixing issues.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) and Used SONOR for code quality, Jenkins for build automation, maven for build and TFS for code repository and IIS Server    Environment: HTML, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, TDD, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Jenkins, web services. Full Stack Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA August 2011 to October 2013 Front- End Developer    Description:  Kosmos UI is a front- end Single Page Application which collects the backend data from different domains and visualizes them into different forms of live graphs. The application contains the dashboard where the customer creates their own dashboard that contains their own set of graphs in it. It also contains the feature of accepting the Splunk queries and generates the dynamic graphs on the fly depends on the queries.    Responsibilities:  • Created UI widgets using AngularJs, Nvd3, React and Bootstrap and created routing for each individual widget.  • Developed front end application using HTML, CSS3, ES6, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Grunt, NPM, Bower.  • Written styles for the application using SCSS/SASS and used Grunt to convert them into normal CSS.  • Used BOOTSTRAP for making the website responsive in different screen sizes.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for responsive Web Design and maintained cross-device compatibility for mobile and tablet devices.  • Implemented REST API using NodeJS for the backend data.  • Implemented REDUX pattern to maintain single store data for the application.  • Implemented HTTP GET, POST, PUT methods to consume the REST APIs.  • Used MINIFICATION, BUNDLING and other optimization strategies to enhance page loading performance.  • Used Grunt for build and task running.  • Used npm for installing and maintaining packages.  • Used Jasmine to write unit test cases based on Karma.  • Used Visual Studio Code or Sublime as IDE.  • Conduct code reviews with peers and management.  • Used chrome developer tools and firebug for debugging in chrome and Safari.  • Experience using Radar for ticket tracking and worked on requirement gathering and analysis.  • Used GIT for source control and branching  • Actively participated in daily scrum stand-ups to discuss the progress of the application.  • Involved in Sprint planning and retro meetings.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, React, Redux, NodeJS, Nvd3, Grunt, NPM. Full Stack Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2009 to July 2011 Description:  Cisco is an American multinational technology conglomerate that develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, telecommunication equipment, and other high-technology services and products. Through its numerous subsidiaries, such as OpenDNS, Cisco Meraki, and Cisco Jasper, Cisco specializes into specific tech markets, such as internet of things (IOT), domain security, and energy management.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Full Stack Developer in a team called Innovus and the HUB (Idea posting platform and Internal Social networking).  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, preparing software Design document, development, debugging of Operations Management module in Strategic Billing project.  • Currently building internal application to manage business workflow in Angular 2, Angular4 on the front end and Node JS on the back end.  • Created single page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic Angular2 by using framework and Node JS.  • Experience in developing applications using Angular JS -Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button.  • Extensively Used ReactJS to make site pages rendering quicker, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular4 used ng-React to accomplish the same.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Designed and Developed Various Angular4 Component (/ngModule), Services (observable/promises), Directive and Pipes, Used Angular2 CLI commands for productivity and global/generic building blocks  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Angular4 Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Worked on Angular directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, temples, Events and Injectors.  • Have created the angular custom directives, Filters and Services.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Extensively used task runners like Grunt and Gulp in our applications, for minification.  • Writing different kind of analysis, design, testing and business documents.  • Working closely with analysts, designers and staff.  • Preparation of Unit Test Case and testing the product before it goes to QA.  • Proficient experience working with agile development environments (SCRUM), Test Driven Development (TDD) to deliver high quality solutions    Environment: JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3, JSON, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, JQuery, MongoDB. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, Mac.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular4.  Languages C, C++, Core java, JavaScript.  Frameworks Node.js, Angular4 AngularJS, React.js, jQuery, Bootstrap.  IDE, Editors MS Visual Studio code, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Photoshop.  Database MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.  Application/Web Servers WebLogic, REST, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat.  Debugging Tools Jasmine, Mocha, Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug.  Version Control GitHub, SVN.  Browsers Firefox, Chrome, IE, Opera, Safari  Methodologies Scrum, Agile methodologies  Defect Tracking Tools JIRA, HP ALM, Rally.