Senior Front End UI Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End UI Developer - Blue Shield of California Work Experience Senior Front End UI Developer Blue Shield of California - San Francisco, CA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design and Analysis and code development.  • Mongo DB Created prototype before development based on static and approved design documents and wireframes.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.JS.  • Developed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  • Developed single page responsive Web UI using HTML5, Angular JS, Angular2, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, J Query, D3 .JS. React .JS.  • Developed Angular JS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes.  • Developed user interface by using the React .JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Worked in using React.JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Extensively used Angular UI components like Calendar, Grid, Select, UP loader etc.  • Developed Angular JS services for reusable functionality.  • Worked on cross-platform and browser compatibility issues for this application.  • Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  • Designed Front end with in object oriented JavaScript Frameworks like Angular JS.  • Re-factored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing Angular JS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC pattern for improved source code maintenance.  • Developed user interface by using the React .JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client side Interface using React .JS.  • Used Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Queries to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop's tablet's and mobile phone's.  • Developed custom bootstrap with brand appropriate styles, colors, animations and font icons.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Grunt, Bower.  • Used Karma for unit testing and Protractor for end to end testing.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Developed base HTTP service on top of Angular JS HTTP service to communicate backend webservices.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Used J Query plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • User experience design encompasses traditional human-computer interaction (HCI) design, and extends it by addressing all aspects of a product or service as perceived by users.  • Used Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to create their statistical concepts.  Environment:  AngularJS, Angular.js.2, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, Grunt, Bower, node.js, React.JS 0.14.8, NPM, Java, AJAX, XML, INTELLIJ, Sublime Text, Photoshop CS6, Illustrator CS6, JIRA, Mongo DB, Maven, SQL, Tomcat, GIT, Agile, Azure, MAC, Mongo DB, UNIX / Linux. UI Front End Developer State Street - Quincy, MA January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using Angular JS and the front- end framework.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type a head feature for zip code, city and county look up using J Query, AJAX.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML 5 session storage hence give user feature of running several sessions at one time.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with JSP validation controls.  • Closely work with the QA Team to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop custom UI Components that are cross browser compatible.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Developed common CSS classes for the user interface using CSS and CSS3.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, J Query, AJAX, JSON, JSP, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, SVN. UI Front End Developer First Data Corporation - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Enhanced and maintained a website for the company learning internal working of the shipping industry using HTML, CSS and Dreamweaver.  • Dealt closely with working of order and supply software for shipping parts using Excel and crystal reports for data inventory and analysis.  • and got opportunity to work as a team and assist in execution of projects.  • Created user-friendly and professionally organized UI's.  • Hands on experience in frontend frameworks.  • Exposed to SDLC and waterfall model structure of product development.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft FrontPage, Adobe Photoshop, Crystal Reports. UI Developer Elite core Technologies Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra January 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with System Analyst and the project team to understand the requirements.  • Converted the Photoshop mockups in to hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  • Developed web pages applying best standards.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, Struts-Tiles, HTML/DHTML and JavaScript.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Responsible for the wiring and the configuration of Beans using Struts web based application using strutsconfig.xml and web.xml.  • Developed Web services for non-Java clients to obtain user information and modified Struts configuration files as per application requirements.  • Applied J Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers likeSafari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Responsible for fixing all bugs encountered and communicating back over to the QA team.  Environment:HTML, Java/J2EE, JSP2.1, JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse IDE, MSOffice, AdobePhotoshop, Oracle, SVN, AJAX, Scrum, J Unit, log4j, Ant, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, JMS, MDB's, Subversion. UI Developer GalaxE Solutions India Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Developed front- end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's. Extensively did client side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Developed stores procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database.  • Worked on developing a suitable GUI for ATM locator.  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  • Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Oracle database, Eclipse, SQL, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Jr. Web Developer Ratiocination - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2008 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS (Cascading Style Sheets).  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Worked on pure JavaScript for creating wire frames and mock-ups.  • Designed and developed of UI using HTML/DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX Controls to increase the performance of the web application.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser testing and compatibility assurance.  • Used Notepad++ as text editor.  • Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DHTML, jQuery, JSON, Notepad++. Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), AJAX (7 years), SQL (5 years), JSON (5 years), DATABASE (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies  HTML4/HTML5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, j Query, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular JS 2, Backbone JS, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, PHP, React JS, Grunt, Sublime, Gulp    Programming C, C++, Java, SQL, UML  Web Servers: HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat  Database  SQL Server, Oracle11g,MS-Access Operating Systems Windows[] Mac, Linux/UNIX Debugging Tools & Version control Firebug, Firebug Lite, Google Chrome Web Debugger    Web Designing Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash CS3, Sublime Text 2, APTANASTUDIO  Operating Systems Windows, Vista 7/8, Mac OS X