Sr. UI Developer/Sr. Front End Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer/Sr. Front End Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA • UI developer with 8+ years of IT experience worked in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (sdlc) from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects with responsibilities as developer at different locations.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with methodologies like Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.  • Experienced in development of various User Interface (UI)/User Experience (UX) applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS 3/4, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, TypeScript, Node JS, React JS, Redux, React Flux, Type.JS, Knockout.JS, Backbone.JS, Require.JS, Ext JS, Responsive Web Design (RWD), AWD, SWD, DOM, DOJO, Apache Handlers, D3, Bootstrap, XML, YUI, Ajax, Hibernate, spring, struts, Web Pack and JSON.  • Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), Flow Chart, Class Diagrams, User Diagram, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Experience on with the cloud technologies like using Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, pivotal cloud Foundry (PCF), Rackspace, Google Cloud Platform in various environments.  • Experienced in running web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Puppet.  • Experience in writing Terraform scripts for AWS infrastructure.  • Expertise in Java Web Services using JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, REST, WSDL, SOAP implementations.  • Experience in building application using the MEAN stack is MongoDB, Angular JS, Express.JS and Node.JS.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Familiar with the Angular 2 and Angular 4 to build the Applications by using the components, Services, Pipes , Directives and Observables.  • Experience in implementing web applications by following latest software development approaches like Composability, Singleton, Immutability, Pure Functions, components, custom directives, routers, Redux architecture, RX.JS in Angular2.0.  • Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles and Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web, including browser-safe palettes and file size management.  • Experience in Profiling and Optimizing SPA (single page applications) by creating custom directives, controllers, modules, module optimization and http caching in AngularJS by using MVC frameworks.  • Experience in working with ReactJS, React Flux and Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in implementing Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and perform RESTFUL services.  • Expertise in User Interface (UI)/User Experience (UX) designing tolls such as Wireframe, Prototyping and Mockup designs tools like Adobe Fireworks, Axure RP, Mockplus, InVision, Mockingbird, Balsamiq, Adobe XD, Fore UI, UXPin, Photoshop.  • Experience in CSS3 preprocessors such as SASS, LESS to optimize the cascading style sheet and allow mix-ins, variables and hierarchical structure in CSS file.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo classes, and Pseudo elements.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, D3JS, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) and DOM functions to use in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents.  • Experience in using Version Control tools like Git, CVS, Clear Case, ClearQuest.  • Strong ability to write build scripts using ANT, Maven.  • Experience in other languages such as Python, Ruby on Rails, PHP, Bash Scripting and SQL.  • Expertise in working with the Mobile technologies like Android, IOS, Windows, Mobile Angular UI, Phone gap/ionic, Sencha, Kendo UI, Sencha Touch, Cordova, Mobile UI, jQTouch, iPhone, iPad, Mobile UI, Silverlight, ActionScript.  • Expert in using various grids like Angular UI Grid, Kendo UI Grid for populating the data, Data Visualization using D3.js.  • Expert in using JavaScript libraries such as Handlebar.js for precompiling templates, Require.js for AMD and Bootstrap.js for CSS.  • Good experience in implementing the design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Front Controller, Etc.  • Expertise in DB Design, DB normalization and writing SQL queries & PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Joins, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views etc.  • Experience in implementing NodeJS server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using Mongoose drivers.  • Experience in Android UI Toolkit and Layout Managers. Proficient in Android Application Framework and Android SDK Tools.  • Knowledge in different content management systems like Drupal, Joomla and Ecommerce using MySQL.  • Good Experience with XML technologies including XML, XSL, XSLT, Path, XQuery and XML parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in developing applications using JAVA with various J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JNDI, JMS and Web Services. Developed multi-threaded applications built on struts and spring.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC), Model-View- View-Model (MVVM) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in Object-oriented JavaScript (OOJP) and Event-driven application handling using AJAX and Node JS.  • Strong experience in developing applications using frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts, JSF and IOC frameworks like spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring JDBC, Spring IOC, Spring Security and Spring AOP.  • Experience with open sourced NOSQL and SQL databases like Cassandra, PostgreSQL, Redis, MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server, IBM DB2 respectively, and enterprise level database like Oracle.  • Good experience in testing frameworks like Jasmine, Selenium, Mocha and Karma.  • Considerable experience with IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, WebStorm, Sublime, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment and to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer/Sr. Front End Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and JQuery.  • Lead the team in development of single-page Ember.JS web application to support new purchasing experience.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Collaborating with designers and converting designs perfectly into web pages usingHTML5, CSS3.  • Organized and facilitated sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Created the Application using React JS and Node JS libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Developed web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps.  • Implemented React grid to build Report Data Grid, tree grid, and developed Data Grid items which can be dragged by system users.  • Created node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Used Mongoose API to retrieve date from MongoDB using node.JS.  • Involved in development of the front- end part of the web application using HTML, CSS and JavaScript frameworks like Node.JS and libraries like React.JS based on client customization.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used Node JS to build grunt tasks and build properly the project like compile, minify etc.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and involved in performance tuning the website.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Committed code change into repository by using version control tool SVN.  • Documented design solutions and implemented according to the design.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  Environment: HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS3/4, SASS, LESS, Java, J2EE, JavaScript, AngularJS, React JS, Node JS, jQuery, Web pack, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, JSON, Rest Api, SVN, ALM, Grunt, Gulp, Windows 7, Jenkins, GIT, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Spring MVC, JSP, AJAX, Confluence, RAD, Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Hibernate, Jasmine, Karma. Sr. UI Developer/Sr. Front End Developer Vonage - Holmdel, NJ September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Development and maintained proficient level of communication in team going through all phases of SDLC lifecycle.  • Created front end applications using HTML/ HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, Typescript, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, React JS, Node JS and Backbone JS.  • Integrated with Restful Web Services using Angular 2/4 framework.  • Moved existing Angular JS controllers and services to Angular 2.0 components for more responsive and less Dependency.  • Good amount of work done with Reactive forms in Angular 2/4 and their validations.  • Worked with Angular 2.0 Databinding, dependency injection, string Interpolation and pipes.  • Extensive use of Twitter Bootstrap framework to achieve RWD (Responsive Web Design), i.e., make the portal compatible for various screen resolutions which are trending in the market today.  • Developed and responsible for client-side validations using Java script Regex and Angular validations.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code using Typescript.  • Developed the UI layout and front- end programming for web application that matched requirements using hand written HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript. JQuery, AngularJS for single page applications.  • Used Angular JS multiple in-built directives and APIs in Angular JS and Node.JS such as filters, root scope, child scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the application independent components like sticky header for window or table, custom dropdowns, tables, checkboxes, radio buttons, notifications, chevrons, graphs, date pickers, pagination etc.  • Involved in Mobile application build phase using JQuery Mobile and Phone Gap (Cordova)  • Built advanced JavaScript modules with object oriented design patterns and built generic JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, design patterns based on MVC structure (Angular JS).  • Implemented HTML5 feature like, local storage, data and required attributes and sliders.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed Single Page Application using Angular.JS for different modules including event driven pages.  • Parent to Child and cross component communication using angular services and decorators.  • Involved in upgradation and maintenance of new layout using the grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote unit test cases in Jasmine framework, usage of Gulp and Grunt for production and deployment.  • Ensure Cross platform compatibility including desktop and mobile browsers.  • Extensively used JQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Component Architecture with Angular 2/4.  • Utilized Angular 2/4 routing and responsible for Navigating components using Router-Link and then later consume it in Router-outlet.  • Utilized HTTP Observables for Asynchronous Programming to communicate services from the Server.  • Responsible for writing Testing application using Jasmine with Karma.  • Used NPM for managing the packages.  • Used GIT for code push and pull and GITHUB for repository.  • Used JSON for exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Embedded new Media Elements i.e., video and audio files using the HTML 5 mark-ups and used HTML5 file API for uploading local files from the client-side.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Used Animation and CSS effects to create a rich visual experience.  • Worked on JIRA Tool for Bug Tracking System.  Environment: HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS3/4, SASS, LESS, Java, J2EE, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, Node JS, jQuery, Web pack, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, JSON, Rest API, SVN, ALM, Grunt, Gulp, NPM, Windows 7, Jenkins, GIT, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Spring MVC, JSP, AJAX, Confluence, RAD, Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Hibernate, Jasmine, Karma. UI Developer/ Front End Developer Staples Inc - Framingham, MA April 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages from the thought process to its implementation and maintenance by following Agile/SCRUM based approach,  • Developed application layout and responsive webpages using AngularJS, Node JS, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain specific layout XML to the web.  • Developed User Interfaces using JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS.  • The project has Angular JS that handles the front end RWD view and renders data by calling the REST web services using the Jersey framework.  • Deployed the applications in formats of WAR, JAR, and EAR in WebLogic.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL  • Designed and developed the single page application using Angular JS and for consuming Restful services in using $http Angular Built-In Service.  • Designed and developed advanced object-oriented JavaScript and TYPESCRIPT classes.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Involved in developing rich GUI by using AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON and to enhance the performance tuning of the website.  • Implemented ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a spring, Hibernate framework.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed generators with promises to avoid callback hells.  • Extensively used CSS preprocessors like LESS for re-usable style components.  • Used GIT for version control and keep track of changes.  • Used Jasmine framework to perform behavioral JavaScript testing.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Developed cross browser compatibility pages and fixed the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Worked on JIRA to manage issues throughout the application lifecycle and to track development efforts.  • Participated with QA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular1.5, Node JS, MVC, JSON, JQuery, Jasmine, AJAX, GUI, LESS, Eclipse, Restful API, MongoDB, Jira, XML, Git Hub. Front End Developer Comcast Cable Corporation, LLC - Philadelphia, PA November 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Transforming the wireframes or mocks and PSD's to HTML code.  • Involved in requirements analysis.  • Composed shorthand HTML code and semantic CSS styling.  • Developing dynamic web pages, applying appropriate styling or animations, form validations activities by utilizing JavaScript and JQuery libraries.  • Developed client-side scripting and worked on primitives & reference data types in JavaScript coding.  • Designed web pages and used applications that meet business and user goals through a positive user experience.  • Involved in designing and developing the XML Objects Used AJAX to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Worked on validation of the user input using JQuery validation plugin.  • Implemented JQuery Chaining to select in sequence in a single code statement.  • Developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls through JQuery method.  • Making sites interactive, SEO and user friendly.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed cross-browser procedures and complexities and solving basic program bugs.  • Created documentation and screen tests.  • Worked on Webservices, coordination with the Webservices and CMS team.  • Developed UI with effective coding standards for programming all modules.  Environments: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML API, Web Services, UML, Eclipse, Mockups, Usability Testing, Agile methodology. Java Developer Factory and Singleton August 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved at different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application alike Design, Requirements gathering, Analysis and Code development using Agile methodology.  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture using the J2EE design patterns and technologies  • Development is done using J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Session façade, Object Pattern and service locator, DAO, Factory and Singleton.  • Development of user interfaces using AJAX and JSPs.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for accessing and updating data from database.  • Worked on consuming set of SOAP services for document generation and document storage management.  • Development and creation of Web Services using REST with JSON response type.  • Usage of RAD IDE based on Eclipse in the code development of Action Classes, Spring Beans and JSP.  • Used Hibernate with POJOs in the implementation of persistence layer to represent the persistence database.  • Involved in requirement gathering of AVS sub module called TIGER (Tool to identity and generate ESG Revenue).  • Used Restful web services to consume the data from external Vendors.  • Data validations were implemented for critical functionalities using Angular Js and JavaScript.  • Responsive development is implemented using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Developed application on spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  • Deployed the application in to the server using JBoss Application Server.  • Usage of Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, HTML, XML, J2EE, Spring, OOAD, MySQL, ANT, JBoss, SVN, Hibernate, REST, Log4J, TOAD, JUNIT, CSS3, Ajax, SQL, JSON, Spring Beans, POJO, Spring DI, AngularJs, JavaScript, Spring MVC. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), HTML (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSON (8 years), Web Services (7 years), Front End, Angular, UI, React, Front-End, User Interface, HTML5, Jquery, Angularjs, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac  SDLC methodologies Waterfall, Agile/Scrum  Programming languages C, C++, JAVA/ J2EE  UI Frameworks  Angular.js, Angular 2/4, Backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, Ember JS, Ext JS, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design (RWD), JQuery, JQuery UI, JQuery Mobile, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, npm, Web pack, Kendo UI, YUI, Mobile UI, Dojo, D3    Web Development Technologies HTML/ HTML5, DHTML/ XHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS3/ CSS4, JSON, JavaScript, coffescript, JQuery, PHP, Python and AJAX  Mobile Technologies Android, iOS, Phone gap, Ionic, Sencha, Cordova, Mobile UI, JQuery Mobile  Web Services Soap, Rest/Restful, WSDL  CSS Preprocessors SASS, LESS, Stylus  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (AWS), MS Azure, pivotal cloud Foundry (PCF)  Version Controls & Other tools SVN, Git, GitHub, Version one, Bitbucket, ALM, Grunt, Gulp, Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Gradle, JIRA  IDE/HTML Editors  Sublime Text, Notepad++, Atom, Visual Studio Code Beta, Eclipse, Net Beans, MS FrontPage, MS Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe In design, Microsoft Visio    Testing/Debugging/Bug Tracking Tools  Selenium, SOAP UI, Karma, Jasmine, Qunit, JUnit, Mocha, Firebug, Google Chrome Web Debugger, Yslow, IE developer Tools, JIRA, Bugzilla    Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL (oracle), MongoDB, Redis, PostgreSQL