Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer West Valley City, UT Technical background looking to transition to an office setting. Dependable and organized team player with the ability to communicate effectively and efficiently. Skilled at building relationships with employees across all levels of an organization. Work Experience Front End Developer Merkle - Salt Lake City, UT August 2018 to June 2019 • Create landing pages.  • Create and maintain applications.  • Ensure all pages are ADA complient.  • Create and follow through with goals.  • Learn new technologies. Front End Developer U-haul International - Phoenix, AZ January 2014 to June 2018 • Create and maintain applications; enhancement of existing applications.  • Implement responsible web design principles to ensure that website renders well across multiple devices.  • Work closely with the web development and software design teams to update the website and internal web tools to make them more efficient.  • Experience working in an environment of multiple simultaneous projects.  • Debug jQuery/Javascript issues.  • Code reviews  • Brainstorm with the team to come up with the best solutions for the applications.  • Create wireframes for business demonstrations.  • Experience with new and legacy applications. Front End Developer Urmann SEO - Salt Lake City, UT March 2008 to March 2013 • Lead the web design team in all phases of the design process, from site creation to SEO.  • Troubleshoot server and other technical issues.  • Designed sites, banners, ads and other miscellaneous items.  • Train new employees on processes and standards. Office Assistant Hostiam Communications - West Valley City, UT February 2006 to March 2008 • Managed and maintained eCommerce site.  • Pack and ship packages.  • Responsible for business taxes and finances. Education AAS in Web Development Salt Lake Community College - Salt Lake City, UT January 2013 to May 2015 Skills ADA (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Javascript (4 years), jQuery (4 years)