Front- End developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front- End developer - Gridology Education & Technology Inc Harrison, NJ • Experience in designing web application as a Front- end developer.  • Experience in building application components using React, Angular 1.5/2/4, Vue.js.  • Experience of using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES5/6) for web application development.  • Extensive experience on Javascript frameworks and libraries including jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Hands on experience of creating REST web services by using Node.js and Express framework.  • Self-motivated, committed and adaptable to changes and challenges and work effectively in a fast- paced, high volume, deadline-driven environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End developer Gridology Education & Technology Inc - Fort Lee, NJ February 2018 to Present For "Directory" Vue.js project:   • Integrated LinkedIn authorization login for the application.  • Integrated fusioncharts bullet graph to achieve data visualization.  • Implemented responsive web UI using CSS3, Bootstrap and elementUI.  • Integrated google map api to show the clusters for different locations and corresponding course providers details.  • Involved Gitlab for project version control.    For "Upgrid" Angular 1.5 project:   • Responsible for Peer Overview Module. Implemented angular fusion charts to realize data visualization and established user interaction.  • Responsible for Geography Analysis Module. Implemented google map api to show the clusters for locations and corresponding course providers details. Front- End developer Marlabs, Inc - Piscataway, NJ April 2017 to February 2018 • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) with two-way data binding using Angular 2 router.  • Implemented template-driven form validation and route guards using Angular 2.  • Passed data into components using property binding and event binding.  • Developed functions to acquire data from REST Web Service using HTTP Observable.  • Implemented responsive web UI and made better user experience using CSS3 and Bootstrap. Front- End developer MetroPCS - Elmhurst, NY October 2016 to April 2017 • Extensive usage of JavaScript, React, NodeJS, Bootstrap, jQuery/AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3.  • Front- end use HTML5, CSS3, React, Axios and Bootstrap to build single page web app to communicate with back- end via REST API.  • Back- end use NodeJS, Express, MongoDB and mongoose to provide REST API.  • Created website using React, React-Redux, React-Router for app routing. Used Redux for state and application data flow and management. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology September 2014 to May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology September 2011 to September 2014 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications September 2011 to May 2014 Skills AJAX (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), Angular, Front-End, UI, Front End, React (2 years), Vue.js (1 year), Angularjs, User Interface, CSS3, Node, Jquery Publications An Experimental Study of Small World Network Model for Wireless Networks https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7324646 2015-11 The concept of small world phenomenon has been observed and applied in many types of networks. This paper evaluates two small-world network models in clustering formation and routing in wireless network. We present simulation of two small world network models, Watts and Stragtz's (WS) and the Newman and Watts (NW) models and evaluate average node degree and path length. We create a test wireless network using standard routing protocols in OPNET to validate the small world phenomenon, evaluate its performance and present research challenges of applying these models for wireless networks. This study provides insights on how wireless networks behave under small world network models with distributed routing protocols. Additional Information Technical Skills    HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap jQuery, Angular 1.5/2.0/4.0, MySQL, MongoDB    Javascript React, Node.js, Vue.js JSON, AJAX, RESTful    Windows, Linux, Mac OS Gulp, Grunt, Webpack WebStorm, Visual Studio Code