Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer New York, NY ? More than 10 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js  ? Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JSON technologies.  ? In-Depth understanding of entire web based architectures, web technologies, SDLC and OOAD.  ? Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL, Postgres/PostGIS.  ? Expertise in front- end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, MongoDB.  ? Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  ? Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer AT&T - New York, NY May 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed Responsible Web Design (RWD) UI using HTML5, CSS3 media queries, Ajax, Angular.Js and Bootstrap.js.  ? Responsible for implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, Angular.JS for all client side UI Validation.  ? Developed the web applications using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js Angular.JS and Bootstrap.js  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS3 Framework, Node.JS, Ext.JS, D3.js, React.JS, Angular.JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  ? Developed front- end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  ? Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  ? Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  ? Implemented MongoDB, Mongoose(ODM) framework with Express.js and Node.js as back end.  ? Used Node for dependencies and express.js for writing api.  ? Implemented Node.JS at server side to provide REST API to client-side backbone application.  ? Design UI scripting using typescript in Angular 2.  ? Used angular-cli tool to configuring the angular project and building it for development of Angular application using Angular 4.  ? Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  ? Built Angular 5 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  ? Worked on Javascript with ember.js to build a single-page app style front- end.  ? Worked on development dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, SMACSS,HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, Sancho Exit's, ember.js and JQuery.  ? Designed and implemented the user interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and AJAX.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web Application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Developed new features in website using Java/J2EE and enhance existing features.  ? Created SOAP WSDL and Java code using Java WSDL using RAD reverse engineer tool.  ? Developed code to maintain Java applications using Eclipse IDE.  ? Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Worked with VUE JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Components, directives, controllers and HTTP Request.  ? Crafted responsive, dynamic system with flat application design powered by JavaScript React/Redux, HTML5, SASS, and Bootstrap grid system, compatible across 100% of modern browsers.  ? Assisted front- end development with a small cross-functional team on a Vue.js application.  ? Implemented and deployed new features with UI/UX Design Team on high quality web application based on Vue.js Framework.  ? Lead junior developers to develop a whole new Vuejs Framework based web tool for company's internal use purpose, coaching them the basics of the web development.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular.  ? Created mockups using web technologies like HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, JQuery & JavaScript, Git and GitHub.  ? Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, SMACSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Flex , Node JS, Mongo DB  ? Involved in Agile Methodology (Scrum) that includes daily scrum with team and followed Test Driven Environment following OOD.  ? Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.  ? Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular JS with Typescript.  ? Worked in using React.JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Built functionality and responsive design with React and Node.js utilizing Node Package Manager.  ? Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Done JIRA's API development to integrate JIRA with several internal and external systems  ? Worked extensively in Agile Development process and Jira.  ? Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  ? Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style sheets.  ? Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using restful web services.    Background SKILLS: Node.js, Angular.js, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, React.js, Bootstrap, Vue, Ember.js, REST, Express.js, Agile, JSON, D3.js, AJAX, Junit, Java, Git, SOAP. Sr. Front End Developer Verizon Communications - New York, NY September 2014 to April 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like Angular.JS, jQuery, Node.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, AngularJS,Wire-framing, HTML.  ? Developed the reusable components like custom directives in Angular.JS.  ? Used Angular.js grid to create the grid views for this application.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angular.js, and REST Services  ? Designed UI using JSTL, HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  ? Generated design artifacts like Use Case diagrams, Object Models, Sequence diagrams, Technical Design Documents.  ? Involved in building front end using HTML, CSS and Express.JS.  ? Developed web applications using Node.js, Express.js and MVC.  ? Application development using Java/J2EE Technologies which include Servlets, Spring, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL)  ? Worked through an agile development cycle for swift implementation of technical requirements.  ? Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Used React.JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Integrated Git/Bitbucket with JIRA to monitor the commits in Git.  ? Developed applications using HTML, CSS, Scss, Angular,Git, followed MVC structure.  ? Created dynamic grid components which will be used across the application.  ? Configured the Sencha command tool for building the entire Ext.JS project into minified JS file.  ? Involved in Passing the XML in the Java layer and passed the UI lay out to Ext JS. Based upon the JSON Data received in the Ajax request the grid will be created Dynamically.  ? Requirements gathering develop, implement, test, and deploy enterprise web applications using Sencha Ext JS, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  ? Developed Junit test cases for unit testing and Mockito for mocking.  ? Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, Require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  ? Developed applications using BackboneJS framework - event triggering, backbone views, backbone events etc.  ? Used Sencha Ext javascript controls like FxGrid, ComboBox, HTML Editor, Toolbars, Text Field, ComboBox and Checkbox to populate data on UI.  ? Implemented server side using Spring MVC.  ? Created Http inbound and outbound flows and tested its working functionality and used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  ? Design, development and testing of SOA based Web services using SOAP over HTTP and SOAP over JMS transport.  ? Extensive use of Spring DI - Dependency Injection and AOP - Aspect Oriented Programming.  ? JSTL to render the server side data on JSP as view part.  ? Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template and used Apache CXF for developing SOAP & RESTful web services  ? Use of Weblogic application server to deploy the application  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Writing PL/SQL procedures and functions using PL/SQL editor.  ? Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  ? Oracle was used as a relational database used for CRUD operation.  ? Deployed the application and support for the production issues.    Background Skills: JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, Git, Agile, CSS, React.js, Ember.js, HTML, XML, Struts, JSF ,REST, SVN, Java, AJAX, JIRA, SOAP, Express.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap. Sr. Software Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA December 2011 to August 2014 Accountabilities:  ? Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ? Development of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), MVC, Spring with Hibernate, AJAX for search panel, Java Swing & AWT for desktop app.  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  ? Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Design and program enterprise java beans for the development of large enterprise applications.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database.  ? Integrated Hibernate for data persistence by developing persistent classes through java & J2EE.  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  ? Implemented CSS, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Used J2EE & Java design patterns Service Locator, Object Factory and Singleton patterns extensively.  ? Created packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  ? Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  ? Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  ? Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java.  ? Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.  ? Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.    Background Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model,Jira. Software Developer Pfizer - New York, NY October 2009 to November 2011 Accountabilities:  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the java/J2EE web application's business Logic.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Implemented Java/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, Singleton.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS June 2008 to September 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Education Bachelor's