Senior React JS Developer Senior React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior React JS Developer Chicago, IL • Over 8+ years of professional experience in application design, analysis, development, integration, debugging, implementation and testing of various client/server N-tier web application using multiple UI-Technologies and software development methodologies.  • Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS3/CSS, HTML5/HTML, Bootstrap, TypeScript and their behavior on different browsers.  • Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as BackboneJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, Require JS. Worked on Agile methodology and having experience working in a fast-paced Scrum environment.  • Strong understanding of SASS and LESS as CSS preprocessors.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies including ReactJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Angular CLI, Webpack, Karma and Jasmine.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux; Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Experience in using Typescript which is the Node JS, AngularJS (2.0,4.0), main Codebase.  • Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.  • Good Experience on MVC frameworks like Angular JS 2.0, Angular JS 4.0 for creating Single Page Application (SPA) and Two-Way Binding using concepts like Routing, Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Expert in implementing Controllers, Modules, Services, Factories, Module Optimization, HTTP Caching and Angular UI for Bootstrap in AngularJS.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Expertise developing Responsive web design (RWD) application with client scripting language and serve scripting languages like Node.js, Express.js, React.js.  • Experience in integrating RESTFUL APIs and web services with applications.  • Developed event-driven application using form-based authentication using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX request, JSON, and XML.  • Skilled in using angular service like HTTP to GET/POST integration with Java based backend.  • Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies & frameworks like WSDL, SOAP, REST, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, Bootstrap.  • Experience in using GULP, GRUNT for minifying of libraries and stylesheets, running unit test.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, Kanban.  • Expertise in UI designing like wireframe concepts, Mockup designs using Adobe Fireworks, Azure, Photoshop.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and presentation skills.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar and war files.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, Time Management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior React JS Developer Fiat Chrysler Automobiles - Auburn Hills, MI May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Responsive Web Pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • The front- end use HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back- end via RESTful API.  • Involved in developing Responsive Web pages that are interactive using object-oriented JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Used WebPack, Babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • Webpack plugin to perform various tasks that build our application.  • Client-Side requests and services for medical records access are managed using NPM and Bower.  • Developed NodeJS applications using MVC frameworks and installation of client side dependencies using Bower, Grunt, and NPM.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using React, ES6, WebPack, Grunt and Redux  • Constructed powerful and modern Frontend Architecture, involving ReactJS, Redux, and ES6.  • The front- end use HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back- end via RESTful API.  • Created reusable ReactJS components and implemented Redux Pattern into the solution to maintain the stable and always updated Application state.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used various JQuery plug-in like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  • Created JQuery-AJAX callback methods to get the data in JSON format and displayed on many different controls in the HTML page.  • Built RESTFUL Web services by building NodeJS server in the back- end to handle request Ajax calls.  • Transpiling ES6 features using Babel as most modern browsers don't support ES6 features yet. Mostly used features include Import/Export, Let, Const, Class and Arrow functions.  • Created responsive layouts for mobile plot forms by creating grid model using Bootstrap.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIS to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS manipulation.  • Developed NodeJS applications using MVC frameworks and installation of client side dependencies using Bower, Grunt, and NPM.  • Involved in Agile process, two-week Sprints, daily Scrums, pair programming to discuss the development of the application.  • Involved in creating styling framework for the web pages using CSS Bootstrap along with Grids, Pagination, Dialog box, Carousel, Form, Navbar and Table.  • Solved Callback hells in Node.JS by using Promises and Generators from ES6 resulting in unchaining of events and making the code efficient.  • Used Redux-Thunk as middleware to manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions.  • Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jest & Enzyme.  • Used Middleware, Redux Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Developed React Components and used Redux Promise API for making async calls.  • Used Express.js on the top of Node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database.  • Used GitHub repository to submit code changes that are in turn reviewed by the dev leads before they are merged to the Head Master branch before production.    Environment: ReactJS, Redux, AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, ExpressJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, TypeScript, Redux-Thunk, React-Router, Bootstrap, Restful Web, AJAX, JSON, NPM, ES6, WebPack, GitHub, JIRA, Jenkins, AGILE, Visual Studio Code. Senior UI Developer PlainsCapital Corporation, Inc - Dallas, TX May 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed all types of UI pages using HTML5, XML, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, jQuery, Ajax.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using modular based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Developed SPA project using Angular 2 Typescript for frontend, Node JS and Postgres for backend.  • Worked on Angular 2 by consuming Restful web services & used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Used Selectors, AJAX and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Using Angular 2, created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS).  • Involved in complete development of Agile Development methodology / SCRUM and tested the application in each iteration.  • Proficient in using higher level style syntaxes, LESS and SASS for advanced CSS features.  • To manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions, uses Redux-Thunk as middleware.  • Experience in developing web applications using latest JavaScript ES6 features and frameworks such as React and Redux to build dynamic web pages. (React-router, JSX, Babel, Webpack, React-bootstrap).  • Extensively used jQuery, Node.js in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • To interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a NoSQL Database, uses Express.js on the top of Node.js.  • Solved Callback hells in Node.JS by using Promises and Generators from ES6 resulting in unchaining of events and making the code efficient.  • Used GIT as the version control system. Performed merging (worked with branches), fixed conflicts and pushed code commits to server.  • Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jasmine, Mocha, Enzyme, Chai, Jest and Karma.  • Builds can generate test reports in various formats supported by Jenkins plugins.  • Performed Usability on the applications to test the user acceptance of the application.  • Implemented XML parsing & JSON parsing for data handling on different application.    Environment: HTML 5/HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2, ReactJS, Redux, Express JS, Bootstrap, Typescript, NodeJS, JSON, DOM, AJAX, JavaScript, Mocha, Chai, JIRA, GIT, XML, MongoDB, JSP, SOAP, MVC, JENKINS, Adobe Photoshop. React JS Developer Neustar, Inc - Sterling, VA March 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Responsive Web pages that are interactive using object-oriented JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Constructed powerful and modern Frontend Architecture, involving ReactJS, Redux, and ES6.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux, Webpack, Grunt and Redux for Single Page Application development.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, JavaScript and React.js.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Responsible to create React JS workflows such as Flux and Redux.  • Used Webpack, Babel and gulp for transpilation (compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • Webpack plugin to perform various tasks that build our application.  • Called the RESTful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node .JS and developed the backend by Mango DB.  • Worked on AJAX and JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Built REST Web services by building Node.js server in the back- end to handle request Ajax calls.  • Created multiple Views as well as Nested Views with the help of Angular UI Router.  • Involved in issue tracking and Agile project management using JIRA while also Implemented Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Knowledge on unit testing and integration testing frameworks and libraries like Mocha and Chai.  • Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins with Jenkins.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, D3.js, Handlebars, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Eclipse, Dreamweaver.  • Experience working with Docker containers, running/managing containers, container snapshots and managing images.  • Run asynchronous tests to identify errors and exceptions using Mocha JS.  • Used Jasmine to run unit test on Angular controllers, modules and JavaScript files on the client side.  Environment: CSS3, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React JS, React-Router, Node JS, Redux, Agile, Webpack, Restful, jQuery, SASS, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, Karma, GitHub, Mocha JS, SQL, JIRA, Grunt, Gulp, ES6, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, web services. AngularJS developer The Vitamin Shoppe - North Bergen, NJ March 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used HTML5 and CSS3 to design the presentation layer of the website.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS 1.5 MVVM framework.  • Used and implemented different open source AngularJS Material libraries like material, angular-aria and animate to make different features of the applications which included navbar, show and hide buttons.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind AngularJS template(views) to JavaScript object(models).  • Created features like dropdown list, search function and card model by using AngularJS material.  • Integrated REST web service calls to get data from response and display them on UI and also used AngularJS services like $q, $http, $broadcast, $emit, $on.  • Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Created Angular directives, services, and controllers for a complete ground up development and migration of existing JavaScript and java web application.  • Consumed Restful Web Services for JSON data using jQuery, AJAX and AngularJS http & resource services using ng-Resource module.  • Built Web pages that are more user interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS and Bootstrap.  • Utilized Asynchronous Ajax requests and jQuery calls inside the Web Application to load data using callback functions.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the installed modules.  • Optimized throughput and scalability of web applications using Node.js.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Designed pages using AngularJS Forms, Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and HTTP Request.  • Worked with Angular.js framework to build modern web applications that's include writing services, custom directives, controllers, filters, templates and other Angular.js Modules.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives and APIs in AngularJS & Node.js such as filters, rotoscope, child scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Utilized Node in conjunction with Express framework to route and render pages.  • Worked using Node JS for developing server-side application to fetch resources.  • Debug the application to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed Java, J2EE Web and Business components and wired using Ext JS Ajax calls.  • Used GitHub features to upload code and work with other developers like (merge, push, pull, clone).  • Participate in the team on agile development cycle.  • Worked with the SASS/LESS pre-processor to simplify writing the CSS styling's and also creating new style sheets to write and edit web page content.  • Used Karma for Unit Testing in the interactive mode with the help of configuration files.  • Worked as a team member, collaborated with Testers and also clients before releasing the applications for production to make sure it is bug free.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Agile, AngularJS, JSON, jQuery, Restful Web services, Spring, JIRA, Karma, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Require.js, GitHub, GUI, LESS, SASS, Grunt. UI Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL July 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Migrated some components of the project from Angular Js to Angular 2.  • Developed web pages to display items in inventory by using HTML5, CSS3, RWD (Responsive web design), JavaScript (ES6), TypeScript 2.2, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap.js, AngularJS, and Node JS.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to interact with Express.js on the server-side in-order to perform CRUD operations on database.  • Used Angular 2 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server and implemented Angular 2 Factories and controllers to manipulate and view every customer task data.  • Used Angular 2 on the top of Node JS as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interaction with MongoDB which is a No SQL Database.  • Hands on Experience with Angular 2 CLI and the strong typing in TypeScript 2.2.  • Developed Interfaces using Typescript 2.2.  • Used SASS to maintain the code with snippets and the available libraries.  • Used Angular 2 components for better performance and to achieve the lazy loading.  • Developed responsive client-side application to integrate with server side using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2, Bootstrap.  • Built web HTML templates for high traffic and complex data driven website. Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different applications.  • Achieved role control functionality mainly by retrieving JSON data from AJAX and combining the retrieved data with jQuery to manipulate nodes in DOM tree.  • Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 using jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic by using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Angular 2 and AJAX.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards. Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap and Media Queries to create breakpoints and achieve smooth transitions across all screens.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across browsers.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involving View and Controller section of MVC pattern for project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2, jQuery and AJAX, Bootstrap.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), jQuery, Angular 2, AJAX, JSON, DOM, Web, Bootstrap, XML UI developer S&P Global - Princeton, NJ March 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with an offsite team to make server code and database changes as needed.  • Built HTML emails, ensuring compatibility with multiple browsers and email clients.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery for dynamic website design.  • Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented jQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Involved in Agile Methodology process.  • Rewrote responsive company website using Bootstrap and SASS.  • Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML.  • Wrote numerous AJAX web services to send JSON data to and from the server.  • Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Build responsive websites using Grid View control, Validation controls, Master pages, HTML, CSS for the presentation part.  • Implemented WEB API Services for CRUD operations with HTTP verbs GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  • Used different action filter authentication, exception handling and output cache.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Agile, WEB API, JSP, Java, MySQL, XML, TOMCAT, APACHE, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, XHTML, SVN. Front End Developer General Mills - Minnesota, MN, US January 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Implemented custom validation controls, JavaScript validation controls for form validations.  • Developed the design using HTML and CSS more creatively emphasizing on enhancement in the look of webpages.  • Developed front- end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's.  • Designed and implemented the front- end using JavaScript, AJAX extensively.  • Used jQuery library functions and developed of all webpages at client side following the guidelines.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, jQuery, Adobe Flash, SQL, Web logic, CVS and Windows XP/07. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), BOOTSTRAP (7 years), AJAX (9 years), jQuery (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Ubuntu, Linux, Mac OS X  Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Apache, PHP, DOM, RESTful, SOAP services, web services.    Programming Languages C, C++, C#, JavaScript, SQL, Java  JavaScript Frameworks JavaScript, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js, Require.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, UI  IDE, Editors Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Net Beans IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, Brackets, Microsoft Visual Studio, Photoshop.  Database Oracle 11g/12C, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools.  Version Control SVN, GIT, CVS  Web Servers HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere, IIS.  SDLC Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.  Browsers Firefox, Chrome, IE, Opera, Safari