UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX • 12+ years of experience in web development. Experience in PHP, HTML, CSS, XML, JQUERY, Backbone, YUI libraries and databases MySQL and Oracle.  • Samples of my work:  ? www.blurb.com  ? www.thecarconnection.com  ? www.highgearmedia.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Computer Associates - Austin, TX February 2014 to August 2014 I was on a break to take care of the family mean while I recently started learning new frameworks and taking Data Science courses through Data Science Dojo.  Computer Associates, Austin, TX Feb '14 - Aug '14  UI Developer  CA has its own cloud platform and services which guides through the process and implementing of cloud solutions.  Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for Service Registry one of the layer in Cloud platform.  • Developed UI for different clients for cloud monitoring services.  Environment: Backbone, EDL, CSS3, Sass, HTML5.0, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha Javascript framework. Sr. Front- End Engineer Blurb - San Francisco, CA June 2011 to December 2013 Blurb creates and publishes bookstore-quality books.  Responsibilities  • Developed several web pages and features for the Blurb website.  • Worked with rails views in the process to plug in book making tools pages (pdf to book and in-design) and book pricing pages.  • Refactored code to convert from prototype to JQuery.  • Implement responsive web design to fit the web pages in iPad and iPhone, etc.  • Implement rspec and cucumber tests for features and pages.  • Worked on customizing and localization of Blurb pages for several other countries and languages, extensively used YML files for localizing data in Rails.  • Experience in cross browser development and SEO best practices  Environment: CSS3, Sass, HTML 5.0, JQuery, ROR, AJAX, Agile development, Git, Netbeans, Haml, rspec, cucumber Front- End Engineer HighGearMedia - Palo Alto, CA February 2008 to May 2011 High Gear Media is a vertical media company, publishing automotive content where you can find reviews and news about different makes and models of cars.  Responsibilities:  • Developed several web pages and features of multiple websites (more than 100 sites) of High Gear Media using Zend / PHP / HTML / CSS / JavaScript (Jquery).  • Developed RSS API for car reviews, blogs, auto shows, etc for syndication partners.  • Performed extensive redesigning & code re factoring migrating to Zend Framework.  • Had experience with wordpress when developing HGM site.  • Developed chrome extension to find dealers and services for a make / model.  • Developed easily customizable rating widget for any selected car.  • Used web developer tools like firebug, fire php for debugging and used PhpUnit and Selenium for unit and sanity testing.  • Experience with Google map API for mapping car dealers and car services.  • Experience in cross browser development and SEO best practices.  Environment: PHP, CSS, XHTML, Jquery, JavaScript, Zend framework, UNIX, APACHE, MYSQL, Netbeans. Web Developer CitiPals - Santa Clara, CA February 2005 to January 2008 CitiPals is a social media company where you can find listings and reviews for your city with concept of Social Networking. You can find reviews, photos about a local business and share information with your friends.  Responsibilities:  • Developed all pages and features of this website.  • Hand coded HTML, Table-less CSS layout, Cross browser / platform compatibility, Valid code, Semantic markup, YUI libraries.  • Backend programming using PHP and database MYSQL.  • Responsible for developing Facebook application.  Environment: LINUX, APACHE, MYSQL, PHP, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, YUI Libraries. Software Engineer Technology Solutions, AIII - Newbury Park, CA March 2000 to October 2003 Harmonics Storage Facility Manager (HSFM)  This is a web-based application called HSFM which integrates and enhances existing stand-alone applications for each component, e.g. the RAID system, Tape Backup software, etc., and creates a single web based management tool.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design of HSFM. Used UML (Visio 2000) for design and Extreme programming (XP) methodology was used.  • Used RMI & JINI network architecture for the construction of distributed systems. Extensively used java in developing event logging, purging logs, scheduling backup jobs, etc.  • Developed software for capturing several SNMP traps from the SNMP agents (BackupExpress application and CMD's raid controllers). Used Netaphor's SNMP library for development of SNMP Manager.  • Used JavaMail and JAF1.0.1 libraries for sending automated email messages when an error or warning message is logged in the event log.  • Developed an applet to monitor the status of Tape and Raid components through HSFM. If there is a change in status then it is fed to a GUI component of the physical view, which in turn displays a different color for each status.  Environment: Java, J2EE 1.2, JSP 1.1, Servlets 2.2, JBuilder, Apache, Tomcat3, JINI, RMI, XML, HTML, DHTML, Applets, Javascript, JUnit, Windows 2000/XP. Software Developer Interphase Corp - Dallas, TX January 1999 to February 2000 Developed test tool applications called FibreView and IoScale. FibreView was a diagnostic tool and IoScale was a performance tool. Developed both standalone and web application version of these. Education B. Tech in Engineering National Institute of Technology Skills HTML, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, XML, XSLT Links http://www.thecarconnection.com http://www.highgearmedia.com http://www.blurb.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming: PHP, Java, JDK, JSPs, Servlets, RMI, JDBC,  • Frameworks: Zend Framework, Struts, Backbone, Bootstrap  • Internet Technologies: Jquery (Java Script), HTML/5.0, CSS3, XML, XSLT,  • Databases: MySQL, Oracle  • Platforms: UNIX, Ubuntu, Windows, Linux  • Tools: Netbeans, JBuilder, Eclipse  • Protocols: HTTP, SNMP, SMTP, TCP/IP, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  • Servers: Apache, Tomcat