Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> FRONT END DEVELOPER Louisville, KY • Over 8 years of experience in developing highly scalable web applications using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, ES6, TypeScript, JQuery, Angular 6,Angular JS, React JS, Redux, Bootstrap, AJAX.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPAs) using Angular JS (Custom directives, Factories, Services, routing, $http, $q, Interceptors, Single Page Applications, MVC, MVVM (data binding), third party modules).   • Worked with TypeScript & Angular services, components, pipes, routing, unit testing.   • Extensive experience with client and server-side JavaScript frameworks such as React JS, Angular JS and building AJAX driven Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Designed dynamic overlays with React JS and Redux on the front end to efficiently manage state, utilized a preprocessor (SASS) to maintain style sheets improving readability and organization, Organized and managed data queries effectively and efficiently by integrating GraphQL.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel, Web pack with es2015, react JSX pre-sets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer PharmaCord - Louisville, KY September 2018 to February 2019 ·       Developed front- end components using Angular6, TypeScript, Angular Material and ngx-bootstrap  ·       Used Identity Framework and customize it to fit the user need, it will include Entity Framework.  ·       Used Ng-Model to create two-way data bindings for reading and writing input-control values.  ·       Created custom, self-contained, reusable, and testable Angular modules, components and services to implement key functionalities.  ·       Implemented services for component communications to achieve dependency injection (DI).  ·       Used the RxJS library to manage concurrency when fetching data through HTTP calls using Observables.  ·       Implemented Angular client-side validation through the forms module and wrote custom validators where necessary.  ·       Wrote unit tests using the Jasmine testing framework and used Karma as the test runner tool. Front End Developer Samsung Electronics America - Kansas City, MO December 2016 to May 2018  Developed front- end components using Angular6, TypeScript, Angular Material and ngx-bootstrap  ·       Used Identity Framework and customize it to fit the user need, it will include Entity Framework.  ·       Used Ng-Model to create two-way data bindings for reading and writing input-control values. Front End Developer Office Depot, Boca Raton, FL - Boca Raton, FL August 2015 to November 2016 ·       Developed front- end components using Angular6, TypeScript, Angular Material and ngx-bootstrap  ·       Used Identity Framework and customize it to fit the user need, it will include Entity Framework.  ·       Used Ng-Model to create two-way data bindings for reading and writing input-control values.  ·       Created custom, self-contained, reusable, and testable Angular modules, components and services to implement key functionalities.  ·       Implemented services for component communications to achieve dependency injection (DI).  ·       Used the RxJS library to manage concurrency when fetching data through HTTP calls using Observables.  ·       Implemented Angular client-side validation through the forms module and wrote custom validators where necessary.  ·       Wrote unit tests using the Jasmine testing framework and used Karma as the test runner tool. Education Masters Information technology Campbellsville University KY Bachelors in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, AP, IN Skills Angular, React, Angularjs, UI, Front End, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, User Interface, Front-End, Jquery