Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Trust Benefits Fremont, CA • Around 5 Years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of various client/server, and web applications.  • Have an extensive experience in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS and JSON.  • Extensive experience developing the pages in Responsive Web Design.  • Extensive experience using CSS3 Media queries  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Experienced in working AGILE methodology. Involved in Sprint planning and Scrums.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Strong experience with jQuery, jQuery plugins, AJAX, DHTML and JSON.  • Experience managing daily communication with offshore development teams. Work Experience Front End Developer Trust Benefits - Alameda, CA February 2013 to Present Trust Benefits specializes in providing services for the Benefit Management Industry. Extensively worked on their Participant portal product which acts as a gateway for Participants, Employers and Administrators.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all applications.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Used AngularJS (ngGrid) for Grid data displays all over the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS and Maven. Front End Developer Pearson - Boston, MA August 2010 to December 2012 Worked on Pearson's Common Core System of courses which is a new, dynamic collection of learning materials and tools for both students and teachers and it is based on a digital, tablet based ELA and Math curriculum.    • Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and • designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Responsible for development of Non-Functional Web pages using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery validations and JSON.  • Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing jQuery library.  • Used jQuery plug-in to implement features as a lightbox sliders and other intuitive features.  • Worked with Firebug to locate the issue through different browsers.  • Used Photoshop for image editing and website design.  • Worked extensively with the backend team to integrate the HTML code into JSPs.  • Developed the custom data grids upon jQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Java, and Maven Front End Developer Global Experience Specialists September 2009 to July 2010 GES is leading provider of exhibition, event and retail marketing services. The project involved integrating the Oracle Applications with the clients Custom Online Ordering System (COO) . The project also involved supporting Oracle Financials as Techno-Functional Developer.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  ? We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  ? Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX Education b.tech in Computer Science jntu - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems: Windows 98, Windows NT/2000  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery,  AJAX, JSON, AngularJS  Development Tools: Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor, Wrangler, Eclipse  Configuration Management: Subversion, Tortoise SVN