UX/UI Designer, Developer, Project Management UX/UI Designer, <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Project Management UX UI Designer, Front End Developer Clifton, NJ UX/UI specialist with many years of experience designing and developing B2B, B2C, sales aids, internal initiatives and  training solutions. Combines industry knowledge with experience to guide projects from inception through completion.  Excels at crafting intuitive solutions with a user first mentality, consistently advocating for user experience. Creates and  maintains consistent branding across all media outlets. Experience managing projects independently as well as a team. Work Experience UX/UI Designer, Developer, Project Management GSK - Belleville, NJ 2001 to Present Consulted on a freelance basis for various companies large and small including ASME, Boehringer Ingelheim, Dish  Network, Ferrero Rocher, GSK, Johnson and Johnson, Marvin Windows & Doors, Novartis, Ortho-McNeil, PSE&G, Sepracor, Shire, Sunovion, Tibotec and many other small or local businesses.  • Successfully launched several web initiatives, sales aids, intranet sites and training applications  • Managed projects with high profile clients and worked in a team environment on others. Lead UX/UI Designer, Front End Developer Allergan - Madison, NJ June 2015 to January 2019 Hired to support company's global internal teams and lead intranet portal initiatives. Spearheaded communications with department heads, team leaders and users to understand the needs of all user types and incorporate successful tools to  improve the global intranet site and increase productivity.  • Successfully lead UX research initiative to identify needed enhancements to the under-utilized intranet portal  • Worked hand in hand with global teams to design, build and launch numerous tools and enhancements  • Increased intranet usage by more than 400% and helped users easily access needed tools and connect globally.    Component Web Services Fairfield, NJ UX/UI Designer, Front End Developer, Project Manager Simpson Thacher law firm March 2012 to May 2015 Worked with clients including Roche, Simpson Thacher law firm, YMCA and others. Conducted user research, planning, sitemaps, prototypes, designs, front end development, content implementation, testing and client training.  • Won award for "Best Non-Profit Website" for YMCA site  • Connected over 1000 Lawyers from multiple contries to users in search of their services. UX/UI Designer, Front End Developer The Children's Place - Secaucus, NJ March 2011 to March 2012 Contracted to aid in the planning, design and front end development of new e-commerce websites and micro sites.  • Utilized user research and analytics from current site to improve customer experience and promote sales  • Sales increased an average of 11% daily after launching new site Lead UX/UI Designer, Front End Developer Eclipse Marketing Solutions - Morristown, NJ September 2009 to March 2011 Contracted to create a modern company website and manage client projects for Comcast, Cox Media, and other cable TV  companies. Networked directly with sales team to storyboard, wireframe, prototype, and design materials for new  business ventures. Worked closely with upper management, sales and design teams to plan, design and develop an online  presence from scratch. Web Designer, Front End Developer, Motion Graphics Hoffman La Roche - Clifton, NJ April 2005 to September 2009 Worked closely with clients to create both interactive and static websites, banner ads, meeting invitations, and promotional pieces. Handled several projects/clients simultaneously. Lead UX/UI Designer, Front End Developer, Project Manager Emerson Radio - Parsippany, NJ May 2003 to April 2005 Spearheaded web presence campaign. In charge of the entire process from research, design, development, product  photography, and project management. Worked closely with department heads and managers in order to collect and organize all information to be conveyed online to the public, investors, and internal partners. Web Designer, Front End Developer Tradewind Net Access - Bloomfield, NJ April 2002 to April 2003 Responsible for client projects for companies including Quest Diagnostics, Synermed Pharmaceutical, PSEG, and Ricoh.  Worked in an extremely fast paced team atmosphere to create projects ranging from online training applications to trade  show advertising displays. Also worked independently on smaller projects such as flash based product launches for Ricoh, Savin and Gestetner. Specialized in design and development of flash animated online training and product information  portals Education Associate Skills Javascript, Php, Ui design, Mvc, Ui, Ux, Sharepoint, Html5, jquery, User testing, Prototyping, Wordpress, Branding Links http://www.three7studio.com