Lead Sales Manager Lead Sales Manager Lead Sales Manager Shawnee, KS Seeking a dream job in sales. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Sales Manager Jiffy Lube - Shawnee, KS February 2018 to Present Selling auto maintenance services including: oil change, battery replacement, engine flush, transmission fluid exchange, differential fluid exchange, fuel system cleaning, radiator coolant fluid exchange, transfer case fluid exchange, serpentine belt replacement, engine air filter replacement, cabin air filter replacement, fuel filter replacement, and tire rotations. Management of employees: lower bay technician, upper bay technician, customer service specialist, and courtesy specialist. Outbound Associate Amazon.com - Kansas City, KS October 2017 to October 2018 Taking items from conveyor and placing them into chutes for orders. Front- end Website Developer Mediware.com June 2015 to June 2017 Saved company $60,000 in 1st quarter of employment; spearheaded a Joomla to WordPress migration with redesign, and extreme customization of WordPress framework all simultaneously before going live with Mediware.com. Recruiting, hiring and managing contractors. Marketo email development (Lead Development Outbound/Inbound Auto Responders, Web Form Auto Responders, Webinar Emails, Newsletter Emails, White Paper Emails, and Blog Emails). Smart engagement campaign management (Marketo to Salesforce Syncing). Teaching co-workers how to use WordPress, Marketo, Salesforce, Google Analytics, code HTML, implement SEO, and create/edit emails. Developing and implementing website A/B, Split URL, and Multivariate testing (VWO.com testing platform). Migrated company intranet from Joomla to WordPress and implemented new look and feel. Auditing the Qlik Sense developers' newly created marketing dashboard to ensure all reporting is accurate. Chief Technology Officer ContourMD.com - Lenexa, KS January 2012 to June 2015 Grew online reach with eCommerce consulting (B2C, B2B); conversion rate optimization, affiliate program, reseller program, email marketing, unique content, link building, Amazon eBay and Google shopping feed management. Establishing and managing drop ship/wholesale accounts. Negotiated pricing, bulk imported new products to website. Managed copy writer, projects and contractors. SEO Specialist/ Front- end Website Developer Gragg Advertising - Kansas City, MO December 2009 to April 2011 SEO, and front- end web development that met lead goals for over 20 clients. SEO Specialist/ Front- end Website Developer Virtual Inventories, Inc February 2008 to October 2008 Orchestrated and developed on-page and off-page SEO for a collection of ecommerce sites. Managed three employees. Established product inventory for WorldofBags.com, increasing sales 300% in the 3rd quarter. Opened 134+ vendor accounts within the first three months of employment. Managed Offbeatearth.com, a popular comedy blog. SEO Specialist/ Front- end Website Developer Intern HP Infosystems Consulting Group - Overland Park, KS June 2007 to January 2008 Responsible for web page technical writing and light front end development work utilizing Flash, HTML, and CSS. Provided organic SEO research and created a four-fold increase in usage for client websites. Education Associate of Arts in Business Administration in Business Administration Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS 2008 Skills Data Entry, Sales, Cold Calling, MS Office, Salesforce