Teaching Assistant Teaching Assistant Eight year US Army combat Veteran who is passionate about coding and technology. Austin, TX Eight year US Army combat Veteran who is passionate about coding and technology. Check out some of my work at www.johngarrett.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teaching Assistant University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present • Helped instruct students in various web technologies including JavaScript, React, CSS, Express, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Provided leadership and necessary tools to help students develop skill sets. Front End Developer Self Own Business - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present •Built scalable API’s using React and GraphQL to fetch records; secured API”S through authorization.    •Improved database design to reduce query processing time; integrated MongoDB and React to save database migration efforts. Purchasing Analyst Leif Johnson Ford - Austin, TX January 2016 to February 2019 • Purchased inventory for the used car department.  • Researched market data to determine purchase pricing.  • Utilized software algorithms to determine how well a vehicle will sell. Infantry Team Leader US Army June 2006 to October 2014 • Deployed to Iraq September 2008 - September 2009.  • Deployed to Afghanistan September 2011- August 2012.  • Led 5 man team on over 300 combat patrols in Afghanistan.  • Provided Leadership and mentoring to subordinates.  • Provided team with necessary tools to develop Skill Sets. Education Full Stack Coding Bootcamp University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX February 2019 to June 2019 High school or equivalent Skills Javascript (2 years), React (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), JQuery (2 years), SQL (2 years), Web Development (2 years), Ajax (1 year), CSS (2 years), Node.js (2 years), React (2 years), BootStrap (2 years), HTML (2 years), Front End, HTML5, Wordpress, MongoDB, Express.JS, SASS, MySQL, NoSQL, User Interface Design, Application Development, Website Design Links http://www.johngarrett.dev https://www.github.com/jhgarrett Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E5 June 2006 to October 2014 Commendations: • Army Commendation Medal (2)  • Army Good Conduct Medal (2)  • Meritorious Unit Commendation  • Afghanistan Campaign Medal  • Iraq Campaign Medal  • Global War on Terrorism Medal  • International Security Assistance Force Medal  • Combat Infantryman Badge  • Army Service Ribbon Publications Music Tree http://www.music-tree.app 2019-05 Music-Tree is a Full Stack project(MERN) that allows users to search for music videos and easily save them to their profile. Music-Tree uses the Youtube API to allow users to search for music related videos. It will not work with all videos on Youtube. It will allow them to browse the videos based on their search and play them in the browser while being ad free. Popcorn Night https://foreel.herokuapp.com/ 2019-05 A full stack site the uses Node, Express, SASS, React.JS and Passport.JS. User inputs two movies and the application will give them recommended movies based on the input. LIRIBot https://github.com/JHGarrett/LIRIbot 2019-04 LIRI is like iPhone's SIRI. However, while SIRI is a Speech Interpretation and Recognition Interface, LIRI is a Language Interpretation and Recognition Interface. LIRI will be a command line node app that takes in parameters and gives you back data. Live Merch https://jhgarrett.github.io/project_one/ 2019-03 Live Merch lets a user see what bands or events are happening and allows them to purchase merchandise for the event. This app utilizes the Bandsintown API and Ebay’s API. Google Books Search https://jhgarrett.github.io/google-books/ 2019-06 This app allows you to search the Google Books API and view information on a book. If you want you can save the book to the Saved page to view later. This app utilizes Node.JS, Express.JS and React. The front- end React app will auto-reload as it's updated via webpack dev server, and the backend Express app will auto-reload independently with nodemon. Additional Information My motto as a developer is if I am the smartest person in the room, I am in the wrong room. I love learning, and want to become the best developer I can be. I am a maker, I enjoy creating in my career and after hours. I believe in shipping quality code and working in flow.