Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Mountain View, CA ? Junior Front- End developer for more than three years of experience in mainstream Front- End field, including HTML5, SASS, JavaScript, APIs, React.js  ? More than three years in JavaScript development, code refactoring, design patterns, and DOM manipulation  ? Fast-paced development in Single Page Application (SPA) development by using React.js framework, Redux, React-router  ? Experienced in JavaScript unit test in Ava, Jest, Expect, enzyme, mocha framework and stick to TDD whenever can  ? Skillful in using Photoshop, Illustrator, UI prototyping and development of UI components using vanilla CSS and vanilla JavaScript and animations using SVG  ? Extensive experience in using version control tool git  ? Solid understanding in fundamental JavaScript, functional programming and asynchronous programming   ? Solid algorithm thinking and always put code efficiency and elegancy on top  ? Eager to learn and being able to keep up with fast-paced developing environment Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front- End Developer Silicon Spectra, Inc. - Santa Clara, CA May 2016 to October 2016 Projects involving designing ticket system using HTML, CSS, React.js (Flavored by ES6), Express.js, Redux, and RESTful API to set up a message receiving bot to mass process customer tickets.  ? Used HTML5, SASS, Express.js, React.js to create Single Page Application (SPA)  ? Used Redux-Form controls and Front- End validation to improve user input  ? Implemented Routing framework for SPA redirection by using React-Router  ? Used JavaScript design patterns and inline CSS to build internal UI library by writing maintainable and reusable components  ? Used CSS3 animation to create vanilla CSS animations for web performance improvement  ? Used Normalize.css and Modernizr.js for cross-browser compatibility  ? Translated Photoshop design from designer to build Front- End UI components  ? Used Ajax to interact with RESTful API calls for content data transfer  ? Used Test Driven Development (TDD) and completed JavaScript unit test by using Jest and Enzyme  ? Worked in a team using AGILE methodology  Keywords: React, Redux, Node, Express, RESTful, API, TDD, Ava, BA, HTML, CSS, ES6 JavaScript, Git, Slack, bot, AGILE Front- End Developer BASF - Shanghai June 2013 to July 2014 The project involves implementing a web-based inner application to help scientists store time-sensitive data while retrieving data out with ease.  ? Development of code using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript to create main layout  ? Received business logic specifications and design documents, and improved code base accordingly by using HTML, CSS, Javascript codes  ? Used Test Driven Development (TDD) and unit test with jasmine and mocha before sending to QA for integration test  ? Used Git to manage code with other developer members  ? Used Gulp automation tool to conduct automation tasks involving SASS compiling, JavaScript code minify, unit test and linting configuration  ? Debugged projects by using browsers' built-in developer tools  ? Involved in the software development life cycle phases using AGILE  Keywords: JSON, HTML, SASS/SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Git, cross-browser Front- End Developer Bosch - Suzhou December 2012 to May 2013 Project involves reconstructing parts of the old website with newer technologies to provide a more intuitive interface and smoother web performance. Responsibilities includes:  ? Participated in improving the functionality and layout of the new menu bar, carousels, footer section using HTML, CSS and JavaScript for better product accessibility  ? Worked closely with designers for prototyping  ? Introduced Bootstrap grid system and CSS3 media queries to create responsive web page  ? Resolved cross-browser compatibility issues for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari using Normalize.css  ? Optimized static assets by using build tool of gulp to minify JavaScript code, compile SASS code and compress image files for development stage  ? Used Ajax to retrieve product data from Back- End server  Keywords: Design, Layout, UI, BA, AGILE, HTML, SASS/SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Responsive webpage, Ajax, cross-¬¬browser Skills HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (3 years), React (1 year), Webpack (1 year), Photoshop (3 years), Git (3 years), C++ (1 year), Swift (1 year), Node.js (1 year), Python (2 years), Gulp (1 year), Redux (1 year), RESTful API (1 year) Links https://victor.netlify.com Additional Information Legal to work in states for three years now, may need sponsorship for working visa after that.