Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Clutch Analytics Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Clutch Analytics June 2016 to Present Responsible for developing and maintaining RESTful APIs utilizing Swagger open source tools and Node.js.  ? Assisted in the creation of dynamic user interfaces using both React and Angular front end frameworks.  ? Maintained NoSQL databases for quick data retrieval using MongoDB within a Mongoose ODM solution.  ? Worked within a Scrum development environment utilizing Agile methodology with defined durations and roles.  ? Used PostgreSQL to develop relational tables for customer facing applications, fine tuning performance and security. Front End Developer Invodo October 2015 to June 2016 Built and developed company website utilizing Angular and Bootstrap with an eye for responsive web design.  ? Maintained multiple custom WordPress pages, assisting with improvement of themes and research of plugins.  ? Created highly-visible web-based products for clients using JSON data on a RESTful web service that fed into a WebGL framework. Multimedia Producer Texas Department of Public Safety - Austin, TX March 2010 to June 2015 Produced and directed original videos pertaining to training, academy recruiting, DPS history, officer safety, driver safety and Equal Employment Opportunity issues utilizing an editing software to edit original content.  ? Led production teams across the state in developing and laying out story and content ideas for impactful PSAs.  ? Created video on distracted driving that is required viewing in all beginner driver's education courses statewide. Program Specialist Texas Commission on Law Enforcement January 2002 to February 2010 Maintained a database of online training website user data using SQL Server Enterprise Manager.  ? Assisted with beta testing new course curriculum to be posted on the online training website that was accessed by over 30,000 law enforcement officers across the state. Education Bachelor of Science in Radio-Television-Film in Radio-Television-Film University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1997 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Meteor, CSS, HTML 5, MySQL, jQuery Links http://linkedin.com/in/greggmooreatx http://github.com/greggytah Additional Information Technical Skills    Strong: JavaScript, React, Angular, PostgreSQL, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, APIs, Git, Swagger, Node, MongoDB  Experienced: Meteor, Grunt, Backbone, D3, Sass, TDD(Jasmine, Mocha), Knex, Express, Bitbucket, YAML