Associate, Digital Marketing Associate, Digital Marketing Associate, Digital Marketing - NEW YORK LIFE New York, NY Work Experience Associate, Digital Marketing NEW YORK LIFE January 2018 to Present TPD 2018 MVP, Applause points awarded for Direct Annuity, Agency Ad Placement System Projects    Front End Web Developer  Associate, Digital Marketing - January 2018 to Present Contractor Digital Marketing April 2017 to January 2018 * Introduced Mobile First and responsive design concepts to marketers to enhance mobile experience.  * Increased organic SEO by creating / refactoring web pages with semantic HTML  * Manage release process for all projects  * Provide guidance and present enhancements in user experience  * Reduced number of incomplete or invalid ad placement forms by redesigning input form on own initiative. Content Management Specialist PLANNED PARENTHOOD September 2016 to November 2016 * Participated in project ensuring PPFA's candidate recommendations were available pre-election on newly redesigned website run under new content management system  * Converted content from the many individual PPFA websites to conform to new redesign. Front End Developer JPMORGANCHASE December 2013 to May 2014 * Worked in user experience group to create user interface to meet visual designs and wireframes for proprietary credit-risk management single page web app.  * Performed audit to ensure that new app met visual design and business user story requirements. Front End Web Developer MEDIABRIX May 2013 to August 2013 * Enhanced in-game advertising front- end codebase to provide smooth interaction of behaviorally-based advertising for major players in the phone game industry.  * Prototyped a new ad server platform in MVC platform. Prototyper / Developer TD AMERITRADE December 2012 to February 2013 * Acted as primary prototyper translating wireframes and visual comps to provide proof-of-concept for the UX team.  * Participated in documenting customer journey and user flows. Front End Developer REDCATS USA October 2010 to December 2012 * Increased checkout completion rates by redesigning the shopping cart and checkout page flows for six e-commerce sites.  * Increased organic SEO through codebase evaluation, training and implementation of best practices.  * Reduced page-load rate by re-factoring the front- end codebase.  * Promoted responsive web design as the company's mobile strategy. Front End Web Developer BUDGET TRAVEL March 2010 to September 2010 * Developed CSS for magazine redesign as it split from the Washington Post.  * Created Python templates to incorporate my HTML and CSS code. Front End Web Developer ZIFF DAVIS MEDIA July 2007 to December 2009 * Managed the front- end development of two re-designs of PCMag.com and ExtremeTech.com  * Reduced page-load by refactoring CSS codebase. Front End Web Developer MIVA February 2006 to June 2007 * Managed project to convert websites and landing pages from Yahoo's specifications to Google's.  * Created landing pages from designer specs. Education Web Design Certificate FORDHAM UNIVERSITY March 2005 Skills INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE, WORDPRESS, INTERACTION DESIGN, ARCHITECTURE, VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, SEO, Photoshop, CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lauracecil Certifications/Licenses Driver's License