Front- end Web Developer (freelancer) <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> (freelancer) Front- End Web Developer Clairton, PA I am a Front- end Web Developer living in the Pittsburgh area with more than 6 years of experience in the media industry. Self-motivated with strong passion for design. Areas of expertise include WordPress driven website, HTML5, CSS3 and custom theme development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Web Developer (freelancer) Codesky Media May 2017 to 2019 Company Industry: Computer / Information Technology (Software)  Location Unit 1F Malt House, Grantham, LINCS, NG317BG  Country United Kingdom  Department: Web Development  Job Description:    • CMS web builds using Wordpress.  • E-commerce design builds using Woocommerce, Shopipy and Magento.  • Build landing pages based on the designs.  • Take a third-party wordpress site, restyle it to meet current brand guidelines, and merge the databases. Front- end Web Developer (freelancer) Achievementor Group, LLC - Chicago, IL May 2015 to 2017 60607  Country USA  Department: Web Development  Job Description:    • Develop WordPress themes from PSDs  • Develop all interactive features, responsive development etc.  • Populate content in to CMS and/or templates. Code pages in accordance of effective SEO practices.  • Write clean semantic code Front- End Web Developer (freelancer) Virtual Assistant Talent - Fremont, CA April 2014 to February 2015 94538  Country USA  Department: Web Development (Freelance)  Job Description:    • To design and develop the corporate website ensuring strong functionality and optimization  • To design and develop relational database systems and their web interfaces.  • Responsible for integrating the SQL Server database with the company website.  • Responsible for the design of company web pages, including graphics, animation and functionality.  • To develop web page infrastructure and application related to pages with more advanced graphics and features.  • To assist the Company Director in the planning of overall company strategy regarding web development and search engine optimization.  • To monitor web server and site technical performance. ICT Personel - Computer Technician St. Paul University Dumaguete June 2004 to March 2014 • Resolving network and connectivity issues.  • Computer Hardware and Software Troubleshooting  • Handle repairs and exchanges of defective devices  • Perform routine network maintenance  • Repairing motherboards and upgrading firmware.  • Installing software applications and CRM programs.  • Handling security updates.  • Providing technical support.  • Managing workstations.  • Coaching end-users. Education Master's in Information Technology St. Paul University Philippines - Tuguegarao City January 2005 to October 2007 Bachelor's in Information Technology St. Paul University Dumaguete - Philippines - Dumaguete June 2000 to March 2004 Skills Front End, CSS3, HTML5, Javascript, Jquery, MySQL, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Clickfunnels, Shopify, Desktop Support, Desktop Publishing, Networking Links https://www.dropbox.com/s/5abb3jy2zk5wycu/Beaumont_Jo_Portfolio.docx?dl=0 Certifications/Licenses TESDA Computer Hardware Servicing NCII March 2013 to Present Computer Hardware Servicing NC II is a short TESDA course in the Philippines that will train you in diagnosing and troubleshooting software and hardware problems in personal computer systems.