Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Experis Inc Chicago, IL ? Over 13 years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of web based applications using Object Oriented Programming.  ? A hands on in-depth programming skills in software development with expertise in Java and JEE technologies using Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  ? Hands-on experience with Unix shell scripting using bash and Ruby.  ? Developed, maintained and deployed web applications using PHP, ASP.NET and C#.  ? Developed and maintained site using React JS components and Angular JS.  ? Developed and maintained a Drupal Site using PHP which is integrated with Google apps such as Drive, Mail and Hangouts.  ? Developed content management system using Ruby on Rails integrated with Hydra Framework.  ? Experienced on working with several databases such as MySQL, Oracle 10G, and MS-Access. Performed various database operations using stored procedures and PL/SQL.  ? Experienced working on SOAP web services using JAX-WS. Also, implemented REST web services.  ? Performed XML processing using XSLT, XSD and XPATH. Work Experience Java Developer Experis Inc February 2019 to Present Implementing a Single Page Application (SPA) using Java microservices for internal user System Migration tools. The app was deployed to an AWS EC2 instance running Tomcat and MySQL,  ? Working on Drools Rules engine to develop Rules based engine for a banking application.  ? Wrote various types of Business rules in the .drl (drools file) Templates using Drools Rule Engine.  ? Developed these rules files to filter users based on the legal age, verify their account information and to provide the user with appropriate account information based on their query. Front- end Developer Experis Inc October 2018 to January 2019 Worked on migrating the existing travel site from AngularJS to ReactJS.  ? Identified different modules for ReactJS migration while maintaining the current site. Created separate React components for different modules.  ? Worked with the design team to update all UX pages as per the new responsive design and for different device sizes.  ? Developed unit tests for the React application using Jest. Collegis - Front- end Developer Experis Inc April 2018 to July 2018 Performed SortSite scans on the entire site to identify different accessibility issues.  ? Fixed the WCAG 2.0 Level A and Level AA Issues by modifying HTML and JavaScript within content and code files.  ? Fixed accessibility issues in code files which were developed using React UI components.  ? Identified Matterhorn 1.02 Level PDF accessibility issues and fixed pdf files using Adobe Acrobat Pro DC tool. Front- end/Moodle Developer Experis Inc September 2017 to February 2018 Implemented single sign-on for the portal and Moodle site.  ? Responsible for maintaining the front- end application of the portal site which is developed using Angular JS.  ? Enabled the portal site for providing accessibility. Also, upgraded the portal site for a rich UX using Angular JS.  ? Customizing and configuring the portal site to integrate with the Moodle site. UMN - Drupal/PHP Developer Experis Inc March 2016 to December 2017 Designed and developed a portal site using Drupal commons distribution deployed on Acquia. This site was developed in PHP and used MySQL as database.  ? Configured the portal site to allow the user to view all the content based on roles.  ? Implemented Shibboleth Integration with the portal site.  ? Customized and integrated portal site with google apps such as drive and hangouts to display the information on portal home page. Also, integrated the Moodle app to pull enrolled courses into the portal site.  ? Responsible for designing, developing customized drupal modules and maintaining the drupal site updates.  ? Implemented some new features on the portal site using PHP.  ? Created new repositories and responsible for pushing build to staging and production environment.  ? Supported client team to configure and maintain site content. PHP and .Net Developer Experis Inc August 2015 to February 2016 Setup LAMP stack to deploy multiple PHP sites.  ? Developed and maintained multiple PHP websites for different clients.  ? Designed, developed and maintained some new PHP sites.  ? Transitioned web application developed in PHP into an ASP.NET MVC application.  ? Developed and maintained various MVC applications using C# and deployed them on IIS server.  ? Created new repositories and maintained existing repositories within GIT. Java Developer Experis Inc February 2015 to August 2015 Developed a web application which allows the user to create new services and update existing services.  ? Application was developed using Spring MVC Framework & Hibernate.  ? Application also provided an admin interface which allowed admin to view and publish the completed services.  ? Responsible for designing, configuring, developing and deploying this web application. Java Developer Experis Inc December 2014 to February 2015 Designed and developed a screening web application to dynamically screen candidates using Java, JEE and MySQL.  ? Provided web interface for the recruiters and managers to manage scheduling screening for the candidates and generate reports. Java & Ruby on Rails Developer Experis Inc - Santa Barbara, CA October 2013 to December 2014 Assisted to design, configure and develop the technological infrastructure for the university's digital library initiatives and services. Implemented Hydra framework, which is open source project software that lets institutions deploy robust digital repositories.  ? Configured and deployed principal platforms for Hydra framework such as Fedora Commons repository software, Solr and Blacklight.  ? Developed a content management system for maintaining the digital library which utilizes fedora commons repository for storing various digital dissertations and objects.  ? Developed front end for the application using Ruby on Rails which helps in easy integration with the various gems used within the hydra framework.  ? Provided web interface for bulk ingestion of dissertations and different objects. Also provided an interface to display, edit and delete the ingested objects.  ? Configured Blacklight to provide a basic user interface for searching a Solr index. This allowed the application to provide different information displays for different objects.  ? Improvised the search functionality to enable facet search, sorting of objects and also enabled more advanced search options.  ? Integrated, tested and deployed the application within a stringent time frame to the production server. NexisCard - Java Developer Experis Inc September 2013 to October 2013 Successfully designed and developed a product which enables customers to register on a website, access various services and send emails through the help center. This product was integrated with various amazon web services to perform various functions within a stringent timeframe.  ? Developed web services tool using JAX-WS to integrate with Amazon S3 to upload and view files.  ? Configured and developed the product to use Amazon SES to send email notifications for services such as user registration and help center. The user information was processed in JSON format.  ? Assisted in development of the website to enable integration with Amazon EC2 server. Java Developer Experis Inc January 2013 to August 2013 Implemented google custom search engine using Google Custom Search API.  ? Assisted Development Solutions Practice group for technical screening. Menards - Java Developer Experis Inc October 2012 to December 2012 Performed PCI scan over the product code to identify OWASP top ten issues.  ? Analyzed PCI issues and generated reports. Software Engineer Nelnet Business Solutions - Lincolnshire, IL June 2008 to September 2012 Performed analysis, design and development of a product which enables students to make secure online payments via credit/debit card or ACH and generates ebills. Developed different product modules using Java, JEE, Spring, Struts, Hibernate and Oracle 10G.  ? Performed extensive XML processing using XSLT transformations, XSD and XPATH.  ? Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit for the development of new product features such as payment plans, refunds management and commerce manager.  ? Used scrum methodology to deliver each product feature and enhancement within specified time constraint for each sprint.  ? Managed the secure transaction flow in a PCI compliant environment. The application processed nearly 8 million ACH and credit/debit card transactions.  ? Enhanced the product to support OWASP top 10 standards and real time payment notification.  ? Configured and deployed the product in more than 180 universities.  ? Used Log4j logging framework for logging message at various levels.  ? Build the application using Ant and Maven.  ? Integrated the product with applications such as facebook, twitter and jscape interfaces.  ? Provided technical support to various clients in stringent time frame.  ? Actively used agile methodology which involved pair programming from time to time. Graduate Assistant DePaul University August 2007 to August 2008 Worked as a tutor for Java, JEE and Ruby on Rails.  ? Assisted students in explaining and debugging issues related with Java, JEE and Ruby on Rails. Software Engineer Xoriant Solutions Private Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2005 to December 2006 Developed an application which behaved as an interface between the mobile subscribers and the content providers. This application provided messaging service and traffic handling solutions to the mobile network and virtual network operators.  ? Specialized in writing UNIX shell scripts, Java Script and XML test cases for automation of testing tools.  ? Automated the build & patch release process to enhance and fasten deployments on production environment.  ? Developed scripts to analyze large chunks of data from the load test.  ? Collaborated as a quality assurance & release engineer to perform functional testing, load testing and performance testing. Developed tools to draft a benchmark to check system performance.  ? Solely responsible for developing and upgrading the product to a higher version of JBoss in a clustering environment.  ? Performed technical support under constraint time.  ? Acquired and managed new testing assignments for the organization. This involved direct communication and implementation at the client sites. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science DePaul University - Chicago, IL November 2008 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2004 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jrun, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++ Links https://github.com/sheetalc23/ Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Java, JEE, PHP 5.0, Ruby on Rails, shell scripting, C#, C, C++, Visual Basic 6.0  Web Technologies: Spring 4.1, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 4.3, EJB, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JDBC, JAXB, ASP.NET  Front End: Angular JS, React JS, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  XML: XSLT, XSD, XSL, XPATH, DOM, SAX, StAX, XML Pull, Relax-NG, DTD  Web Services: SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, REST, JSON  Cloud Computing  Services: Amazon EC2 (virtual servers), AWS Elastic Beanstalk (application deployments), Amazon S3 (storage), Amazon SES (bulk email)  Web Server: Apache Tomcat 9.x, JBoss, JRun, Resin, Jetty, Nginx, Apache httpd server, IIS Server x  Rules Engine: Drools rule engine for business decision making;  Databases: MySQL, Oracle 10G, PL/SQL, SQL Server, SQL Loader, MS-Access  Development Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, Netbeans, MS Visual Studio 2013, PhpStorm  Systems: Windows, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, UNIX  Testing Tools: JUnit, JMock, PHPUnit, Jest  Version Control System: GIT, Mercurial, CVS, PVCS  Code Scanning Tools: IBM Appscan  Tools: Ant, Maven, Log4j