Founder Founder Founder - Work of Merit Austin, TX I'm an experienced Full Stack Developer, living and working in Austin, Texas. Over the years, I have built and maintained web projects for Design, Marketing, and Advertising agencies in Austin, including my own, and have won a few awards in doing so.    I characterize myself as being a hands-on, results-driven leader in my field, with emphasis on precision and new-but-stable open web technologies. I have extensive experience with website development, eCommerce, complete SEO, marketing automation tools, and website performance optimization.    Some of the brands I have had the privilege to serve include 3M, Shell, Honeywell, Subway, San Antonio Tourism, Travel Texas, St. David’s Foundation, and Downtown Austin Alliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Founder Work of Merit April 2019 to Present Work of Merit is a sole proprietorship I started in April 2019 to put more focus on the quality of fewer offerings. Work of Merit primarily provides technical services to creative and marketing industries. Using WordPress as the primary web content platform, I build award-winning websites that engage, marketing websites that convert and web solutions that connect. Director, Technology Seventh Scout April 2017 to April 2019 As Co-founder of a Digital Marketing agency my responsibilities ranged from defining business processes, proposal writing, developing partnerships, and managing operations to making personnel decisions, refine workflow processes, mentoring interns, and building award-winning website experiences. Lead Front- End Developer Endurance International Group July 2016 to July 2017 Primarily worked on the Marketing Kanban board with the overarching goal to move decades-old brands to a unified CMS platform while actively managing and delivering on the day-to-day objectives. Responsibilities included creating and moving Stories, code reviews, visual reviews, coordinating and performing code launches. My immediate team consisted of 8 Engineers who I communicated with daily, helped to navigate technical issues, and led to deliver in excellence. Lead Front- End Engineer Software Advice October 2015 to July 2016 A very hands-on lead role that involved helping other engineers with front- end coding issues, supporting the online needs of other departments, and contributing to the design and prototype phase of each project. Other aspects of the job included exploring new technologies for web-based software and substantiating change for new implementations. Sr. Front- End Developer Proof Advertising February 2012 to October 2015 Proof offered me creative and technical freedom with a proportionate amount of accountability. Responsibilities included scoping, developing, and maintaining client projects. This included working with Creatives to optimize web UIs and push for the best UX in every project, managing email marketing software, coordinating efforts with Senior Management, and communicating directly with our 3rd-party vendors.    EXPERIENCE (Continued) Freelance Web Consultant / Developer Freelance/Self employed November 2009 to February 2012 Working with a network of designers and developers, I focused on delivering only high-quality projects to meet and exceed client expectations. The production aspect of my work included building highly-customized Wordpress websites, brochure sites, database-driven product catalogs, eCommerce implementations, and SEO consulting. The management aspect included leading discovery meetings, coordinating website design, and outsourcing creative services. Web Developer Behavioral Science Technology July 2007 to November 2009 Played a pivotal role in BST's Marketing department to successfully design, launch, and maintain several multi-language websites to represent BST's global presence. This included constructing wireframes, fully designed comps, modular web templates, Flash apps, online payment integration, pulling reports and collaborating with team members around the world. Presentation Layer Developer Avenue A Razorfish October 2006 to March 2007 Responsibilities included making decisions about the technologies used on projects, connecting to databases from the front- end, prepping graphics and multimedia development. During this time I had the opportunity to produce very high-level, engaging web products for popular commercial brands.  Worked with: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Dreamweaver, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator.    PORTFOLIO  A curated sampling of my work can be found here: https://workofmerit.com/ Education B.F.A. in Photography/Digital Media University of Houston Skills Front End, JavaScript, UI, WordPress, PHP, UX, CSS3, Ecommerce, Marketing, Email Marketing, Project Management, HTML5, Jquery, Front-End Links https://workofmerit.com/ Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xnok70sgasmkyzfx Attention to Detail — Expert July 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rhaq7pskjovdnmtv Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fh8r8s-2tywlnxw Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rvwk0n1hnzqt4vuf Written Spanish for English Speakers — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xga8-3f8kiogknn8 Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/58pvm10cj1a4eg-9 Market Research — Expert July 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a3xusqtoieetjkws Marketing — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand your target audience and how to best communicate with them. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/heikoaptmhwhvh3t Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.