Senior C#/.Net Developer Senior C#/.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior C#/.Net Developer - Verizon Edison, NJ • 10+ years of total experience in the IT as software developer and analyst in developing and designing Web applications using web-technologies such as ASP.NET with C# and VB • Good experience in developing and designing Windows application using technologies such as C#.NET and VB.NET • Good experience in developing, maintenance and enhancements of VB6, ASP applications and migrating the application to windows applications in C#.NET and VB.NET and to ASP.NET Web application • Experience of front- end HTML/HTML5, JavaScript (including jQuery) and CSS and Designed and implemented the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax • Experience in development of applications for Web and Windows Forms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior C#/.Net Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX March 2018 to Present CoFEE Anywhere: Retail CoFEE application provides a web based environment for Consumer Call Center representatives to take orders. CoFEE Anywhere is a high-performance; Web based ordering System used for installing, changing, moving, or disconnecting telephone, Data (Internet), Broadband and Video service of retail Consumers and Business customers. The application's main goal is to provide a single interface for the call center representatives to quickly and efficiently handle all types of customer requests to provide best experience to customers for their services.    Roles & Responsibilities: • Responsible for providing functional, technical and test specifications & requirement traceability matrix (RTM) • Design & development of Web application using ASP.Net, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Developer Tool, C#.Net, WCF, XML, technologies • Development of UI and server side code (behind) using .Net Framework 3.5 • Developed, Configured and consumed Web Services in C#.Net using WCF • Responsible for creating and implementing user workflows and use cases • Monitoring different fallout status, retraction offer status, and internal services status.  • Use Generics extensively in C# and ASP.NET Menu Controls • Extensively used ADO.NET to build query-driven applications • Designed and coded Win Forms using C#.NET.  • Designed and developed databases which includes the development of functions, Stored procedures and Triggers using SQL Server • Involved in code reviews, standard performance and functional reviews • Responsible for end to end delivery of assigned Work Request for each iteration of the project • Responsible for process improvements and providing tools for task automation to generate reports    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, ADO.NET, Win Forms, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, C#.Net, WCF, XML, SQL SERVER, Visual Studio 2010, Sr. .Net Developer Adaptik Corporation - Bethlehem, PA October 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Understanding and reviewing the existing applications and involved with the Business team and implemented the tasks as per the Priority of Business Requirement.  • Used SCRUM methodology for iterative task completion by having Daily Stand-ups.  • Created UI layers, Webpages and integrated to maintain the performance of Data flow and Data Integrity using Asp.Net, Widget Grids and other User Controls.  • Designed and developed web forms with ASP.NET, JavaScript, Silverlight, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, and Firebug.  • Developed service contract, operation contract & data contract classes to support communication between Agents to Insure.NET using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) through WCF web services through C#.NET.  • Used Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Worked with WPF 4.0 for creating user rich interfaces for windows applications • Worked with Model View Controller (MVC) pattern to design layers.  • Created snapshots by using WPF(Windows Presentation Foundation) for requirement phase and used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), HTML to attain uniformity of all web pages.  • Used JQuery for client side validation, navigation and for firing server side events.  • Developed the application as Model View Presenter thus achieving separation of business logic and User Interface.  • Developing XML Web Services in C# and SOAP for information exchange across applications.  • Worked with Asp.net Master Pages that are common throughout the application and content pages.  • Involved in writing the Unit Tests for C# code of business logic in Presentation Layer using Moq-Framework.  • Used BasicHttpBinding and WSHttpBinding to interact with other WCF services • Used LINQ to SQL for querying data from the database and for inserting and updating templates and cases into the database.  • Understanding the client requirement and developing application using WPF and Prism Framework • Developed SQL stored procedures for data manipulation and querying data from SQL.  • Maintained build versions and code versions using Team foundation Server's Version Control (TFS).  • Monitor different fallout status, retraction offer status, and internal services status    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, Silverlight, ASP.NET, AJAX Toolkit, Scrum, SSRS, Windows Communication Foundation(WCF),WPF, PRISM, Oracle 11g, LINQ, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, C#, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, LINQ to SQL, TFS, Enterprise Library 5.0. Senior C#/.Net Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY August 2014 to October 2016 Description:  CitiDirect® Online Banking, Citibank's Web-Based Corporate Banking Platform, offers browser-based, around - the - clock access to and control of trade transactions from anywhere in the world. CitiDirect is currently getting transformed to SOA application. The new application adopting the latest technologies (SOA architecture style and SOMA practice) and products to remove scalability and capacity limitations in the existing platform to meet the growth demands, and also to free up our resources from maintaining home grown infrastructure services to focus more on delivering technical solutions to meet business needs. It is centralizing common components to encourage applications to share common components such as security, entitlement, activation, data definitions, UI presentation, business services technology platforms, etc and enabling better integration across various applications. There are external as well as internal web services deployed from this new platform.    Roles & Responsibilities: • Involved in the designing the architecture of the application modules and responsible for any changes adopted and the project uses application Design Patterns (observer pattern).  • Set up the development environment using Visual Studio.NET 2010, Windows XP, SQL client (2008) and Visual Studio Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Implemented Validation Controls in ASP.Net.  • Developed in C#.NET.  • Created and used the Tuple Objects & Extension Methods by using the new features of .Net Frame Work 4.0.  • Building an application with MVVM.  • Created and Deployed Web Services on Bank Applications with classes for accessing the database with required security authentication of the bank system.  • Designed and developed a WPF application to be used as a reference library for all HP branded ? Control styles designed by frog design.  • Created WebPages for various work streams using C#.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX, JSON with JQuery, Telerik RAD Controls and business logic layer which connects to the other services using C#.Net.  • Developing who work with visual designers, using MVVM makes it much easier to create a smooth designer/ developer workflow.  • Good experience on JAWS (Screen Reading Software) software Tool.  • Developed Silverlight Navigation Application and Silverlight Toolkits Including Drag Drop listbox.  • Created the generic controls, user control and components as Web Controls.  • Created WCF based web service for communication between applications which are published for the various business units.  • Consumed Web Services using WCF and displaying data on the UI and used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Maintain the check in and check out the codes to the different branch of the code base in TFS.  • Developed the Stored Procedures, SQL Scripts, and Views for MS SQL Server 2008.  • Created packages, Stored Procedures, Triggers necessary for Java Web Services to load the transaction data for payments and libraries modules.  • Integrated the various modules and deployed the project in the testing environment.  • Involved in testing, debugging and documentation.  • Developed reports display on the Web page using the XML from SQL Server database, with the usage of XSL in .NET web application.  • Performed bug fixing and assigned it to the team.  • Tracked the defects using Team Track.  • Used TFS 2010(Team Foundation Server) for version control for the project.  • Verified the cross browser compatibility during development and used Microsoft Enterprise Library blocks for Crypting and logging.    Environment: Windows XP,.Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, Team Foundation Server 2010, ASP.NET, VB.NET, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Web services, WCF, WPF, SOAP, AJAX, ADO.NET, JQUERY, LINQ, JSON, JavaScript, CSS, Cruise Control, Microsoft Enterprise Library, XSLT, XML, MVC, Telerik RAD Controls. Senior C#/.Net Developer FCC, FL June 2012 to August 2014 Roles & Responsibilities: • Developed a fully object oriented, 3-tier web application using C# and ASP. Net. Built tables, functions, stored-procedures, defined data relationships and constraints in SQL Server 2005.  • Used Design Patterns while designing the application like Singleton Pattern and Factory Pattern.  • Worked in all phases from design to implementation, including Technical design.  • Implemented the Presentation Layer using the concepts such as Master Pages, Themes, Skins, SQL Membership provider and profile object.  • Developed Student Information System and Administrator Modules.  • Developed all the Business Logic for all the modules in a separate Business Layer in C# and this was implemented using WCF.  • Used Web Services to get the data of the Student from Student Information System module in the process online of examination.  • Developed the data layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project. In this class extensively used ADO.NET objects like Dataset, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Command, Data Table and Data Relation objects.  • Developed business logic using C#.NET, used the developed data layer class extensively for database related transactions.  • Worked with Team Foundation source control which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs in a SQL Server database.  • Developed profiling tool and test scripts specific to the tool, and Unit testing using NUnit.  • Created technical documents detailing the implementation of the custom components developed.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.0, ASP.NET, C#.Net, VB.net, XML, XSL, XSLT Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Win Forms, Windows XP, PayPal API for online Credit card processing, Windows Communication Foundation(WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation(WPF), ADO.NET, Web Service, Microsoft Enterprise Library Application Blocks, NUnit, TFS. Front End Developer Security Benefit - Topeka, KS April 2010 to June 2012 Description:  MassMutual Financial Group offers whole life insurance, annuities, retirement plans, disability income insurance and long term care insurance for individuals by delivering high-quality, innovative solutions and services through exceptional people and superior technology.  This application is a web based environment. MassMutual sales representatives work closely with Customers to understand your unique situation and goals, and help you work through the obstacles that may stand in the way of building your financial future.    Roles & Responsibilities: • Design and code new features as well as integrating and augmenting existing ones.  • Design & development of Web application using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Developer Tool, VB.Net technologies.  • Consumed Remote Web services using WCF Service Model to implement Data Binding controls.  • Created the Data Access Layer with ADO.NET commands and fetched the data from SQL Server 2008 using Stored Procedures and Views using SQL Data Reader and Dataset Objects.  • Involved in Designing the Presentation Tier by using the XAML, standard ASP.Net Controls and provided the required functionality by using VB and Application Tier using C# and Custom Business Entities, Database-Tier using SQL SERVER2008 with SOA and MS Best Practices, Standards.  • Implemented the SOA architecture using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Identify bugs and fix them, trouble shoot and solve any related problems.  • Work in Sprint and scrum environment during production launch phase to expedite the issue analysis and resolution process.  • Expertise in front end development including HTML/XHTML, XML/XSLT, CSS and JavaScript.  • Monitor the fallouts in real-time production scenario, analyze and fix the code.  • Experience working in Production environment in different stages of the project.  • Work closely with Business, Technical and BA teams to meet project requirements • Prepare documents, spreadsheets and reports for the executives.  • Maintain Web-config, check in and check out the codes to the different branch of the code base in Team Foundation Server.  • Involved in application performance analysis and providing solutions for performance improvement • Develop, Program, test and debug all web based applications.  • Responsible for end to end delivery of assigned Work Request for each iteration of the project • Responsible for process improvements and providing tools for task automation to generate reports.  • Perform various activities like database administration and web development.  • Perform maintenance in existing websites    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, HTML, JavaScript, ADO.NET, jQuery, XAML, VB.Net, WCF, XML, CSS, XSLT Visual Studio 2008, SQL SERVER 2008, Team Foundation Server, SQL server 2008, IIS7.0 Net Developer Synechron Inc - Charlotte, NC February 2008 to April 2010 Roles & Responsibilities: • Developed Web Forms using VB and ASP .NET • Configure Forms authentication the application by using a Configuration File.  • Configuring Security with IIS and ASP.NET • Validated user input on Web Forms using validation controls like CompareValidator, RangeValidator, RegularExpressionValidator and CustomValidator. Also Performed Client Side Validations using JavaScript • Used ADO.NET to access SQL Server database.  • Designed and developed Web Services using C#, ADO.NET and XML to handle online transactions with central database, which reduces the time, required performing data entry and generating reports.  • Developed forms for the web application in VB.NET • Written configuration settings in Web. Config file • Tracking, analyzing and assigning the bugs and change requests to the team members • Optimize and troubleshoot application.    Environment: ASP.NET 1.1, C#.Net, VB.NET, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, .NET Framework1.1, IIS Education Bachelor's Skills .Net (10+ years), ADO (10+ years), ADO.NET (10+ years), ASP. (10+ years), ASP.Net (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages VB 6.0, Core JAVA, C#, C++.  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, XAML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, VBScript, JavaScript.  .Net Technologies VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, Web Services, WCF.  Databases SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Oracle 10g and MS Access.    Operating Systems Windows Server 2003, Windows XP/NT/2000/Vista, Windows 7.  Web Server Internet Information Server (IIS), SQL Server.  Protocols SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP.  IDE Visual Studio.NET 2010/2008/2005/2003.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports XI.  Framework Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1,Silverlight.  Versioning Tools Visual Source Safe 6.0(VSS), StarTeam, Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Methodology Agile Methodology, MVC, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Water fall method.  Interface Tools Telerik, Infragistics.