Sr. Java/J2EE Front End UI Developer Sr. Java/J2EE <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Front End UI Developer Columbus, OH • Over 10 years of professional IT experience with full project lifecycle development in J2EE technologies Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of software applications.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support.  • Proficient with Software development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile Methodologies.  • Strong experience in Client-Server systems using Object Oriented Concepts and Design Patterns.  • Expertise in coding business components using various API's of Java like Multithreading, Collections.  • Worked on Restful services with Spring boot.  • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, spring (IOC & AOP), Hibernate, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Exposure to XML, DTD, SCHEMA.  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Basic understanding of Ajax  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services which use SOAP, WSDL. Exposure to JAXB & JAX-WS.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Web service development and consumption. JAX-RS and JAX-WS  • Experience in database design and writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Expertise in middle tier technologies like JMS (Point-to-Point & Publish and Subscribe).  • Incorporated XML Parsers such as DOM and SAX.  • Worked on Micro Services with Spring Boot.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Sub queries and with non-relational databases (NoSQL) like MongoDB.  • Build Restful API for accessing and manipulating employees, events, and alerts using NodeJS. Implemented  • Designed and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss and Web Logic.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Front End UI Developer WESTROCK - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present Description: http://www.westrock.com WestRock (NYSE: WRK) partners with our customers to provide differentiated paper and packaging solutions that help them win in the marketplace. WestRock's 50,000 team members support customers around the world from more than 320 operating and business locations spanning North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Work with Business, functional team to transform business details into technical document.  • Created job details, active diagrams, test cases and communicated with client on regular basis.  • Project development using Agile/Scrum Safe methodology, sprint planning, backlog, release planning.  • Extensively used CSS and Angular Material for styling the HTML elements.  • Upgrading the project from Angular2 to Angular 4 and performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular4.0 framework.  • Developed powerful Single Page Application and dynamic responsive Web Application with React JS.  • Involved in creating a Reusable component and React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application using React JS  • Used Redux-Store for storing state of the React Application and worked with middleware for the Redux-Store.  • Used React JS to create Responsive Web Design (RWD) and used media Queries to make webpages responsive for mobile.  • Development of the Navigation bars, Tables, Sliders, Calendars to fit the user requirement.  • Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and React JS.  • Used Node JS to interact with Rest services and with Database, building real-time Web API's.  • Unit tested front- end React JS code using Mocha, Chai and Enzyme.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Experience with the use of Grunt and Gulp in React Project and Bundled and minified the JavaScript with the use of Gulp.  • Optimizing Components for maximum performance across of web-capable devices and browsers with ReactJS.  • Used functionalities to write code in HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, and JSON, React js and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend. Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Involved in API Integration using Node JS and Mongo DB as a data base connection.  • Wrote various Angular4 custom directives and developed many reusable components and templates.  • Defined new validations through Angular4 for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • My Team is also responsible for design and creation of mobile applications in React-Native.  • Written Angular Material driven JSON consuming Angular 2/4 functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Developed the reusable templates and style sheets within the UI Standards and guidelines.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using flex, flash Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Used React JS to make webpages rendering faster, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular JS used ngReact to achieve the same.  • Used XML Web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Protractor Angular 2/4. Contributed to write e2e and unit tests with Protractor and Jasmine (with Karma as tests runner)  • Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plugins like date picker, Bootstrap select etc.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting technical problems. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Angular 5, CSS/CSS3, Spring Boot, Hibernate, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, WebSphere, JUnit, MongoDB , Agile UML, JSPs, JSTL, Servlets, Maven. Sr. Java/J2EE Front End UI Developer GERBER LIFE INSURANCE - Columbus, OH July 2016 to July 2018 Description: http://www.gerberlife.com Nestlé U.S.A., is a world leader in nutrition, health and wellness. Gerber Products Company, founded in 1928, officially joined the Nestlé Nutrition family in 2007. Nestlé Nutrition and Gerber's combined resources and scientific research expertise have enabled the company to become a worldwide leader in early childhood nutrition. Gerber produces more than 400 food products, all of which are a part of the proprietary Gerber® Start Healthy, Stay Healthy(TM) nutrition system.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens according to the client requirements using HTML, CSS, RWD, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  Migrated the MEAN stack project from Angular JS to Angular 2 for better performance, Feasibility which gives an organized structure of the project.  • Involved in using various IDE's like Dreamweaver, WebStorm, IntelliJ, Notepad++, Eclipse, Sublime Text 2, Atom Brackets. and Visual Studio.  • Making changes to the existing web applications and creating new components using Angular2.  • Used Angular 2, jQuery Bootstrap (RWD) for making the web application user interactive.  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall User experience (UX).  • Used Angular2 HTTP Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Used Mongo DB as MEAN for database connections.  • To store and retrieve data from database used Mongo DB.  • Created re-useable Angular2 custom components that includes Filter text box, pipes, Dialog box or modals and Custom directives as Sorting and Decimal masking.  • Used Node JS to build fast, Scalable Applications and used Node JS to run the application in a web server in staging environment  • Modularized Front End CSS and NodeJS code with sass. Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web services with NodeJS.  • Implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with the design and requirements.  • Ran bower and grunt components and wrote the scripting using NodeJS implemented a NodeJS server to manage authentication.  • Implemented UI Screens, Advanced Search, Timer, Navigation Bars, Navigation Menus, Forms and Sorting, Filtering in React JS.  • Used Redux-Store for storing state of the React Application and worked with middleware for the Redux-Store.  • Used jQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used SOAP in the implementation of Web services.  • Used Express JS for HTTP Route handling in the React project. Utilized Passport JS and implemented various strategies of Authentication  • Used Mongo DB extensively to visually explore the data and Interact with data with full CRUD functionality and Mongoose to integrate Mango DB in the React project.  • Worked on Mongo DB replication concept, used to maintain multiple copies of data in different database servers.  • Responsible for the migration of the entire project from Angular 4.0 to Angular 5.0.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings, Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.  • Used Team Foundation Server(TFS) for source code version control.  • Used CSS preprocessor called SASS and LESS for styling the React Components and used media queries and mobile UI development to customize the View.  • Used REST protocols for usage of web services like XML and JSON in the React application.  • Used JIBX binding to convert Java object to XML and vice-versa and experienced by working with JSON, XML data while interacting with server.  • Used JavaScript for page functionality, pop up screens and drop-down menus on the webpage  • Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions.  • Elegantly implemented Screens in standards-compliant dynamic SPA using Angular2 and CSS.  • Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 2, Angular JS Chrome DEV tool, Firebug DEV tool, Jenkins, MySQL, Adobe Photoshop, Protractor, Karma, RWD, Bitbucket. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Angular 5, CSS/CSS3, Spring Boot, Hibernate, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, WebSphere, JUnit, MongoDB , Agile UML, JSPs, JSTL, Servlets, Maven. Sr. Java/J2EE Lead Developer / Front End UI Developer AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER ENERGY - Columbus, OH October 2015 to July 2016 Description: http://www.aepenergy.com AEP Energy is an independent electricity supplier to business and residential customers and provides energy efficiency services nationwide. AEP Energy makes it easy for customers to buy, manage and use energy.  • Designed the application using Front Service Controller, Data Access Object, Service Locator, and Session Façade Design Patterns  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS & JavaScript  • Built web-based applications using Spring MVC Architecture and REST Web services  • Installed and configured WebLogic in Development and Testing environment  • Worked on Agile methodology.  • Used shell scripts to maintain engenderment and test AWS EC2 instances.  • Started as a monolithic application that runs on JBoss, later migrated it in to a set of Spring boot and Node.JS Micro services.  • Designing and implementing scalable, RESTful and Micro services-based backend. The backend is being written in Java using Spring Boot for simplicity and scalability. Utilized Swagger with Spring Boot.  • Build the application on Spring Framework.  • Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and Session Facade) and Model View Controller Architecture  • Involved in creating the Use cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML  • Provided Production support for the application  • Used Unix Shell Scripts using Shell to automate the process of running jobs batches  • Responsible for Developing and integration of ORM framework like Hibernate.  • Developed the Model objects and mapping files for the Hibernate framework  • Developed and maintained the Application Context files for the service layer using the Spring framework  • Created the Hibernate mapping files for the application.  • Integrated the spring framework with the Hibernate framework.  • Used SOAP Web services and Restful web services to extract and consume client related data from databases.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds predicated on polling the GIT source control system.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Worked on UI Design for Application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and UI enhancement coding.  • Used jQuery for event handling and GUI functionalities.  • Used Subversion for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing.  Technologies:    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, HTML, CSS, GIT, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 10, Spring3.0, Hibernate 3.0, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, SOAP, REST Web services, Micro services, UML, WebLogic Application Server, Tomcat Server MVC design pattern, Unix Shell Scripts, JUnit, Subversion Sr. Java Tech Lead Developer/ Front End UI Developer NATIONWIDE INSURANCE, INC - Columbus, OH April 2014 to September 2015 Description: https://www.nationwide.com offers an inclusive lineup of web/mobile applications that provides competitive insurance/retirement products & tools with flexible options and riders to meet customers' diverse portfolio needs.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Worked with RESTful web services to fetch dynamic content from backend databases and created new RESTful web services using Spring MVC framework using JSON data format.  • Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS for large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining the Docker containers also implemented build stage- to build the micro service and push the Docker container image to the private Docker registry.  • Implementing DAO for the retrieving of data to display on User Interface.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces they got granted access.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and developed custom MongoDB applications specific to client needs and Developed PL-SQL store procedures to convert the data from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Installed, Configured the Enterprise applications on browser and diagnosed the issues with Java applications running on Tomcat server. Worked on Linux environment to deploy the application on the host tomcat server.  • Used JMS (Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and also to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns.  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool for building the RESTful web-service, worked with Jenkins in continuous Integration by using GIT tool and executed projects in Apache Maven and Ant.  • Used Log4j to print logging, debugging and warning information.  • Used JIRA to track the progress and for Issue/bug tracking of the project and wrote test cases and Used JUnit as a testing framework in a Test Driven Development (TDD) environment.  • Performed UI testing and front- end testing using Selenium. Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, Data visualization JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XHTML, MVC, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, XML, JSON, DOM, Firebug, SQL, Oracle Sr. Java/J2EE Tech Lead/ Front End UI Developer PROGRESSIVE MEDICAL, INC - Columbus, OH April 2013 to April 2014 Description: Stone River Group affiliated companies are committed to being the provider of choice for the Life/Annuity, P&C/Workers Comp and Reinsurance markets. Hundreds of insurance carriers, as well as thousands of agents, brokers, and dealers, and tens of thousands of pharmacies rely on us. Through innovative solutions, flexible services offerings, and strategic sourcing options, we provide the agility to remain competitive in the changing insurance landscape  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Object-oriented Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, MVC, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, XML, JSON, DOM, SOAP, RDBMS. Sr. Lead Java J2EE Developer SKILLSOFT - Dublin, OH April 2011 to March 2013 Project: Talent Development Software Platforms (used by over 2 million learners)  Description: http://www.skillsoft.com/ Talent Development Software Platform Solution combines E-learning resources and content with learning and performance management into a single, easy-to-implement platform that will drive the development of employees and the company in the same direction together.  • Developed multiple GWT (Google Web Toolkit) Web application (from client to server).  • Developed processes and procedures to better improve software development lifecycle (e.g., bug/feature tracking, software versioning, automated/continuous builds, information accessibility)Track customers' open credits and deposits.  • Coded and implemented PL/SQL packages to perform Application Security and batch job scheduling.  • Contributed to front- end development on a Spring-based, multi-tiered web applications  • Installed, configured, and maintained a continuous integration (build) server.  • Developed Integer and Date JSF components to support user entry of integer and date (month/day/year) values with internationalization. Wrote the Java classes for the components, tags, and renderers. Also wrote the JavaScript code to do client-side validation in all major browsers.  • Developed several pieces of the JSF engine, including bean discovery, value bindings, method bindings, component bindings, and event generation.  • Re-wrote several pieces to make them compliant with the emerging JSF standard.  • Mentor and educate team members in design and coding best practices in individual and group settings.    Environment: Eclipse Helios, Java 1.6.x, JEE 1.5, JSTL, JPA, JAXP, JAXB, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, PL/SQL, J Query, Junit, AJAX, Tomcat. Sr. Java J2EE Developer STATE OF OHIO - DEPARTMENT OF JOB & FAMILY SERVICES - Columbus, OH March 2008 to July 2010 Project: Ohio Means Jobs (OMJ)  Description: https://jobseeker.ohiomeansjobs.monster.com/ help you find your new job or help you hire needed talent.  • Responsible for Agile design, development, Integration, deployment and deliverable of Department of Job & Family services website project.  • Designs and develops cross-plane business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping Framework such as Hibernate/JPA.  • Designs and develops cross-plane service business process and data access to Oracle database and back-plane layers with JAXB, and XML.  • Wrote PL/SQL packages to calculate Missing Information and Determining Eligibility in the processing of a Job & Family Services Families Application.  • Developed JSF components to provide clean and strict generated HTML markup to ease designer's CSS work.  • Re-factors tight-coupled Java code by applying Java Design Patterns and Java best practices for performance, better maintenance and code readability.  • Analyzes, troubleshoots and fix defects in the cross-plane service components.  • Unit-tests cross-plane service components with JUnit.  • Writes Maven build script to compile Java codes and create service module packages.  • Performed code review and mentored Java developers in code implementation to adhere coding standard and best practices.  • Provided technical support on issues arise after deployment to Production.  • Mentor and educate team members in design and coding best practices in individual and group settings.    Environment: RAD 7.3.5, Java 1.6.x, Groovy, EJB 3.0, JEE 1.5 (JSF, Servlet, JSTL, JPA, JAXP, JAXB), Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, PL/SQL, AJAX, JUnit, Dimensions, Tomcat. Education B.S. in Electrical Engineering in Computer Science WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY - Dayton, OH Skills Java (10+ years), Angular 6+ or React JS (4 years), NodeJs (4 years), Javascript, Jquery (5 years), AWS (2 years), Spring Framework 5 (5 years), MicroServices (2 years), Git (4 years), RESTful Web Service (5 years), Apache Spark and Kafka (1 year), Spring Boot 2 (4 years), Angularjs (3 years), React (2 years), Python (1 year), Jenkins (4 years), Dockers (2 years), JIRA (4 years), Angular, Node Additional Information US Citizen. Looking for local Columbus, Ohio or REMOTE positions only.