Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - PushDup.com Buffalo, NY I am a self motivated, problem solving, front end web developer with 15+ years of experience based in the Buffalo, NY and Burlington, VT region. I help create great user experiences with code.    Specialties: UX/UI, SASS, ReactJS, Ruby on Rails, Drupal, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Javascript, Square Space, Shopify, Wordpress, WooCommerce, CSS Grid, Bootstrap, Flexbox. Work Experience Developer PushDup January 2019 to Present React Developer of a fast moving start up based in NY.  DEV URL : http://pushdup.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/ Front End UX Web Developer and Consultant Freelance/Self employed - Buffalo, NY February 2007 to Present I develop solutions for small to medium sized business in an effective and timely manner using modern web frameworks such as Wordpress and  Bootstrap. Contract Web Developer Taos Ski Valley, Inc August 2017 to September 2018 Taos was in need of an overhaul of their internal page layout and optimization of their code. We emphasized fixes for page speed and clean code to increase sales on their ecommerce platform.    https://skitaos.com Contract Web Developer GE Corporate June 2016 to February 2017 SASS, image optimization, HTML, Drupal CMS, git and github were all used in a hyper-fast paced deployment of the updated General Electric Investor Relations section. https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/ UX Designer HomePocket September 2015 to September 2016 Design and development of the original Mymaisonbleu.com website using  SCSS, WP and various plugins. I worked with a great team. Through our hard  work and foresight, we pulled the web-app together to make a great mobile  app that is currently referred to as HomePocket. Front End UX Developer SurfWatch Labs June 2013 to October 2015 My time with Surfwatch Labs, formerly Hacksurfer, was amazing. I worked with some very talented developers on some incredibly tough problems.    Thankfully we all rallied together and pushed forward with an elegant and  streamlined product that broke new ground in the cyber-threat category. Lead Web Developer HMC Advertising - Richmond, VT May 2012 to June 2013 Develop Fast Loading, optimized websites for small and large clientele. At  HMC we focused on providing the customer with modern, scalable solutions to their web developer projects.    I am a Web Technology Evangelist that is well versed in HTML5 and CSS3.  Along with our team of amazing artists and team leaders I made beautifully  simple, functional websites. Web Developer Dealer.com - Burlington, VT August 2011 to May 2012 Developed fast loading, standards based CSS/HTML/XML on a large client  codebase of over 15,000 websites. Collaborated with design and development  teams to meet client deadlines and deployed projects using Git for version  control. Ecommerce Web Developer Asylum BoardShop - Oceanside, CA August 2007 to February 2008 I oversaw all duties related to the ecommerce website at Asylum Board Shop.  I handled Design, eCommerce, Shipping, Front End Development, promotion and Business Development Vertical Marketing Specialist Hookit.com - San Diego, CA July 2006 to July 2007 My time at Hookit was spent with some very talented and amazing people. I  was in charge of community interaction, SEO and Social Media development for my vertical. I also dabbled in some Html/CSS while there. Founder MySkateLife.com June 2005 to July 2006 I founded MySkateLife.com, a social network for action sports enthusiasts.  This property had 5000+ overall users and roughly 1500-2000 active users. It  was acquired by Hookit.com Founder Skateservice.com May 2004 to June 2006 Skateservice.com was founded to fill an amateur athlete void in the skateboarding market.  The community grew until this project was folded into myskatelife.com which I  sold to Hookit.com in 2006. Action Sports Content Manager Jester.com January 2000 to June 2003 I was in charge of creating content and working with contributors that would  increase unique users and customers. These included reviews, interviews,  videography, 3d interactive environment billboards for our 3d chat rooms,  photography, and athlete profiles. I was also in charge of creating custom  content for our skate, surf and snow catalog that was sent out via snail mail to  200,000+ customers a month. Education High school or equivalent Skills Html5 (1 year), Interface design (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), jquery (Less than 1 year), Rails (Less than 1 year), Ruby (Less than 1 year), Ruby on rails (Less than 1 year), Sass (Less than 1 year), Ui (Less than 1 year), Ui design (Less than 1 year), Unix (10+ years), User experience (Less than 1 year), User interface (Less than 1 year), User interface design (Less than 1 year), Ux (10+ years), Web design (Less than 1 year), ReactJS (1 year), Front-End, CSS3, React, Front End Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/wilwaldon http://pushdup.com Additional Information 15+ years of experience based in the Buffalo, NY and Burlington, VT  region. I help create great user experiences with code.    Specialties: UX/UI, SASS, ReactJS, Ruby on Rails, Drupal, HTML5,  CSS3, jQuery, Javascript, Square Space, Shopify, Wordpress,