Senior C#/.Net Developer Senior C#/.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior C#/.Net Developer - The Judge Group Riverwoods, IL • Senior .NET Developer with 12+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement analysis & Object Oriented analysis, design, development, testing and documentation.  • Good experience in developing and designing Windows application using technologies such as C#.NET and VB.NET  • Good experience in developing, maintenance and enhancements of VB6, ASP applications and migrating the application to windows applications in C#.NET and VB.NET and to ASP.NET Web application  • Experience of front- end HTML/HTML5, JavaScript (including jQuery) and CSS and Designed and implemented the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax  • Experience in development of applications for Web and Windows Forms.  • Developed service contract, operation contract & data contract classes to support communication between Agents to Insure.NET using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) through WCF web services through C#.NET  • Experience in developing reports using Crystal Reports, MS Access reports, Entity Framework and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Expertise in using ASP.NET Grid Controls, Server Controls, Master Pages, custom web controls using C#.NET, JavaScript which involve design and runtime validations.  • Proficient in developing Service Layer using C# and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Experience in creating Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) in web based applications using .NET Framework 4.0  • Extensive experience in relational database development, for creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions using T-SQL and PL/SQL in Microsoft SQL Server 2008.  • Good working experience in making AJAX based web applications to improve the response time and extensively implemented update panels, script manager and triggers  • Experience in various verticals like Banking, Education, Insurance and Telecom.  • Design and development on databases using SQL Server 2005/2008. Developing Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Good in-depth understanding and experience in building server applications using C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, XML, Silverlight, Web Services, HTTP modules and handlers based on .Net Framework 4.0/3.5 / 3.0 / 2.0.  • Proficient in creating Custom lists, Features, Web parts and Master Pages to improve feature and Look and Feel of the sites.  • Experience in on Service Oriented Architecture, Web Services, WCF RIA Services, SOAP over HTTP, WSDL and UDDI.  • Experience in working with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) in .Net Framework 3.5.  • Thorough knowledge of Design Patterns like MVC Patterns and Singleton Patterns.  • Created WCF services and communicated them with JavaScript to display certain information  • Experience in data access using WCF RIA Services and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • LINQ experience to work with Datasets, Objects, Entities as well as ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Experience in designing and developing Databases in SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 10g which includes the development of functions, stored procedures and triggers using Transact SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experience in writing Unit Test Cases like Positive Test Cases, Negative Test Cases and Exception Test Cases.  • Worked extensively in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle, performed various roles like Requirements Analyst, Designer, Developer, Tester, Reviewer, and Configuration Controller.  • Experience in implementing Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Good knowledge and understanding of Object Oriented Design Principles.  • Extensive experience in Developing Web-based N-tier software applications using Design patterns.  • Excellent verbal and interpersonal skills; good analytical and debugging skills; systematic approach to system architecture design and programming tasks.  • Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture.  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner, team player.  • Extensive experience in working with Global Team environment On-site - Off-shore model. Work Experience Senior C#/.Net Developer The Judge Group - Pleasanton, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for providing functional, technical and test specifications & requirement traceability matrix (RTM)  • Design & development of Web application using ASP.Net, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Developer Tool, C#.Net, WCF, XML, technologies  • Development of UI and server side code (behind) using .Net Framework 3.5  • Developed, Configured and consumed Web Services in C#.Net using WCF  • Responsible for creating and implementing user workflows and use cases  • Monitoring different fallout status, retraction offer status, and internal services status.  • Use Generics extensively in C# and ASP.NET Menu Controls  • Extensively used ADO.NET to build query-driven applications  • Designed and coded Win Forms using C#.NET.  • Designed and developed databases which includes the development of functions, Stored procedures and Triggers using SQL Server  • Involved in code reviews, standard performance and functional reviews  • Responsible for end to end delivery of assigned Work Request for each iteration of the project  • Responsible for process improvements and providing tools for task automation to generate reports  Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, ADO.NET, Win Forms, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, C#.Net, WCF, XML, SQL SERVER, Visual Studio 2010 Sr. .Net Developer Adaptik Corporation - Bethlehem, PA November 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Understanding and reviewing the existing applications and involved with the Business team and implemented the tasks as per the Priority of Business Requirement.  • Used SCRUM methodology for iterative task completion by having Daily Stand-ups.  • Created UI layers, Webpages and integrated to maintain the performance of Data flow and Data Integrity using Asp.Net, Widget Grids and other User Controls.  • Designed and developed web forms with ASP.NET, JavaScript, Silverlight, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, and Firebug.  • Developed service contract, operation contract & data contract classes to support communication between Agents to Insure.NET using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) through WCF web services through C#.NET.  • Used Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Worked with WPF 4.0 for creating user rich interfaces for windows applications  • Worked with Model View Controller (MVC) pattern to design layers.  • Created snapshots by using WPF(Windows Presentation Foundation) for requirement phase and used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), HTML to attain uniformity of all web pages.  • Used JQuery for client side validation, navigation and for firing server side events.  • Developed the application as Model View Presenter thus achieving separation of business logic and User Interface.  • Developing XML Web Services in C# and SOAP for information exchange across applications.  • Worked with Asp.net Master Pages that are common throughout the application and content pages.  • Involved in writing the Unit Tests for C# code of business logic in Presentation Layer using Moq-Framework.  • Used BasicHttpBinding and WSHttpBinding to interact with other WCF services  • Used LINQ to SQL for querying data from the database and for inserting and updating templates and cases into the database.  • Understanding the client requirement and developing application using WPF and Prism Framework  • Developed SQL stored procedures for data manipulation and querying data from SQL.  • Maintained build versions and code versions using Team foundation Server's Version Control (TFS).  • Monitor different fallout status, retraction offer status, and internal services status.  Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, Silverlight, ASP.NET, AJAX Toolkit, Scrum, SSRS, Windows Communication Foundation(WCF),WPF, PRISM, Oracle 11g, LINQ, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, C#, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, LINQ to SQL, TFS, Enterprise Library 5.0. Senior C#/.Net Developer Matlen Silver - New York, NY July 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing the architecture of the application modules and responsible for any changes adopted and the project uses application Design Patterns (observer pattern).  • Set up the development environment using Visual Studio.NET 2010, Windows XP, SQL client (2008) and Visual Studio Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Implemented Validation Controls in ASP.Net.  • Developed in C#.NET.  • Created and used the Tuple Objects & Extension Methods by using the new features of .Net Frame Work 4.0.  • Building an application with MVVM.  • Created and Deployed Web Services on Bank Applications with classes for accessing the database with required security authentication of the bank system.  • Designed and developed a WPF application to be used as a reference library for all HP branded  • Control styles designed by frog design.  • Created WebPages for various work streams using C#.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX, JSON with JQuery, Telerik RAD Controlsand business logic layer which connects to the other services using C#.Net.  • Developing who work with visual designers, using MVVM makes it much easier to create a smooth designer/ developer workflow.  • Good experience on JAWS (Screen Reading Software) software Tool.  • Developed Silverlight Navigation Application and Silverlight Toolkits Including Drag Drop listbox.  • Created the generic controls, user control and components as Web Controls.  • Created WCF based web service for communication between applications which are published for the various business units.  • Consumed Web Services using WCF and displaying data on the UI and used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Maintain the check in and check out the codes to the different branch of the code base in TFS.  • Developed the Stored Procedures, SQL Scripts, and Views for MS SQL Server 2008.  • Created packages, Stored Procedures, Triggers necessary for Java Web Services to load the transaction data for payments and libraries modules.  • Integrated the various modules and deployed the project in the testing environment.  • Involved in testing, debugging and documentation.  • Developed reports display on the Web page using the XML from SQL Server database, with the usage of XSL in .NET web application.  • Performed bug fixing and assigned it to the team.  • Tracked the defects using Team Track.  • Used TFS 2010(Team Foundation Server) for version control for the project.  • Verified the cross browser compatibility during development and used Microsoft Enterprise Library blocks for Crypting and logging.  Environment: Windows XP,.Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, Team Foundation Server 2010, ASP.NET, VB.NET, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Web services, WCF, WPF, SOAP, AJAX, ADO.NET, JQUERY, LINQ, JSON, JavaScript, CSS, Cruise Control, Microsoft Enterprise Library, XSLT, XML, MVC, Telerik RAD Controls. Senior C#/.NET Developer PricewaterhouseCoopers - New York, NY June 2015 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages/user controls as per requirement documents FRD, BRD, TSD, etc. while interacting with Business Analyst for their implementation.  • Integrated and used Microsoft AJAX control toolkit with the application.  • Developed Client-side JavaScript library for standard control validations using regular expressions and DOM methods.  • Developed utility libraries for database access using ADO.Net, file storage and logging using data stream, and notifications using SMTP clients.  • Developed SQL Queries and Procedures for storage and retrieval of data using ADO.Net and LINQ to SQL.  • Designed, Created and Implemented .Net based Web services and hosted using IIS 6.0 to provide data to other enterprise business units  • Generated and Integrated Reporting module using SSRS reporting modules.  • Created stored procedures to retrieve data from SQL Server 2005.  • GUI module development using Win Forms in C#, ADO.NET for Electronic Data Interchange.  • Actively used all .Net validation controls, Ajax Tool kit control and JavaScript for validating controls.  • Used WCF Technology to build the Web Services.  • Used routing events to invoke the handlers and also attached property for the presentation of user interface in WPF using XAML.  • Designed database Tables, Views and Triggers in SQL Server2005.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Prepared SQL Queries based on SQL statements.  • Developed test strategies, test plans and test cases and performed Unit Testing to identify and resolve integration, functional and usability issues before deployment.  • Integrated Content Management systems for attachments storage and retrieval.  • Integrated External UDDI Web services with .Net applications to achieve seamless data processing  • Configured and Deployed Website using Microsoft SharePoint Server.  • Exposure to Unit testing framework such as NUnit.  • Involved in complete Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Developed modules of the application in ASP.NET, Silverlight and involved in writing C# classes.  • Used Web services to communicate with the business layer objects.  • Created and worked with dependency, attached and complex properties and plugged them into different Silverlight services.  • Involved in Programming XAML applications.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and silver light and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Creating custom site pages, lists, views and master pages and adding ASP, Silverlight controls.  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication between SOA.  • Accessing SQL Server 2008 from a Silverlight application using WCF.  • Implementing LINQ queries on different data sources in Silverlight applications.  • Worked with Ajax enabled WCF services using C# and ASP.Net.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 3.0, C# 3.0, ASP.NET 3.0, Microsoft AJAX toolkit, ADO.NET, XML, SQL Server 2012/2008 R2,Microsoft Enterprise Library. Senior C#/.Net Developer Matlen Silver - New York, NY July 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed a fully object oriented, 3-tier web application using C# and ASP. Net. Built tables, functions, stored-procedures, defined data relationships and constraints in SQL Server 2005.  • Used Design Patterns while designing the application like Singleton Pattern and Factory Pattern.  • Worked in all phases from design to implementation, including Technical design.  • Implemented the Presentation Layer using the concepts such as Master Pages, Themes, Skins, SQL Membership provider and profile object.  • Developed Student Information System and Administrator Modules.  • Developed all the Business Logic for all the modules in a separate Business Layer in C# and this was implemented using WCF.  • Used Web Services to get the data of the Student from Student Information System module in the process online of examination.  • Developed the data layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project. In this class extensively used ADO.NET objects like Dataset, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Command, Data Table and Data Relation objects.  • Developed business logic using C#.NET, used the developed data layer class extensively for database related transactions.  • Worked with Team Foundation source control which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs in a SQL Server database.  • Developed profiling tool and test scripts specific to the tool, and Unit testing using NUnit.  • Created technical documents detailing the implementation of the custom components developed.  Environment: .NET Framework 3.0, ASP.NET, C#.Net, VB.net, XML, XSL, XSLT Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Win Forms, Windows XP, PayPal API for online Credit card processing, Windows Communication Foundation(WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation(WPF), ADO.NET, Web Service, Microsoft Enterprise Library Application Blocks, NUnit, TFS. Front End Developer Plains All American - Houston, TX February 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design and code new features as well as integrating and augmenting existing ones.  • Design & development of Web application using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Developer Tool, VB.Net technologies.  • Consumed Remote Web services using WCF Service Model to implement Data Binding controls.  • Created the Data Access Layer with ADO.NET commands and fetched the data from SQL Server 2008 using Stored Procedures and Views using SQL Data Reader and Dataset Objects.  • Involved in Designing the Presentation Tier by using the XAML, standard ASP.Net Controls and provided the required functionality by using VB and Application Tier using C# and Custom Business Entities, Database-Tier using SQL SERVER2008 with SOA and MS Best Practices, Standards.  • Implemented the SOA architecture using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Identify bugs and fix them, trouble shoot and solve any related problems.  • Work in Sprint and scrum environment during production launch phase to expedite the issue analysis and resolution process.  • Expertise in front end development including HTML/XHTML, XML/XSLT, CSS and JavaScript.  • Monitor the fallouts in real-time production scenario, analyze and fix the code.  • Experience working in Production environment in different stages of the project.  • Work closely with Business, Technical and BA teams to meet project requirements  • Prepare documents, spreadsheets and reports for the executives.  • Maintain Web-config, check in and check out the codes to the different branch of the code base in Team Foundation Server.  • Involved in application performance analysis and providing solutions for performance improvement  • Develop, Program, test and debug all web based applications.  • Responsible for end to end delivery of assigned Work Request for each iteration of the project  • Responsible for process improvements and providing tools for task automation to generate reports.  • Perform various activities like database administration and web development.  • Perform maintenance in existing websites  Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, HTML, JavaScript, ADO.NET, jQuery, XAML, VB.Net, WCF, XML, CSS, XSLT Visual Studio 2008, SQL SERVER 2008, Team Foundation Server, SQL server 2008, IIS7.0 .Net Developer Ocean Media - Huntington Beach, CA June 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Forms using VB and ASP .NET  • Configure Forms authentication the application by using a Configuration File.  • Configuring Security with IIS and ASP.NET  • Validated user input on Web Forms using validation controls like CompareValidator, RangeValidator, RegularExpressionValidator and CustomValidator. Also Performed Client Side Validations using JavaScript  • Used ADO.NET to access SQL Server database.  • Designed and developed Web Services using C#, ADO.NET and XML to handle online transactions with central database, which reduces the time, required performing data entry and generating reports.  • Responsible for writing Stored Procedures to perform database activities in the SQL Server and resolved functionality issues for IPEG database.  • Responsible for creating new Apps, Custom Labels and Objects in Salesforce.com according to the user requirement.  • Created custom reports and new opportunities for the sales tem using Salesforce.com.  • Coded and developed interface with C# for various departments.  • Used Master pages to create a consistent layout for all the pages in the application.  • Applied styles to web page using CSS to ensure compliance standards  • Synchronies and Asynchronies post backs for all ASP.NET pages using AJAX.NET.  • Developed Data & Object Models and ER Diagrams.  • Developed forms for the web application in VB.NET  • Written configuration settings in Web. Config file  Environment: ASP.NET 1.1, C#.Net, VB.NET, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, .NET Framework1.1, IIS .Net Developer CHEVRON CORPORATION - Bakersfield, CA June 2006 to May 2008 Responsibilities:  • Used ASP.NET input validation controls for client side validation.  • Designed reusable class libraries, implemented those classes using C#.NET. These libraries formed the basic building blocks for the application, minimizing the executable size, providing central locations for common functionalities.  • Used ASP.NET Caching mechanism to provide faster access to information.  • Used ASP Net State Server to persist the state at server.  • Used WPF in creating different animated scenes using the combination of transforms, animation controls (storyboard, double animation) and color effects.  • Implemented WPF in creating custom controls, 3D graphics.  • Developed the application using c#.net 3.5 and SQL server 2005.  • Involved in implementing client side functionalities using java script and also involved in creating CSS classes for the application  • Worked with Crystal reports for generating reports for backup.  • Responsible for creating SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL server 2005.  • Involved in Design, Development and Testing of Web Forms using IIS, ASP.NET, XML, dataset and .NET Framework.  • Developed Web applications using C#, ASP.Net.  • Used in built ASP.Net Login controls to authenticate users.  • Used Cookies to hold the Site variables.  • Designed the user interface screens and implemented application logic under the Microsoft .NET framework using C#, VB.NET to use .NET features powered with CLR.  • Involved in the System Analysis & Design (Database, Business Layer & GUI) for all the modules of the system.  • Involved in the complete database and also data access layer design.  • Used ADO.NET extensively to access the database.    Environment: ASP. NET, C#, ADO.NET, XML, SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 Education Bachelor's Skills ADO, MS ACCESS, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008 Links http://Insure.NET Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages VB 6.0, Core JAVA, C#, C++.  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, XAML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, VBScript, JavaScript.  .Net Technologies VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, Web Services, WCF.  Databases SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Oracle 10g and MS Access.  Operating Systems Windows Server 2003, Windows XP/NT/2000/Vista, Windows 7.  Web Server Internet Information Server (IIS), SQL Server.  Protocols SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP.  IDE Visual Studio.NET 2010/2008/2005/2003.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports XI.  Framework Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1,Silverlight.  Versioning Tools Visual Source Safe 6.0(VSS), StarTeam, Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Methodology Agile Methodology, MVC, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Water fall method.  Interface Tools Telerik, Infragistics.