Senior Digital Strategist Senior Digital Strategist Senior Digital Strategist Red Wing, MN Work Experience Senior Digital Strategist Treasure Island Resort & Casino - Welch, MN January 2016 to June 2019 • Designed and Developed TICasino.com and implemented email marketing with ExactTarget.  • Designed and maintained Google Display ads for entertainment acts and promotions for Treasure Island Casino.  • Digital Marketing, SEO, SEM, PPC campaigns, customer reviews on Facebook, Instagram, Google+, Yelp, etc.  • Designed and scheduled various digital media both in Casino and out including Highway LED signs.  • Edit video footage for various media including Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.  • Managing Email campaigns and mailing lists.  • Designed and Coded Mount Frontenac Golf Course website. Front- End Designer Matt's Moving Inc - South Saint Paul, MN September 2015 to January 2016 • Optimized MattsMoving.com for mobile. Responsive design on Wordpress using Bootstrap and custom CSS.  • Designed and Coded CSS and PHP for custom theme pages on Matt's Moving website.  • Digital Marketing, SEO, SEM, PPC campaigns, Customer Reviews on Yelp, Google+, Yellow Pages, etc.  • Updated Matt's Moving local listings across the web, Google+, Yahoo Local, Bing, Yelp, Yellow pages, etc.  • Responsible for designing, organizing, modifying, and supporting Matt's Moving's computer systems.  • Managed Email campaigns and mailing lists.  • Developed Content strategies for social media, Facebook, Google+, Yelp, Matt's Moving Blog, etc. E-Commerce Web Developer Dakota Stones - Edina, MN April 2007 to September 2015 • Coded, Designed and Developed Dakotastones.com ecommerce site using 3dCart CMS, HTML, CSS and PHP.  • Responsible for designing, organizing, modifying, and supporting Dakota Stones' computer systems.  • Designing and installation of LANs, WANs, Internet and intranet systems, and network segments.  • Administration of company email.  • Setup of automated and manual company backups.  • Implementing and maintaining a Point of Sale for the company using QuickBooks POS.  • Managing the physical inventory process.  • Managing customer databases and product databases with over 10,000 line items each.  • Uploading and creating product listings, product descriptions, and meta-tags.  • Photographing products.  • Maintaining and strategizing content for Dakota Stones blog and social media sites.  • Creating weekly email campaigns including copywriting and content generation.  • Creating ads for print in multiple Bead Industry Magazines.  • Traveling to trade shows as a Sales Associate. Front- End Web Developer Dakota Stones - Saint Paul, MN September 2010 to July 2011 • Coded and Developed Ainsleyshea.com website using Flash and Action Script 3.  • Coded and Designed several client websites using Wordpress, HTML, CSS, PHP, Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  • Managed many aspects of the startup and branding of the company.  • Set up and maintained printers and all computer solutions for Ainsley Shea.  • Designed logos, brochures, flyers, websites, interactive presentations, business collateral for many clients.  • Worked with developers to create database driven websites.  • Coded and maintained several sites and helped with design and layout. Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Multi-Media Brown College April 2004 to March 2006 Skills Wordpress (8 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (8 years), Premiere (5 years), After Effects (5 years), Lightroom (3 years), ExactTarget (4 years), Salesforce (3 years), Sharepoint (3 years), SEO (5 years), Google Analytics (5 years), Google Adwords, Social Media Marketing, Indesign, Digital Marketing, Advertising, Customer Service, Marketing, Social Media Management Links http://amcmorrow.com