Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Project Coordinator - PriceSpider Midway City, CA Work Experience Project Coordinator PriceSpider - Irvine, CA June 2018 to July 2019 Manage incoming projects and tickets through JIRA and daily Scrum meetings  ? Provide client facing technical assistance until project launch is complete  ? Lead Kick off calls with sales and client to review scope of work  ? Manage client expectations while keeping projects on schedule using Salesforce  ? Schedule and facilitate meetings and presentations using Zoom and MS Office  ? Manage budget and resources to reach monthly goals  ? Well versed in velocity, sprint planning, and monthly deliveries  ? Analyzed data feeds and ensured they were formatted to fulfill product requirements Front End Developer PriceSpider - Irvine, CA December 2015 to May 2018 Process and complete establish project deliverables  ? Update templates to include new features  ? Unit test and peer review implementations  ? Participate in client calls with the Project Management team to help with installation of PS widgets, Google Analytics and general troubleshooting issues  ? Resolve front end issues using HTML, CSS, and GIT  ? Collaborates with Account Managers, Project Managers and other team members in Agile planning activities and Scrum.  ? Well versed in velocity, sprint planning, and monthly deliveries  ? Analyzed data feeds and ensured they were formatted to fulfill product requirements Office Manager CrossFit Irvine - Irvine, CA April 2012 to December 2015 Managed event planning and developed schedules and plans to ensure events were on track and met budget  ? Scheduled corporate events and interfaced with executive team at corporate HQ to assure event logistics were communicated and reported  ? Updated company's website using WordPress and html  ? Planned and organized gym events and fundraisers  ? Schedule and organized coaching staff  ? Secured sponsors and vendors for events  ? Utilized change management systems through feedback  ? Responsible for budgeting and reporting on finances and expenses Customer Service Manager UCI Bookstore - Irvine, CA June 2007 to April 2012 Managed the transition of a paper schedule system to the online scheduling system "Wheniwork" for 3 departments 80+ employees.  ? Planned and coordinated training events and workshops.  ? Trained employees in customer service procedures and software  ? Performed quarterly reviews on staff for feedback and coaching to upper management  ? Documented and controlled risk and raised issues to Leadership immediately with suggested solutions  ? Managed tasks and priorities based on standard practices and client needs Education Project Management Course University of California Irvine Extension - Irvine, CA 2010 Bachelor of Arts in History in History University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA 2009 Skills Excel, Photoshop, Project Management, Scheduling, Outlook, budget, Maintenance