Senior WordPress Developer, Pearson Senior WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Pearson Website Designer, WordPress Developer & Entrepreneur Lombard, IL A professional website designer and WordPress developer with over 13 years of experience. Designs are aesthetically pleasing and modern. Development focuses on a user and search engine friendly website that is responsive and loads quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior WordPress Developer, Pearson WordPress Development December 2014 to Present - Develop custom WordPress websites utilizing PHP, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS  - Developed a custom WordPress plugin that connects blog posts to iTunes. The WordPress posts automatically update a XML feed that is linked with iTunes and updates the podcast list for iTunes subscribers.  - Develop custom, responsive email templates  - Utilize SVN repositories for all websites  - Troubleshoot website and email issues  - Troubleshoot PageSpeed issues  - QA development projects from teammates  - Create technical documentation for marketing departments and developers Adjunct Faculty College of DuPage - Glen Ellyn, IL June 2017 to October 2017 Teaching WordPress development and maintenance to continuing education students. In this course we cover:    - How to install WordPress, themes and plugins  - Review the admin panel and different sections  - Review widgets, feeds, podcasting and blogging  - Develop custom themes  - How to extend the platform with eCommerce and Membership plugins WordPress Developer, Gate 39 Media September 2013 to December 2014 Develop custom WordPress websites from PSD files using PHP, HTML / HTML5, CSS  / CSS3 and Bootstrap  ? Create, transfer and launch websites in a LAMP environment  ? Modify clients A & MX records to point to the correct servers  ? Assure website consistency by cross browser & mobile / tablet testing  ? Front- End Developer on some ASPX & Sitefinity CMS websites using HTML / HTML5  & CSS / CSS3 Website Designer & WordPress Developer Lever Interactive October 2011 to August 2013 Create custom website designs, development and updates utilizing Wordpress for internal and client needs.  ? Responsive mobile website development using CSS3 and media queries.  ? Update websites with current SEO standards including:  ? Using correct MetaTag Order  ? Using relevant keywords in Alt/Title tags on images and links  ? Using multiple levels of heading tags with keywords in the titles  ? Developing an Ecommerce website with Miva Merchant software:  ? Miva Merchant Silver Certified Web Developer, 2012  ? Custom designed Ecommerce layout  ? Converting outdated tabled-based layout to CSS  ? Removed tabled-based layout from products pages, created multiple product  images, and created custom product fields for titles and descriptions for 2,500  products & over 270 categorie  ? Enabled SEO friendly links  ? Consolidated categories navigation for better usability  ? Correspond to clients & freelance staff regarding project details, timelines and budgets  ? Design, develop & test landing pages  ? Design & build custom landing page layouts based on client needs  ? A/B test landing pages with Google Website Optimizer  ? Develop landing pages using Marketo  ? Design Banner ads with Photoshop & Flash and develop them as graphics, animated  GIFs or using Actionscript 2 or 3.  ? Transformed a 20 page, SEO best practices Word document into a 3 page (printed)  infographic Website Designer & Front End Developer WhereYouShop.com July 2011 to October 2011 Summary: Designed & developed the Where You Shop blog using Wordpress, CSS & HTML.  Developed an internal website using Umbraco CMS. Designed and developed iPad kiosk app  using HTML5 & CSS. Designed graphics for vendor deal pages using Photoshop. Website Designer & Front End Developer, Tawani Enterprise March 2007 to June 2011 Summary: Managed & updated 11 separate corporate websites, designing & developing 7 of them from client specifications using HTML, CSS & Wordpress. Optimized websites with SEO  standards. Re-designed, developed & optimized an outdated tabled-based website averaging  over 110,000 visits per year resulting in increased page views & decreased bounce rate.  Created email blasts templates used with PatronMail for over 4,300 names. Designed ad  graphics for The New Yorker, postcards & print. Website Designer & Front End Developer Officite, LLC November 2005 to March 2007 Summary: Developed custom websites, templates & email blasts with HTML & CSS. Created & maintained PPC accounts with Google Adwords. Maintained & completed support requests for  over 2,500 clients. Education MBA Keller Graduate School of over a decade BS, in Technical Management in Technical Management DeVry University Skills Wordpress (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), PHP (7 years), Photoshop (10+ years) Links https://neurdesigns.com