Client-Side Developer Client-Side <span class="hl">Developer</span> Client-Side Developer - Front- End Skills Durand, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Client-Side Developer Menards - Eau Claire, WI May 2018 to Present One of three client-side developer for Menards.com. Work as a team on various projects to JavaScript/jQuery update Menards.com to be responsive with the use of Thymeleaf templates working with Bootstrap, Gulp, Node.js and Java backend. Also used Vue.js as another way of updating the site. Front End Developer Beckyboyce.com - Durand, WI September 2016 to Present Skills Learned: HTML & HTML5, CSS, fluid layouts, responsive typography, Flexbox, media queries & standard breakpoints, computational thinking, basic JavaScript, and jQuery.  Example Election site: https://beckybair.github.io/ElectionMap    Worked with WordPress admin, PHP, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, custom theming, Child themes, advanced theme customizations, and professional deployment & workflow.  Portfolio site: https://beckyboyce.com PC Tech Adventist Hospital - Durand, WI June 2013 to May 2018 Currently supporting over 200 devices in a hospital. Being the only IT person physically at PHP the hospital also has me acting as the eyes and hands for the network team as well. Various Positions Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL July 1989 to June 2013 Systems Analyst-ADD:  Developed a DHTML version of a tree control for use in a website project using: JavaScript, XML/XSLT, and CSS. Prepared and used Test Protocols several projects. Performed Audit Data Pull requests for complaint systems. Enhanced/ maintained and supported applications created in VB 6.0. Created, maintained and created/supported automated Excel VBA report templates for the finance group.    Workstation Specialist and other positions prior-PPD & AHD:  Responsible for the support of approx. 400 workstations (or users). Some areas of support were: ghost imaging, new pc deployment, desktop and application support. Education Masters of Information in Systems Analyst Keller Graduate School of Portfolio site - Abbott Park, IL 2000 to 2013 Bachelor of Arts in Business in templates for the finance group Alverno College created - Abbott Park, IL 1989 to 2000 Skills HTML 5 (5 years), CSS (5 years), SASS (3 years), Javascript (4 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Node.js (1 year), Gulp (1 year), Git (3 years), CSS3, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, Jquery, React Links http://beckyboyce.com Awards Grow with Google - Udacity 2018-04 Certifications/Licenses Udacity Front End Nanodegree November 2018 to Present