Lead Front- End Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Lead Front- End Engineer - BANK OF AMERICA Work Experience Lead Front- End Engineer BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC August 2018 to Present Building enterprise platform automation system and infrastructure as a service.  Skills:  • React, Redux  • Node.js  • Material UI  • Git, Bitbucket  • Jest, Enzyme Tech INVESTOR MANAGEMENT SERVICES - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to July 2018 Senior Application Engineer    Full-stack development on first-to-market commercial real estate investment SaaS application.  Skills:  • Angular, React  • Ruby on Rails  • Github  • Karma/Jasmine Application Programmer V BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to November 2017 Full-stack JavaScript development building custom, bank-internal continuous integration system along with a custom suite of webtools.  Skills:  • React, MobX  • Node, Express, Swagger  • Jest, Enzyme  Resume Web Developer WELLS FARGO - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to May 2017 6    Full-stack developer working as part of a seven-person team to deliver world class wealth management software for iOS and the web.  Skills:  • Angular2, Typescript  • C#, .NET MVC, LINQ, Entity Framework  • NPM, Git, Karma/Jasmine Senior Front- End Application Developer BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to July 2016 Charlotte, NC • January 2015 to July 2016.  Operational Risk and Compliance Integration Technology  Senior Front- End Application Developer    Lead UI developer for two enterprise-wide applications and authored code for three of six total applications within the Operational Risk and Compliance Integrated Technology module. Applications used by Global Risk Management Teams.  Skills:  • AngularJS, UI Router  • Kendo UI, Bootstrap3, UI Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3  • Karma/Jasmine Software Engineer TRIALGRAPHIX - Miami, FL March 2014 to October 2014 Full-stack developer as part of a three-person team to develop web-based litigation support platform, LegalRadius.  Skills:  • Backbone.js, Marionette.js  • JQuery, Bootstrap3, HTML5, CSS3  • C#, .NET MVC, LINQ, Entity Framework  • SQL Software Engineer LYRICSNMOTION - Charlotte, NC May 2013 to March 2014 Full-stack developer functioning as sole architect and developer of automated lyric video generation platform.  Skills:  • JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, JQuery, Java, KTDL, Linux  • Abstract motion database, Morphological analyzer (analyzes structure, shape, and context of abstract words describing motion)  • Kinetic Typography Description Language interpreter with Java-based lyric video platform. Engineer II - Instrumentation and Controls AREVA, INC - Charlotte, NC March 2011 to August 2013 Responsible for understanding codes of federal regulations as applicable to nuclear I&C design. Translates customer requirements to hardware and software specifications. Designs digital I&C solutions for new nuclear plant construction or installed base upgrades.  Presents technical design concepts and engineering change packages to senior management.  Specific Accomplishments:  • Lauded by European nuclear utility for function allocation re-design and interface specification V&V of Finland's OL3 plant.  • Awarded for safety automation system design and stellar performance of non-safety system segmentation analyses.  • First in a company of 45,000 employees to successfully complete NANTEL certification coursework. Front- End Developer ADILATE - Charlotte, NC September 2011 to April 2013 Team of two seeking to revolutionize digital outdoor advertising with an automated, real-time bidding system for digital signage.  Skills:  • Backbone.js  • Python  • HTML, CSS    Resume Engineer I - Automation AREVA, INC June 2010 to March 2011 June 2010 to March 2011  Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility  Engineer I - Automation    Automated robots that convert weapons-grade plutonium into turnkey nuclear fuel assemblies.  Specific Accomplishments:  • 125% simulator development time improvement by creating design templates using custom C++ modules.  • Increased process efficiency by coordinating with Quality Assurance to implement standardized technical documentation. E-5, SSGT - Avionics Technician UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Okinawa, JP February 2001 to November 2005 Maintained, installed, upgraded, and repaired analog and digital aircraft communication and navigation systems such as TACAN, VOR/ILS, GPS, JTIDS, TADIL, FLIR, IFF, HF, VHF, UHF, and SATCOM.  Specific Accomplishments:  • Received 3 advanced promotions and first-time promotion to SSGT scoring in top 1%.  • Recognized by unit commander for on-the-fly technical repair of mission critical systems enabling aircraft takeoff.  • Supported executive level members of government on a variety of sensitive, strategic missions. Education B.S. in Electrical Engineering University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC A.S. in Avionic Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Fort Walton Beach, FL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/n-flux http://www.nuvopastiche.com http://www.garycooper.io