Senior UX/UI Designer Senior UX/UI Designer Senior UX/UI Designer Bellevue, WA I have knowledge of all phases of product design and a deep understanding of user-centered design methods and techniques, I am able to take complex business goals and translate them into engaging digital experiences.  I have a passion or User-Centered Design and proven experience defining and developing end-to- end solutions in collaborative environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UX/UI Designer Microsoft - Redmond, WA April 2019 to Present My current contract role at Microsoft is to re-design the User Experience and User Interface for an enterprise Azure application (OneAuthZ) for the Business Applications & Services Division (BAS), Security Authorization unit. The application will be used to streamline and simplify the on-boarding and security authorization for all new hires at Microsoft and will be used corporation-wide around the globe.   I work with Project Managers, Stakeholders, and Engineers to solve complicated design problems. I ask a lot of questions and often brainstorm and sketch ideas first. My creative process includes designing interaction diagrams, user-flow diagrams, wire-frames, mock-ups, design specifications, and prototypes. I work daily with Microsoft UI Fabric, a collection of UX frameworks. Senior Product Designer UX DFIN Solutions Inc. - Bellevue, WA February 2018 to April 2019 ActiveDisclosure is a web-based SaaS application that allows reporting, compliance, and legal teams to collaborate on a company's financial documents. I worked with Product Owners, Content Writers, Software Developers, and Engineers daily. I conducted competitive analyses and competitive research for new product design. My creative process included designing personas, interaction diagrams, and user-flow diagrams. Then clearly define and communicate product vision through documentation, prototyping, wire-frames, and red-lines for engineering. Front- End Developer/Designer Microsoft - Redmond, WA February 2017 to July 2017 Microsoft's Window's Defender Security Intelligence Center allows B2B and B2C users to submit files suspected as malware, test code prior to release or download software designed to keep their PC safe. Microsoft needed to update their existing portal to bring it in line with other Microsoft properties. They wanted to be able to add and update the portal using their current content management system. My task was to take the site from red-lines to launch in just 18 weeks while ensuring that my code utilized Microsoft Web Framework, was fully accessible and compliant with Microsoft’s rigorous global standards. Front- end E-commerce Developer Shaw Communications - Calgary, AB August 2014 to April 2016 Shaw Communications is the largest cable provider in Canada. My job was to facilitate the migration of the site to a cloud server, while simultaneously being tasked with the front- end development required to re-purpose content for the final site. I worked closely with Project Managers, Designers, and Developers in an Agile environment. The result was a fresh new design, an improved User Experience, and a significant decrease in the time and effort required for content updates. Lead Design UX/UI Trico Homes - Calgary, AB January 2010 to June 2014 Trico Homes is one of the largest new home and community builders in Western Canada, but they had an aging web presence and tired marketing materials. Working with key stake-holders, community managers, and sales teams and developers, I designed UX/UI for Trico’s corporate and community product websites. Each community website would provide information, pricing, and marketing materials to varying types of audiences and users. I conducted user research and competitive analyses, develop personas, user stories, wire-frames, semi-functional prototypes and final UI’s. The result was overall web traffic increase of 100% YOY for 3 years, and several community development projects which sold out in record time. UX Design Manager Qualico Developments - Calgary, AB January 2006 to September 2009 Qualico Developments is Canada’s largest land developer. As UX Design Manager of the company’s internal marketing agency (Creative Zone), I lead a team of designers and developers in the design of internal and external client products. This would include conducting user research, competitive analyses and competitive research, persona development, information architecture, wire-framing, prototyping, and UI Design. I oversaw the efficient use of production project budgets ranging from $45,000 - $500,000. During my tenure, the agency saw increased profit of ~50% YOY. Education Diploma in Multimedia Northern Alberta Institute of Technology 1997 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/scottnero https://portfolio.scottnero.com/ Certifications/Licenses Google AdWords Search Certification January 2016 to January 2017 Adobe Systems Inc. | Adobe Photoshop Certified Expert 2000 to 2005 Adobe Systems Inc.Adobe Illustrator Certified Expert 2000 to 2005 University of Alberta | Accessibility for the Web Certification January 2006 to January 2006