Web Development Engineer Web Development Engineer Web Development Engineer - IMDb.com North Hills, CA A skilled Web Development Engineer, with over 10 years of professional experience. Responsible for building easy to use, reliable, high performance, cross platform web applications in fast paced environments. Very organized with the ability to manage multiple projects and meet strict deadlines. A strong work ethic combined with a commitment to excellence in all projects undertaken. Work Experience Web Development Engineer IMDb.com 2008 to Present Started doing work for the Im Db consumer site. Working with designers to update various widgets throughout the site, including the header / navigation, "NewsDesk", ad feedback, "Road To The Oscars". And migrating many pages into Perl/Mason. Later, taking a leadership role on the professional website (IMDbPro.com), designing and implementing features to make the user experience as easy as possible, including a new header / navigation, suggestive search, page preview tooltips, and a simplified registration pipeline. Most recently and currently working on a complete pro site redesign and code migration from Perl to Java. This widgets that are built into this redesign is growing every day and currently includes things like an advanced faceted search, ajax paging, interactive graphs, carousels, lightboxes, interactive feedback, and various performance enhancements, like late loading widgets and images. Designer & Front End Developer Withoutabox.com 2006 to 2008 Acquired by Im Db.com    Provided with a general style guide, and working with a small group of software engineers, redesigned and reworked the user flow for the entire withoutabox site. Also built many new features to allow, filmmakers, festivals, and their audience interact easier, such as uploading digital videos for festival submissions and hosting them for internet audiences to watch, and getting films listed on IMDb.com. Production Designer Los Angeles Times - Los Angeles, CA 2005 to 2006 Responsible for designing print advertisements that were displayed throughout the Los Angeles Times on a daily basis. Worked under extremely tight deadlines, produced dozes of ads every day for a variety of clients, each with unique specifications. Multimedia Designer / Developer Eastco Multimedia Solutions 2003 to 2005 Worked with a small team of designers, winning Accolade, Telly, and Communicator awards. Designed and developed websites, tutorial CD's, Flash sites / widgets / animations, and DVD menus / authoring. Captured / edited / encoded videos. Created CD Packaging, DVD Packaging, Silkscreen Discs, Offset Discs, Newsletters, Posters, VHS Sleeves, and Stickers. Education Associate of Science in Multimedia and Web Design The Art Institute of Pittsburgh June 2003 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Selenium (10+ years), Cucumber (4 years), Freemarker (10+ years), Jsp (4 years), Mason (4 years), Perl (4 years), Java (8 years), React (2 years), User Interface Design (3 years), Photoshop (4 years), Usability Testing (10+ years), Performance Improvement (4 years), Agile (10+ years), Scrum (10+ years)