Senior Front- End/UI Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- End/UI Developer - Conduent Austin, TX • Over 11 years of extensive programming experience in User Interface/ Front End programming and developing web based applications and Client-Server technologies using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS2/4, HandlebarsJS, React, Vue, Knockout, XHTML & XML.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control and production support.  • Expert in HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript UI/ Front- End Development with a strong experience in Angular, jQuery, React, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Git, Gulp and Grunt.  • Extensive working experience in UI frameworks like Angular, NodeJS, BackboneJS, and Bootstrap and JS libraries as React and JQuery.  • Sound understanding and good experience of using the various JavaScript concepts like Prototypes, Closures, Object-oriented features and Functional Programming, Promises and ES6 features.  • Experienced in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C Web Standards.  • Experience with HTML5 APIs such as LocalStorage, Geolocation, Canvas, Application Cache, Drag and Drop, Audio and Video.  • Expertise in developing Responsive web design, Grid framework application using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked with various clients enhancing large scale websites with various features including the creation of new components, analytics (demand tracking), REST/UI integration.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, cross-browser compatibility and SEO/web standards.  • Used waterfall and Agile methodology for development of Application and proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Functional Programing, Continuous Integration(CI), Continuous Delivery(CD) Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Mission Focused Aspirant with sweeping proficiency in using version controls such as CVS, GIT, SVN.  • Experience in using Text editors like Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Notepad and Notepad++.  • Extensive work experience using JavaScript testing frameworks such as Jasmine, Protractor and Jest.  • Extensive work experience with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Understand end user business needs and ensure they are met in software application development and delivery Application Feature implementation by client request.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, self-motivated, self-starter and team player. Can work with minimal supervision. Effective communication, Organizational and time management skills.  • Expert in Agile Methodology with SCRUM certification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End/UI Developer Conduent - Austin, TX September 2018 to Present Project Description: Front- end developer from one of the most used intern Google platforms. Developed with Angular4, SASS, Angular Material, RxJS, REST and TDD process with Jasmine/Karma with coverage above 90%. All the development was under the Google's Readability Team approval and Google style guide criteria.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed web apps using JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 4, RxJS, CSS3, HTML5.  • Use the TDD process with Jasmine, Karma.  • Designed the UX for Google platform.  • Web application is redesigned by using Angular4. Also used Web API to send and receive data to/from back end, recently started updating from Angular4 to Angular5.  • Extensively used HTML5, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3 and SASS as the main UI/ Front- End development technologies.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to desired design specs for single page layout using Google code standards.  • Developed using Angular Forms, Validations, Modules, DOM, Expressions, Directives, Components and Pipes.  • Estimation of new stories and bugs on the JIRA backlog. Also use Jira and Confluence as Scrum Tools.  • Attendance of daily standups, retrospective meetings and sprint planning sessions, following the scrum methodology.  • Created multi-browser compliant CSS following mobile first and atomic design methodologies, using tools such as PUGJS/HTML5, CSS/Bootstrap/LESS.  • Unit testing the code and maintaining coverage above 90%.  • Regression testing, every time new features were added to ensure the applications functionality.  • Updating confluence documentation to match new features added to the applications.  • Code reviewer for team members, Google TypeScript Readability Team to ensure quality code.    Languages/Technologies/Tools: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2/4, TypeScript, Google's version control tool, NPM, ES6, Express, Jasmine, Jira/Confluence/Bitbucket (Project Owner-Scrum- Developer Tools). Senior Front- End/UI Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA July 2017 to August 2018 Project Description: Front- end developer in the most ambitious project of Citi worldwide with the Mexican bank Citibanamex. This project created a new system developed with AngularJS and Angular2 for all the account openings in Mexico. Also I worked in the renovation and migration of the bank website to ReactJS    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the website from Start to finish to give it a new look using HTML/CSS/React.  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Involved in building multiple Angular2 components for handling different functionality of the application.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS directives.  • Involved in developing the web pages using Angular 2/4 which are powerful in building the Single page web applications.  • Strong Knowledge on AngularJS and NodeJS architecture using Object Oriented concepts in enhancing the performance of the web applications  • Designed the user experience (UX) applications and developed the user interface (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React Js and Angular  • Created custom pipes using Angular 2 before displaying it to the user. Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using async functions. Interacted with restful services using angular 2 Http modules.  • Single page application associate criteria with real estate ads. Application based on angular 1.5 and UI-router  • Replaced their Presentation layer with a base framework implementing a Single Page Application Architecture using bootstrap, fontawesome, Angularjs, Angularjs-UI and underscore (Homepage, Search Screens and, CRUD screens for one complete USE Case  • Created unit tests using Jasmine Framework and SinonJS to increase code coverage for the whole module. UI developer LAKANA - Los Angeles, CA February 2015 to June 2017 Project Description: Front- end developer that creates new features, modules and components for the LAKANA's CMS platform and gives support for the existing ones as well. This platform is used by ABC, CBS, NBC, FOX to create their news networks. Worked in a component basis structure with Apache Velocity Templates, SASS, JavaScript and using KnockoutJS as a JS framework. During this project I had the complete ownership of all the tasks I worked with and work close to Project Managers and Leader Designers.    Responsibilities:  • Create new modules for the platform using Velocity, XML, SASS, JavaScript and KnockoutJS.  • Update the user interface with the design patterns.  • Create functionality for the new user experience design.  • Code refactor to improve the CMS performance using lazy loading and AJAX requests.  • Debugging implemented modules and component to fix defects.  • Implementation of third side services using API's.  • Being part of the Development meetings for the establishment of the CMS architecture and designs.  • Create new statements and improve practices in the development style guide.  • Being part of the code review team for the developers pull requests.  • Strong understanding and usage of Object Oriented Programming and Functional Programming.  • Being part of the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Use of Bitbucket and Git to create a Continuous Integration (CI) project.  • Use of Jira to manage the project under Agile/SCRUM methodology.    Languages/Technologies/Tools: JavaScript, SASS, HTML5, KnockoutJS, XML, GIT, Gulp, Jira/Confluence/Bitbucket (Project Owner-Scrum- Developer Tools) UI/ Front- End Developer Client Catalina marketing - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2013 to January 2015 Project Description: Create complete websites, with UI and UX design, developed with HTML5, SASS, AngularJS, Angular2 and Handlebars JS. Also I created complete e-commerce sites with full-custom templates in Magento and Shopify platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Angular and NodeJS.  • Used Typescript for client side validation.  • Used Angular 2, Typescript to develop the Single Page Application.  • Worked on Node.js for developing server-side web applications.  • Developed web service for web store components using Restful API.  • Expertise using the Nested Loops in SASS.  • Created Angular 2 custom directives, pipes.  • Experience in designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing almost all the GCP stack.  • Implemented a customized CSS theme for applying styles to the webpages.  • Developed page layouts, navigation and icons.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Written various custom controllers and Services in Angular 2 as per the functional requirement.  • Designed dynamic webpages using Angular 2 Forms, Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Created visual mock-ups and prototypes using HTML CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience in working with Google Maps API.  • Implemented Agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  • Designed user acceptance cases, test cases. Tested (Validating) front end with different set of data.  • UI development to create a seamless customer experience for an E-commerce website.  • Used CVS as a source code management system.  • Installed and setup the website, fixed bugs in the system and wrote the documentation.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Developed web projects including: Highly customized CMS based on WordPress, Shopify, Isomorphic React.js website using WP-REST API  • Worked on Web Content Management (WCM) Tools and technologies like Angular JS, HTML5, jQuery, CSS/CSS3, JSON and other web technologies.    Environment: HTML5/HTML4, CSS3/CSS2, JavaScript, JQuery, REST, JSON, DOM, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular, Handlebars JS, bootstrap, MVC, Adobe Fireworks, Photoshop, Illustrator, Google Maps API, AJAX, XML, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, SQL. UI/ Front- End Developer Assurant Solutions - Wayne, PA December 2010 to July 2013 Project Description: Complete redesign from the Iusacell systems to AT&T transformation in the acquisition of this company and design and developed of the most important AT&T new systems at Mexico: Customer Service System, Employee Network Platform and AT&T website.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Backbone and Node JS.  • Developed Front end frameworks using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3 (SASS), JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Implemented the online application by using Web Services, Restful.  • Used AngularJS, Node.js to develop the Single Page Application.  • Developed single page applications using Backbone, HandlebarsJS, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Responsible for designing page layout using HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap with and adding dynamic functionality to each module.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using RESTful API, JSON API.  • Developed and supported Mobile Web Services for the application using the RESTful architecture.  • Maintenance and development of tracking user interaction with the site using Analytics.  • Migration of the PHP application to AngularJs, which was a new redesign for the site.  • Created multi-browser compliant CSS using latest trends such as CSS/Bootstrap/LESS development and core CSS3.  • Code reviewing team members work in order to assure high quality code, following AT&T review criteria  • Working alongside team members helping each other when needed  • Gathering requirements and clarification from other teams in order to complete assigned tasks  • Partnered with creative team to ensure product roadmap and architectural vision were aligned  • Recognize issues, patterns across development and report to project manager  • Assisted on regression testing all developed work during sprint cycles  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, Backbone.js, Handlebars JS, Jasmine, Less, Sass, Normalize, Git, Grunt, MySQL. UI/ Front End Developer/Independent Contract Technik Inc - Arlington, VA March 2009 to November 2010 Project Description: Developed the website from Montecarlo, one of the most traditional board games Mexican companies, which needed to show all the games that the company was factoring and the animated demo with CSS and SVG of the gameplay for the most popular board games with HTML5, SASS, SVG, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the Software Requirements Specifications during onsite visits with multiple clients.  • Mainly indulged in Design and Development using JavaScript, XML, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  • CSS3 and SVG animations from the demo of the board game gameplay  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Construct the client-side script to function correctly across all the majority of web browsers.  • Generated project reports and estimated the cost of resources being utilizing in the project.  • Fixing post and pre Release defects and providing technical support for production sites.  • Preparation of all kinds of documentation related to technical or quality procedure.  • Provide effort estimations for the assigned tasks.  • Developed the base framework using HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, MY SQL Server  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Testing - unit testing & integration testing  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, Bootstrap, XML, HTML. Intern/Junior UI Programmer/Analyst PNC Financial Group - Bowling Green, OH May 2008 to February 2009 Project Description: As an Intern and passionate learner, had an opportunity of working with brands like Best Buy, Doritos and Banamex, just to mention some of them, making complete advertising campaigns in professional simulated projects.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle phases like requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different palaces.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic with PHP scripts to interface with a MySQL database.  • Implemented front- end layout and behavior with HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap  • Developed reports section and custom forms by using Bootstrap and JQuery  • Generated JSON encoded responses for auto filling data.  • Coordinating with web designers and developers for developing various web products  • Performing browser compatibility test on created designs  • Building, testing and developing various web products    Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Less, Sass, Normalize, JavaScript, jQuery Education Bachelor's Skills Angularjs, Bootstrap, Html5, Sass, Visual studio, React, UI, Front-End, Javascript, Front End