Designer/ Developer Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Art Director/ Front- End Developer/UI Designer Corvallis, OR I was the Art Director at NaturalPoint (DBA OptiTrack) where I led design while working  simultaneously in software development (UI/UX design, prototyping, testing), web  development (design, front- end coding) and marketing (graphics design, large-format  graphics). Familiar with both agile and continuous delivery approaches.    Portfolio    http://trevor.ochocki.name/    Tools & Languages    Acrobat HTML Pages Sublime Text  Assembla Illustrator Photoshop SVG  Automator InDesign Pixelmator Vue  CSS JavaScript PostCSS VuePress  Django Jira Principle Webpack  Figma jQuery Sass Word, etc.  Git Keynote Sketch WPF  Gulp Motion Stylus Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer/ Developer Squishymedia, Inc. - Portland, OR April 2019 to June 2019 Work simultaneously in front- end web development and web/app design. Art Director, UI/UX Designer and Front- End Developer NaturalPoint - Corvallis, OR August 2009 to January 2019 Work simultaneously in software development (UI/UX design, prototyping, testing), web  development (design, front- end coding) and marketing (graphics design, large-format). Co-owner/Designer/ Developer Flora Élan - Corvallis, OR August 2007 to August 2009 Worked simultaneously on all aspects of company. Sole creator of all product, print, and web designs. Managed all product research and development. Responsible for  implementation of e-commerce open source framework. Lead Designer/ Front- end Developer BWSI - Phoenix, AZ August 2004 to July 2006 Responsible for concept and design of company web site and web applications. Worked  simultaneously in the areas of software development, graphic/web design, marketing, and technical support. Lead Designer/ Front- end Developer PageMasters - Phoenix, AZ July 2002 to June 2004 Responsible for concept and design of company web site and web applications.  Successfully organized and managed a multitude of parallel projects in a digital workflow  ranging from web design, graphic design, and prepress. Worked simultaneously in the areas of software development, marketing, sales support, technical support, and printing while specializing in variable one-to-one marketing. Lead Designer/ Front- end Developer SanOne - Phoenix, AZ January 2000 to April 2002 Managed all areas of company web site in addition to parent and sister companies.  Successfully organized and directed multiple and simultaneous projects while under a strict deadline. Planned and implemented projects from conceptual creative development through final layout, design, production and coding to completed project delivery. Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.), Computer Graphics & Communications Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ December 1999