Front- end Web Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web Engineer Front- end Web Engineer - Zaplabs, Inc Daly City, CA Work Experience Front- end Web Engineer Zaplabs, Inc - Emeryville, CA May 2015 to Present Working with front- end engineering, back- end engineering, product management, design, and QA teams on a daily basis to design, test, and deliver working software and web interfaces across browsers and hybrid web apps. Write efficient, maintainable, and reusable code with CSS3, SASS, ES5/6, JQuery, Angular, React, web components, Handlebars and REST APIs for better usability and seamless backend integration. User Interface Developer Serena Software, Inc - San Mateo, CA January 2013 to February 2015 Working with a team of highly skilled developers, improve the existing web user interface and implement new features of SBM (Serena Business Manager), Serena's business process automation product. Implement customization and theming of the SBM web interface site with LESS stylesheets. Create a new HTML5 complaint and RESTful SBM web interface with CSS3, JQuery, javascript templating, Bootstrap framework and REST APIs for better usability and seamless backend integration. UI Prototyper/ Web Programmer Ring Central, Inc - San Mateo, CA August 2012 to January 2013 contract)  Working closely with web designers and product managers, design and prototype multi-device cross-browser web user interfaces and new products. Create clean, maintainable and extensible code using primarily HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery. Advocate for great usability, universal accessibility and seamless integration with third-party and in-house REST APIs. UI Developer Restoration Hardware - Corte Madera, CA January 2012 to June 2012 contract)  Develop and maintain dynamic JSP 2.0 pages in an ATG9.1/JBoss environment. Develop and maintain cross-browser CSS, XHTML, and unobtrusive Javascript code (both hand-written and JQuery library + plugins). Develop working prototypes for internal review and UI design collaboration. Work closely with other developers and shared resources (web merchants, designers, release engineers, QA testers), specifying / discussing technical design approaches, and seeking code reviews, project estimates and management. Front- end Web Developer Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA March 2011 to November 2011 contract)  Working closely with CX designers, product managers, business owners and software engineers, design, develop and implement top notch cross-browser web experiences. Create clean, maintainable and extensible code using primarily jsp, HTML, CSS and Javascript and Ajax. Advocate for best coding practices, WAI-ARIA accessibility, great usability and exceptional quality with a feeling of pride and ownership over the product quality. Front- end Web Developer Jigsaw, a Salesforce.com company - San Mateo, CA 2007 to 2011 Convert Photoshop and Fireworks mockups and hand-code HTML into cross-platform compliant jsps for Java based website with large backend database. Integrate webpages with complex backend applications, including but not limited to SEO, A/B testing, and Hitbox or Omniture tracking. Work hand-in-hand with back- end software engineers to code dynamic and interactive templates displaying database driven data in Agile development cycles. Collaborate with QA engineers to debug cross platform jsp issues to deliver quality database driven web applications within tight deadline. Senior Sitebuilder Agency.com - San Francisco, CA 2005 to 2006 Design and code cross-browser and cross-platform compliant web pages for mid to large scale projects using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML and XSL. Work with project managers and designers to translate designs, site maps and/ or wireframes into interactive web pages. Work with back- end web engineers to integrate dynamic web pages into new or existing system platforms and environments or CMS (Drupal or Wordpress), .NET or JSP. Work with QA testers to debug web pages and deliver quality websites. Webmaster Gavilan College - Gilroy, CA 2004 to 2005 Design and update the College and District website. Develop/maintain PHP, PhpMyAdmin, and Perl scripts necessary for dynamic functions of the college's website. Administer Apache web server and manage faculty web accounts. Administer content management system in Contribute and Drupal. Make sure web pages comply by Section 508 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and Federal policies. Web Designer/ Programmer, Marketing Services Group PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORPORATION 2001 to 2002 PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORPORATION - San Francisco, CA 2000 to 2002 PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORPORATION 2000 to 2001 Responsible for design and production of new web content on various projects for online credit card site. Responsible for programming, prototyping, and scripting web-based e-commerce applications. Translated business requirements and functional specifications into effective user interfaces. Translated Photoshop, Fireworks files into working HTML pages and Flash movies.  • Maintained, debugged, diagnosed and quality assured online content for best user experience.  • Designed and developed new user interface enhancing customer usability.  • Optimized site visits, increasing online credit card applicants. Education A.S. in Computer Science City College of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA June 2004 B.A. in Biochemistry University of California - Berkeley, CA May 1995 Skills API, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, Front End, UI, Front-End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/helenakwan