Full-Stack .Net Developer Full-Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack .Net Developer Miami, FL Accomplished Computer Science Engineer with solid experience as a Full-Stack .Net Developer and familiarize with all the  Software Development Life Cycle. Experience working with SQL and NoSQL databases. Great ability to troubleshoot,  translating requests into solutions, managing priorities and work on more than one project at a time. Excellent team player with  good interpersonal, analytical and communication skills.    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY  Programming languages: C#, C++, JavaScript, T-SQL, LINQ.  Frameworks & Libraries: .NET Framework, Bootstrap 4, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Fluent Validation.  Web Technologies: ASP.NET Core, MVC, MVVM, Angular, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Razor, AJAX, Web API, RESTful API.  Inversion of Control (IoC): Autofac.  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, Kendo UI.  Databases: MongoDB, SQL Server, MySQL.  CMS: GrandNode, NopCommerce, WordPress.  Source Version Control: Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS), Git.  Project Management: Jira, Azure DevOps, WORKAMAJIG, Slack.  IDEs: Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, Studio 3t, Robo 3T.  Other Tools: Brackets, Aton, Postman. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack .Net Developer Bayshore Solutions. - Tampa January 2019 to July 2019 https://www.bayshoresolutions.com  Responsibilities:  • Developed custom and responsive web applications using ASP.NET Core, MVVM, SqlServer, Entity Framework, Dependency Injection (DI) and Autofac (IoC Container), Bootstrap 4, JavaScript/JQuery/Kendo UI.  • Developed eCommerce websites using GrandNode (CMS) platform based on a defined set of business requirements.  • Designed and implemented a MongoDB database architecture.  • Developed and implemented a plugin that allowed the team migrating of data provided by the client to a new MongoDB  database architecture.  • Created and implemented complex queries to manage Embedded/Nested documents into a MongoDB database  architecture.  • Developed a Payment Plugin integrating the GrandNode "Check-Out" process and the Century Business Solutions  API. Worked with the EBizCharge payment gateway. https://www.centurybizsolutions.net  • Worked on the back- end, customizing the admin GrandNode environment and creating CRUD functionalities based on the business rules and the client requirements; using ASP.NET Core, MVVM, Dependency Injection (Autofac), Fluent  Validation and JavaScript (JQuery/Kendo UI).  • Worked with Azure DevOps Services, tracking project tasks, using Azure Repos as source version control and deploying project updates to staging and Dev environments.  • Involved in the complete life cycle (SDLC).  • Provided estimate of time for architecture, development and issue resolutions.  • Collaborated on-site with a cross-functional Agile team that includes project managers, web designers, programmers. Full-Stack .Net Developer ChemTel Inc February 2017 to December 2018 https://chemtelinc.com  Responsibilities:  • Maintained and Optimized internal company applications.  • Created and Implemented a responsive web application according to the final user requirements using ASP MVC, Razor, JavaScript/JQuery, Bootstrap, MySql, HTML5, CSS.  • Modified and optimized the website's company "paging option", creating a UI achieving a better UX.  • Designed and implemented a new reporting format using Crystal Report.  • Modified the search options allowing users making requests with different searching criteria and optimizing the response time of the Data Base Queries.  • Designed and implemented an SQL database architecture.  • Designed and implemented the "VesselReport" desktop application to generate Texas (after Harvey Hurricane)  maritime incidents reports and developed email alert notification to the competent authorities. Using C#, Entity  Framework Database First, MySql and Crytal Report.  • Designed and modified Web forms adding company identity elements, using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Deployed websites and desktop applications managing FTP and IIS servers.  • Maintained and managed MySql and SqlServer database servers using Microsft Sql Manager.  • Studio and Navicat.    Url Example: http://www.txdotwatch.com/ Freelance Wordpress Web Developer Diana & Hector Hostal -Tampa January 2017 to January 2018 http://casadianayhector.com  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a website for an oversea client.  • Customize themes to meet clients' requirements.  • Integrated web features using Contact 7 form and Advanced Booking Calendar plug-ins.  • Estructured pages using Elementor plug-ins.  • Integrated API with third-party services.  • Kept in touch with the client to obtain content and design approvals.  • Designed and modified images using Photoshop and Canvas obtaining an UI.  • Developed SEO task. Freelance Front- End Web Developer DICONS March 2017 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed an eComerce website participating in a geographically diverse team.  • Designed wireframes of responsive layouts.  • Developed dynamic, SEO friendly and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented responsive web design using Bootstrap.  • Developed a client requirement web form using JavaScript, ASP.NET MVC and AJAX.  • Kept in touch with the client to obtain content and design approvals. Software Developer Servicios Técnicos Integrales - La Habana, CU September 2013 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team environment with other developers, analysts, project managers and client staff.  • Developed of an economic desktop application according to user requirements using C#, Entity Framework and SQL  Server Management Studio.  • Created Windows forms that contain C# code for business and data access. Search processes and infrastructure.  Modeling, designing, management and optimization of data.  • Designed and developed a database using SqlServer 2012.  • Created database backup using SqlServer 2012. Software Developer Ministerio de la Informática y las Telecomunicaciones - La Habana, CU September 2008 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created Windows forms using C#.NET for middle-tier processing of client requests with ADO.NET interfaces for database and implemented stored procedures.  • Debug the Windows applications to rectify the errors that surface during the operations.  • Implemented appropriate error alerts handlers so that user can experience user-friendly messages for exceptions.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Views in SQL Server for accessing the database. Education Bachelor Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Computer Sciences - Havana, CU July 2008 Skills C#, Javascript, Jquery, WPF, WCF, ASP, .Net, MVC