Technical Scrum Master Technical Scrum Master Technical Scrum Master - IHG Alpharetta, GA • About 11+ Years of experience in Analyze, Design, Development and implementation of software application on n-tier architecture based solution with distributed components and intranet applications  • Currently working as technical scrum master for Product teams with a focus on guiding the teams towards improving the way they work.  • Acted as a Project Manager when necessary  • Facilitated Scrum Daily standup, Product backlog, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings.  • Successfully guided three development teams through transition from waterfall to agile development.  • Assisted team to remove impediments by having an understanding the control and release processes  • Coordinated and participated in weekly estimation meetings to provide high-level estimates (Story Points) for backlog items  • Engaged with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization  • Assisted with prioritization and resolution of software defects  • Provided all support to the team using a servant leadership style whenever possible, and led by example  • Experience in working with clients on-site, analyzing software requirements and developing solutions and procedures.  • Experience developing Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript and JavaScript Frameworks like jQuery and AngularJS, Backbone JS, Kendo UI, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, MySQL.  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Proficient in designing and developing web front end, with sound understanding of Object Oriented Programming Concepts and component-based, object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands on development expertise in front end GUI Layer.  • Good Experienced in working with Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in web development, design and maintenance. Knowledge of Android/IOS & Hybrid application development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Scrum Master IHG - Alpharetta, GA June 2017 to Present IHG wanted to implement a Revenue Management System (RMS) for managing hotel bookings across the globe. RMS is a parent application it has child applications called eINNstein, Hotel interface, RMS toolkit. RMS wants to access all these application from one single platform and give Microsoft outlook kind of feel. Every application has different functionality towards Revenue Management including Hotel Details, Reservation details, Amenities details, Rate analysis, OCC %, Strategic Planning and other features    Responsibilities:  • Tech lead turned in to a technical scrum master  • Conducting daily scrum meeting and updating daily status update to rally and scrum board (Team Up)  • Introduced sprint retrospection culture in the organization  • Coordinating with onsite and offshore team and resolved communication gap between two teams  • Built relationship with Product owner and other stake holders to facilitate team's interaction with them  • Engaged with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization  • Separating child application from single application take part in setting different web/app servers for all different projects  • Separating entire code base using GIT, set build process for each application individually using Jenkins  • Develop AngularJS Application using custom components instead of directives and used modules.  • Used Wire Mock for mockups so developer doesn't have to wait for API  • Extensive use of Kendo UI  • Code review of entire UI team  • Implemented unit testing using Jasmine.    Environment: AngularJS (1.5), AngularJS 2, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Jasmine, Angular UI, Java, J2EE, GIT, Grunt, Rally, Team UP, Planning Poker, Wire Mock AngularJS Lead CITI Bank, NJ August 2015 to May 2017 Citibank wanted to implement a comprehensive Global Collateral Management and Monitoring system (GCMMS) for managing Wholesale Banking Book Collateral to mitigate risks involved in varied lines of business like ILOC, ELOC, and LCB. GCMMS will allow managing and monitoring the collateral's positions with respect to eligibility checks, concentration limits, surplus or shortfalls based on pledge agreements. GCMMS will also provide the opportunity to eliminate, wherever possible, manual interventions and automate those manual processes.    Responsibilities:  • Architect and Design and Develop AngularJS Application using custom directives and custom modules.  • Designing and programming standard based websites for medium sized businesses using HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used views, which present data to the users, controllers, which manages the $scope and expose behavior to the view, directives, which connects user interactions to $scope.  • Implement sophisticated custom Routing mechanism.  • Implemented custom HTTPIntercepter for handling REST from centralize location.  • Created Centralized Notification Manager and Error Manager.  • Translated business logic in to decoupled logical directives.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme and layout for Application and implemented MVC.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles and fixed major bugs for supported browsers and platforms.  • Used Restful APIs which support JSON and XML to access back- end data payload.  • Coordinating with the team and get the work done on deadline  • Coordinating with offshore team  • Implemented unit testing using Jasmine.  • Interacted with the back- end staff and scrum master at the daily meeting for new features in this web app using agile software development methodology.    Environment: AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Node.js, Jasmine, Angular UI, Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, craft Sr. UI Developer PepsiCo, NY October 2013 to July 2015 PepsiCo ERP system Integrate business process and information from entire enterprise. The system helps in coordinating operation of the business function ERP systems are software packages that can be used for core systems necessary to support enterprise systems, when a user enters or updates information in one module, it is immediately and automatically updated throughout the entire system    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages.  • Designing and programming standard-based websites for medium sized businesses using HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used AngularJS, jQuery and JavaScript for front end web designing.  • Implemented AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • The tech stack is Angular.JS, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting-edge server-side technologies.  • Worked on Net Beans and Dreamweaver to create web pages using HTML, CSS3/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript to implement validation logic as well as AJAX to provide a flicker free refresh feature for the front end.  • Developed CSS LESS styles in order to maintain consistency of the web user interface.  • Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using jQuery.  • Perform a variety of administrative tasks including preparation of Power Point presentations, data entry and analysis, web site development and presentations.  • Facilitated projects in an office with other team members and served on collaborative project teams.    Environment: HTML, AngularJS, CSS3, LESS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Net Beans, JSON, JSF, Bower, Rest Web Services, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, java, Oracle, Ant UI Front End Developer Vangauard - Malvern, PA November 2012 to September 2013 Credit Risk is End to end loan-processing system. The System will be used across the world for ARIS application. It includes modules such as Sales which contain customer registration with system, Collateral module which keeps track of all the collateral submitted by customer against the loan, Approval module is decision maker for loan processing, Activity module keeps track of insurance and document keeps track of all other documents, portfolio management and early warning and remedial.    Responsibilities:  • Developed AngularJS Application using custom directives and custom modules.  • Performed initial technical discovery on customer needs.  • Develop components using JavaScript.  • Managed all project artifacts and kept notes on all meetings and customer interactions for reference.  • Worked with business analysts to understand and implement complex functionality related to business requirement.  • Worked with customer's development team to understand and define common data and components.  • Developed responsive HTML and CSS to fit into screen of different device by using Media Queries.  • Implemented custom HTTPIntercepter for handling REST from centralize location  • Created Centralized Notification Manager and Error Manager.  • Developed hybrid mobile applications with Apache Cordova that can run natively on android devices with the option expand to iOS, Blackberry etc.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JAVA, SQL, Ajax, JSON, GIT, Grunt, Backbone JS, jQuery. Sr. Software Developer L&T InfoTech - IN February 2011 to October 2012 E-Statement is an application where user can login to their account and check reports, Bank statements, logs of their Different Types of accounts like saving account, Current account, E-Saving account, DIFS cash account. Using Dashboard user can go though Bank account, Investment Deposit, Investment Funds, Share Holding, Card holding, Funds etc.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop application using Adobe Flex SDK 4.0 and JavaScript.  • Implemented cairngorm MVC framework for decoupling.  • Implemented Integration between Flex and Java Spring Framework.  • Created Custom components using action script.  • Testing and debugging application.  • Used JSON to store and access the data in a search page.  • Used GIT as version control application to maintain the update.  • Given training on flex4 to entire team.  • Handle client call on regular basis and generate reports based on that.  • Worked with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.    Environment: Flex 4.5, Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, craft UI Developer Polaris Software Lab May 2007 to December 2010 Media Store is one of the key projects of Verizon Wireless to sell Ring Tones, Ring Back Tones, MP3s, Mobile Games, and Wallpapers etc. Verizon wireless subscribers can go to media store and buy digital media for their cell phones. This project has dynamic UI with rich visual effects to present huge information in usable manner.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop application using Adobe Flex SDK 4.0 and JavaScript.  • Implemented cairngorm MVC framework for decoupling.  • Implemented Integration between Flex and Java Spring Framework.  • Used JSON to store and access the data in a search page.  • Implementing BlazeDS.  • Used GIT as version control application to maintain the update.  • Testing and debugging application.  • Weekly code reviews.  • Worked with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.    Environment: Flex 3, Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate,SQL.    This project includes role based web enable application for Safari Magazine Pvt. Ltd, published Magazines weekly and monthly. This project Contains User Management Module, Vehicle Management Module, Newsprint Management Module, and Communication Dispatch Management Module.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Java Modules  • Implemented annotation in Spring Framework.  • Testing and debugging application.  • Weekly code reviews.  • Worked with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.    Environment: JDBC, JSP, Servlet, Struts, Tomcat, MySql.  Obataimu is a clothing brand; in this website subscribers can buy cloths they can customize cloths and other accessories. User can view updates about new and upcoming fashion and blog.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop application using Adobe Flex SDK 4.0.  • Implemented Integration between Flex and Java Spring Framework.  • Used JSON to store and access the data in a search page.  • Testing and debugging application.  • Weekly code reviews.  • Worked with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.    Environment: JDBC, struts, flex 3, javaScript Education Bachelor's Skills Git (9 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JSON (9 years), ANGULARJS (6 years), Scrum Master, Scrum, Agile Scrum, Jira, CSM Additional Information Skills:    • Agile, Scrum  • Rally, Jira  • Scrum Board  • Team UP  • Planning Poker  • Kanban  • HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, Bootstrap  • AJAX, JSON , XML  • AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery  • SVN , GIT