Lead Interaction Designer Lead Interaction Designer Lead Interaction Designer - Wells Fargo Fremont, CA Work Experience Lead Interaction Designer Wells Fargo - Oakland, CA October 2017 to Present Lead user experience improvement process for Bio Authentication project. Executes sprints to define, test and implement design requirements. Defines the end-to- end user experience (runway, inclusive user flow and broad experience design patterns). Implements scrum team user stories related to design in partnership from the Value Stream Design Team as needed.  • Simplified complex business requirement and a large chunk of data fields to improve application flow.  • Participates in the collective design decisions made by the team.  • Create UI layout/wireframe, following Wells Fargo Brand Central, Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0.  • Creates prototypes to test concepts and stays current on technology (Responsive web, Native iOS, Android) and trends that will impact users. Focuses on creating engaging interfaces with intuitive behaviors that aligns with users' mental models, ensuring a simple and effective customer experience that minimizes cognitive load.  • Advocates for the best possible user experience for our customers, based on research, enterprise profiles, task models, and industry best practices.  • Clearly communicates to business partners DXD design standards, DXD processes, interaction best practices, content strategy, technical considerations, and the customer experience strategy.  • Creates new experiences to reflect evolving customer expectations and design capabilities.  • Understands digital experience principles, the DXD global strategy, and WFVC's vision (incorporating them into every design).  • Managed and delivered modeling and testing experiences to ensure the team can understand how customers respond to designs (task-model session, usability testing, etc.).  • Maintains consistency in deliverables, documentation, and design by being aware of other DXD projects, understanding and advocating DXD standards, and using baseline templates.  • Review of team deliverables/artifacts. Freelance UI-UX Designer/ Front End Web Developer Fremont Tile & Carpet and Uniq Eyewear - Fremont, CA February 2017 to October 2017 Applied UX design principles to address complex design problems and deliver simple, accessible user experiences for customers. Increased Website and foot traffic by 86% utilizing Google Analytics and Google My Business. Effectively communicated and collaborate with cross-functional teams to deliver a quick prototype with less iteration and faster turnaround times with fewer meetings.    • Translated UX research into design recommendations and UX requirements.  • Build end-to- end working prototypes to communicate and test designs with owners.  • Acted as liaison between analysts, business users, and subject matter experts to elicit, analyze and document requirements to determine user needs and translate into a high-level of high-fidelity mock-up using Sketch and Adobe CC 2016(Photoshop and Illustrator)  • Converted high fidelity mock-up to working HTML5 responsive prototype utilizing Bootstrap 4.0 and jQuery 3.1.0. RLT-Sales UCFA Wells Fargo - Concord, CA December 2015 to January 2017 Interaction Designer and Front- end Developer    Lead User Interface and User Experience improvement process for 3 internal applications (Store Vision Platform, Underwriting Application (Provenir), and Wealth Management Group) by the established trust with Project Managers and developers. Created wireframe in Balsmiq per business requirements. Designed mockup in Adobe Illustrator CC 2017, Adobe Photoshop CC 2016, and iRise. Developed HTML5 pages with CSS3 and Bootstrap v4.0.0-alpha.5 utilizing Visual Studio 2015 (hand coding).    • Conducting end-to- end user (Underwriting team) experience of research to support persona creation as input to design decisions.  • Simplified complex layout with a large chunk of data fields to improve application flow and reduced MIPS (minimum inquire per second).  • Converted old pages into new responsive (RWD) pages utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap v4.0.0-alpha.5 framework in Visual Studio 2015.  • Validate HTML code utilizing Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 and W3C Markup Validation Service  • Created UI layout, wireframe, and Pattern Library following Wells Fargo Brand Central guidelines.  • Track project progress in JIRA (Agile Scrum Methodology) and Confluence. UI-UX Designer KAISER PERMANENTE - Richmond, CA January 2008 to December 2015 Key responsibilities included working with the Sr. project manager for wireframe (Adobe CS6 Photoshop, Illustrator) and, improve functionality using (CSS3 and HTML 5 in Dreamweaver), Interaction using strict guidelines.    • Increased productivity and sales through UX/UI improvements within the POS system by gathering and analyzing data from labs, manufacturing, and 40 sales offices regarding user behavior and making numerous functional improvements, including elimination of excessive scrolling, added keyboard shortcuts, improved page transitions, visual hierarchies between patient charts and orders, and more.  • Reduced user errors by 60% within the POS system and received CEO recognition by reporting and resolving problems on runtime errors and loops, improving the speed with image reduction and additional div tags, improving fields to increase order entry speed, and adding a data entry validation window.  • Improved operational efficiency and increased optical sales by $15MM by analyzing feedback from patients and staff, as well as accounting, product breakage, and inventory reports to improve processes.  • Enhanced https://thrive.kaiserpermanente.org site functionality and effectiveness by volunteering to bring it up to WEB 2.0 standards, perform SEO Analysis, implement language/tags to improve site listings on Google, and making recommendations for image and marketing messaging improvements to the marketing team. Lead UI-UX Designer MSP Portals - San Francisco, CA March 2013 to November 2015 Lead development processes by using wireframe (Balsamiq) and designing mock-up (Adobe CC Photoshop, Adobe CC illustrator) hand-coded clean HTML, CSS 3.0, and jQuery to create responsive designs across different (Chrome, Firefox, and IE) web browsers and mobile platforms for the client, ensuring that all quality standards are met. Evaluate and implement current industry trends, as well as client and company design standards through regular technical research and analysis (Google Analytics).    • Cultivate relationships with stakeholders and hold regular meetings to discuss product expectations and planning to increase overall client satisfaction with the final product.  • Increased register users from 1 to 5 per day and page session averages from 1 to 3.07 minutes, in addition to reducing bounce rates from 68% to 42% for https://www.yourgaragesale.com by implementing intuitive and effective recordation and UI design strategies to increase overall responsiveness and ease of use.  • Maximize development efficiency and quality as a liaison between application architects and development teams coordinating project components, while utilizing storyboards and code testing to ensure optimal user experiences.  • Collaborate with product development teams and junior designers to optimize design requirements to ensure easy interaction and design across operating systems and devices, as well as with all potential navigational tools. Web Designer and Front- End Web Developer GOINDUSTRY DOVBID - San Mateo, CA February 2007 to December 2008 Collaborated with a project manager, as well as a marketing manager, a system architect, and an ASP programmer to redesign site elements, modify functionality, and maintain site elements and the user interface of web applications for http://www.go-dove.com/en/, implementing project management skills to ensure client satisfaction.    • Improved user interfaces and created adaptive, responsive, data-driven user experiences by transforming requirements based on analysis and research, changing the color scheme to match company branding, and updating site functionality with HTML5/CSS2.0, JavaScript, and 508 compliance to meet web 2.0 standards.  • Increased client operational efficiency by collaborating with an ASP programmer to automate product postings, alleviating the need for manual input.  • Drove the site's competitive strength by researching competitor design concepts and visual identities and developing strategies to optimize site elements. Education Bachelor of Arts in Digital Graphics and Multimedia in Digital Graphics and Multimedia California State University - Hayward, CA Associate of Arts in Digital Graphics in Digital Graphics Ohlone College - Fremont, CA Skills Illustrator, Usability testing, User research, Mock-ups, Prototyping, Wordpress, Bootstrap, Html5, Visual studio Code (5 years), Javascript, Jira, Usability, jquery, Ms office, Wireframing, Data collection, Photoshop, Mac, Mac os, Visual Design, Sketch, UX, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator Links http://www.fremonttileandcarpet.com https://thrive.kaiserpermanente.org http://www.go-dove.com/en http://paulpatel.me Additional Information Areas of Expertise  User Research User-centered design (UCD) Project Management  Wireframing Data Collection & Analysis Error Reduction  Mock-ups & Prototyping Improved Efficiency & Profits Usability testing    Technical Skills    Adobe Creative Cloud 2017 (Proficiency in Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and InDesign) • CSS3 • HTML5 • Bootstrap v4.0.0-alpha.5• Invison app • Sketch • Axure • Flinto • iRise Studio and Definition Center • Visual Studio Code v.1.22 • jQuery • JavaScript • Google Analytics • Winmerg • Windows & Mac OS • JIRA and Confluence • WordPress • MS Office 2016