Administrative Secretary Administrative Secretary Executive Assistant and IT Professional Paterson, NJ Work Experience Administrative Secretary City of Paterson - Paterson, NJ October 2016 to Present • Perform a wide variety of complex, responsible, and confidential secretarial and administrative duties for nine (9) City Council members and City Clerk.  • Coordinate and prepare various agendas, identify agenda items and supporting documents.  • Attend meetings; records and transcribe minutes; prepare and distributes agenda packets and meeting minutes; post legally required notices; record official actions; maintain legislative history of all City Council actions; prepare facilities for meetings.  • Compose and prepare letters, memoranda, and reports. Website Front End Developer & Site Administration Church of Jesus Christ Apostolic, Inc - Passaic, NJ June 2011 to Present • Responsible for design conceptualization and development of cjcpassaic.org website.  • Complete detailed programming tasks for front end.  • Content management.  • Quality assurance testing. IT Consultant Committee to Re-Elect Councilman Bill McKoy - Paterson, NJ February 2016 to August 2016 • Designed, developed and implemented database to track, monitor and report on state registered voters, petitioners and supporters.  • Created management reports showing correlation between registered voters, past voters and petitioners which increased efficiency for targeting supporters.  • Designed, developed and managed councilmanbillmckoy.com website.  • Designed, developed and managed billmckoyfoundation.org.  • Designed, developed and managed William Bill McKoy Facebook identity.  • Provided technical guidance. IT Consultant Newton Medical Center - Newton, NJ April 2014 to November 2014 Newton Medical Center is one of four other hospitals in the Atlantic Health System and is one of the largest non-profit health care systems in New Jersey.  • Planned, designed, implemented IT Asset Management database, reports and processes.  • Utilized Microsoft Access, SQL, VBA and Excel skills (macros, functions, pivot tables) to improve database for management of hardware assets which improved departmental accountability of assets and ensured compliance with policies.  • Performed reconciliation between disparate data repositories to ensure consistency of all data sources.  • Authored, designed and presented "The Criticality of Knowing What and Where the IT Assets Are" to IT staff and management. VP - Information Technology Halcyon Capital Management - New York, NY January 1996 to May 2011 A privately held global investment firm with approximately $10 billion in AUM providing investment management products to both international and domestic markets.    Advanced through several promotions (VP - Information Technology; VP - Application Development; Application Developer; IT Coordinator; Trade Support Office Associate, culminating in last VP-level role assisting CTO with firm's IT operations and overseeing business continuity and disaster recovery activities. Managed a $2 million budget and five-member team. Provided daily oversight to IT operations in a trading environment. Managed projects for NY and London offices. Lead the research, design, development, documentation, testing and rollout of enterprise applications.    • Designed, implemented and managed proprietary trading allocation system; saved firm hundreds of thousands of dollars and reduced processing time down from five hours to twenty minutes; substantially increased data accuracy rate.  • Designed applications and databases for the management of market data entitlements, contracts, software licenses, employee resources, company intranet, IT Help Desk ticketing system, investor relations CRM, and bank debt which drove continuous improvement to processes, systems, work flow and customer responsiveness  • Served on IT Steering committee.  • Managed corporate-wide business continuity and disaster recovery projects.  • Managed IT vendor, contract and outsourcing projects.  • Reviewed, negotiated and approved contracts and SLA agreements  • Managed New York and London software inventory and licenses.  • Provided employee training/orientation for information systems.  • With IT, participated in the identification, development and communication of new technology standards and best practices as appropriate. Education A.A.S. in Management Information Systems Sussex County Community College - Newton, NJ December 2019 Project Management Professional (PMP) County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ August 2016 Certified Business Continuity Planner Disaster Recovery Institute - New York, NY Skills TRAINING (10+ years), DATABASE (8 years), SQL (4 years), 80 WPM (5 years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Scheduling (5 years), Receptionist (5 years), Office Experience, Financial Services, Microsoft Office, Database Marketing, CRM Software, Microsoft Powerpoint, Public Speaking, Office Manager Experience, Excel, Fundraising Additional Information Core Competencies    • C-Level Executive Support  • Travel Arrangements and Scheduling  • Calendar Management  • Analysis of Data and Written Materials  • Presentation Development  • Writing and Research  • Project Management  • Data Analysis  • Systems Analysis  • Database Development  • Technical Support  • User Training  • Vendor Management  • Microsoft Office (advanced)  • Website Design  • Social Media    Technical Skills    • Typing Speed: 80 wpm  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Outlook    • SQL Server  • SharePoint  • Java    • HTML, HTML5  • CSS, CSS3  • Visual Basic, VBA  • Crystal Reports