Sr. Front End UI Engineer/Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI Engineer/Lead Sr. Front End UI Engineer/Lead - Fox TV Distribution Los Angeles, CA • I have over 12+ years of experience developing high profile Web-sites, highlights include:  • Expert level web-development and design skills with Fortune 500 companies and enterprises such as Fox, Yahoo, Walmart, NFL, DirecTV, Experian, Variety, Taco Bell, Herbalife, Sony Pictures, and Anheuser Busch.  • Hands on experience with providing leadership for up to (10) direct reports, and providing baselines for technical documentation, the development of site standards and best practices, testing, quality assurance, and reporting.  • Extensive experience in development cycles including test-driven and design-driven develoipment.  • Experience on content management systems, many back end languages, RichMedia Ads, CDNs, Video production. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End UI Engineer/Lead Fox TV Distribution - Los Angeles, CA May 2017 to Present Contract)  • Add new screens and functions to release date tracking and windowing application  • Create new UI for growing internal application in HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  • Create Excel-like data grids to track global TV and film release dates for all media types Sr. Front End UI Engineer & Lead Primitive Logic - San Francisco, CA September 2016 to May 2017 Consultant)  Working on 2 large Gas/Electric utilities to revamp customer facing features as part of a specialized consulting team, I also attend business, technology and stakeholder meetings. I will assist in evaluation and scoping of initiatives, and interviewing other front end/UI developers to enhance Primitive Logic's Front End (aka UI) practice.  My technical role involves developing in AngularJS, NodeJS, GruntJS, Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle ADF, SVN, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, and accessibility with ARIA attributes for screen readers and ADA (disability) compliance. As well as creating a toolkit and overseeing other developers. Lead Front End UI Engineer Aysenberg - Pasadena, CA March 2016 to August 2016 Consultant)  • Build responsive product sites for toy brand Bandai and gaming site Nexon.  • Create new UI from scratch in HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Foundation, Grunt, AngularJS Sr. Front End UI Engineer LegalZoom - Austin, TX April 2015 to March 2016 Employee)  I was brought in to modernize the entire front end and build process by introducing NodeJS, GulpJS, JSON, Handlebars and new practices. I then documented, presented and deployed the process company-wide. Overall page load speed increased, rapid prototyping through a custom page builder occurred, and mobile/responsive web design was introduced for the first time along with a complete site redesign. In addition, I lead and mentor junior developers and do regular classes and code reviews. Sr. Front End UI Engineer HealtDataVision November 2014 to March 2015 Consultant)  • Optimize CSS, HTML, JS assets and organize folders  • Single page applications created using Durandal, JavaScript, HTML and CSS Sr Front End UI Engineer Lynda.com - Carpinteria, CA March 2014 to November 2014 Consultant)  • Update existing courseware templates in jQuery, CSS and HTML  • Single page application URL routing and push state changes in Angular.js Sr Front End UI Engineer (offsite) Walmart Labs September 2013 to January 2014 Contract)  • Enhancements of massive ecommerce site under registry and lists (baby, wedding, wishlists)  • Backbone.js, Node.js, Twitter Bootstratp, Grunt, Stylus, Sass, Handlebars, and Thorax to construct templates  • Construct and document APIs and Virtual Machines for new developers Enterprise Web Developer UI/CMS NFL November 2012 to August 2013 Contract-Perm)  • Create CSS for specialty functions like message boards from third party provider Pluck  • Maintain CSS and HTML in custom TeamSite DCRs  • Create secondary CSS, HTML and Jquery to consolidate 32 club -sites; ie: Packers, Patriots Enterprise Web Developer UI/CMS Herbalife September 2011 to June 2012 Contract)  • Create HTML, CSS, Jquery and production graphics based on design comps from multiple sources.  • Incorporate new templates in to Teamsite.  • Establish design docs, copy deck, style guides, and standards and practices from scratch.  • Encode and maintain CDN videos. Web Developer Stila Cosmetics July 2010 to September 2011 Contract)  • Create new site from PSD comps.  • Enhance e-commerce experience in ASP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS  • Develop Art of Color site for W magazine co-branding Enterprise Web Developer Experian June 2009 to June 2010 Contract-Perm)  • Reskin and enhance applications in Sharepoint sites for global marketing team.  • Code front end and site modules for business and personal financial services projects in global marketing.  • Work in international division porting old content to new design and import to TeamSite.  • Encode and maintain CDN videos like BrightCove with video SEO. Enterprise Web Developer Variety.com July 2008 to April 2009 Contract-Perm)  • Contract to perm developer and maintenance. Maintained Typepad blogs, layouts and CMS modifications.  • Support writers and event promoters with desktop apps and Web-formatting content. Web Designer/ Developer Big Interactive - San Diego, TX January 2008 to July 2008 and Orlando), Busch Gardens Theme Parks, Sesame Place and Water Country USA.  • Responsibilities included, pre-design requirements gathering, design and development, QA, launch, relaunch, post launch support and ongoing maintenance. Developed sites with: ASP.Net, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop. Web Master LowestPaintBallPrices.com - Costa Mesa, CA June 2006 to March 2007 Freelance)  • Recruited to develop an entire e-commerce package which included 8 additional shopping carts, an online auction, and b2c for paintball airsoft and products.  • Responsible for the ongoing maintenance of the site. Web Developer ILive.com - Irvine, CA November 2005 to May 2006 Employee)  • Carried combined roles of Senior Web Producer and Senior Web Developer for a broadband VOD website.  • Created CMS, wrote JavaScript, ASP, .Net, and CSS Web Developer BCBG Max Azria - Los Angeles, CA February 2004 to November 2005 Employee)  • Produced designed and maintained BCBG's website.  • Graphics for in store visuals, runway shows, and catalogs.  • Scanned images for web use. Education Bachelor's Skills React, UI, Angular, Javascript, Front End, Front-End, Angularjs, User Interface, Java, Jquery