Sales Representative Sales Representative Katy, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Representative Outori Limited - Lagos January 2018 to June 2019 • Brand introduction and repositioning for Marlboro, Chesterfield, and Bond Street Cigarette.   • On-field brand assessment trips to engage customers.  • Actively advertised company’s products.   • Educating consumers on the qualities of all PMI brands.   • Collecting relevant customer feedback for the company to improve customer. satisfaction and distribution challenges.  • Driving sales of all company’s brands through aggressive marketing. Contract Auditor Cadbury Nigeria PLC, - Lagos January 2011 to December 2017 • On-field auditing for all Cadbury’s major distributors in the South-East zone.   • New product introduction and education to distributors.   • Physical Stock Counting.   • Collecting relevant customer feedback for the company to improve customer satisfaction and distribution challenges. Front- end web developer & Logistics Executive Deefrent Limited - Lagos August 2005 to May 2008 •  Responsible for the fulfilling the business of the logistics arm of the business.  • Helping the development team with basic HTML fixes for clients eg ARM Pensions, MTN, Globacom Telecoms, and Aggressive Growth Fund Websites. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Ekiti State University - Ekiti August 2006 to June 2012 Skills Good communication skills • Expert knowledge of Microsoft Office suite. • Auditing and Record reconciliation • On-Field sales •Ability to work under some pressure . Ability to work without supervision. Ability to coordinate and supervise workers and ensure team spirit • Basic HTML understanding, Selling, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses Secondary Schoool Certificate Examination September 1996 to Present Primary School Leaving Certificate September 1987 to Present Assessments Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fi9kmbri3a8ngmc7 Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lc5-hfzpf7ryxvhe Marketing — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand your target audience and how to best communicate with them. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uugzhqw1ae4vwyje Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.