Azure Engineer Azure Engineer Azure Engineer - Albano Systems Inc Glastonbury, CT • IT professional with 10+ years of experience in Cloud Infrastructure management and Implementation.  • Experience in Windows Azure Services like PaaS, IaaS and worked on storages like Blob (Page and Block), Sql Azure. Well experienced in deployment & configuration management and Virtualization.  • Strong Experience on Administration and Troubleshooting of Azure IAAS Components (VM, Storage, VNET, OMS, NSG, Site to Site VPN, RBAC, Load Balancers, Availability Sets).  • Excellent knowledge in Azure compute services, Azure Web apps, Azure Data Factory & Storage, Azure Media & Content delivery, Azure Networking, Azure Hybrid Integration, and Azure Identity & Access Management.  • Expertise in Azure infrastructure management (Azure Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure, Azure Storage, Azure AD Licenses, Office365).  • Sound knowledge in migrating on premise to Windows Azure using Azure Site Recovery and Azure backups.  • Experience in Automating, Configuring and Deploying Instances on Azure environments and in Data centers.  • Expertise in setting up servers from scratch on clustered environment and load balancing.  • Experience on installing and configuring SSL certificates in web servers.  • Hands-on experience in working with applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, spring, and Hibernate.  • Ability to prioritize and multi-task while working as part of a team.  • I have produced specifications and prototypes describing interaction requirements to support evolving software application development.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node JS with cutting edge. Experience in express Route configuration, Site to Site VPN, Point to Site VPN.  • Hands on experience in managing Azure Storage Accounts.  • Sound knowledge of 3-tier and N-tier layered architecture.  • Experience in Creating ARM templates for Azure Platform.  • Ability to create scripts using Azure PowerShell during for automation and build process.  • Good working experience in Azure Logic apps, Service Bus, Document DB and SQL Database, Data warehouse.  • Planning and implementing Disaster Recovery solutions, capacity planning, data archiving, backup/recovery strategies, Performance Analysis, and optimization.  • Experience in UX Strategy, Research, Interaction Design, and Prototyping.  • Proficient in developing web pages quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, C#, RWD (Responsive Web Design) and jQuery and experience in making the webpage cross browser compatible.  • Familiar with developing with Bootstrap &CSS pre-processors (LESS, SASS, etc.)  • Experience in working MVC Architecture using AngularJS for templates.  • Extensive experience in working with Restful Web Services.  • Extensively used tools like Gulp, Grunt to develop internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, Backbone Js, Jade, Pure CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Hands on technology experience of designing and developing software applications with Microsoft .NET using C#, Classic ASP, VB.NET, ADO.NET  • Experience in database design, scalable platforms and agile methodologies (SCRUM).  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Oprah, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Excellent communication skills, with an ability to understand the concepts and technical and non-technical requirements.  • Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Azure Engineer Albano Systems Inc - Glastonbury, CT March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Setup/Configured Bloomberg production Azure environment for Sales team.  • Successfully established and tested Azure Tenant for production.  • Setup Office 365 Blomberg.com DNS record.  • Created Policy in Office 365 to distribution office 365 applications.  • Provided technical direction to allow Active Directory on-Prem group to populate users through Ping Federated.  • Setup of Multi-Factor Authentication between the Azure and Ping Federated with AD on-prem passwords.  • Setup Intune software deployment to allow users to authenticate to Azure Tenant.  • Configured and successfully tested BitLocker policy in Azure for drive encryption.  • Created of user roles with-in Office 365 for Bloomberg's production environment.  • Assisted management setup the Enterprise roles for payment of the Bloomberg Azure.  • Tested Factory-Wiping of Laptop through BitLocker for security purposes.  • Creation of Azure Metadata for configuration to Ping Federation Idp configuration.  • Reviewed and provided guidance of Blomberg's production Active Directory environment for zero impact during the of Azure, Intune and Ping Federated.  • Triage and respond to all clients facing Bloomberg downstream application issues related to the Bloomberg API product.    Environment: Microsoft Windows Azure, Windows PowerShell, Azure AD, Azure SQL, Office 365, Microsoft Azure Storage, BitLocker, Ping Federated. Azure Cloud Engineer Hilton World Wide - Memphis, TN January 2016 to March 2018 My major duties were to plan, develop and assist the migration of client's on-premise infrastructure to Microsoft Cloud (Azure). Design and implement hybrid on premise and cloud migration and management strategy for the new hybrid cloud solution in single and multiple site data centers.    Responsibilities:  • Solutions Consultant responsible for architecture decisions and tasks for ongoing migration efforts.  • Design, install, administer, and optimize hybrid cloud components to ensure business continuity (i.e. Azure AD, ADFS, SSO & VPN Gateways.).  • Involved in the design and development of web application in C#.NET, ASP. Net, User Controls and deployment in the cloud environment.  • Worked on various Azure services like Compute (Web Roles, Worker Roles), Azure Websites, Caching, SQL Azure, NoSQL, Storage, Network services, Azure Active Directory, API Management, Scheduling, Auto Scaling, and PowerShell Automation.  • Responsible to develop services using .NET/C# code and Web API technology (Restful API)  • Developed ASP.NET Web API services to return JSON and XML Format.  • Provided high availability for IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  • Successfully migrated companies from various environments into Office 365 Cloud Services.  • Install and Configure Virtual Machines (VM), VM tools on ESX boxes from the GUI and console.  • Identifying opportunities to improve infrastructure that effectively and efficiently utilizes the Microsoft Azure Windows server 2008/2012/R2, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Visual Studio, Windows PowerShell, Cloud infrastructure.  • Migrated the existing SharePoint sites to .Net MVC with Azure cloud environment  • Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Architect, develop, plan and migrate servers, relational databases (SQL) and websites to Microsoft azure cloud.  • Worked on Spark in building BI reports using Tableau.  • Create the Virtual Machine cluster and load balance for VM's using PowerShell in SQL & Windows Environment.  • Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Was also involved in building the Web API to perform all the CRUD operations. And used new Azure API management for security, throttling, analytics, monitoring, and alerts  • Designed Network Security Groups (NSGs) to control inbound and outbound access to network interfaces (NICs), VMs and subnets.  • Developed U-SQL Scripts for schematizing the data in Azure Data Lake Analytics.  • Provided high availability for IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  • Responsible for Bit locker full disk encryption management, Enabled and configured BitLocker drive encryption on all laptops.  • Tested and Deployed existing security patches via Microsoft Intune for workstations.  • Expertise in Azure infrastructure management (Azure Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure).  • Script, debug and automate PowerShell scripts to reduce manual administration tasks and cloud deployments.  • Configure Implement, Secure and support Virtual Network and best security practices for single and multi-regional data centers.  • Used Bit locker for disk encryption in Windows 2012 Server.  • Deployed the packages on staging and production. Monitored jobs and supported Azure Data Lake production environment.  • Azure AD - Implemented Azure AD using AD connect, configured SSO and multifactor Authentication. Also configured SSO from Window 10 based computer which is joined to Azure AD. Implemented and managed AD synchronization  • Implemented high availability with Azure Classic and Azure Resource Manager deployment models.  • Designed, configured and deployed Microsoft Azure for a multitude of applications utilizing the Azure (Including Compute, Web & Mobile, Blobs, ADF, Resource Groups, HD Insight Clusters, Azure SQL, Cloud Services, and ARM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.    Environment: Microsoft Windows Azure, Windows server 2012/R2/2013, SQL server, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, Windows PowerShell, Azure AD, Data lake, spark, power BI, Azure SQL, Office 365, Azure Network, Chef, Jenkins, Microsoft Azure Storage, Microsoft Intune. Cloud Engineer E&Y - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to January 2016 MS Azure Security and Compliance Team, Azure Vulnerability/Security Scanning Services for the Microsoft Active Directory & Services OSSC Security Group.    Responsibilities:  • Mapped workloads to the capabilities of Microsoft Azure for public, private and hybrid clouds. The roles and responsibilities include.  • Designed and configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, Azure network settings, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies and routing.  • Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Migrated moderate workloads from on premise to Azure laaS. Published web services APIs using Azure API management service.  • Integrated existing API's to Azure API management to get all the attributes like security, usage plans, throttling, analytics, monitoring, and alerts  • Development web service using Windows Communication Foundation and .Net to receive and process XML files and deploy on Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure.  • Built dynamic web view applications using ANGULARJS, JQuery, Java Script, HTML5, CSS3 with ASP.NET Web Forms, MVC 5.0/4.0.  • Designed VNets and subscriptions to confirm to Azure Network Limits.  • Exposed Virtual machines and cloud services in the VNets to the Internet using Azure External Load Balancer.  • Provided high availability for IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  • Created Azure PowerShell script for APIM backup and restore operations.  • Implemented high availability with Azure Classic and Azure Resource Manager deployment models.  • Implemented UDR Rules between the Vnet-Vnet by defining next hop address as Firewall.  • Implemented Vnet-Peering between the two Vnet's in the same region.  • Designed Network Security Groups (NSGs) to control inbound and outbound access to network interfaces (NICs), VMs and subnets.  • Administered complete Office 365 environment for local and remote users including Exchange, Lync, Office and local on premises Active Directory syncing with Azure AD (ADFS).  • Implemented SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies.  • Major role played in migration of database from on-premises to SQL server in Azure.  • Uploaded Vhd file in to Azure Storage Account using AZ Copy.  • Setting up Virtual networks for site-to-site, point-to-site and Express Route (Network provider model).  • Implemented data partitioning, replication, database mirroring.  • Designed Networks and Accesses rules in Barracuda Firewall.  • Developed Azure OMS Hybrid Automation PowerShell Runbooks to automate the creation of testing and QA environments using vSphere.  • Setup Azure Virtual Appliances (VMs) to meet security requirements as software based appliance functions (firewall, WAN optimization and intrusion detections).  • Gathered all detailed requirements in one place (from different modules with different technologies) where each micro-service is based on its business functionality.  • Utilized NSGs for layer 4 Access Control List (ACLs) for incoming and outgoing packets.  • Used firewall appliance where requirements call for layer 7 security models.  • Leveraged VNET system routes and underlying route table that holds Local VNet Rules, On-premise Rules, Internet Rules and IP Forwarding as design basis.  • Designed and implemented Windows Azure OMS Hybrid Automation.  • DevOps in support of load balanced environments & Multi-regional server environments.  • Designed User Defined Routes with custom route tables for specific cases to force tunnelling to the Internet via On-premise network and control use of virtual appliances in the customer's Azure environment.  • Worked on Data Factory Editor, to create linked services, tables, data sets, and pipelines by specifying JSON definitions for these artifacts.  • Worked in several roles in various capacities as a DevOps Engineer managing and delivering the deployments and as an Devops engineer Installed and configured Chef for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution.  • While designing the data load packages for the Data Warehouse, discovered that there were multiple duplicate claims from medical providers.  • Design and Implementation of Azure Site Recovery in both Disaster Recovery Scenario and for migrating the workloads from On-Premise to Azure.  • Associated routes with Virtual networks via the route table per relationship constraints.  • Managed IP Forwarding for VMs and role instances acting as virtual appliances.  • Configured BGP routes to enable ExpressRoute connections between on premise data centres and Azure cloud.    Environment: Azure Computing, Vents, Site-to- site VPN, Azure Storage, Azure Active Directory, ASP.NET, .Net Framework, SQL Server Management Studio, IOT, Stream analytics, Azure ARM, Data warehouse, Oracle 12c, GIT source control, Web Apps, Active Directory, NSG, Traffic Manager, SQL Azure. Net/Azure Engineer CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ September 2012 to July 2014 The CVS Health corporate website provides information about how our pharmacy innovation company is evolving healthcare. This Intranet application was developed to be used by the staff for scheduling patient appointments, broadcast future announcements, show future programs/bulletins on calendar. Also for the facility transportation and insurance billing codes. Accesses given according to the role in the group of the hospital.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life-cycle of the project from requirements gathering, design, development and doing knowledge transfers.  • Extensively followed agile methodology and scrum process for Application development.  • Worked on the requirement documents and have good understanding about the requirements.  • Designed and developed the C# components for implementing business logic which is used to do the transactions on database using ADO.NET.  • Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role.  • Involved in the design and development of web application in C#.NET, ASP. Net, User Controls and deployment in the cloud environment.  • Used Session Objects, Cookies to store the application state and Used Master Pages to provide a unified look and feel to the application.  • Have knowledge and Experience in Setup, configuration& Maintenance of IIS and Active Directory.  • Developed different WCF services to validate orders, email address and locations from Mainframe application to .net frame work application in a SOA architectural style.  • Designed the user interface and client-side scripting using AngularJS framework, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Worked on tables and developed Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 for accessing the database.  • Created the reports required for multiple projects using SSRS reporting services.  • Responsible for delivering output within the timelines set.    Environment: Windows 7, Windows Azure Cloud, C#.NET and ASP.Net MVC, SQL Server 2008, jQuery, JavaScript. Net / Front End Developer CMC, IT Associates, Inc - Naperville, IL April 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Implemented useful and elegant features and visualizations.  • Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Created a custom, single-page Applications, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using AngularJS front end framework.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, CQ5 and AngularJS in ongoing projects.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  • Worked on ReactJs Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Responsible for the creation of the applications by using C# and enhancement of the projects for .net applications.  • Involved in designing and modifying the User interface using ASP.NET MVC 2.0.  • Developed Web Forms for the modules using ASP.Net server controls, Validation Controls, and HTML, CSS.  • Developed different User controls which inputs the data and display the data for the web applications using ASP.NET and AJAX.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, and customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using JQuery, AJAX.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, and Git.  • Performed UNIT testing using Jasmine. And in writing Test Cases on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Developed different WCF services to validate orders, email address and locations from Mainframe application to .net frame work application in a SOA architectural style.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Closely work with the QA Team to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes.  • Implemented Restful Web Services that are consumed by customers for balance enquiry, redemption and other operations.  • Consume login authentication web service through third party web services using Restful API's.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Creating UI components in Adobe CQ5 using Angular Js framework.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, .NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, SQL Server, ADO.NET, Windows Server 2003, XML UI Developer Value RKMC Inc - Chicago, IL August 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented JQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC, JQuery and JSP.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script  • Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Used java beans, model objects to transfer a package of information among view layer, business  • Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls.  • Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts for save and execute phases date to retrieve and save to Oracle.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Created Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  • Involved in developing JQuery and AJAX wrapper classes for fast retrieval of data and for animations.  • Created Model objects using Entity Data Model with Entity framework using Hibernate.  • Worked with XPath, XML Node, XML Data documents to synchronize with dataset.  • Handling platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, XML, XPath, AJAX, JSP, Struts, Servlet, MVC, Junit, Oracle,  Windows, SQL, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's in Technology Stanford University Present