Senior Front End Engineer, Identity Guard Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer, Identity Guard East Greenwich, RI Work Experience Senior Front End Engineer, Identity Guard Identity Guard May 2017 to Present Contributed to the development of an Angular web app that provided identity protection and credit monitoring.    ? Scaffolded and managed multiple applications as a part of a monorepo using Nx.    ? Worked in an agile environment with a 2 week sprint cycle.    ? Helped migrate to a microservice architecture, using Jenkins and Terraform to provision AWS  resources. Senior Front End Developer April 2016 to May 2017 Managed development team on community application working in an agile environment, using  Jira and Confluence as well as providing peer reviews.    ? Improved performance of community application by introducing webpack, requiring a custom  plugin, to adapt current Gulp pipeline and file structure. Generating bundles for every state by resolving within uiRouter using ozLazyLoad.    ? Updated application feed to leverage a new GraphQL endpoint.    ? Wrote custom gulp pipeline for providing documentation generation and supporting angular  application using dgeni.    ? Assisted in the design and implementation of migrating from Jetty to express with custom Eureka  client. Senior Software Engineer Next Step Living December 2015 to March 2016 Developed a web app to assist agents performing home energy audits and assessments which then  are made available to service providers for quoting.    ? Worked in an agile environment, using Jira and Confluence.    ? Used jspm and npm for dependency management, Gulp and Jenkins for build and deployment  tasks, Karma with Mocha for unit testing and Protractor for e2e testing. Software Engineer April 2014 to December 2015 Developed and maintained a single page web app for insurance agencies using agile  methodologies for planning sprints and task management using Jira    ? Used bower and npm for dependency management, Grunt for running development and deployment tasks, and Karma with Jasmine for unit and integration tests    ? Worked with the product and backend teams to design REST based API's to support new features    ? Prototyped a responsive version of our web app with HTML and CSS    ? Refactored the frontend as a whole into a component based, state driven application using Gulp as a build tool, Sass and AngularJS as well as Karma for running Jasmine tests Web Developer Brave River Solutions October 2010 to April 2014 Developed and maintained several websites using jQuery, HTML and Sass/CSS    ? Prototyped an android application using Flex to scan medical barcodes and interface with a RESTful backend for storing the data    ? Developed a custom modular slideshow using ActionScript 3 with an XML driven configuration, a grid layout system, and exposed a client-side Javascript API    ? Developed a complete frontend for a publishing company's Ecommerce webapp using Sass and Javascript    ? Used ASP.NET and MSSql to develop custom content management system including a form  builder Multimedia Engineer Digital Video Magic November 2007 to September 2010 Developed and maintained websites with PHP and MySql    ? Created custom animations using After Effects and Flash Education Bachelor of Arts in Multimedia Communications in Multimedia Communications St. Joseph's College of Maine 2004 to 2008 Skills Front End, UI, Javascript, Front-End