Conversion Rate Optimization Specialist Conversion Rate Optimization Specialist Designing, building, analyzing or testing websites for 10 years. Kalispell, MT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Conversion Rate Optimization Specialist Scale Media Inc. - Sherman Oaks, CA February 2019 to Present This is a solo CRO position in a high-growth ecommerce company.     Responsibilities:  • create an AB testing roadmap and testing schedule through quantitative and qualitative research  • manage Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager accounts across multiples brands  • create testing schedule, build, run and report on AB tests using Google Optimize and in-house system  • work with Brand Managers and Customer Service to provide feedback and solutions for web changes Conversion Optimization and Web Analyst Lamps Plus - Los Angeles, CA May 2018 to February 2019 • Manages Optimizely AB testing roadmap, execution, and distribution of test results to stakeholders.  • Uses website analytics (Google Analytics) to improve customer experience and conversion performance on LampsPlus.com web properties.  • Makes recommendations to improve customer experience (reduce bounce rates, increase conversions, funnels, flows).  • Works with the analytics team to verify analytics accuracy and proper analytics tag implementation.  • Performs competitive analysis to identify website and new feature opportunities.  • Coordinates, conducts, and moderates usability tests and prepare written analysis.  • Works with UX designers to test proposed look and feel designs and recommend features, functionality, and specific interactions based on analysis of business goals and user needs. Optimization Analyst Brand Value Accelerator - San Diego, CA September 2017 to May 2018 Provided Conversion Optimization recommendations to ecommerce clients through a variety qualitative and quantitative methods including: custom reporting, user testing, UX audits, CRO analysis, customer surveys, etc.    ? Owned all data collection, organization, and analytics analysis for eCommerce clients  in order to generate recommended tactics and methods  ? Owned all CRO Discovery and reporting processes including but not limited to  resource preparation, tracking and analytics strategy, and speaking to  recommendations and results  ? Delivered actionable analytics insights to BVAccel account teams and directly to clients  as appropriate  ? Provided strategic CRO Audits, Roadmaps, and general status updates Marketing Web and Analytics Lead / Designer Hudl - Remote July 2015 to September 2017 I had a dual role as the Marketing Web Lead where I focused on the experience of Hudl's public-facing web properties and the analytics and reporting strategy for our marketing strategists. I was also a UX Designer on our “Growth Squad” which focused on improving the user registration process while keeping business objectives and sales goals in mind.     • Implemented and analyze website analytics using Mouseflow, Google Tag Manager, Google Analytics and Hubspot.  • Worked closely with marketing strategists to make sure our landing pages are designed and built with the user in mind.  • Transitioned our website to bring value to a global market with different currencies, languages and internet speeds.  • Developed flow charts, wireframes and prototypes for responsive website using Sketch, InVision and Balsamiq.  • Created inbound marketing forms, landing pages, and emails using Hubspot Front- end Developer Fifty & Fifty - San Diego, CA June 2014 to July 2015 Developed websites for inspiring non-profit organizations using Wordpress.  Wrote custom WP plugins specific for their needs so they could manage the  content on their websites. Front- end Developer charity: water - New York, NY July 2012 to March 2014 The design team would hand off PS designs and I was responsible for writing organized and commented code with custom CSS to ensure each pixel of the design was in the right place. I was also responsible for coding HTML emails. Web Designer & Developer MediaOne of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT September 2010 to July 2012 I worked on internal projects as well as client sites and advertising needs.  Projects ranged from print ads, digital banner ads, campaign landing pages and emails. I worked on all projects from conception to completion. Web Designer & Developer Spectral Fusion Designs - Missoula, MT March 2008 to August 2010 This is where I got my start doing web design and learning to code. I worked for a small shop on campus that made websites for University departments on campus and other local non-profits. Education Bachelor of Arts in Media Art in Digital Art and Design The University of Montana - Missoula, MT August 2006 to May 2010 Skills Google Analytics (3 years), Excel (Less than 1 year), User Experience Design (2 years), A/B testing (2 years), Conversion Optimization (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics September 2014 to September 2015