Consultant (web developer) Consultant (web <span class="hl">developer</span>) Digital and Data Strategy Indian Hills, CO Seeking a position to take advantage of my unique combination of skills… project planning/management, UX/UI design, database architecture, report writing, front end and back end development, graphic design and marketing.    Would prefer a position where I could work remotely. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant (web developer) Partners for Healthy Pets 2011 to Present Provide website maintenance, bi-monthly HTML newsletters, Google Analytics and database tracking. Site includes a certificate course with quizzes and personalized certificate download (PDF).  C#/SQL/HTML/CSS/Responsive Consultant (UX/ Front- End Development/SQL/Reporting) Agilutions Present Provide consulting and front- end development for new product being offered by Agilutions (a netForum development agency)  SQL/CSS/Bootstrap Director of Digital Innovation American Animal Hospital Association August 2008 to July 2019 American Animal Hospital Association is a membership organization that accredits veterinary hospitals, offers continuing education, publications, journals and other benefits to the veterinary industry.     Responsibilities included:  netForum (SQL/C# based Association Management Software)  • Enhanced the application with custom modules by creating custom tables in the SQL database or working with the extender baseline tables, and using netForum’s Toolkit to create objects, forms and modules  • Created several stored procedures, views and functions for use in reports (SQL/SSRS/netForum’s reporting module)  • Developed a new dashboard-based customer portal in eWeb (netForum’s CMS) with custom stored procedures and views (SQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap/CSS, XML/XSLT).  • In conjunction with Agilutions, created a new ecommerce store using eweb (SQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap/CSS).  • Create custom web services with stored procedures using xWeb (netForum’s web services) (SQL/XML/SOAP)  • Used SSMS’s execution plans to optimize queries and determine where indexes may be needed to optimize the database.  • Used SQL Query Profiler to watch the SQL that was being executed to better understand netForum baseline behavior.   • Wrote queries and scheduled reports to identify potential bad data to be reviewed and cleaned up by the member experience team.  • Created stored procedures to be executed nightly/weekly (setup through SSIS) to automatically cleanup data where possible.  • Setup custom tables (mini-data warehouse) to hold snapshots in time of the membership data to better understand the changes in the membership numbers each month.  • Setup workflows within netForum’s toolkit to handle automated processes  • Was provided lists on a quarterly basis for AAHA’s purchasing/rebate program. Cleaned, imported and mapped the lists into the netForum database to provide a rebate dashboard for the members. The dashboard used Charts.js for a beautiful visualization of the data.  • Was often provided lists from third party vendors to compare to AAHA’s member database to identify percentage of their list that were AAHA members.  • Coordinated with Community Brands to upgrade netForum (latest version used by AAHA is 2015)    Management of department including staff and budgets    As a member of the executive team, was a key driver of strategic business decisions and planning.    Offer strategic suggestions regarding use of digital technologies    Management of the databases including reports, SSRS, dashboards, etc.  Managed the redevelopment of the website with a new content management system (Episerver) and netForum eweb for the customer portal and store. Site also had a single sign on integration with the new CMS.    Managed and maintained integrations with outside websites such as the AAHA Career Center, AAHA Learning, the mailroom system (Pitney Bowes), etc. Integrations were primarily for SSO, but some wrote back data to netForum.    Designed and developed a SQL/C# based web application to streamline the complex business process of accreditation.     Generated additional non-dues revenue by creating and maintaining a SQL/C# web application for the Partners for Healthy Pets. This website also includes a certification course with usage tracking and quizzes.    Designed and developed a SQL/C# based web application to help graduating veterinary students measure and grow their skills. The tool could also be used in conjunction with a mentor to help evaluate their progress.    Started as a Web Developer and was promoted to Senior Application Developer, to IT Manager, to Senior Manager of IT to Director of IT. Marketing Director and Web Developer Lance Weller (entrepreneur) - Remote 1999 to 2006 Worked with Lance through the launching of several different companies.  ·        Designed and developed websites for each of the companies  ·        Produced logos and all marketing materials  ·        Managed and attended tradeshows  Education Data Analytics/Business Intelligence Colorado State University Global 2017 to 2018 Certificate in Graphic Design/Multimedia Red Rocks Community College 1997 Bachelor's in Business (concentration in marketing) Colorado State University 1993 Skills DATABASE, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, DATABASE DEVELOPMENT, VISUAL STUDIO Additional Information DEVELOPMENT SKILLS:    Front end development  • HTML/CSS/Bootstrap v3 and v4  • Javascript/JQuery  • XML/XSLT  • Mockups: Balsamiq, some XD  • Design: Adobe suite (Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver)  • UX/UI experience  • ADA Compliance  • SEO Optimization    SQL database development  • SSMS/SQL Query Profiler/Some SSIS  • Designed and developed relational databases for web applications  • Experience writing complex queries, views, functions, stored procedures  • Experience optimizing queries using execution plan comparisons and adding indexes when  needed  • Basic understanding of data warehouse development (star schema architecture)    Reports  • MS SQL  • Visual Studio/SSRS    Backend Development  • C#/XML/SQL  • Visual Studio (Web forms / some MVC)  • Integrations (web services/SOAP/XML)    NetForum  • Thorough knowledge of database schema  • Toolkit, iWeb, eWeb and xWeb development  • Reports/dashboards    MANAGEMENT SKILLS:    Strategy  • Part of executive team  • Monthly strategy planning meetings  • Technology/digital transformation strategic planning    Project management  • Agile/SCRUM/Kanban  • Teamwork Project  • Rally  • Trello    Business Analysis  • Lucid Charts for project planning  • Led team of 8 on implementing new CMS    Management  • Up to 4 direct reports    Budgets  • Created and maintained technology department budget  • Created and managed project budgets    Project Highlights    UX and Front- End Development for CredHQ (by Agilutions)  August 2019-ongoing  Provide consulting and front- end development for new product being offered by Agilutions (a netForum development agency)  SQL/CSS/Bootstrap    Partnerforhealthypets.org (consultant for PHP/AVMA)  2011-ongoing  Provide website maintenance, bi-monthly HTML newsletters, Google Analytics and database tracking.  Site includes a certificate course with quizzes and personalized certificate download (PDF).  C#/SQL/HTML/CSS/Responsive    AAHA.org (AAHA)  Project timeline May 2018-July 2019  Redevelopment of AAHA.org including customer portal and online store.Acted as the project owner. Researched, selected and worked with agency (Brightfind) to implement new CMS (Episerver). Moved customer portal and store into association management system's version of a CMS (netForum eWeb).  • Did majority of the development for the customer portal  • Worked with Agilutions for development of online store  • Created dynamic dashboard for members to keep track of their rebates from AAHA's buyers' program  SQL/C#/JavaScript/HTML/CSS/Bootstrap/ChartJS    Executive Dashboard (AAHA)  June 2019  Created a dynamic dashboard for executive team regarding annual objectives  SQL/HTML/CSS/SharePoint    Buyer's Guide Web Application (AAHA)  2017-2019 (Site was shut down due to lack of industry interest)  Created a Buyer's Guide web application from concept to completion including a back- end administrative area to manage the listings.  C#/SQL/HTML/CSS/Bootstrap Integrated Lucene.net search Integrated with Google's API    Accreditation Web Application (AAHA)  Developed in 2008 and still in use  Created AAHA's Accreditation web application from concept to completion.  • 38 custom database tables added to netForum (AAHA's AMS)  • Back end tool for in house-staff created within netForum framework  • Member portal to accreditation process was developed as a custom web application  C#/SQL/HTML/CSS/Responsive