Co-Founder & Developer Co-Founder &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Co-Founder & Developer ANIagency LLC May 2017 to Present Recognized Squarespace Authorized Trainers, ANI.agency has worked with clients ranging from individuals to Fortune 500 companies. We design, develop, and build beautiful Squarespace websites to elevate brands and businesses, presenting their voices clearly and with purpose. Front End Developer Kallisti LLC - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2017 Listed Squarespace Specialists, I provided nearly all Front End Development for over 20 projects. Responsibilities also included: Quality Assurance, Scope Planning, Customer Relationship Management, and Company Server Management. Manager Vines on Pinehurst LLC - New York, NY September 2015 to December 2016 Hudson Height’s premier wine store, I built and maintained direct relationships with distributors to bring in phenomenal wines and spirits from around the world. Responsibilities included: Distribution Agreements, Wine & Spirit Tastings, Inventory System Management, In-Store Graphic Design, and Social Media Marketing. Founder GamingOwl - New York, NY December 2008 to March 2015 Started at the age 15, I became one the first 100 paid partners on Justin TV (now Twitch.TV) when the program was introduced in 2011, garnering over 10,000 followers and 1.3 million views. I built and maintained an active community through livestream chat, social media, and a community forum website. Education High school or equivalent Penn Foster Online - New York, NY Skills CSS3 (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Squarespace (4 years), Final Cut Pro (5 years), Git (2 years), Graphic Design (2 years) Links https://ani.agency https://www.linkedin.com/in/anicicluka/ https://www.instagram.com/anicic.luka/ Certifications/Licenses Squarespace Authorized Trainer October 2018 to Present Squarespace Authorized Trainers have a deep understanding of our all-in-one platform and use that knowledge to empower anyone to own their web presence.    Official Directory: https://circle.squarespace.com/trainer-directory    Trained & Approved  • Each workshop instructor has in-depth Squarespace experience and is trained to help new users get up to speed quickly.  • Every Authorized Trainer's goal is to empower their attendees to design, edit, and maintain their own Squarespace website and complete online presence.  • Authorized Trainers receive exclusive product updates and behind-the-scenes news directly from Squarespace. With the guidance of an Authorized Trainer, you’ll learn how to take advantage of the latest features and best practices.