Director, Digital Product Strategy Director, Digital Product Strategy Strategy, UX, Development Massachusetts Throughout my career I've focused on understanding and solving business and user problems. This has been evident in different ways has my career has evolved: 1) researching and prioritizing the problems we should solve via our product roadmap; 2) coaching associates on how to best understand problems and collaborate to solve them; 3) understanding problems from a user and business perspective and designing user experiences to solve them; 4) building and developing experiences that solve problems in an easy-to-manage way. Work Experience Director, Digital Product Strategy Fidelity Investments February 2018 to Present Built a new product strategy discipline to organize and prioritize the work within our nearly $5M annual Digital Marketing technology budget.    Introduced a research-oriented discovery process, designed to clearly understand the problems we are trying to solve before iteratively working to solve them with our Agile delivery teams.    Established a strategic roadmap giving more transparency on our priorities and upcoming work across our seven Agile delivery teams and internal stakeholders.    Collaborate with product owners, developers, analysts, and UX designers to ensure projects are appropriately decomposed to deliver the most value incrementally.     Working to streamline our planning and prioritization process by creating a product-oriented operating model, transforming our approach to budgeting and giving our teams more focus. Director, UX Design & Front- End Development Fidelity Investments January 2014 to January 2018 Managed team of nine associates, with a range of experience and skills.     Introduced more collaborative processes to understand problems and iteratively identify solutions, based on Google’s Design Sprint methodology.    Coached the team on effectively communicating their ideas to stakeholders and thinking beyond their deliverables for a project.    Focused the team on design component reusability for improved efficiency and a consistent user experience. Various UX Design & Information Architecture Roles Fidelity Investments January 2005 to January 2014 Led a diverse set of projects, ranging from full-site redesigns, to UX strategy for content marketing engagement campaigns, to web site feature development following an Agile methodology.    Integrated user research into our design process, including user interviews, usability studies, tree tests, and card sorts.    First introduced the concept of information architecture, wireframing, and experience mapping to help project teams think about the experience they are creation before building it. Various Front- End Developer Roles Fidelity Investments May 2000 to January 2014 Self-taught junior developer hired out of graduate school. Eventually became front- end development lead for all Marketing-related projects and initiatives, leading associates without directly managing.     Introduced new technologies to modernize and streamline our operations, including AngularJS and CSS.    Led front- end development efforts in an early adoption of Agile at Fidelity in 2005.    Built internal web applications, from front- end development, to server-side application code and database design. Education Master of Science in Technical Communication Rennsselear Polytechnic Institute - Troy, NY Bachelor of Arts in English improved efficiency and a consistent user experience Union College - Schenectady, NY Skills UX, Sketch, Wireframe, Axure, Javascript, Sketch, User Experience, Wireframe Links http://linkedin.com/in/brianhava