Director of Public Relations Director of Public Relations Full Stack Developer Opp, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Public Relations The Asatru Community - Thousand Oaks, CA July 2018 to November 2018 - Develop and execute strategies to create and maintain a positive public image   - Plan publicity strategies and campaigns   - Builds long-term relationships with various members of the media, government and public.   - Plan and organize public events and presentations   - Handle inquiries from the press, public and related organizations   - Build, maintain and/or improve the goals and strategies of TAC.   - Manages external communications (ex: prepare speeches, announcements...etc.).   - Researches popular marketing trends to appeal to a wide audience.   - Work with the Director of Media to ensure all representations of TAC are accurate, positive and inline with the organization’s image and goals.   -Handles crisis and disasters that impact TAC’s public image.   - Research and create strategies to address the community’s concerns, complaints and suggestions.  - Creates, maintains and expands training material to ensure that it maintains a positive image for TAC.   - Work with the media department to ensure community news and updates are released in a timely manner  - Maintains, promotes and improves the social media presences of TAC   - Plans, executes and monitors ad campaigns.   - Creates marketing strategies aimed at promoting TAC.   - Arrange interviews, public appearances and official TAC events.   - Keeps updated on industry reports to best utilize media for benefit of TAC   - Creates media used in the promotion, branding or presentation of TAC.   - Creates media for TAC projects   - Maintains positive media representation and image beneficial to TAC   - Plans and executes the distribution of digital goods produced by TAC.   - Creates and promotes long-term relationships with media influencers to promote the awareness of TAC.   - Works with volunteers to ensure the appearance of their projects and events are professional and bring a positive image to TAC.   - Builds and maintains a marketing and media budget Full Stack Developer Dark Moon Press - Remote January 2008 to April 2018 - Meet with authors to determine the scope of their cover design  - Advise on strategies to reach a particular audience  - Determine the message the cover design should portray  - Create images that best convey the message of the author  - Develop graphics for product illustrations, logos, and websites  - Select colors, images, text style, and layout  - Present the design to clients or the art director  - Incorporate changes recommended by the clients into the final design  - Review designs for errors before printing or publishing them  - Maintain internal database  - Design the overall architecture of the web application  - Utilize the latest technology to develop a web application in keeping with the company's image  - Maintain quality and ensure responsiveness of applications.  - Collaborate with the rest of the team to design and launch new features.  - Maintain code integrity and organization.  - Work with graphic designers to convert designs into visual elements.  - Proficiently explain and implement security and data protection.  - Development experience for both mobile and desktop. Social Media Manager SearchBug, Inc - Encinitas, CA September 2017 to December 2017 - Set clear objectives through deliberate planning and goal setting   - Development of brand awareness and online reputation   - Development of content, promotion and engagement strategy   - Content management -   - Administrate the creation and publishing of relevant, original, high-quality content.   - Identify and improve organizational development aspects that would improve content (ex: employee training, recognition and rewards for participation in the company’s marketing and online review building).   - Create a regular publishing schedule.   - Leverage the right tools to manage content.   - Implement a content editorial calendar to manage content and plan specific, timely marketing campaigns.   - Promote content through social advertising.   - SEO (search engine optimization) and generation of inbound traffic   - Cultivate leads by identifying target audience   - Monitor and utilize analytics data to maximize the effectiveness of strategies   - Keep updated on industry report to best utilize the latest technology in benefit of the company Tech Support Value Logic - San Diego, CA November 2014 to June 2015 - Troubleshoots phones and computers  - Repaired damaged phones and computers  - Installed needed software on phones and computers   - Handled finances of the department  - Kept detailed record of daily work. Front- End Developer Wilbur - Houston, TX March 2013 to July 2014 • Created PSD and AI based designs that met client specifications and exceeded expectations  • Converted PSD and AI files into websites  • Use latest standards to build user-friendly, functional and problem solving websites Intern The Labor Council of San Diego September 2005 to May 2006 - Answer and direct phone calls  - Organize and schedule meetings and appointments  - Maintain contact lists  - Produce and distribute letters, faxes, and forms  - Assist in the preparation of regularly scheduled reports  - Develop and maintain a filing system  - Order office supplies  - Provide general support to visitors  - Provide information by answering questions and requests  - Take dictation  - Research and creates presentations  - Generate reports  - Handle multiple projects  - Ensure operation of equipment by completing preventive maintenance requirements; calling for repairs; maintaining equipment inventories; evaluating new equipment and techniques  - Maintain supplies inventory by checking stock to determine inventory level; anticipating needed supplies; placing and expediting orders for supplies; verifying receipt of supplies  - Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed  - Carry out administrative duties such as filing, typing, copying, binding, scanning etc.  - Write letters and emails on behalf of other office staff  - Cover the reception desk when required  - Maintain computer and manual filing systems  - Reply to email, telephone or face to face inquiries  - Develop and update administrative systems to make them more efficient  - Receive, sort and distribute the mail  - Answer telephone calls and pass them on  - Greet and assist visitors to the office  - Photocopy and print out documents on behalf of office workers Education Bachelor's Degree in Web Design and Development Full Sail University 2014 to January 2017 Skills Marketing (4 years), Administrative Assistant (4 years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Digital Marketing (3 years), Wordpress (9 years), Word (10+ years), Excel (8 years), Acrobat (10+ years), Powerpoint (6 years), Photoshop (8 years), Illustrator (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Php (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (8 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jvkrakowski Assessments Social Media Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z6fsxrzjgqm0dy34 Email Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hnyai6ffn2a9iulg Graphic Design — Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nmjnvfoudewvmheq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.