Graphic and Web Designer Graphic and Web Designer UX / UI Designer Portland, OR As UX designer, I bring a background of 10 years experience with graphic design and front- end web development. This combination of skills makes me uniquely suited to a smaller company or startup where everyone needs to pitch in where needed.    Having recently completed the UX Design course with Career Foundry, I am currently seeking a UX / UI role in Portland, OR, where I can do meaningful, challenging, creative work in a supportive and collaborative environment.    My natural empathy and authenticity will help me advocate for the user’s needs, while my design sensibilities will translate UX research into compelling visual experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic and Web Designer Freelance 2004 to Present Logos and branding for freelance clients.  Graphic design for a variety of print and digital applications.  Website design and development. Web Developer City Ranked Media, LLC - Vancouver, WA July 2016 to November 2017 Web design and graphic design for small business websites.  Wordpress website development using HTML and CSS.  Optimized pages using cutting-edge SEO techniques. Graphic Designer II Motosport.com - Portland, OR April 2012 to February 2016 Worked with a team in a fast paced, high production environment.  Designed and built emails and web banners for 6 storefronts.  Designed print ads for power sports publications.  Redesigned HTML email template using responsive design techniques. Independent Contractor ESDNetwork - Madison, WI August 2011 to December 2011 UI design and implementation for various websites and applications.  Designed emails, brochures, and presentations. Front- End Developer StudyBlue - Madison, WI February 2011 to June 2011 Built landing pages for the Studyblue.com website.  Designed emails, ads, and social media graphics. Interactive Designer Oompa Enterprises - Madison, WI May 2007 to January 2011 Developed enhancements for website to improve customer experience.  Designed and built weekly HTML email and web graphics.  Created artwork for ads in publications such as Parents, Dwell, etc.  Designed layout of annual print catalog. Web Designer PunchStock/UpperCut Images - Madison, WI September 2005 to May 2007 Designed weekly HTML email sent to list of 70,000 clients.  Updated graphics for the Punch Stock and Upper Cut websites.  Built and maintained websites for internal use.  Designed printed pieces including environmental graphics and ads. Education Certification in UX Design, UI for UX Designers Career Foundry June 2018 to August 2019 Bachelor's in BS in Art Graphic Design Concentration University of Wisonsin - Madison - Madison, WI September 2000 to May 2004