Sales Manager Sales Manager Front End UI Developer Atlanta, GA Innovative, creative and a proven team player, I possess 2 Department of Defense Diploma in Front End Development and Information Technology and have over 10 years as a freelancer building, developing, and managing websites and web applications for various companies and individuals. I seek to secure the position of Front End Developer and hope to share my skills, expertise and experience with your team and valuable clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Manager Floodmasters LLC - Norcross, GA August 2015 to Present I have an 87% sales turnover rate I have maintained for 3 years.   I can do everything from selling actual job to estimating and collecting final payment Owner/Freelance Web Developer RB Custom Development - Atlanta, GA July 2006 to Present Created various websites and web applications using standard HTML, CSS, JavaScript/jQuery as well as NodeJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, MongoDB, and Rest API, Graphic Artist AAA Digital Reprographics - Marietta, GA February 2014 to January 2015 Work with Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign to create computer generated illustrations, logos, photo manipulation and restoration, posters, banners, vehicle wraps, magnets, and window screen.  • Designed and implemented various graphics as a marketing concept to produce more design revenue.  Since this approach there has been a 5% increase in revenue. Front End Developer/Graphic Artist Freelance - Carrollton, GA April 2010 to January 2014 ·Developing high end application with responsive design.   · Updating/Developing software and web application  • Used skills to create graphic design projects for multiple clients-designed various materials for company advertisement. IT Specialist/Multimedia Illustrator United States Army/Georgia National Guard - Forsyth, GA August 2006 to April 2010 Led a team of four soldiers who provided technical support for the unit's computer networking systems, VPN Networks, LAN networks, etc...  Updated/Installed and configured hardware and software components.  Responsible for recognizing potential threats with the unit's Automated Information Systems (AIS), within the Tactical Operations Center (TOC).  • Utilized Multimedia training to create various visual projects-designed a web page for my unit. Education Certification in Developer Bootcamp Udemy Academy - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to August 2018 Certification in Advanced JavaScript Udemy Academy - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to December 2017 Certification in Front End UI Design/Development Udemy Academy - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to August 2017 Water damage Restoration Technician in Water Damage Restoration Cleaners Coach - Norcross, GA September 2015 to September 2015 diploma in Information Systems Operator and Computer Sciences School of Information Technology - Fort Gordon, GA 2008 to 2008 diploma in Front end development/web design Defense Information School - Fort Meade, MD December 2006 to April 2007 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), Bootstrap (5 years), jQuery (7 years), NodeJS (2 years), ReactJS (1 year), AngularJS (1 year), MongoDB (1 year), CSS3, Front End, HTML5, Node, UI Links https://peskiest-knocks.000webhostapp.com https://rbcustomdesign.000webhostapp.com http://bartowconstruction.com https://blazers-n-hull.com/ https://www.wekeepitclean.com Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist E-4 August 2006 to August 2010 I.T. Specialist/Multimedia Illustrator    Maintained units website and multiple applications. Certifications/Licenses WRT September 2015 to Present IICRC WRT Certification Class B CDL October 2017 to Present Additional Information With 10 years of web development experience for various businesses, I offer the technical expertise you are seeking for your web developer position. Since earning my DoD Diploma in Multimedia Illustrations and web development from Ft. Meade, MD while in the Army, I have served as a web developer for my own business. In this position, I have led web development projects for clients in diverse industries including technology, manufacturing, pharmaceutical, hospitality, retail and financial services. Known for creating robust, high-speed web apps, my web development work has helped grow revenues, accelerate customer acquisition, increase web traffic and deliver an industry-leading competitive advantage. Here are some skills you can expect from me:  • Web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS, ExpressJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, MongoDB and Adobe Creative Cloud  • Translation of wireframes and rapid prototyping tools to accurate, working code  • Design of interactives and mobile apps in an agile development environment  • UX and UI design projects improving load time, site stickiness and user engagement  • SEO initiatives elevating rankings on Google and other search engines.