PHP Web Developer PHP Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior End to End Web Developer Freehold, NJ A seasoned end-to- end web development professional seeking opportunities to contribute to an existing team and learn new techniques. Regularly practices a broad range of skills to deliver quality products. Built a career leveraging a solid grasp of programming principles to quickly learn and use new technologies.    PHP, Slim, Twig, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL/MariaDB, SQL, GraphQL, Sublime Text, .git, GitLab, composer, Linux, Windows, Mac Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Web Developer FORESTERS FINANCIAL (Formerly First Investors Corporation) - Edison, NJ April 2015 to Present Member of a small team of web developers who maintain and enhance 11 internal and external websites, participate in peer code reviews & development planning, organize incoming work.    Projects  • Rebrand sale rep & marketing websites to Foresters Financial  • Refactor legacy to remove home-grown dependencies  • Implement Slim Micro-framework  • Remove Pimple, implement PHP-DI  • Extract HTML from within PHP, move to Twig templates  • Convert DB2 calls to Doctrine DBAL  • Update PHP 5.6 code to prepare for upgrade for PHP 7    Daily technologies: PHP, Slim, Twig, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL/MariaDB, SQL, GraphQL, Sublime Text, .git, GitLab, composer, Linux/Windows/Mac Senior Web Developer CONNOR COMMUNICATIONS - Little Silver, NJ January 2013 to April 2015 Lead web developer for the B2B wholesale and Edgagement? e-learning projects.   ? Analyze requirements, translates them into technical specifications and architecture  ? Manage tasks among multiple, disparate web development projects  ? Customize prototype demos for potential e-learning clients  ? Identifies and corrects software defects  ? Performs various server management tasks as necessary    PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, Handlebars.js, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, MVC, REST    PROJECTS    B2B Wholesale Web Systems  Allows users to log into order wholesale stock. Generate emails and export files for consumption by sales system. Customize product pages to accommodate client stock. Handle multiple currencies, regional pricing, and international sizes. Clients: Maidenform, Aerosoles, HDS Trading    Edgagement(sm)  A cloud-based e-learning system for desktop and mobile distributions. Handles multiple client-specific theming and functionality. Defines modules to present visual media and test user on topics. Admin reports on user progress. Clients: Aerosoles, Unilever, Comfort Keepers PHP Web Developer COMSCI, LLC - Iselin, NJ March 2010 to January 2013 Maintain and enhance the BillBrowser & IT Cost Flow corporate financial management web applications. Participate in daily scrum meetings to size, task, select, and develop product backlog items. Contribute to the overall design and direction of company-wide applications.    ? PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, JSON, SQL Server, IIS, Ajax, Eclipse, Subversion, Firebug  ? Manage product builds to QA & production servers. Merge & branch code as necessary Front End Consultant MERIDIASYSTEMS, LLC 2009 to 2009 ? Collaborated on the front- end re-development of the Scholastic Kids Press Corps landing page  ? Converted tabled layout page into more semantic document structures with style sheets Lead Software Engineer THE TRIZETTO GROUP, INC - Union, NJ 1995 to 2009 Department lead web developer. Designed, maintained, and enhanced department web applications, documented procedures, provided technical support, maintained department servers.    ? Designed, developed, and implemented department web applications: status & time reporting systems, management reports, quality assurance and product testing tools  ? Provided internal support, enhanced and fixed systems as required  ? HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, SQL, SQL Server, IIS, VB Script Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kean University - Union, NJ A.A.S. in Computer Science County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ Diploma in Computer Programming The Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ Skills Javascript, MySQL, PHP, Slim, HTML, CSS, Git, Twig, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, MariaDB, SQL, composer, HTML 5 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/davidbania