Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Missouri City, MO Self-motivated web developer with over 4 years experience working on multiple projects. Passionate about web development and accumulating the knowledge and experience to become a spearhead in my trade. Interested in a role with a company that promotes best practices, room for growth, and an environment of sharp, like minded developers. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Code Koalas - Kansas City, MO October 2018 to May 2019 Worked on numerous websites including 40 plus YMCA locations, and PHP development with the Laravel framework for a large app overhaul. Daily workload consisted of checking my assigned tickets, debugging and developing for said tickets in a timely manner. Work flow was Git based and we worked with Docker containers to spin up sites. Web Developer / Graphic Design Maxine Modern Media - Kansas City, MO August 2015 to October 2018 Creating modern web projects from beginning concept to final delivery. I work with clients for a wide array of projects from: Web Development, Social Media Marketing strategy, Branding, Photoshop/ InDesign Mockups, Custom Email Templates, Consulting and Site Management. Front End Web Developer Heartland Financial Group - Blue Springs, MO February 2018 to June 2018 Development and optimization of the companies wordpress sites with PHP. Built a small tally app with Angular and Firebase to show team leads how many leads were captured daily from the Facebook campaign I launched and then tied into the Salesforce API to place the leads into call campaigns. Worked to establish best practices for the small team and setup development, staging, and production servers for future projects. Front End Web Developer Rivet - Kansas City, MO September 2017 to December 2017 Built a custom a custom Magento theme with Javascript and PHP for the site yearbookforever.com. With PHP and Javascript I added forms and functionality to custom Wordpress site visitindependence.com, and helped with cart options and the menu for kearneyculinary.com. Front End Web Developer Sutherlands Lumber - Kansas City, MO November 2015 to June 2017 Designed and re-built the companies intranet with HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, and PHP. Custom email/landing pages for 100,000 customers weekly were built mainly with PHP. Created 3D Animations and slide presentations for the nationwide POS rollout with Blender and Photoshop. Coded and designed the front page of sutherlands.com and further worked on multiple sites including jamesriverarchery.com. Took over ad campaigns for 52 stores and built custom templates for weekly coupon and giveaway email campaigns. Development Manager Werner - Overland Park, KS March 2014 to October 2015 Was brought on to get Werner's newest branch office up and running. Work consisted of setting up computer and phone systems. Once the office was functional my role was to bring on new customers and cultivate relationships. Account Executive Freightquote - Kansas City, MO March 2009 to March 2014 Consistently exceed quotas and in November of 2013 was recognized for exceeding 200% of my 3Q target. I was 1 of 8 selected out of 500 of my peers to implement a new test group for profitability. Account Executive Sprint - Overland Park, KS February 2006 to March 2008 Generated revenues in excess of 4.5 million dollars. Small Business awards for excellence and was named top salesman in March of 2008 after 4 finishes in the top 3. Through cold calls, client referrals, and tenacity was able to excel in Sprints fast paced sales environment. Was one of the top sales team members to work in this sector and won numerous awards acknowledging my success from month to month. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science University of Missouri - Columbia, MO 2002 Skills ILLUSTRATOR, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, SASS, CSS, jQuery, OPTIMIZATION, MYSQL, PHOTOSHOP, CSS3, Front End, Front-End, HTML5, React, UI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasonmccollum Additional Information Skills  HTML  CSS  SASS  GULP  BOOTSTRAP  JAVASCRIPT  JQUERY  REACT    PHP  ANALYTICS  OPTIMIZATION  PHP  MYSQL  PHOTOSHOP  ILLUSTRATOR  PROJECT MANAGEMENT