Full Stack JavaScript and React Js Developer Full Stack JavaScript and React Js <span class="hl">Developer</span> Looking for Full Stack JavaScript Developer Position Glen Ellyn, IL Experienced Web and Mobile Application Developer with a demonstrated history of working with wide variety of industries. Skilled in JavaScript, React Js, React Native, Meteor Js, Mobile Applications, and Web Design. Strong engineering professional with a Bachelor’s Degree focused in Business Administration and Management, General from ISM University of Management and Economics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack JavaScript and React Js Developer Plaidypus LLC - Naperville, IL April 2018 to Present Create and develop Web and Mobile applications with React Js, React Native and Meteor Js, create REST APIs or implement third party APIs and connect with client solution.   Agile development environment. Front End Developer Dealer eProcess - Glen Ellyn, IL November 2016 to April 2018 Front End Web developing, site managing, feature product creation. Working with HTML, CSS, JavaScrip, PHP, MySQL and other technologies. Web Developer Independent contractor - Glen Ellyn, IL July 2015 to November 2016 • Web Developing, web design.  • Communication with client and offer right solution to them needs.  • CMS management and maintenance.  • Domain and server management with cPanel or CentOS. Sales Executive UAB "JML group" - Vilnius March 2014 to July 2015 Responsibility of lighting (LED) products sales.  • Manage company's websites, SEO analysis, eShop strategy preparation and eShop website maintenance.   • Making B2B sales of LED, Induction lighting products.   • Gathering market and customer information.  • Listening to customer requirements and presenting appropriately to make a sale.  • Negotiating on price, costs, delivery and specifications with buyers or managers to reach sale agreement. Sales Manager JML-Group LTD - Vilnius March 2012 to March 2014 • Negotiating on price, costs, delivery and specifications with buyers to reach agreement.  • Gathering market and customer information. Real Estate Manager UAB Egilis - Kaunas August 2008 to September 2010 Rent and Manage Real Estate properties for Super Market "Silas" Real estate broker UAB "Ober-haus" - Kaunas August 2007 to March 2008 Responsibility on commercial real estate agent.  • Working with commercial real estate owners.  • Traveling and meeting with clients. References:  • Choice the best promotion way for client's real estate.  • Phone callings to potential clients. Education Bachelor in Studies of management and business administration ISM university of management and economics 2004 to 2008 Skills Javascript, React Js, Node Js, React, React Native, Git Links https://github.com/aronwebpro https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaron-app-brewer/ https://iamappsbrewer.com/ Certifications/Licenses Google Mobile Sites May 2017 to May 2018