Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Administrator | Network Engineer Poway, CA Certified IT Systems Administrator with proven experience in  Network and Information Technologies seeking challenging & rewarding  position.    - Cisco Certified CCNA 2016, Systems Administrator  - Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Database Administrator  - VMware Experienced Administrator    • Fast paced, self-directed I.T. Consultant| System Administrator| Network Engineer  with a proven technical background.  • Solid soft-skills: viewed as strong troubleshooter.  • Proven ability to assess and hurdle complex obstacles;  • Excellent communication, analytical, and problem resolution skills  • Professionalism, Ability to manage issues from start to finish    CCNA Certified Cisco series switches and routers VMware vSphere5 Windows  Server 2008 - 2012 MS SQL Server Database 2005-2016 administration Active  Directory Group Policies LAN/W AN, routing protocols DC DNS PowerShell  Cisco & SonicWall Firewalls TCP/IP VLAN VPN VEEAM backup and disaster  recovery solutions Meraki W iFi access points W ireless MESH technologies  Familiar with Linux MS access DB PostGreSQL DB Squirrel SQL HTML CSS  JavaScript Python Django AWS JIRA ZENDESK GNS3 POSTMAN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer COUNTJOY RFID February 2017 to March 2019 Analytics for the Optometry Industry)    Create information graphics and charts HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript / jQuery, Angular, React, MySQL Experience working with Responsive Frameworks. Create and develop solid user experience from site map to wireframe creation, completed websites  and mobile optimization. Wireless LAN Systems Engineer Kowloon Wireless Technologies April 2015 to October 2016 www.P2WT.com    Perform a wide range of WLAN network engineering and system administration duties.  Interface with vendors for procurement & maintenance of all IT infrastructures.  Work closely with Innovative MESH technologies. Expert Knowledge of  802.11(a/b/g/n/ac) architecture. RF knowledge and System Level understanding of Wireless Access Point and Client functionality. Systems Administrator | Network Engineer Oinfosys - San Diego, CA December 2006 to March 2015 Optical Information Systems Inc. - www.Oinfosys.com    Provide outsourcing I.T. infrastructure support for clients throughout San Diego.  Responsible for performing a wide range of system administration duties including:    - Maintaining, securing and monitoring internal networks.  - Administration duties on servers, databases, applications and storage including install, debug, maintain, upgrade, and general Interface with vendors for procurement &  maintenance of all IT infrastructures.  - Manage & troubleshoot networks  - Mange, maintain Active Directory, GP, and Backup recovery Systems.  - Integration of systems with Cloud SASS providers to ensure HIPAA privacy best  practices.  - Provide end-user support and issue resolution. Senior CSR - Help Desk EMR January 2005 to December 2006 Eyefinity Officemate VSP Global Eyefinity.com    Provided an outstanding client experience. Provided technical coaching to other  teammates. Provided technical support to clients. Developed processes to improve  delivery of services. Architect, project management, and deploy technology solutions for clients. Research and investigate new technical solutions that can provide additional  value and positively impact for client businesses. Managed monitoring tools & services.  Performed remote diagnostics tasks. Directed responsibility for managing ~120 client  relationships. Completely documented networks, service calls, and communication with client. Performed network and security audits. Provided onsite client service as required. System Administrator - Consultant SQL Systems Inc June 2001 to January 2005 Architect, project manage, and deploy technology solutions for clients. Research and investigate new technical solutions that can provide additional value and positively  impact for client businesses. Managed monitoring tools & services. Performed remote  diagnostics tasks. Performed network and security audits. Provided onsite client service as required. Education Associates in Computer and Information Science San Diego Mesa College Certifications/Licenses CCNA Present Additional Information Microsoft DBA