UI Engineer (Consultant) UI Engineer (Consultant) UI Designer Union, NJ I am an experienced, detailed-oriented, front- end web developer (UX and UI). As you'll see, I have 10+ years of hands-on experience efficiently coding websites and applications using modern HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, PHP, MySQL and Design Tools (Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch), Prototyping tools ( InVision, UXpin).  Building easy to use, user-friendly, responsive websites and application are truly a passion of mine, and I am confident I would be an excellent addition to your organization. In addition to my knowledge base, I actively seek out new technologies and stay up-to-date on industry trends and advancements. This has allowed me to stay ahead of the curve and deliver exceptional work to all of my employers, including those I've worked for on a project basis. I've attached a copy of my resume detailing my experience, along with links to websites and applications, I've had the honor of working on.  ? Create wireframes, storyboards, user flows, and documentation and sitemaps to effectively communicate design ideas and site maps using tools such as Microsoft Visio, Photoshop, Illustrator and Sketch to present mock-up designs.  ? Excellent working experience in Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  ? Interaction Design: Create concept models, reviews, sitemaps, process flows, sketches, wireframes, prototypes, and detailed specifications for mobile/tablet and social applications.  ? User Research: Conduct stakeholder meetings and usability tests using click-through prototypes for web and mobile/tablet for use during tests.  ? Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS and HTML/HTML5 and their behaviour on different browsers.  ? Extensive experience in developing web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap media queries and Flex box.  ? Sound knowledge in solving cross-browser (ex: IE, Chrome, Firefox, Safari, etc.) compatibility issues in both Web and Mobile platforms and Search Engine Optimization.  ? Build Responsive Web Design Layouts to support all devices such as PC, tablets and mobile devices.  ? Working knowledge in designing CMS websites using PHP and WordPress.  ? Extensive design experience in developing Retail, E-Commerce, Web and Mobile applications.  ? Define and lead program execution through the implementation of several management dynamics including Resource Allocation, Team Management, Performance Monitoring/Supervision and Training & Development.  ? Project management experience in challenging and innovative environments. Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, and Implementation & Production Support.  ? Experience in Agile Software Development Methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Engineer (Consultant) S & P Global - New York, NY June 2017 to March 2019 Description: S&P Global Ratings provides independent investment research including ratings on various investment instruments. This project deals with the management of design, development, coordination, and implementation of user experience based analytical applications throughout S&P Global Ratings.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing mock-ups based on UX Design spec using with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Angular UI.  • Design CSS based front- end layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Involved in user experience sessions and design discussions to enhance the designs and provide input on the layouts. Gather and analyse all necessary requirements through elaboration and discussion sessions.  • Coordinate with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.  • Responsible for the UX design and development for the S&P Solutions delivery group with the objective of building engaging user experiences.  • Provide thorough analysis working independently and also with team collaboration in a challenging work environment.  Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular UI/UX Designer MyStudyPartner.com - Pittsburgh, PA July 2014 to January 2017 Description: My Study Partner is designed to help people connect with each other. This site enables the visitor to search for people across the world to study effectively with them. It enables visitors to sign up for free, select study partners, create groups and invite others to join the group for studying and knowledge sharing.  Responsibilities:  • Design UI patterns, UX patterns, illustrations, page layouts, templates and banners by using Adobe Web Premium tools like Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Develop page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Involved in extensive HTML coding.  • Develop CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Design and develop UI components using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax and CSS. • Cooperate in development and finalization of initial design of the application and work with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve all issues.  Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC-4 with Razor Engine, Microsoft.NET Framework, C#, SQL Server 2012, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and CSS. UI/UX Designer Rogers Inc June 2012 to June 2014 Description: Rogers Wireless is Canada's largest wireless voice and data communications services provider and the country's only carrier operating on the world standard GSM/GPRS/EDGE technology platform; Rogers Cable is Canada's largest cable television provider offering cable television, high-speed Internet access, voice over cable telephony services and video retailing; Rogers Media is Canada's premier collection of category leading media assets with businesses in radio, television broadcasting, television shopping, publishing and sports entertainment; and Rogers Telecom is a national provider of telephony, data networking, and broadband Internet connectivity, to small, medium and large businesses across the country.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI.  • Implementation of various Validation Controls for client-side validation and custom validation controls.  • Design CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implement custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls.  • Involved in user experience sessions and design discussions to enhance the designs and provide input on the layouts.  • Gather and analyse all necessary requirements through discussion sessions.  • Coordinate with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.  Technologies: Java, JSP, MY SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and CSS. Sr. Software Engineer Crescent IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2009 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Assist the project lead in developing software specification requirements.  • Develop UI Components and critical functionalities.  • Design page layouts and banner images for website clients.  • Create/manage the designed layouts and test in local system before deploying to production  • Work on Browser Compatibility and test every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Coordinate with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team.  Technologies: PHP (Content Management System), MySQL, Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop and illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Sr. Web Developer & UI/UX Front- End Developer (Team Lead) Fortune Infoway Pvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2008 to August 2009 Web site Ready (Online Web Template Library Application)  Description: Website Ready consists, several categories of readymade website templates. User can buy selective template/website based on their requirement then will get login credentials form the website admin. Based on the login details' user can login into the admin section and able to change given features to the selected template/website any time. User can find hosting support for the selective templates/websites form website ready providers.  Responsibilities:  • Designed 800 web templates for all categories (Business, Corporate, Entertainment, Games, Holidays, Gifts & Flowers etc.,) with team of 8 designers. Played major role in coordinating with development team for creation and maintenance of websites which were chosen by the clients. Involved in conceptual design of all categories of beautiful, cutting-edge templates and give training for team members on design concepts and usability. Created presentations and demos for the products (Template management and integration). Sr. Web Developer, UI/UX Front- End Developer Symbiosys Technologies - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh January 2002 to March 2008 Projects Include: Contact Relationship Management  University Laundry Web site for University Laundry, USA Handheld (Pocket PC Application) for University Laundry, USA  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed client side GUI wireframes, HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked as a UI Designer for a team size of 6.  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from Requirement gathering, analysis, estimation, designing UI Design and Development.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Sikkim Manipal University Skills Javascript, Json, Php, Visio, Mvc, Angular, Front-End, Node, UI, CSS3, Bootstrap, Front End