Commercial Driver - Shuttle Operator Commercial Driver - Shuttle Operator City Bus Driver / Yamhill County - First Transit Newberg, OR Seeking employment as a driver. Work Experience Commercial Driver - Shuttle Operator WeDriveU - Beaverton, OR July 2001 to Present • Drive shuttle bus around a large corporation campus.  • Communicates with central dispatchers/managers regarding maintenance/service needs, road concerns, accidents, and other traffic disruptions using two-way radios or hands-free devices  • Completion of daily driver logs, inspection reports, and passenger tracking counts  • Flexibility and ability to follow directions and adapt to different makes/models of fleet and different routes depending on operational needs City Bus Driver / Yamhill County First Transit September 2018 to June 2019 • Drove one of several different transit buses or vehicles in a safe, courteous, and reliable manner throughout the service area within a daily assigned time schedule  • Performed pre/post trip vehicle inspections as required  • Stop at designated points to load and unload passengers  • Assisted in the boarding of passengers using wheelchairs or other mobility aids and properly secure wheelchairs and scooters  • Notified dispatch of deviations, overload, accidents, passenger incidents, medical/behavioral problems, or bus mechanical/electrical trouble  • Assured that fares are deposited into the fare box and dispense information  • Advised passengers of rules and regulations when necessary  • Completed and submitted written reports concerning passengers and all accidents  • Operated on-board computer fare boxes and destination signs. School Bus Driver First Student - Newberg, OR August 2018 to September 2018 • Safely transported students  • Performed pre/post trip vehicle inspections  • Assisted students in the loading and unloading process Freelance June 2015 to May 2018 WordPress Developer  Assess website needs of clients and build sites based on client requirements.  Responsible for designing the site, gathering properly licensed stock photography,  selecting great looking font pairs and choosing the color scheme based on client  discovery calls. Find compatible plugins & troubleshooting them when necessary. Set up  WooCommerce & related payment gateways. Launch websites and teach clients how to use their sites. Front- End Web Developer Brandefined April 2015 to April 2016 As a front- end web developer at Brandefined I help small business owners craft their  websites. In this role I began by taking an initial consult call where I'd listen to the clients,  ask questions and advise. From there I'd begin by creating a wireframe and site map.  After getting the client's approval I'd begin to craft the client's WordPress website using  approved colors and logo. During the process I'd get feedback and approval via email,  phone calls and chats. Jr. Front- End Web Developer EdgeLink May 2015 to June 2015 Placed at CMD Agency in the Pearl district. My role has been to assist in building the Bootstrap framework for the details section of a well known Windows & Doors website.  In this role I worked heavily with Git for version control and JIRA & Basecamp for project  management bug tracking. I used LESS extensively for the CSS via Gulp & package  compiling via Grunt. We also rebuilt our DB every morning Using HeidiSQL & importing to PHPmyAdmin. I was also responsible for making sure the website was responsive and  fixing bugs with broken layout and CSS. Jr. Front- End Web Developer Manifest Web Design February 2014 to April 2015 Recently worked as a junior web developer working mostly on coding custom WordPress  site based on provided mockups. Manifest Web design is a software development  company. My role was to build the front end of web applications and maintain legacy  websites. Jr. Front- End Web Developer Fish Marketing January 2014 to September 2014 Recently worked as a junior web developer creating emails & websites from scratch. Most of the newsletters and emails were custom coded based on mockups from the creative  department. Any updates to email templates created before my tenure at fish are done using old  fashioned tables. Testing is and sending is done via Lyris with rounds of test emails to various  email accounts, which are then viewed on mobile devices and tablets. Updates can be simple  requests or can be complicated changes within the CMS using a template externalizer. Jr Front- End Web Developer Fish Marketing February 2014 to May 2014 Served as primary coder for Spanish Marketing Department. Coordinated with the designers in order to get needed style guides, mock up files and assets. Maintained  existing sites and crafted new sites based on provided assets. Responsible for coding  slides, advertisements, email templates based on provided Design Mockups from the Spanish and English marketing Departments. Hand coding from scratch, customized  WordPress themes, and some .asp via Visual Studio. Collaboration and code reviews were  done via Git. Education Associate degree in Web Graphic Design DeVry University October 2010 to August 2012 Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Class B Expires: August 2021 State: OR Endorsements: P (Passenger vehicles) - S (School bus)) Skills Class B, CDL, CDL-B, Cdl Driver Certifications Class B CDL