Account Manager / Mobile Apps Account Manager / Mobile Apps Account Manager / Mobile Apps Raleigh-Durham, NC Work Experience Account Manager / Mobile Apps TriStar Publishing - Overland Park, KS February 2010 to June 2019 My most recent role at TriStar was an account manager on the app team. As a project manager for several clients, I was the middle man between the client(healthcare organizations) and the app developer(core-apps).    I built and maintained strong relationships with my clients and kept their best interests and needs a priority. I helped the client plan, organize and deliver content and then personally uploaded and/or manipulated data to accomplish the best possible user-friendly appearance and structure.    This position required a bit of graphic design, HTML, CSS, and a lot of combing through JSON and XML data feeds to identify pertinent tags for the end product, being the event app.    I am familiar with the following data sources/suppliers:    • Cadmium  • Coe Truman Technologies  • Confex  • ScholarOne  • Spargo    My initial role at TriStar was a digital specialist. Basically, I optimized and converted PDFs of our many publications into a digital magazine format using NXTbook and sometimes Flash for custom animations. This involved obtaining the designer's native art files, rebuilding the page/s in Flash and animating the elements on a timeline.    I also spent a few years creating and editing WordPress sites to deliver our news content to handheld devices as the smartphone market began to erupt and the PDF to NXTbook product was more of a laptop or desktop solution. Along with publishing news material and placing ads on our WordPress sites, I begin email campaigns for a few of our clients. I not only created the HTML emails, but collected and managed subscriber content, scrubbing for validity and then performed the sends.    In addition to the emails and WordPress responsibilities, I took on another role designing splash pages and app icons for our mobile apps which eventually evolved into my most recent role noted above as account manager.    Skills:  • HTML  • CSS  • Flash  • Ruby - I used and/or created some custom strings for data concatenation with the app developer's web importer tool.    Tools used:    • Core-apps Web Importer  • Core-apps admin  • Campaign Monitor  • Confluence  • Constant Contact  • Creative Cloud (Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver mostly)  • Excel  • Google Analytics  • InDesign  • Microsoft Office  • NXTbook  • Slack  • Trello Front- End Developer/Designer Embarq Corporation - Overland Park, KS October 2006 to January 2009 Skills and Duties    • Website maintenance, development, architecture and site management using Oracle-based CMS(content management system) for a portal-type(BEA AquaLogic) intranet website supporting the telecommunications company's thousands of users/employees  • Development of ASP database-driven forms and web solutions  • Document conversion to HTML, text and image editing, content proofing and web publishing  • Shared the lead of re-structure in implementation of customized navigation using utilizing JavaScript jump menus, CSS, HTML and animated graphics  • With my systems knowledge and design background I was a benefit to thousands of users, improving user experience and overall clarity and aesthetics. Education Bachelor's in Graphic Design University of Central Oklahoma - Edmond, OK January 1997 to December 1999 Architecture / Graphic Design Kansas State University - Manhattan, KS January 1996 to May 1997 AutoCAD Drafting Neosho County Community College - Chanute, KS January 1994 to December 1994 High school or equivalent in Automotive and Drafting Burlington High School - Burlington, KS August 1990 to April 1993 Skills HTML, CSS, MS OFFICE, GRAPHIC DESIGN, EXCEL, Project Management (5 years), Data Entry (6 years), Convention Center Help Desk (5 years), Mobile app configuration (5 years), Building client relationships (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Master CIW (certified internet webmaster) Present