Email Specialist/ Front- End Developer Email Specialist/ <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Graphic Designer/ Front- End Developer DeLand, FL In the 17 years that I have worked as a Graphic Designer, whether creating color separations for screen printing or programming HTML and CSS for emails, there have always been 4 constant principals that have underlined me professionally.    1. Communication - When dealing with clients, outside vendors or fellow team members, the ability to communicate effectively and clearly is an integral part of making a project run smoothly.    2. Relationships - People’s lives professionally, are always effected by their personal life. And lets be honest, we all have areas that we can work on. Having the ability to relate to the people that you deal with on a regular basis - in the office or client facing - can be the difference between having a bad day or landing the next big account.    3. Integrity - While it is easy to tell someone what they want to hear, I have found that it is more beneficial to be honest and upfront with people. Giving a client a realistic expectation on a project, is always better than being late on a deadline and disappointing them.    4. Knowledge and Growth - As my career has expanded, I have had the honor of being mentored by some extraordinary professionals that have shared their knowledge and help me to grow both professionally and personally. It is important to be able to learn new tasks and programs quickly, keeping yourself from become stagnate.    I am confident that both 17 years of Graphic Design knowledge and my core principals will add value to your company, and look forward to speaking with you in the future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Email Specialist/ Front- End Developer AutoPoint / Solera - Daytona Beach, FL August 2011 to Present • Design digital and print layouts for creative campaigns.  • Work daily with clients and development team.  • Code and test functionality of responsive digital templates.  • Code HTML for email campaigns and program for deployment.  • Stay current on latest industry best practices.  • Trouble shoot and update any production issues. Lead Graphic Artist EAPromos - Holly Hill, FL July 2009 to August 2011 • Design artwork for apparel, plaques, and a variety of promotional swag.  • Create color separation of artwork for production.  • Communicate with client from start to finish of order.  • Meet with print department to review production samples and approve for print.  • Troubleshoot production issues and find solutions that worked for all departments.  • Update company website as needed. Contract/Freelance Artist Image Today Advertising - New Smyrna Beach, FL June 2006 to October 2009 • Design catalogs, magazine ads, mailers. calendars and for  cruise lines.  • Design banners, brochures, business cards for local  businesses and politicians.  • Create product packaging from concept to completion.  • Run digital printing press and electric guillotine paper cutter.  • Assist with mounting or lamination of large format prints. Graphic Artist/Illustrator Mid-Florida Sportswear - Daytona Beach, FL February 2003 to June 2006 • Design artwork for apparel and a variety of promotional swag.  • Create color separation of artwork for production.  • Communicate with client from start to finish of order.  • Meet with print department to review production samples and approve for print.  • Troubleshoot production issues and find solutions that worked for all departments. Education Associate in Graphic Design Keiser University at Daytona Beach - Daytona Beach, FL January 2001 to January 2003 Skills Print design, Problem solving, Time management, Package design, Team player, Front-End, UI, Javascript, Front End, User Interface Links http://nathanaelyoung.myportfolio.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/nathanael-young/ Additional Information Design Skills  Print Design  Responsive Email Design  Product Package Design  Vector Design  Soft Skills  Team Player  Creative  Problem Solving  Time Management