Front- End Web Development Instructor <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web Development Instructor Creative Design Professional North Chesterfield, VA Work Experience Front- End Web Development Instructor Amazon - Petersburg, VA August 2019 to Present Front- End Web Development Instructor- (August 2019 - Present)  Instruct Front- End Web Developer program, which introduces students to front- end, or client-side, web development technologies, including JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and jQuery. Participants learn how to make interactive applications that run inside a web browser and can communicate with a web server running remotely. Participants also learn how to use the version control program Git and collaboration website GitHub. Once complete, participants will have the basic skills necessary to work as a front- end web developer. Creative Designer JNAIRBDESIGN.org - Richmond, VA 2007 to Present Freelance design/develop and create concepts for Framme Law Firm PC, Fast Signs, R3Teksolutions, Concise Magazine, and other agencies that support overall marketing mission while ensuring consistency with brand identity. Maintain current websites and Intranet in which I upheld. Conception and creation of advertising and collateral materials, including company newsletters, brochures, inserts, print ads, and all things design. Create, Manage and maintain company websites. Employ probability based logic using technical models and leading-edge technology to gain a competitive advantage in the markets. Art Director/Graphic Designer Department of Defense, Organi... - Fort Lee, VA 2011 to 2013 Determine appropriate design approach for projects and recommendations. Duties include redesign and producing 60 to 75 pages for bi-monthly magazines including charts, features, calendars, news articles, typography, graphics, and various other information.    Accomplishments:  • Responsible for magazine visual overhaul  • Website redesign and new look  • Visual creator across all platforms Visual Info Specialist Department of Defense, Organi... - Fort Lee, VA 2009 to 2010 Serve as Primary Video Tele Conference (VTC) Facilitator of five sites. Provide maintenance and support for Tandberg 880 MXP bridges. Familiar with Tandberg and Aethra Codec's, a variety of controllers. Troubleshooting all VTC hardware and software.    Accomplishments:  • Maintain equipment for daily functions  • Spearhead support for initial hardware installation  • Creative graphics for various identities Web Media Specialist NCSC - Williamsburg, VA 2005 to 2010 Support technician for the Institute for Court Management's Distance Learning program. Assist staff with electronic presentations and audio-visual requirements in meeting rooms. Responsibility includes developing web element components, developing and hosting Webinars and other e-Learning training with WebCT and WebEx platforms for organizations such as the FBI and Dept. of Homeland Security. Web Developer JNAIRBDESIGN - Richmond, VA 2007 to 2009 Create concepts that support overall marketing mission ensuring consistency with brand identity. Conception of advertising, collateral materials, including various forms of print and online material. Create, Manage and maintain company websites including intranet,    Accomplishments:  • Responsible for web site complete overall  • Content management system  • Creative graphics for all platforms Graphic Designer VaVibe Magazine - Richmond, VA 2004 to 2006 Lead graphic designer person for magazine. Design ad using Adobe Photoshop CS, Adobe Illustrator CS, and Adobe InDesign CS. Work directly with printer to increase productivity and quality of publication. Design client's ads as needed for advertising slots. Web Developer IPC Technologies, INC - Richmond, VA March 2005 to March 2005 Support, manage and develop HTML, XHTML, and Macromedia Flash for client's customer base. Maintain and update website using FTP software. Manage, and edit website using Macromedia Dreamweaver MX. Communicate via phone and email to perform websites update and management operations. Acting senior Webmaster for staffing company to perform handle all web related task on freelance bases. Web Designer Progressive Realty - Virginia Beach, VA 2004 to 2005 Creative design and development of new websites and sub sites, including Flash MX introductions as needed. Maintain and upgrade current websites in a highly professional manner. Creating new web pages or sub sites on existing websites. Education Beta Tech - Richmond, VA December 2002 Electronic Engineering Technology Halifax Community College - Weldon, NC 1994 to 1996 Skills ILLUSTRATION (2 years), ILLUSTRATOR (2 years), INDESIGN (2 years), PHOTOSHOP (2 years), ARTICULATE (Less than 1 year), Graphic Design, Adobe, Motion, Typography, Printing Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • Typography, color theory, illustration,  photography, and layout    • Design experience working with rapid conceptualization and delivery times    • Military & Civilian-Military Experience • Working knowledge of CSS3, HTML5  • Ability to clearly articulate design rationale and present visual design work • Senior level knowledge of: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and Creative Cloud    SOFTWARE SKILLS