Full Stack Magento Developer Full Stack Magento <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack developer , Magento 1 & 2 , Game design - director Pembroke Pines, FL Alejandro L. Trujillo S.    Phone: (863) 612-6042 | Email: macotrujillo@gmail.com    Full Stack Developer    System engineer expert with more than 8 years of experience in managing, designing, implementing, controlling, operating and coordinating areas of strong capability in IT and Web Devolooment.    I am a professional with great leadership, interpersonal relationship skills, and a team work player.   I consider myself to be a proactive person and dynamic, able to interact with professionals from other disciplines.  The acquired experience has allowed me to develop skills and strategies for planning, directing and controlling work teams involved in promoting technological contents, strengthening the sense of belonging and guidance for the objectives of an organization.    Throughout the last five years of experience, with a lot of personal commitment, I have achieved promotion year by year.  Among my personal qualities, I am easy to adapt, loyal, hard worker with high performance and excellent personal presentation.     Skills include:    Full stack developer     ? Magento 1 & 2   ? Html, CSS, PHP, Mysql  ? Command Line  ? Git flow - Git Master deployment  ? Jira, Accello  ? Bitbucket, Github, Beanstalk  ? QA Testing, debugging   ? Magento Upgrades and Security Patches  ? Server Deployment and Migration  ? Extension setup and Installations, API Integration  ? Debugging ; Troubleshooting  ? QA Testing and Documentation process implementation   ? Google Adwords, Analytics, SEO, SEM, PPC Campaigns  ? Digital Marketing Campaigns  ? Vagrant box  ? Shopify and Bigcommerce    ??System - IT technician Network Administrator    ? Operation, implementation and maintenance of data networks (LAN / WAN)  ? Windows Server, Linux, BSD Deployment, MySql, Command Line  ? Technical Support, Help Desk, Hardware and software upgrades  Management, Information Systems Design, Management and Network Monitoring, Security, ICT, administration and coordination of areas of strong capability in systems implementation and systems development of collaboration, hardware, and software inventory and system backups.    Video Game Producer/Designer    ? Own development of features end-to- end  ? Work on project ideas with designers, artists, production, influencers, and peers  ? Balance customer requirements with team requirements  ? Effectively mentor and manage a critical team of software developers including their projects and performance  ? Define, document, negotiate, communicate, own, and deliver a Gameplay team roadmap, from implementing new gameplay features to refactoring existing architecture, to collaborating with design to bring prototypes into a complete state.  ? Game design  ? Game testing QA  ? Wireframes Creation    ?Technology Summary    Programming: HTML, CSS, PHP, Mysql, Git, Command Line, Powershell, Blockchain, Unity 3d     Software: MS Office Suite (Access, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project), Jira, Bitbucket, Accello    ?Systems: Unix, Linux, BSD, Windows (all), Mac OS X    Professional Experience:    Sandow LLC - materialbank.com division  Full stack developer :    Magento Extension Installation - Git Flow - Debug extensión errors - Magento Security patch Installation - Setting internal repos dev stage - Magento backend admin panel expert - setting and configuring backend Magento extension - Fixing general Magento Front end and back end issues: CSS, php, HTML, cms, xml, blocks, MySQL - Magento 2, QA testing before and after deployments, Server Migration, Server configuration, AWS implementations, escalation process, fastly cdn, magento enterprise edition latest version, Git master “ in charge of main production deployment ‘“ beanstalk process .     - Marketign and IT Specialist at HealthGenesis Corp.    Magento - Marketing manager     - Magento Web Developer Crunch Geek LLC and Rand Marketing - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2016 to Nov 2017    - Vídeo Game Studio Director, Blurteam - Bogotá, Cundinamarca Jun 30, 2010, to Nov 2015    Video Game Company Responsibilities internal consultant, understanding business needs and managing the designing and execution of IT solutions, being responsible for the end-to- end product development, delivering custom solutions to a diverse range of business, focusing on unique needs that could not be solved by off-the-shelve existing products.     Currently, I oversee the overall development of the business. working very closely with artists and programmers, making sure deadlines are met, projects stay within budget and quality expectations are exceeded,    Accomplishments Reel www.blurteam.com    Directed Projects:    - Photomania Safari Colombia :  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.Blurteam.Photomania&hl=es    CLIENT, Colombian Ministry of ICT, PLATFORMS Android, PC, ENGINE Unity 5, GENRE Graphic Adventure/Photography, DEV TIME 5 Months    - Top Server    https://itunes.apple.com/do/app/top-server/id1039549177?l=en&mt=8    CLIENT Innovations Media LLC , PLATFORMS iOS, PC, ENGINE Unity, GENRE, Simulation, DEV TIME 4 Months.    - IT Telecommunication - Network Director, Organización Dromayor - Bogota - Colombia February 2005 to 2010    Implement a LAN network to the premises of the General Management Unit Organization of Fast Ethernet technology and remote connection Radio communication links with redundancy dedicated ISDN platform Microsoft / BSD and some services under Linux. I made the stations support (Help Desk, application installation, and accessories, network protocol configuration, printing systems, e-mail, Internet, and Intranet). I advised users of the system in the management of the applications developed by the institution and office usage (email, design, Intranet and Internet, etc.).. Configure and implement systems for monitoring the various parameters manageable physical device / logical, using the protocol SNMP network management.    Installs new software releases and system upgrades, evaluates and installs patches, and resolves software related problems. Performs system backups and recovery.  Maintains data files and monitors system configuration to ensure data integrity.  Technologies supported include operating systems, servers, networks, system security, hardware and other software applications. Troubleshoots system issues and resolves or escalates.    Creates and updates system documentation, including configurations and backup procedures.  ?????? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Magento Developer SANDOW MEDIA - MaterialBank División - Boca Raton, FL June 2018 to Present Magento developer     - Magento Extension Installation  - Git Flow  • Beanstalk deployments  • Jira control tickets system   • aws implementation   • Magento 2 EE experience  • api implementations   - Debug extensión error   - Magento Security patch Installation   - Setting internal repos dev stage  - Magento backend expert  - setting and configuring backend Magento extension  - Fixing general Magento Front end & back end issues: CSS, php, HTML, cms,xml, blocks, MySQL   - Magento 2 Magento Web Developer Crunch Geek LLC - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2016 to Present Magento developer     - Magento Extension Installation  - Git Flow  - Debug extensión error   - Magento Security patch Installation   - Setting internal repos dev stage  - Magento backend expert  - setting and configuring backend Magento extension  - Fixing general Magento Front end & back end issues: CSS, php, HTML, cms,xml, blocks, MySQL   - Magento 2 Vídeo Game Studio Director Blurteam - Bogotá, Cundinamarca Present Video Game Company Responsibilities   internal consultant, understanding business needs and managing the designing and execution of IT solutions, being responsible for the end-to- end product development, delivering custom solutions to a diverse range of business, focusing on unique needs that could not be solved by off-the-shelve existing products. Currently i oversees the overall development of the business. working very closely with artists and programmers, making sure deadlines are met, projects stay within budget and quality expectations are exceeded.    Accomplishments  Reel www.blurteam.com IT Technician and Web Developer Lawrence Factor - Miami, FL Present Implement a LAN network to the premises of the General Management Unit Organization of Fast Ethernet technology and remote connection Radio communication links with redundancy dedicated ISDN platform Microsoft / BSD and some services under Linux. I made the stations support (Help Desk, application installation, and accessories, network protocol configuration, printing systems, e-mail, Internet, and Intranet). I advised users of the system in the management of the applications developed by the institution and office usage (email, design, Intranet and Internet, etc.).. Configure and implement systems for monitoring the various parameters manageable physical device / logical, using the protocol SNMP network management.    Installs new software releases and system upgrades, evaluates and installs patches, and resolves software related problems. Performs system backups and recovery.  Maintains data files and monitors system configuration to ensure data integrity.  Technologies supported include operating systems, servers, networks, system security, hardware and other software applications. Troubleshoots system issues and resolves or escalates.    Creates and updates system documentation, including configurations and backup procedures.    Web developer using Html5, bootstrap css and java technology.  ?????? Magento Developer Rand Marketing - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2016 to June 2017 Magento Developer    Magento Extension Installation  - Git Flow  - Debug extensión error   - Magento Security patch Installation   - Setting internal repos dev stage  - Magento backend expert  - setting and configuring backend Magento extension  - Fixing general Magento Front end & back end issues: CSS, php, HTML, cms,xml, blocks, MySQL General Magento - Wordpress Developer - Front end of MercadoGames www.mercadogames.com - www.futblogfifa.com 2012 to 2015 and www.futblogfifa.com    This portals developed in magento and wordpress was structured, translated, and managed entirely by me, this company is my property and I am proud in which has become and what can be in the future ..    I am working in IT company who develops/hosts and maintains wide variety of e-commerce solutions for US businesses.    My role is General Magento Developer in    www.mercadogames.com    Magento is most popular solution in our company so I have been working with it more than 5 years    I like Magento functionality. I feel that I know almost everything its management interface.    - Magento Front end Developer   - PHP, HTML5, MySQl   - I perfectly know Magento functionality  - I know how prepare data for importing  - I can work with different types of data  - I can process product images so they display perfectly on site  - Set Magento Theme, extensions etc ..   - Performance and optimization Searching Engine  - SEO and SEM especialist IT Telecommunication Director Dromayor Organization - Bogota, NJ May 2004 to May 2012 Location: Carrera 12 # 89-33 Piso 6. Tel: 6364950  Bogota-Cundinamarca    Directorate General - Information Resources Management Group  Position:  National Telecommunications Leader  Features:  SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR WEB, EMAIL, AND NETWORK SECURITY ANTIVIRUS.  Roles and Accomplishments:    Reply by the administration of the IT infrastructure in the Unit  General Management (servers, clients, printers and other devices  storage, communications, email, antivirus) and network  data by applying the policies, rules, procedures, and standards for proper maintenance and safety management systems.  Respond to the management of data center resources, processes  back-up and proper operation of UPS systems and air conditioning in the  General Management Unit.    Instruction and update users and staff on resources  computer.    Managing the perimeter security system (3 circlips).    Ensure that the physical communications infrastructure devices, servers, and customers are permanently protected from threats, evaluating and applying  Also new updates and virus protection software and/or products  related.    Conduct studies of convenience and opportunity, technical specifications, and intervenor for IT acquisition.    Implemented security perimeter outline the messaging system  External Unit General Management.    Participated in the migration of the network (LAN / MAN) to Gigabit infrastructure (passive and active), interconnecting with other networks (hubs, routers, cabling,  management and security systems, etc.).    Participated in the design and implementation in the organization Datacenter  including voice networks and configuration of multiple servers.    Perform vulnerability testing and intrusion regularly on the perimeter and other  network components that hold information or providing external services (web,  mail servers, ftp, etc.)..    Design and implement tools to support and maintenance of vulnerabilities  Microsoft Windows Platforms (implementation of user permissions,  operating system patching and securing of the record).    Implement and update security policies on servers and workstations.    Manage the perimeter security system - configure and refine tools  support segment perimeter security, Internet security suite Security  System (Internet Scanner, System Scanner, Database Scanner and Real Secure)  Develop Technology Guidelines (Rules, Policies, Standards and Procedures) for acquisition and operation of IT infrastructure and Defense Sector  decentralized entities of the Ministry of National Defense.    (Sendmail, Cirrus, LDAP, SSH server, SpamAssassin Mail Filter List Manager  Majordomo, SSH server, etc.).  Service time: February 3 2005    Dromayor Organization  Location: Carrera 12 # 89-33 Piso 6. Tel: 6364950  Bogota-Cundinamarca    Directorate General - Information Resources Management Group  Position:    Webmaster - Chief Telecommunications  Roles and Accomplishments:  Continuously monitor existing communication systems.    To promote computer literacy through support and training to users in the operation and use of computing resources just as the transfer  team work technology Management resources.    Define hardware and software resources, making its installation and commissioning  operation, verify that they are duly licensed and maintain a  maintenance log on by the provider, in accordance with established in the contracts.    Advise, investigate and study the latest technologies related to  Hardware client computers, servers, laptops and Printing,  information applicable to the area.    Comment and advise on the preparation of studies of convenience and opportunity,  technical specifications for the purchase or replacement of computer equipment for the defense sector.    Support the preparation and implementation of management procedures and refinement of the network components.    Support the provision of support services external agencies Ministry, as required..    Monitoring and management of communications equipment and network LAN  MAN of the General Management Unit under the parameters set, ensuring security.    Advise, investigate and study the latest technologies related to elements of communication networks, networking, cabling, Systems  Management and Media Security and applicable to the area  Defense Sector information  Elaborare methodology for back-up of BD and procedure for their support and recovery.    Implement a LAN network to the premises of the General Management Unit  Organization of Fast Ethetnet technology and remote connection  Radio communication links with redundancy dedicated ISDN platform  Microsoft / BSD and some services under Linux.    I made the stations support (Help Desk, application installation and accessories, network protocol configuration, printing systems, e  mail, Internet and Intranet).    I advised users of the system in the management of the applications developed by the institution and office usage (email, design, Intranet and Internet, etc.)..  Configure and implement systems for monitoring the various parameters  manageable physical device / logical, using the protocol  SNMP network management. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Global A.D Ltd 2000 to 2003 Roles and Accomplishments:  Administration BSD platforms.    Ensuring their availability, and integrity Confidentiality  operating system level given the opportunity to operation  relying on the first floor in the care of the incidents, change and service call  meet the timelines of care.    Generation and backup policy definition and development of processes (scripts)  automated support necessary to ensure the systems are not supported by  Data-protection.    Ensure that monitoring tools are configured and the same  installed as officers for each of the servers and parameterized  thresholds in order to have efficient and effective assessment and timely resolution of incidents.  Implementation of security policies in each of the servers according to the by the business established by the security group.    Maintain updated customer's computer assets in CMDBs (Configuration  Management Database).    Statistical reporting for the client's behavior  servers and services for your IT infrastructure and based on the proposed and implemented performance improvements proactively.    To provide ON CALL (7x24) ensuring the availability of its servers and solutions offered to them for all platforms (Unix, BSD, Windows, Linux)    Development of procedures for equipment operators and support tower  remote site (remote hands).    Participation in multi-platform migrations UX operating systems both systems and databases. Education DIPLOMA in Engineering ISES University Skills PHP, Wordpress, Leadership Experience, Management Experience, E-Commerce Links http://www.mercadogames.com http://www.futblogfifa.com http://www.blurteam.com Certifications/Licenses Digital Marketing Expert Present Expert marketing - Interactive Advertising Bureau Web Developer - University Of Alicante Present Web Developer - University Of Alicante