Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Montclair State University Montclair, NJ • IT Professional with 9+ years of extensive experience in Web Applications development using frontend technologies like HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, Web Services, Java/J2EE, Struts1.2, Spring, Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making webpages cross browser compatible.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Strong experience in writing web application programs covering front- end / UI jQuery and AJAX for building rich user friendly, high performance web applications.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like SAAS, AngularJS, BackboneJS, DustJS, ReactJS, DOJO and NodeJS.  • Sound Knowledge on AngularJS components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events  • Proficient in using version controls such as CVS, GIT, SVN and Rational Clear Case.  • Resourceful Contender with wide-ranging swiftness in improving the performance in creating Cross browser application using Modernizer and WebShims  • Experience in JavaScript libraries such jQuery, Backbone, ReactJS and Ember to develop user interface widgets and manipulate DOM efficiently.  • Experience with various MVC JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Backbones and NodeJS.  • Skilled in using AngularJS MVVM architecture, expert in Single Page Application like ui-router and ngRoute, with experience in creating custom Controllers, Directives, Services, Filters.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experience working with various IDEs like Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Experience Manager, Eclipse, Net Beans, Adobe Photoshop.  • Good experience in working in both TDD and BDD Environment and Good Exposure to different JavaScript testing Frameworks like QUnit, Jasmine, Mocha, Karma.  • Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE and always participated in cross-browser and platform testing, QA and UAT testing and bug fixing.  • Experience on Jasmine, YUI to test JavaScript code very quick. Knowledge in CSS preprocessors SASS and LESS.  • Thorough in distinct phases of software development life cycle including Designing, Wireframes, Usability Testing, Programming and Presentation to clients and preparing customer specifications as part of software technical requirements.  • Proficient in deploying applications on J2EE Application servers like Tomcat, JBOSS, and WebLogic, IBM ILOG JRules.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Proficiency in coordination, management, problem solving, analytical and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Montclair State University - Montclair, NJ January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in Agile methodology for application development. Analysis, design, coding, unit, and integration testing of business applications in an object-oriented environment.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Built the responsive UI with AngularJS, Bootstrap, Node.JS and developed the dashboard for displaying charts, graphs, and other analytics-related widgets.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript, also developed filters and angular services.  • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Developed mock-up screens in the prototype to demo the application screens to business users using HTML, AngularJS, Bootstrap  • Used Angular-JS, AJAX for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  • Used $http and $resource service for retrieving data from the server via XMLHttp request object in Angular.js framework.  • Extensively worked with XML files as the Source and Target, used transformations like XML Generator and XML Parser to transform XML files, used Oracle XMLTYPE data type to store XML files.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups also designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Ensured Service design fits into overall SOA driven program and also implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Used major components like Serializers, Parsers, Mappers, and Streamers in Data Transformation Studio for conversion of XML files to other formats.  • Created Cryptography modules for JWE, JWS and JWT.  • Created single page applications with nested and multiple views using Angularui-router, custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Worked on Querying and manipulation of the content using XQuery/XPath and XSLT  • Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information also developed Services, Business Delegate, POJO, Controller and DAO.  • Extensively Implemented Spring boot, dependency Injection (DI) and aspect oriented programming (AOP) features along with hibernate.  • Used JMS (Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Wrote Hibernate Criteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.  • Configured Spring declarative transaction manager and implemented transaction management in DAO layer.  • Implemented RESTFUL web services using springboot and consumed using spring REST services. Published Rest services for performing CRUD operations from database.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML and WS-Security for authenticating the REST messages along with encryption and decryption.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality.  • Integrated spring and Hibernate configured logging and developed exception handling for the application. Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS.  • Writing and retrieving files to and from AWSS3bucket for UI to render data faster that involves complex and time consuming server side logic.  • Wrote Junit test cases to test the Spring DAO layer and created Batch Services to generate reports using Spring Batch and used Mockito for Behavior Driven Development (BDD).  • Involved in configuring builds using Jenkins with Git, plugins, configured and used Jenkins to deploy the applications onto Dev, QA, UAT environments.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with, Jenkins and GitHub and AWSAMI's. Converted our staging and Production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker.  • Worked on Attlasian products such as Git for Version control, Source tree, JIRA for project tracking, Confluence for project Wiki.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs, for several browsers. Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.  • Parameterized different JVM settings to obtain optimal values for the application. Automated the deployment to each environment.    Environment: Java 8,HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, J2EE, JSON, XSLT, POJO, Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4, JMS, GIT, REST, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, XML, Ajax, XSD, Java Script, JQuery, Angular-JS 1.6, Linux, Spring Tool Suite(STS), Activiti BPM. Sr. Full Stack / AngularJS Developer UBS - Chicago, IL October 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements.  • Design and developed various view and partial view using Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, J-Query, Ajax Helpers, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, React JS, Gulp and Node JS.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS/HTML themes.  • Implemented client side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Construction from sketches to pixel-perfect mock-ups to complex interactive HTML prototypes.  • Performed AWS Network administration; AWS instance monitoring, troubleshooting, deployment optimization, root cause analysis and preparing documentation.  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application.  • Developed and tested website using the MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Created the Application using Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto-complete form validations.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Separated UI components, stores, helpers, etc into their own NPM modules Ruby for sharing across projects.  • Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Require JS, Node JS, and Angular JS, React JS.  • Creating Cross-browser compatible CSS-based page layouts.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Gulp, React JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Using Angular JS and React JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and SPA (Single Page Application) framework based on Angular JS.  • Involved in creating & consuming Restful web services to expose to other applications.  • Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Extensively used Java Script and Bootstrap to make the web page more interactive.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML    Environment: MEAN (Mongo dB, Express, Angular JS, Node JS), HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Java/J2EE, NPM, Spring, Hibernate JSP, Bootstrap, JQuery, OpenUI5, DHTML, ASP.NET, C#, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Angular JS, Gulp, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Require JS, ELM, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver. Front End Web Developer/Designer Abbott Labs - Lake Forest, IL August 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, JSON, AngularJS, XHTML and HTML  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages, followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Implemented AngularJS directives that allow the developer to specify custom and reusable HTML-like elements, attributes that define data bindings, the behavior of presentation components and DOM manipulation.  • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax Requests to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Edited web pages for achieving design goals with CSS2, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used jQuery Plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for other applications to communicate which is used for opening, closing the locker door web service operations.  • Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  • Used Bamboo tool for continuous integration which is used to build, test and deploy applications automatically as per requirements and thus helps speed up the release process.  • Used Gulp for managing and automating the development workflow.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  • Wrote SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database using JDBC and used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, and developed a technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational Data model with a SQL- based schema.  • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands and implemented Auditing of the outbound as well as inbound tractions between CRC and CME corner using Spring AOP and SQL Triggers.  • Used Maven Plug-ins for one or more repositories such as the Maven 2 Central Repository, and stores them in a local cache.  • Used Log4j for Logging various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML4, XHTML, CSS2, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Oracle, SQL, Adobe Dreamweaver, Oracle, Eclipse, Bamboo, Log4j, Firebug UI Developer ZURICH NA - Falls Church, VA June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using a variety of technologies  • Involved in Requirement phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements  • Daily SCRUM stand-up meeting and provided demo to the business.  • Developed the user interface for registration using HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX.  • Developed profile page options with jQuery, AJAX.  • Designed profile option bar with CSS, jQuery and HTML.  • Converted business requirements into technical requirements in preparation of High level design document and Functional specifications.  • Implemented a common styling with the help of CSS across entire application that controls color, layout, width, height, font size, images size and accomplished other graphic related features.  • Design and implementation of new feature or software components for the front- end of a large Web application  • Used MS Visio, Dreamweaver and Photoshop tools for web application development  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme and layout and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS, Less CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Created Email templates using HTML Tables and analyzed code and fixed bugs.  • Used JSF 2.2 in few parts of the application to provide a face lift (better look and feel).  • Involved in development of various controller classes as a part of Spring MVC Framework.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using JavaScript and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front- end UI team.  • Experience on highly distributed and scalable message based architecture EJB, JMS, REST, Groovy and JavaScript integration.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Use JS framework such as Angular JS (for data driven apps) and Backbone.js (for heavy DOM manipulation).  • Developed REST APIs using WEB API (SOA) and implemented REST API interfaces using JavaScript.  • Involved in Middleware programs provide messaging services so that different applications can communicate using messaging frameworks like REST, JSON.  • Used Spring 4.0 for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Used DB2 10.0 as a database in the backend and for data retrieving and storing using ORM.  • Worked and involved in development, enhancement and testing of the application.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews and functional testing.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Worked and involved in development, enhancement and testing of the application.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Worked with GIT version control, vagrant environment using node.js, Gulp for compiling, and used tracking tools as JIRA for bug tracking.  • Worked on creating simulation environment using Node JS and Mongo DB.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, YUI, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Angular.js, Backbone.js, node.js, Ext.js, Kendo UI, Mongo DB, Responsive Design, JIRA, Mobile Apps (IOS, Android), AJAX, DOJO, DOM, Firebug, SOAP, Web Services, XML, XSLT) UI Developer Astra Zeneca - Wilmington, DE April 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering and creating initial documentation for the system.  • Developed the web pages using HTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model, integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized as per user requirements.  • Brief experience on implementing and creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Used jQuery plugins autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Used advanced level of HTML, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Co-ordinate with UX designers and develop static content using front end with HTML, CSS.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on user requirements.  • Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  • Designed various grid panels and various UI components using EXT JS framework and JQUERY.  • Work on mobile frameworks: Phone Gap, JQuery Mobile to develop mobile applications for iPhone, Android and Blackberry phones.  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Worked in fast-paced and dynamic environment supporting many components on varied release cycles using QTP.  • Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, MEAN Stack, JavaScript, jQuery, JQuery Mobile, Bootstrap, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Fireworks, AJAX, JSON, XML, REST, Phone Gap, Angular JS, MVC, SDLC (Waterfall), Notepad++ Front End Web Developer/Designer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL January 2009 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client-side JavaScript validations.  • Developed Web services component using WSDL and SOAP with DOM to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Responsible for coding POJO Classes which is used to describe the same things as a "Normal Class" whereas a JavaBean follows a set of rules.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) features like Named Queries for querying the database and using the objects in data access layer and used Hibernate configuration files for Oracle.  • Involved in Functional and UAT Testing which can be implemented by making software available for a free beta trial on the Internet or through an in-house testing team comprised of actual software users.  • Developing at Client-side validations using Struts valuator and implemented Struts tag laboratories for designing front end.  • Used Ajax framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Worked on Agile methodology and effectively took part in Scrum gatherings to deliver quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods, which incorporated the core business functionality using Singleton Beans.  • Used Junit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the logs.  • JQuery for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX and which can test any generic JavaScript code, including itself.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects for Addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Involved in generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploy the application on the application server.  • Worked with versioning tools like CVS, SVN and Clear Case and build tools like ANT, Maven.  • Effectively interacted with team members and business users from different regions for requirements capture and analysis.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, Log4j, JQuery, ANT, WSDL, SOAP, AJAX Education Andhra University Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (9 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), jQuery (9 years) Additional Information Technical competencies:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap, Apache.  JavaScript Libraries: Ext JS, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js, Vue.JS, Ember.js, Handlebar.js, Express.js  IDE's and Tools: Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle, WebStorm, SublimeText, SQL Developer, and SQL Plus, Eclipse, Toad, Grunt, Gulp, OBIEE (10g, 11g)  Web Services: REST, SOAP  Java Technologies: Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, WSDL  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Tools: Ant, VNC, SQL Developer, Junit, Jasmine, Karma  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, TDD  Version Control: Subversion, GIT, CVS, SVN  Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X