Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sales Consultant Fayetteville, NC To obtain a position that will enable me to use my strong organizational skills, military background, and the ability to work well with people. Received an honorable discharged from the military. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Costco Wholesale - Wheaton, MD October 2016 to Present Retrieve carts from storage docks in the parking lot and returns them to the store for members to use. Cart Attendant Safeway - Wheaton, MD September 2016 to Present Retrieve carts from storage docks in the parking lot and returns them to the store for patrons to use. Carpet care manager All American Chem Dry - Fayetteville, NC May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  Daily inspections of work truck and equipment. Drive to appointments and provide excellent customer service and price and sell on site. Keep track of inventory. All other required maintenance     Accomplishments  Raised the company job averagevfrom 100s o 300s. Completed 4 star training course.     Skills Used  Integrity, loyalty, dependability, responsibility. Ability to use Microsoft word, tablets and apple products and mobile devices with proficiency. Great understanding of the local area and addresses. Sales Consultant Best Buy Mobile - Fayetteville, NC February 2011 to October 2011 As sales consultant my duties and responsibilities were to identify the needs of the customer and provide the opportunity for needs to be met through the purchase of product or service to include the following:  • Managed sales territory.  • Made sales calls.  • Created a customer base, provided service and individual attention to customers.  • Created a log and record all interactions with customers regardless of the outcome of a sale.  • Remain updated on product knowledge. Seek opportunities to consistently learn and train.  • Educated customers through detail explanation and/ or demonstrations.  • Good organizational and communication skills. Aircraft Armament Systems Specialist United States Air Force Hulbert Field March 2008 to January 2011 As a United States of America Airmen my duties and responsibilities were to serve the United States of America along with the following duties:  • Load and unload aircrafts.  • Performed safety operations.  • Performed functional checks of launch and suspension systems.  • Prepared munitions and inspected post loading weapons.  • Operated handling and loading equipment, and mates munitions with aircraft release launch and suspension systems.  • Test electrical and electronic circuitry for continuity, voltage, and proper operation.  • Installed ground safety devices on munitions and gun system components to prevent inadvertent detonation, launching, or firing.  • Insert and removed impulse cartridges associated with fuel tanks and pylon.  • Adjust and installed fuses, boosters, and delay elements in conventional munitions.  • Performed armament systems maintenance functions test routinely.  • Ensure compliance with polices, directives, and safety procedures. Evaluated operational efficiency of aircraft guns and munitions systems, and recommend modification. Carpet Technician Sears Carpet Cleaning - Fayetteville, NC May 2004 to March 2008 As a Carpet Technician my duties and responsibilities were to schedule appointment with customers for carpet cleaning to include the following:  • Schedule appointments.  • Provided carpet cleaning. Applied carpet fresher.  • Stain removal from carpet.  • Calculated accurately room dimension for invoice.  • Ensure quality work. Cook Sears Carpet Cleaning - Fayetteville, NC October 2006 to June 2007 As a Cook a fast food restaurant my duties and responsibilities were to prepare and cook food to include the following:  • Clean food preparation areas, cooking surfaces, and utensils.  • Cook and served food to customers.  • Maintain sanitation, health, and safety standard in work areas.  • Received verbal orders as to food required by patron, and prepare and cook food according to instructions.  • Clean, stock, and restock workstations and displays cases.  • Verified that prepared food met requirements for quality and quantity. Education Certificate in Heavy Equipment Operations HEAVY CONSTRUCTION ACADEMY - New Hampshire 2013 to 2013 High School Diploma Jack Britt High School Fayetteville - Fayetteville, NC 2007 Skills Inventory experience, warehouse Stocking experience, Merchandising experience, Hand eye coordination, Forklift and Pallet Jack Experience (7 years), Inventory management (6 years), Microsoft excel, Powerpount, word, office (7 years), Carpet and upholstery cleaning (6 years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 March 2008 to January 2011 As a United States of America Airmen my duties and responsibilities were to serve the United States of America along with the following duties:  • Load and unload aircrafts.  • Performed safety operations.  • Performed functional checks of launch and suspension systems.  • Prepared munitions and inspected post loading weapons.  • Operated handling and loading equipment, and mates munitions with aircraft release launch and suspension systems.  • Test electrical and electronic circuitry for continuity, voltage, and proper operation.  • Installed ground safety devices on munitions and gun system components to prevent inadvertent detonation, launching, or firing.  • Insert and removed impulse cartridges associated with fuel tanks and pylon.  • Adjust and installed fuses, boosters, and delay elements in conventional munitions.  • Performed armament systems maintenance functions test routinely.  • Ensure compliance with polices, directives, and safety procedures. Evaluated operational efficiency of aircraft guns and munitions systems, and recommend modification. Certifications/Licenses Heavy Equipment Operations Present Can safely and professionally operate all Heavy construction equipment