FRONT END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT END DEVELOPER - TIMES WARNER, GA Atlanta, GA Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER TIMES WARNER, GA July 2016 to Present • Worked on Agile based development cycle with a weekly release schedule, involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Iterative design process upon client approval build out of all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components and etc.  • Quickly prototyped and created applications interfaces from the PDF are given by the UX using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Used AngularJS to populate the data tables on the front- end and retrieve data from the rest services.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript with Prototype.js library.  • Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features like page transition, calendar, image popup and other intuitive features.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the transaction view which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using JQUERY UI and D3.js.  • Used Angularjs AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information and view transaction history modules.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Participating in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts. JAVA FRONT END DEVELOPER VIVMA - IN March 2015 to April 2016 INDIA  • Responsible for developing wireframes for web page flows, page layouts and reusable widgets for customizable interface and announcements.  • Worked with the team in designing Use Cases using UML and involved the entire functional requirements life cycle  • Developed the internal portal using JSP, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Handled Browser compatibility issues in XHTML, CSS and Java Script for IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers  • Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the users using JSP, JSTL and Struts2 tag library.  • Used Ajax, jQuery and ExtJS to update the components of the customizable interface without refreshing the page.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for authorization process and DAO API to manage the users using JDBC  • Used JavaScript and JSP validation framework for Client-side validations and Struts validation for Server-side validations.  • Prepared JUnit test cases, Used JUnit for unit testing and Log4j to capture the logs.  • Effectively followed agile methodology and Scrum process for the implementation of the project. Education COMPUTER SCIENCE in BACHLOR'S AHMEDABAD UNIVERSITY Skills UI, Front End, Javascript