Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer with a passion for Design Forest Hills, NY http://karlrodulfo.com    I'm a full-stack developer with a passion for design looking to create elegant, intuitive, web products for companies eager to disrupt their industry.   I have experience in HTML5, CSS3, Ruby on Rails, React / Javascript, and many other frameworks and languages. I love the creative challenge of bringing a vision to life, and thrive on creative problem-solving it involves.     After working for the past decade in television production, I saw the media world transform and practically turned on its head. Media was changing, and I wanted to be a part of that, so I took the plunge, switched careers, and become a web developer. I've always had a love for tech and new media, and rather than watch the media world transform while I'm in the sidelines, I wanted to be one of the people shaping its future.     Television and web development aren't entirely unalike; they both involve using creative solutions to bring an idea to life. Moreover, my experience in content generation for television has given me the skills to work adeptly with tight deadlines, and high-stakes & big-budget projects. And perhaps most importantly, I've learned how to quickly build deep and trusting relationships with partners, peers, and executive leaders.     With these strong transferable skills, I believe I can be a huge asset to your team and help in delivering your company's mission and vision. I'm eager to bring my proven abilities in web development, project management, and creative editorial to companies looking to make a mark. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Unpakt.com - New York, NY November 2018 to Present • Facilitated the migration of high traffic e-commerce web application from old frameworks(Ruby on Rails, Angular) framework to React JS   • Oversees front- end development and creation of multiple apps and features across thegrowing Unpakt product line.   • Manages product interfaces and makes sure all web applications are optimized for SEO,accessibility, and UI/UX.   • Maintained product quality through regular QA tests and managing bug reports and fixes. Television Producer / Project Manager DISCOVERY CHANNEL - Discovery Communications - New York, NY 2015 to 2018 A seasoned television producer with several years experience managing and producing nonfiction original series and specials for Discovery Channel and its sister networks (Science, Animal Planet, TLC, Destination America).   ? Responsible for finding and managing original on-screen talent, overseeing day-to-day production timelines, providing background research, and developing show pitches for senior network executives. Proven ability in juggling multiple high-stakes projects in production at once.   ? Conceives, writes, and designs all paper treatments and presentation decks for all development projects, which are then pitched to high-level network executives.  ? Found, contacted, and signed over a dozen singularly unique talent to exclusive holding deals for high-level projects in development with Discovery.   ? Worked closely with vendors and production companies to keep deliverables on time, on budget, and meeting all editorial requirements.  ? Co-produced and project managed seven highly rated specials and nonfiction series across multiple cable networks. Development Coordinator ANIMAL PLANET / Discovery Communications - New York, NY 2010 to 2015 An Animal Planet network representative working closely with producers, agents, and production companies to develop and create new series and specials for the network.   ? Developed four original nonfiction series for Animal Planet.  ? Evaluated over a hundred pitches and worked closely with producers to develop reels and treatments while working within budget constraints and brand mandates.  ? Provided comprehensive network notes and creative direction on series in production. Assistant and Production Researcher NBC NEWS - New York, NY 2009 to 2010 ? Provided breaking news updates to producers. Functioned as researcher and primary fact checker for all health-related stories for NBC News TODAY, Dateline, and Nightly News. Initiated outreach to interview subjects and conducted pre-interviews for segments.   ? Managed the schedule, travel, and logistics for NBC Chief Medical Editor, Dr. Nancy Snyderman. NBC Page NBC UNIVERSAL - New York, NY 2008 to 2009 ? Worked in SYFY, NBC News, and NBC Digital in the following capacities on assignments:  - Acted as a primary liaison between the NBC News publicity team ( Dateline, Meet the  Press, Nightly News & TODAY Show ) and other media outlets during the 2008  presidential election.  - Conceived, prepared and compiled PowerPoint decks for SYFY clients and the marketing team.  - Maintained, updated, and managed the SYFY mobile website and its assets.  ? Conducted NBC studio tours; facilitated tickets and audience coordination for live tapings of  Late Night with Conan O'Brien, Late Night With Jimmy Fallon, and Saturday Night Live Education Software Engineering Intensive New York Code & Design Academy - New York, NY June 2018 to October 2018 Bachelors of Science in Television and Film Production St. John's University - New York, NY 2007 Skills Project Management, Television Production (7 years), CSS3 (1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Ruby (1 year), Ruby on Rails (1 year), Front-End (2 years), UI (1 year), Front End (1 year), React (1 year), Angular, HTML5, Node, Bootstrap Links http://karlrodulfo.com Certifications/Licenses New York Code & Design Software Engineering Graduate Present Completed Software Engineering Intensive program and created dynamic web applications using a variety of platforms, frameworks, and languages including: Ruby, Sinatra, Ruby on Rails, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, sass, Bootstrap, SQL, Git, and Heroku. Additional Information Write and create my own webcomic series http://instagram.com/comicswithak