Assistant Director of Engineers Assistant Director of Engineers Assistant Director of Engineers - Capital One Financial New York, NY Work Experience Assistant Director of Engineers Capital One Financial - New York, NY 2018 to Present -I provide leadership and strategic direction to the company's IT Infrastructure teams  I am responsible for the development of, implementation of, and adherence to a technology infrastructure strategy and roadmap. Maintain transparency and work cohesively with the Chief Information Officer (CIO) and his  leadership team.  -Experienced in creating a more efficient organizational structure with clearly defined roles, responsibilities, and deliverables. I possess and execute daily my exceptional professionalism, integrity, dedication, high level of  energy, excellent oral and written communication skills, and strong interpersonal and relationship  building/management skills.  -Responsible for a budget of $330 Million Dollars  -Oversee over 800 Interns, engineers and developers.  -Oversaw and spearheaded the dissolution of the Department of Network Services, a 18-month endeavor, resulting  in the absorption of 180 engineers by my department, and 120 by the Department of Information Services  Primary architect for software systems  Mobile App - Progressive Web App with Offline first and autonomous synchronization and various back- end systems.  (Ionic/Angular, PouchDB, CouchDB, MySql, .NET WebAPI, WinServices , WCF, Yii&Yii2)  App Development: iOS in Objective-C or Swift, Android Apps in Java  Web Development: React.JS front- end Node.JS Back- end  Data Analytics: Google Analytics, SPSS, Tableu Solutions, LLC - Mahwah, NJ 2006 to Present Mahwah, New Jersey 2006-Present  • I consult with companies from startups in seed stage to Fortune 500 in all aspects of technology, application development, network infrastructure, web development, data engineering and more  • My Clients include: Truckelcious, Rah Rah Life, Bank of America, EPIC Corporation, Vanderbilt, University, Hackensack University Medical Center, Consortium, Department of Defense, Alcamy,  Cameo, WeWork, Regus, UPS, Inserra Markets, NY Pizza, Halal Guys, Insomnia Cookies  • Stacks  Mobile Development (iOS Apps: Objective-C or Swift) (Android Apps: Java)  Web Development (ReactJS for front- end, NodeJS for the backend) Publications: Senior Engineer of Information Services City of New York - New York, NY 2015 to 2018 I ran all things information Technology (IT) to provide information resources and services to accelerate civil  service across the city. My department was responsible for cyber infrastructure, high- performance computing, bioinformatics, decision support, data analytics, cybersecurity, and the scientific and  administrative software environment at the university. The department was in the midst of a major transition in culture, including the adoption of DevOps and Agile practices.  Stacks: (BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, MPLS, VXLAN with BGP EVPN, Multicast, React, Node, Angular, Express, Swift, Java) App Developer and Front- End Engineer Yik Yak, Inc - Atlanta, GA 2012 to 2017 Worked across 2 distinct departments, App Development and Web Services  -Used iOS frameworks for Core Data, Core Animation, Core Motion, Core Location etc  -worked in development of internal applications for various Departments  -Used both Objective-C and Swift for app development  -Handled small client needs, and worked on both the internal applications as well as the iOS Yik Yak App, handling bug fixes, security patches, UI implementations and guiding the graphics team with UX design.  For Web Development  -Used Angular, Node, and React  -Maintained legacy technologies while handling transitions to the new web stacks (React and Node)  -Assisted with educating interns and Junior Engineers in our technologies and enacted Scrum methods for DevSecOp Senior Javascript Engineer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY 2012 to 2015 -Lead the Technical team and the Product Owners in an Agile development process (Scrum)  - Supported efforts to code, design, and testing in a heterogeneous technology environment e.g. JavaScript  MVC, HTML, CSS, Java/ J2EE  -Web development experience working on Windows or Java platforms Experienced with HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and Spring frameworks.  -I handled all web application servers such as Tomcat, .NET and more  -Used (Java/J2EE and .Net, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, AJAX, & JSON skills for implementing web  technologies. Engaged in projects involving JQuery, NodeJS, AngularJS, extJS, SenchaTouch Framework, Promise, and other frameworks like (FlightJS, requireJS, wireJS , AngularJS) Learned and implemented the use  of multithreaded software design. Increased presence of AJAX and Spring frameworks. Switched the department from Waterfall to Agile/Lean practices. Web Development Engineer AMAZON - Seattle, WA 2011 to 2012 Maintained web pages and legacy code database  Work with devs to meet all goals and deadlines.  Experience in using various jQuery controls and corresponding Event handlers etc  Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript.  Keep up to date with new technologies, libraries, framework and software revisions.  Ensure code compatibility and continuity across current and future operating system and browser versions. Junior Web Developer Raptr - Mountainview, California, US 2008 to 2011 -3+ years of progressive experience in front end phases of software developing life cycling including  application design, development, maintenance, and testing.  -Work with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery  -Converted our pages from jQuery to "Project Scene" (would become Vue.js.)  -Experience in using beta Vue.js for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some  custom directives in the application.  -Extensively using JavaScript in every day's project. And expertise in client-side validations using JavaScript.  Software Consultant-iOS Applications, Front- End Dev, Business Management Chaudhry Business Education Master's in Business Administration Columbia University in the City of New York - New York, NY January 2019 to December 2019 B.Sc in Computer Science Rutgers University - Newark, NJ 2019 M.Sc in Human Resources Management Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY 2017 to June 2018 M.Sc in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology 2012 to 2015 Links https://github.com/MacMan489 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2010 to Present Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) February 2013 to Present Google Adwords August 2012 to Present Project Management Professional (PMP) June 2014 to Present Red Hat Certified System Administrator June 2011 to Present Linux+ Present Security+ A+ Certified Present Network+ Present