Freelancer Freelancer A computer scientist with an expertise in Front end development and Artificial Intelligence. Good  knowledge of Pattern Recognition, machine Learning, image processing and full-stack web  development. Have experience of algorithm designing and programming and Web designing.    • A Result Oriented Professional with 6+ Years of work experience in Developing User  Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications  • IT experience which includes the experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications  and professional web applications using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, Node  JS, MONGODB, React JS, Redux JS, JSON and REST API's, developing Client/Server.  • Proficient in client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks with J-Query.  • Proficient in JavaScript frameworks with React JS, Redux JS, middle ware like Redux-  thunk, the DOM, and relevant concepts.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chromeand IE Developer  Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience in messaging platforms like Slack.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT  • Familiar with Grunt task runner to manage project and Bower package manager to install  libraries such as J-Query and Bootstrap.  • Collaborated with UX and design teams, translating complex design mock-ups into high  quality, accessible, W3C standards-based code  • Created Mobile Web Applications with Responsive Web Design, through uses of Twitter  Bootstrap, J-Query Mobile and CSS3 Media Queries. Work Experience Freelancer January 2019 to Present Responsibilities: Responsive website development, app development, and maintenance  using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Javascript, React.js, Redux.js and REST API's. SANSA April 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities: Responsive website development, app development, and maintenance  using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Javascript, and React.js, REST API's.  • Web page cleanup and standardization of pages to meet corporate branding and style  guidelines. Junior Visiting Scholar University of Iceland 2014 to 2017 It was a series of search visit about Machine learning. Researcher in Artificial Intelligence 2011 to 2014 Algorithm Designing in Pattern Recognition, Machine Learning, Image Processing. International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering(IJECE), Vol 2012 to 2012 2, No 6, Pages 766-773 (2012) Front- End Developer / Web Project Manager ASEMAN RAH DIBA 2003 to 2011 Iran.    • Worked as freelance Front- End Developer, managed website projects, coordinated with team of Web Designers, UX/UI Designers, Graphic Designers, and Photographers to  implement designs for websites and mobile applications.  • Worked with Adobe Products like Dreamweaver to build website  • As a Web producer photographer Graphic Designers using Photoshop for design UX/UI  contents/business cards/retouch customers picture, using Premiere to Edit different  kinds of videos, Creating website with Dreamweaver.  Research Interests  • Pattern Recognition  • Image Retrieval and Image processing  • Computer Vision and Machine learning  • Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning in bioinformatics Education University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA 2018 B.Sc. in Software Engineering, Computer Engineering University of Ahvaz 2003 to 2008 Skills Visual studio, C#, Firebase, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Mongoose, Node.js, Redux, Json, Mongodb, Html5, jquery, Rest, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Linux, Unix Links http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=QJLkPtMAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao http://linkedin.com/in/zeynab-shokoohi http://github.com/zeynabkarampour