Graphic / Website Designer and Developer Graphic / Website Designer and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Graphic / Website Designer and Developer - Elliott Graphics Franklin, MA Work Experience Graphic / Website Designer and Developer Elliott Graphics - Franklin, MA September 1996 to Present • Architect client websites including concepting, design, planning, UI, development and execution to promote their business or service in the best light with highest visibility.  • Administer and maintain websites, analyze performance and create SEO plans, email design, and internet consulting to increase client company awareness.  • Create graphics, logos, brochures, direct mail, advertising, reports, collateral and signage as needed to advocate the clients' message and brand. Front End Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Mass - Quincy, MA October 2017 to November 2018 • Developed new pages, site sections and user interface enhancements to accelerate a new digital platform initiative.  • Tested for compatibility on various browsers and devices, enhancing and modifying features as necessary to ensure the best experience for the user.  • Updated and maintained content through WebSphere and TeamSite, and Drupal, analyzing issues and debugging as necessary for corporate rebranding. Website Developer Bose - Stow, MA August 2014 to April 2017 • Created wireframes and built functional prototypes for new products, features and UX requirements to advance company rebranding effort.  • Developed new content and features to update or enhance websites through TeamSite, Hybris, and Adobe Experience Manager to support new product offerings.  • Initiated and executed plan to dynamically generate HTML for emails in Exact Target that saved the company an estimated $90k/year. User Interface Designer Intertek - Boxborough, MA July 2008 to April 2014 • Implemented an iterative design process to revamp the design, layout and user interface of underperforming legacy websites and portals to increase customer satisfaction.  • Created new designs and functional prototypes for new features and products to expand company offerings.  • Updated existing website templates to make products and portals responsive, and devised dashboards for clients to visualize test results at a glance in real time. Art Director Softbank Comdex - Needham, MA September 1991 to September 1996 • Concepted and designed campaigns, direct marketing pieces, promotional collateral and signage to promote multiple event channels.  • Designed brands and logos, desktop publishing, graphic and website design, icons, style guides, brand guidelines and illustration as needed to support campaign objectives.  • Coordinated mechanical preparation, pre-press checks, mentored junior designers and oversaw contract artists to meet or exceed deadlines. Education Bachelor of Arts in Art Framingham State University - Framingham, MA Certificate of Professional Achievement in Website Design and Development Northeastern University - Burlington, MA Skills Javascript, jQuery, HTML 5 Links http://www.bernie-elliott.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/bernie-elliott