Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Member Kailua, HI To become a key player on a dedicated team of professionals working with  digital marketing, content development or information technology.    HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS    ? Two decades worth of experience in digital marketing and content development.  ? A traffic acquisition virtuoso who is adept in front- end development, analytical  reporting, search engine optimization and web content accessibility guidelines.  ? Seasoned expert in new media, video marketing and all content creation. Work Experience Owner/Operator 123Adapt LLC - Kailua, HI March 2018 to Present • Provide digital media consulting services for local small to medium sized business.   • Manage all the daily operations including all client and subcontractor interaction.   • Produced a variety of video projects for promotional and educational purposes.   • Consulted with clients to provide recommendations and updates on project   • performance.  Associate Director of Experience Design Anthology Media Group - Honolulu, HI August 2016 to March 2018 • Assisted in casting the vision and setting the direction for the organization.   • Provided supervision of the Experience Design (XD) team in day-to-day operations.   • Created estimates by developing the design strategy and defining requirements, specifications and assumptions.   • Consulted with clients to provide project specific recommendations and regular updates.   • Mentored junior team members in leadership, decision making, content development and proposal creation.  Associate Digital Director MVNP - Honolulu, HI February 2014 to July 2016 I started working at MVNP as a Senior Front- End Developer and was promoted to an Associate Director less than a year after starting.    • Managed all development resources and represented the interactive department on all projects, estimates and daily activities.   • Provided support and consultation for each department in the company on all matters related to interactive technology.   • Responsible for all front- end development and interactive design.   • Worked closely with First Hawaiian Bank executives and marketing teams to introduce a new brand resulting in multiple updates to various digital assets.   • Coordinated with multiple 3rd party vendors to accommodate new brand requirements within eternal systems.  Senior Developer Pramerica Systems Ireland - Letterkenny, County Donegal March 2009 to December 2013 Pramerica Systems Ireland is a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and works exclusively with Prudential Financial systems.     I started working for Pramerica in March of 2009. In July of 2013 I moved from Ireland back to America with my family. For the next 6 months, I continued to work as a consultant with Pramerica & Prudential Financial through an agency in New York called ConTech Systems.     • Worked closely with multiple Prudential departments as User Experience Expert and Front- End Developer on the IBM Portal intranet upgrade including a responsive design.   • Assisted the Prudential Advertising and Marketing department with regular email campaign templates. Converting Photoshop designs into HTML including custom tracking codes.   • Introduced a fully responsive email template system allowing Prudential marketing campaigns to be viewed properly by mobile device users.   • I developed multiple front- end systems for both Pramerica and Prudential used on a wide range of technology systems. Back- end technology included ASP.NET, JAVA, IBM Connections, IBM Lotus Notes, Vignette CMS, DotNetNuke and IBM Web Content Manager (WCM).   • I helped introduce new open source technology into the Prudential environment and worked to develop training programs for each one. I also worked closely with legal and technical departments within Prudential to implement new approval protocols for other developers to recommend new tools.   • As a front- end developer I introduced the first responsive design for an internal application allowing Prudential executives in the compliance department to access our application using a mobile devices.   • As a front- end developer I developed two identical templates for both IBM Connections and IBM WCM systems allowing a seamless user experience between both applications providing a consistent brand throughout all content.  Owner/Operator Hotel Internet Solutions - Letterkenny, County Donegal February 2008 to March 2009 • I provided digital marketing and web development consultancy to local hotels and businesses. Services included: Google Adwords management, content management and booking engine development including digital marketing campaigns.   • I was hired to teach a six month web marketing course at the Regional Cultural Centre in Letterkenny County Donegal, Ireland.   • I was hired by 3D Issue (?http://www.3dissue.com/?) to help manage their Google Ads account and to implement a news section into their existing site with support for multiple languages.   • I was hired by multiple businesses to assist in the planning and development of their digital marketing strategies.  Front End Developer Accubook - Donegal Town, County Donegal January 2007 to February 2008 • I worked with the back- end team to develop new features and template designs within the Accubook CMS. Accubook was a ASP.NET content management system with an integrated booking engine used by hotels.   • I regularly met with each hotel to assist in any training and digital marketing needs using both the Accubook system and other digital marketing services (Google Analytics, Google Adwords).  Web Developer Northwest News Company (NWIPP) - Omagh, County Tyrone November 2005 to November 2006 • I updated multiple static sites on a weekly basis to include news from the locally published newspapers. Six different newspapers from five different locations were updated weekly and bi-weekly with all the content from paper replicated online.   • I developed an in-house media sharing tool allowing users at all 5 locations web access to their extensive media archive. The new system held over 100,000 photos and all the metadata was keyword searchable.   • I helped support all workstations and hardware at five different locations. This included both Mac and Windows computers, wired and wireless connectivity and network printers.  Owner/Operator Adaptive Designs - Kaneohe, HI June 2003 to November 2005 • I provided web development and digital marketing support for all Accubook clients. This included Google Analytics accounts and weekly email campaigns to Accubook hosted packages and products.   • I successfully bid on a contract by the University of Hawaii School of Medicine (JABSOM) to develop a new site that would be both public and private facing. The site included a custom content management system built using PHP and MySQL and a virtual tour of the new campus using 3D and Adobe Flash technology.  Director of Web Operations Viata - Honolulu, HI November 2000 to November 2003 Viata is now known as SwitchFly and we built travel transaction software. Our tool would connect to the global distribution systems (GDS), such as Apollo and Sabre, using XML allowing travel partners to communicate and exchange information using a more friendly and robust front- end experience. Similar technology is still used by Expedia and other online travel systems.     I started working at Viata as a developer and was quickly promoted to a directly level position.     • Viata was a start-up company that built travel transaction software and also managed a site called Vacation Hosts. Vacation Hosts gave vacation rental owners an online calendar for users to book time in their vacation rentals.   • I wore many hats while working at Viata and did whatever needed to be done in order for the company to succeed and grow. My main role was to develop all the front- end or user interface systems used by both the new transaction software and the Vacation Hosts website.   • As the company grew and our clients base began to grow, the need for training and technical support also grew. I took on the role of both web operations and technical support at the same time. This also meant tracking bugs in the system and working with other developers to help fix and track each bug.   • In order to produce interactive training and marketing material I learned LINGO which later became ActionScript used by Adobe Flash.   • I also worked as a graphic designer and helped develop all the branding and marketing material used by the company including logos, business cards, powerpoint templates and brochures.  Web Designer Pacific Information Exchange Inc. - Honolulu, HI December 1999 to November 2000 I started my IT career at PIXI as a web master building and updating websites for both internal and external services and provided support for business customers who needed help with their websites.     • I updated multiple static websites owned by the company on a daily, weekly and bi-weekly basis.   • I handled all support calls from customers of our web hosting and web design services.   • I provided web design consulting services for all customers who had web design needs.  Education High school or equivalent in Graphic Design, Chemistry, Trigonometry, Biology, Literature Sumner High School - Sumner, WA September 1989 to June 1992 Skills Project Management (10+ years), Front-End Development (10+ years), Digital Marketing (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Content Development (10+ years), Content Creation (10+ years), Email Marketing (10+ years), Marketing Communications (6 years), Web Development (10+ years), Video Production (10+ years), Photography (10+ years), Google Analytics (10+ years), Google Adwords (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (10+ years), Social Media Management (5 years), Information Architecture (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Marketing, SEO, Indesign, search engine optimization, Illustrator, Advertising, Graphic Design, Sales, Photoshop, Customer Service Links http://www.christiangehrke.com https://www.instagram.com/gehrkegram/ https://twitter.com/christiangehrke https://www.youtube.com/user/christiangehrke/videos Certifications/Licenses FAA Part 107 March 2018 to March 2020 The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules for small unmanned aircraft (UAS) operations other than model aircraft – Part 107 of FAA regulations – cover a broad spectrum of commercial and government uses for drones weighing less than 55 pounds. Here are the highlights of the rule. Advanced Programming - City and Guilds 2005 to Present This certificate option is designed to provide students with basic and advanced skills and knowledge in a primary language of choice.Application development using database programming techniques, structures, and modeling is also developed. Graduates are qualified to work as a Level 1, 2 and 3 Programmer in a technical programming environment. Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS     ? Two decades worth of experience in digital marketing and content development.     ? A traffic acquisition virtuoso who is adept in front- end development, analytical reporting, search engine optimization and web content accessibility guidelines.    ? Seasoned expert in new media, video marketing and content creation.