Logistics/Dispatcher Logistics/Dispatcher Front End Developer Garfield, NJ I am a Web Developer with experience building websites from mockup to rollout. I specialize in using a MERN stack(MongoDB, Express, React and Node) and am proficient in Javascript(ES6), HTML5, CSS3. I enjoy learning new technologies and am currently working on learning PHP. Check out some of my design samples at https://daniel-mcghee-portfolio.herokuapp.com and feel free to contact me directly at Daniel.McGhee6813@gmail.com. Work Experience Logistics/Dispatcher Alliance Shippers August 2015 to May 2018 • Maintained logistics overnight for Unilever Plant in Chicago  • Ensured delivery of needed equipment  • Ensured pickup of all loaded containers within agreed dwell period  • Developed relationships with vendors and customers to ensure open lines of communication  • Oversaw delivery and repair of out of service equipment to reduce per diem charges  • Updated Microsoft Excel tracking on all equipment for Unilever  • Trained and developed new employees on overnight procedures   • Created Overnight Dispatcher Guidelines to follow for procedures to follow overnight Front End Developer Expense App 2018 to 2018 Built CRUD application for personal expenses.  ? React, Redux, Sass  ? Expenses-App - Heroku Link Back End Developer RCB Animal Shelter 2017 to 2017 Built an online animal shelter with database accessibility from the browser  ? Agile Development  ? JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, Handlebars, MYSQL  ? RCB Animal Shelter - GitHub  ? RCB Animal Shelter - Heroku Link    Front End Developer, Crystal Collector Crystal Collector Game Crystal Collector Game 2017 to 2017 playable in the browser  ? JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Game logic  ? Crystal-Collector - GitHub  ? Crystal-Collector - Heroku Link Front End Developer Hangman 2017 to 2017 Created a Halloween styled hangman game playable in the browser  ? JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Game logic  ? Hangman-Game - GitHub  ? Hangman-Game - Heroku Link Branch Manager Enterprise Holdings - Roselle Park, NJ February 2009 to August 2014 Branch Managers are responsible for the overall leadership, vehicle management planning and sales efforts of a particular branch locations market. This role focuses on increasing market share, increasing profit, customer service scores and developing employees through training of the business cycle.    • Increased Fleet size by 50% over Prior Year  • Increased Branch insurance rate from $29 to $32  • Closed major accounts with IKEA and Anderson Windows  • Implemented and installed ARMS software for body shops  • Oversaw the development efforts for employees at all levels to pursue promotional opportunities   • Develop and implemented staffing strategy including interviewing and hiring processes  • Led branch in implementing and adhering to all OSHA guidelines  • Created and implemented branch fleet, marketing, employee and sales plans  • Develop and direct a method to maintain brand distinction  • Decreased Collision Reserves by $20/Car by Implementing back end/ front end strategies to increase efficiency  • Reduced losses by $6/Car by creating/implementing plans for billing, branch reporting, and financial statements  • Identified and developed positive working relationships with internal and external clients that were built on trust and integrity. Solicited constant feedback and incorporated an accurate client perspective in all decisions and actions. Responded to the changing needs of the client while maintaining the highest standard of quality.  • Oversee the cleanliness, maintenance and security of the market’s branches and the assets contained within the branch including vehicles  • Resolved customer disputes with empathy and compassion in order to maintain business Assistant Branch Manager Enterprise Holdings - Hoboken, NJ February 2008 to February 2009 • Led branch to win highest regional Customer Service  • Elite club member 6 of 12 months  • Branch Corporate Account Manager  • Maintain and collect accounts receivable  • Led marketing initiative to increase corporate revenues by 10% over Prior Year  • Supervised team of Management Trainees, interns, car preps and drivers  Management Trainee Enterprise Holdings - Hoboken, NJ April 2007 to February 2009 • Responsible for training and developing Management Trainees and interns  • Given responsibility of opening and closing Flag-ship location  • Led sales and service at the counter by leading by example  • Maintain and collect on Accounts Receivable  • Provided top level service at all steps in the cycle of service  • Learned phone script and ensured all phone calls resulted in reservations  • Responsible for Macy's Parade account  • Top 25% of Sales Matrix 10 months   • Passed Management Qualification Interview Education Rutgers University - Center for Continuing Professional Development 2017 B.A Rutgers College 2001 to 2006 Skills React (2 years) Links https://daniel-mcghee-portfolio.herokuapp.com https://www.linkedin/in/daniel-mcghee