Co-Founder Co-Founder Digital Marketing, Sales, and Operations De Pere, WI Seeking a challenging and inventive position which utilizes my exceptional business and leadership skills as well as my technical abilities. Work Experience Co-Founder Concept 52 - Green Bay, WI 2001 to Present Concept 52 is a digital marketing and consulting agency. We launched the business in the commodities trading industry, specializing in lead generation in the futures and forex arena. We have since expanded to clients in the areas of mergers & acquisitions and eCommerce.    Co-founding Partner - Operations  Launched company in November 2001. Responsible for business operations and client marketing campaigns utilizing email, SEO, display, PPC, social, and content marketing. Assigned to initiate, grow, and maintain client pipeline and build vendor relationships, sales, and campaign reporting & analytics.    • Provide independent outbound and inbound marketing services and consultation with clients to ensure KPIs are met. Exceeded M&A client goal of 80% pipeline growth via digital lead generation tactics.    • Perform internal & client-facing functions including sales, operations, project management, lead nurturing and CRM management. Integral part of the team that has generated over $1.5M in sales.    • Maintain and manage WordPress and Kentico websites, blogs, email subscriber lists, create & optimize landing pages, and analyze results to improve key metrics. Front End Web Developer ShopKo - Green Bay, WI June 2018 to April 2019 Responsible for providing great experiences to Shopko customers when they visited our websites, apps, and other digital properties and platforms.     • Code and publish weekly promotional content on eCommerce platform as part of a development team. Played an integral role in exceeding both Plan and Forecast by $2.3M to prior year.  • Design and develop email marketing templates via Salesforce Marketing Cloud, assisting the email marketing team in the production of daily email campaigns using development best practices.  • Work in conjunction with the design team to improve site user experience and page load times, allowing our team to improve our site conversion rate by 45% over prior year and forecast. Marketing Consultant Blue Door Consulting - Oshkosh, WI November 2017 to April 2018 Blue Door Consulting is a boutique marketing and digital consulting firm. Founded in 2002, the agency partners with clients in the areas of research, idea generation, strategy, and implementation.    As a Marketing Consultant, my responsibilities were to perform market research, project management, and SEM campaign execution for agency clients, in addition to providing internal inbound and outbound marketing strategies.    • Perform in-depth keyword research for clients in multiple industries - implementing, monitoring and reporting to ensure that lead gen campaigns exceeded client expectations.    • Responsible for web project management, along with web testing, for several site development projects – meeting with clients in an agile environment.    • Provide primary and secondary market research insight for clients in multiple sectors, making campaign strategy recommendations.     • Setup analytics accounts and reporting dashboards with several clients based on website and campaign goals. Assigned to monitor, optimize, and make recommendations on a monthly basis. Digital Marketing Consultant Skyline Technologies, Inc - Green Bay, WI January 2013 to August 2016 Founded in 1992 as a tech staffing agency, Skyline Technologies has grown beyond their roots and over the years has evolved into a full service IT and marketing consulting firm that provides world-class solutions and consultative service to companies around the world.    Digital Marketing Consultant  Perform support, project management, and digital marketing analysis for enterprise clients and internal teams, in addition to providing technical and outbound services. Maintain and develop client and vendor relationships, supply project and month- end accounting reports, as well as leading email automation efforts with emphasis on strategy and process implementation.    • Implement and deploy external/client and internal event email marketing campaigns in SalesForce Marketing Cloud (ExactTarget) via email automation studio tools.    • Perform keyword research, SEO audits, and analytics implementations, and present findings and make recommendations to company and client leadership.    • Research trends and utilize best practices in email design, UX, content marketing, SEO, and QA.    • Lead QA projects as part of an agile development team, assigned to regression test multiple projects, and track & report results. eBusiness Assistant Manager Enzymatic Therapy, Inc - Green Bay, WI August 2007 to November 2009 North America's leading manufacturer of dietary supplements and natural medicines. Has since merged with Schwabe Group - a global leader in plant-based medicines.    eBusiness Assistant Manager  Reporting to the eBusiness Manager. Responsible for all digital display, search, and email marketing for the Enzymatic Therapy, Inc brands.    • Responsible for all eBusiness media buying, adhering to the department budget for all digital  placements including display, search, and email marketing projects.    • Played an integral role on the eBusiness team, assisting in the planning for company's online strategy  on both the B2C and B2B sides.    • Worked directly with company brand managers on all aspects of their online marketing strategy,  making recommendations and executing brand media plans. Quality Assurance Engineer Global Crossing Ltd - Green Bay, WI August 2000 to November 2001 An international telecommunications company spanning five continents servicing both commercial and residential customers with over 9,000 employees world-wide. Merged with Level 3 Communications, and formerly known as Frontier Communications and Schneider Communications.    As a Quality Assurance Engineer my responsibilities were documenting test cases and test plans for use in software testing a web-based global order management solution via waterfall development methodology.     • Assigned as test lead for ATM telecommunications project; worked directly with development staff and business analysts to provide feedback for program requirements and enhancements.    • Developed documentation detailing software program test plans for the purpose of Functional, Regression, Load, and Performance testing; cut performance-testing results by 70%. Education Bachelor of Arts in English University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh - Oshkosh, WI August 1991 to May 1996 Skills CRM (10+ years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (10+ years), marketing (10+ years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (5 years), Client Relations (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Sales Support (10+ years), Business Development (10+ years), SEO, Marketing Strategy, Google Analytics, Social Media Marketing Additional Information Applications – MS Office Suite, JIRA, HubSpot, Adobe Creative Cloud, Google Search Console, Bing Webmaster Tools, Google AdWords, Bing Ads, MS Visual Studio Team System, Trello, Volerro, Kentico, WordPress, OCP Site Manager, Listrak, Constant Contact, Cheetahmail, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Salesforce Sales Cloud, SEO, Moz, Google Analytics, Hootsuite, Litmus, BrowserStack, Google Merchant Center.    Development – HTML, CSS