Senior Front- End Developer - remote - on-demand Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - remote - on-demand Front- End Developer - Web Developer - Indie Game Developer - Freelancing Only San Francisco, CA Jerome Heuze was born and raised in Paris, France. Having moved to the United States as an exchange student in his teens, he attended high school in Michigan then University in California.    Following completion of his studies, Jerome went on to work for 10 years as a Software Engineer in several industries. At present he is doing work for sustainability businesses, Crypto currency companies and mobile games developers.    An entrepreneur at heart, Jerome is always looking for ways to educate and entertain, but he is also a budding writer and his books about Nintendo games are available for people who want to know more about their hobby and enjoy collecting classic games.    In his spare time Jerome enjoys wandering around museums, making and collecting games, building websites, electronics, crypto mining and teaching his daughters about the wonders of technology and science. He also has a keen interest in astronomy, archery and science fiction entertainment.    Jerome is looking forward to the day when space tourism becomes a reality and will allow people to travel throughout the solar system. Maybe one day he will take a vacation on Mars, or in Earth's orbit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer - remote - on-demand Bridge Protocol January 2018 to Present Jerome has built KYC mechanisms for ProjectICO and been a part of other security web platforms like LifeLock and loves the challenge of new projects in data security.    Bridge Protocol is building new tools and standards for businesses, KYC and ICOs.    Working 100% Remote Front- end Engineer Web Optimization Freedom Financial Network - San Mateo, CA October 2018 to June 2019 - Optimizely X  - Wordpress 5.x  - GA360    Freedom Forward 2019 - won Most Innovative hackathon project for freedom debt relief lead gen form by using game mechanics. Software Engineer Dire Wolf Digital March 2016 to May 2018 Fulfill requests from Marketing for Corporate and DWD games websites. (PHP, HTML5, CSS3,  SASS, GULP)  - Improves UI and UX for internal tools for DWD games and partners. (SCALA, HTML5, Bootstrap,  jQuery, BackboneJS)  - Coded and designed UX for Dire Wolf Digital company website. (https://www.direwolfdigital.com/)  - Implemented Wordpress customization for Marketing to push content and keeping website  secured.  - Optimized website for Desktop, tablets and Mobile devices. (Google PageSpeed and PageSpeedTest)  - Adaptive and Responsive webdesign used for websites.  - Maintain internal tools with Scala, backboneJS.  - Integrated Google reCaptcha v2 for code redemption in AJAX and PHP in less than 1 hour.  - Twitch Extension Development  - Design System Document  - Mentoring Junior Developer Senior Software Engineer LifeLock August 2014 to March 2016 I joined the WWW team as a Senior Software Engineer:  - Optimizing, maintaining, improving Wordpress Marketing properties  - bi-weekly release cycle  - using Jira, Jenkins, AWS  - using git repo and migrated from SVN to GIT using Stash  - implemented mustachePHP for micro-templating  - voluntarily making WAI and Section 508 validation on website  - responsible for performance and scalability of websites  - executed the integration of A/B test  - implemented front end QA test using CasperJS, and PhantomJS  - implemented smart CSS styling with SASS and LESS  - coding fully responsive pages  - created a PHP helper for devices  - used SOAP in PHP with AJAX callback for updating content without refresh  - designed and implemented new stack for CORP website in using NodeJS, ExpressJS, Sass,  ReactJS, SASS, JSX, ES2015, Webpack.    Stack: Wordpress, custom templates, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, SASS, LESS, AWS,  MustachePHP, HandlebarJS, CasperJS, Responsive, Bootstrap, ReactJS. Software Engineer Edmodo August 2011 to June 2014 Software Engineer for edmodo in Front- end Team where:  - I contributed to the development of products/features on edmodo website,  - I was maintaining the existing platform in Zend Framework,  - I was supporting the marketing department with their projects by providing technical consultation  and developments when needed  - I also maintain the Localization of edmodo by making sure we have translations for every  languages on the site,  - I advised and emphasized the need for mobile teams to localized their mobile apps for IOS and Android,  - I worked with the growth team making a/b test UI changes,  - I also worked on Snapshot project on the UI side (Ruby, Coffeescript, Less, handlebars),  - I delivered an accessibility report for Snapshot project for being 80% compliant with section 508,  - I have also worked on production emails and testing responsive templates and localization.  - I have prototype TV Dashboard during our hackatons  - I have prototype gamification for edmodo website    - I have been an active contributor and evangelist at edmodo for being ADA compliant and pass  Section 508.  - I have created a Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) in 2013 for edmodo state  compared to Accessibility.    Stack: Zend Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Wordpress, Ruby and Rails,  Coffeescript, LESS, MySQL, AWS, TMX Translations, OneSky Web service Translations, HTML  Litmus Email. Web Producer II Trimble Navigation March 2006 to August 2011 - Execute and manage product marketing initiatives  - Provide client-side web development support (HTML/CSS/jQuery etc)  - Daily content management updates  - Graphic and media support  - QA measures and regular site maintenance  - UI page layout design and mockups, as requested    Stack: IIS Server, HTML4.01, CSS2, jQuery, Javascript Co-Founder / Design Director OpenBookTutorials, LLC February 2008 to April 2010 I provided the layout and look and feel of OpenBookTutorials.com - providing branding rules and enforcing outstanding designs. I will be participating as a part time and consulting.  I have contributed and created - 7zip and Camstudio tutorial videos.    We were using Joomla as a platform and youtube channel.    checkout my videos on youtube - http://www.youtube.com/user/openbooktutorials/playlists WebCT Technician California State University, Chico January 2001 to May 2005 - Supporting WebCT 4.x on California State University, Chico campus  - Work directly with faculty to help answer questions and design online content  - Web Designer, Flash Designer, Graphic Designer and other media Student Assistant - WebCT Technician Technology and Learning Program (CSUC) January 2001 to May 2005 - Supporting WebCT 4.x on California State University, Chico campus  - Work directly with faculty to help answer questions and design online content  - Web Designer, Flash Designer, Graphic Designer and other media Laboratory Technician Northwestern Michigan College - Northwestern, Michigan, US January 1999 to December 2000 Helped students with general computer problems. Librarian Customer Support and Clerk Northwestern Michigan College - Northwestern, Michigan, US August 1997 to December 2000 Assisting in Book shelving  Customer Support  Opening and Closing Education BS in Computer Graphics California State University - Chico, CA September 2001 to May 2005 Associate in Arts And Sciences Northern Michigan University - Traverse City, MI September 1997 to May 2001 Skills Web Development (10+ years), Front End, Front-End, Javascript, UI, CSS3, Front-End, UI, Javascript, Front End