Project Manager, Release Manager & Frontend Developer and Designer Project Manager, Release Manager &amp; Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Designer Project Manager, Release Manager & Frontend Developer and Designer Dallas, TX Certified Scrum Master with 10+ years of experience in project management and last several years of experience as a Release Manager. Graphic designer, website Frontend Developer and UI Designer by trade with 30 years' experience designing, developing and content management of more than 100 websites in various industries and e-commerce environments. Assisted multiple clients launch Internet presence, securing additional clientele and revenue for their respective businesses. Work Experience Project Manager, Release Manager & Frontend Developer and Designer GAINSCO Auto Insurance - Dallas, TX January 2006 to June 2019 Release Manager 2013 to 2019 Created schedule of planned releases and oversaw each release to ensure a smooth and successful results. Worked with development, quality assurance, and infrastructure team members to ensure complete and accurate release documentation for deployments along with ensuring other required elements were present. Project Manager - Agile/Scrum & Waterfall 2006 to 2019 Spear headed projects by tracking requirements from development into quality assurance testing phase through to deployment of final product changes. Most initiatives were centered on the core company's website that network of agents used to quote/sell policies to customers. Reported weekly status updates to the Executive team and positioned self as PM/scrum lead to all team members. SharePoint Administrator ( Front End) 2006 to 2019 Acted as SharePoint administrator for company front- end users. This involved the company's SharePoint environments for both departmental portals and project portals. Permissions matrix gatekeeper, supporting team members as needed. Administration efforts were from the front- end and not enterprise or infrastructure based management. Frontend Developer and Designer 2006 to 2009 Built and maintained an array of 6 to 8 websites for several years until all website management was absorbed by corporate marketing group, allowing me to focus on the project management area. Graphic Designer, Frontend Developer and Designer & Marketing Manager TM Century - Dallas, TX January 2002 to January 2006 Graphic Design/ Frontend Developer and Designer  Championed company's in-house graphic design department for CD packaging, CD art/demos, collaterals, promotional pieces, conferences/trade shows, and more. Designed and managed websites content on a daily/weekly basis. Many sites involved working with content management interfaces as well.    * Marketing Manager  Successfully engaged outside vendors and product producers to complete final printed promotional pieces and marketing of company products. Leveraged annual marketing budget for advertising, printing and promotional items. Maintained an Excel spreadsheet to track budgetary spending throughout year. Brought printing of weekly product packaging pieces in-house saving the company thousands in expenses. Director of Web Development WayCoolPeople / NewGold - Dallas, TX June 2000 to May 2001 * Designed and built website concepts for a plethora of industry businesses used in growing the company's clientele base.    * Managed content for the WayCoolPeople company website after designing and producing new UI. Frontend Developer and Designer Primedia Workplace Learning - Carrollton, TX February 1998 to June 2000 Frontend Developer and Designer  Built and maintained content for over 15 web sites at varying degrees and in multiple languages.  Developer for the Industrial division and other select areas of Primedia Workplace Learning which produced business educational shows for broadcast via satellite and video to a subscriber base.    * e-Business Training Specialist  Developed course/training materials to conduct training classes covering relevant technology training functions of the company. Courses include FrontPage, Outlook, Internet 101, and specialized courses for company developed Internet systems. Training provided for staff and clientele. Education MBA in Business Administration University of Phoenix July 2011 Certification in Project Management North Lake College May 2007 BFA in (Bachelor of Fine Arts), Advertising Design University of North Texas December 1988 Links http://www.toddgadams.com Assessments Graphic Design — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yh3ttvfhhrto2vjc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.