Researcher Researcher Data Scientist Dallas-Fort Worth, TX • Data scientist with strong math background and knowledge of predictive modeling, data processing, data mining  algorithms and natural language models to implement various tasks such as text classification, sentiment analysis  and text summarizer  • Versatile front- end developer with 3+ years of experience designing, developing, and managing complex university  sites and internal frameworks.  • Hands on experience in clinical information technology solutions analysis, development, implementation, migration  and maintenance. Work Experience Researcher ONTOLOGICAL SEMANTICS TECHNOLOGY LAB May 2017 to Present Question Answering over Wiki Data (Project Talking Tungsten):  • Query Wiki Data to build lexicon using SPARQL.    Personalized Knowledge Graphs (Project Gemini):  • Help build the computational framework with setup of AWS server and OST semantic parser.  • Help creating ontology of user to describe common experience like going out, traveling, taking pictures, doctor  appointments. Structure the ontology around a calendar cycle: day-month-year, linked via part-whole relations.    Visual semantics (Project Kinetophone):  • Help set up the framework with installation of required packages and libraries (NeuralTalk2).  • Attempt to set up an off-shelf caption generator using pre-trained model.  • Setup OTS semantic parser to create a pipeline to a general-purpose knowledge graph/ontology.    Humor Knowledge Graph (Project Mercury (Hg):  • Expand and create joke ontology (Protégé/TopBraid/PIKES).  • Improve embedding. Front End Developer Student Affairs, Texas A&M University-Commerce - Commerce, TX May 2015 to Present • Created custom plugins, templates, and functions for WordPress based sites  • Front- end development using latest HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery and other JavaScript frameworks  to enable optimum user experience throughout the site.  • CMS development and design: designed themes, custom fields and menus to enable maximum adaptation for the customer and optimum usability  • Analyzed traffic and made necessary changes for a better user experience  • Integrated social media applications on web sites and blogs.  • Created interface designs for integration into web applications.  • Built interactions and templates that used JavaScript and ActionScript 3.  • Developed automation scripts and apps to quickly publish course content.  • Wrote documentation for procedures and standards of course content and publishing.  • Created tutorials and trained coworkers how to code.  • Created highly effective marketing campaigns, product presentations, and trade show materials Application Manger/Data Analyst Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX January 2015 to Present • Plan, develop, maintain and operate a variety of health record indexes and storage and retrieval systems to collect, classify, store and analyze information.  • Troubleshot and resolved Internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues identified product problems  and strengths and collected data on the customer experience.  • Data abstract records from Point n Click EMR, troubleshooting issues, compile labs, demographics into portal.  • Compile, code, categorize, audit, verify, and process critical information.  • Prepared training manuals for physicians in how to navigate Point n Click EMR.  • Keep all medical office staff informed and educated on the latest CPT, ICD9/10.  • Prepare training material using Microsoft Suites for clinical accounts and different departments within IOS including  sales, customer service, and the development team.  • Configure EMR system to accommodate each individual provider according to their specialty.  • Analyze and design new features which enhance the system end-user satisfaction.  • Assist in the initial interface configurations and set up within the EMR for each client. Education Master's in Business Analytics in Commerce Texas A&M University December 2019 Masters of Computer Science in Commerce Texas A&M University May 2017 Graduate certificate in Computational Linguistics in Commerce Texas A&M University May 2015 Skills Software engineering, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Keras, Numpy, Pandas, Tensorflow, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Machine learning, Sql, Java, Tableau, Product management, Version control, Sdlc, Matlab Certifications/Licenses Computational Linguist May 2017 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Experience in product management, analytics/statistics, and software engineering.  • Designing: Adobe InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator  • Statistical Analysis: R, Tableau  • Machine Learning: Python with NumPy, Pandas, SpaCy, Gensim, Stanford CoreNLP, TensorFlow, Keras.  • Programming Technologies: SQL, MATLAB, Ruby on Rails, Java, SSIS, SDLC, SPARQL  • Programming Technologies, front end: JavaScript, HTML/CSS, WordPress  • Version Control: Git, GitHub, Bitbucket  • Languages: Distinguished in English, Nepali & Hindi.