Front- End Development and QA Intern <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Development and QA Intern Front End Software Engineer Los Altos, CA I'm a software engineer mastering JavaScript and the Node.js stack. 10 years of programming experience through personal projects, contracting with a Series-A IoT startup, freelance work for numerous small businesses, and a paid summer internship have all strengthened my skills in software development with a specialization in web-based technologies. Graduating with a degree in Computer Science from the University of California, Santa Cruz in June 2019. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Development and QA Intern Altair IoT - Oakland, CA June 2018 to September 2018 • Contributed bug-fixes and collaborated with the team to brainstorm improvements for the product.  • Greatly expanded skill-set in Node.js and React.js by testing and writing bug-fixes for a React.js app and writing automated API tests using Node.js.  • Responsible for maintaining the QA suite for an API server and its front- end React.js dashboard. Full-stack Web Developer - Contract Verdigris February 2018 to March 2018 • Created a dashboard product using Ember.js to visualize smart building data.  • Fully responsible for successfully developing the product from mock-ups to a functional, responsive web page within a one month hard deadline.  • Obtained experience working in a collaborative, fast-paced en- vironment alongside the CEO, product manager, and UX designer. Freelance Web Developer May 2011 to September 2015 • Full-stack developer and designer for numerous private clients, since age 13.  • Gained years of experience working with the latest front- end web technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3, back- end technologies such asWordPress and Node.js, and web server management.  • Developed skills in business communication, client management, and stakeholder collaboration. Education Bachelors degree in Computer Science in Computer Science UC Santa Cruz 2015 to 2019 Links http://alexandresmirnov.com