Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer Mobile, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer CPSI July 2018 to Present Worked to create a highly complex Electronic Health Record (EHR) Client for medical use, involving intensive R&D and strongly embracing modern web standards.    Experience with:  • Developing modern web applications within Google's Polymer ecosystem  • Creating robust, domain-agnostic components to the Webcomponents (WC) standard.  • Contributing to open-source project ecosystems, especially in regards to furthering WC support.  • Domain-agnostic component deployment to Angular and React environments  • Typescript / Modern javascript ecosystems  • Responsive design, progressive enhancement  • Micro-frontends  • TDD  • Performing investigation and providing subsequent input regarding technical challenges in developing projects.    Exposure to:  • RESTful APIs  • Java / JAX-RS  • PSQL / Postgres  • Domain agnostic component deployment to React / Angular ecosystems    Accomplishments include:  • Created a rich-text editing component to solve unique ecosystem challenges  • Transformed monolithic EHR client into a discrete and distributed component-based solution for maintainability, re-usabillity, and development efficiency  • Implemented an event-based middleware messaging solution to improve client-server state synchronization  • Created a robust PDF viewer component, capable of gracefully delegating to match browser capability  • Refactored and improved a medical scheduling component  • Took steps to optimize project development workflow by improving unit test coverage, implementing library monorepositories, writing documentation, increasing utilization of industry standard methodologies. React Native Developer (Freelance) Freelance June 2017 to August 2018 Worked in conjunction with an international mental health organization to develop a cross-platform mobile application for clinical psychiatric use.    My responsibilities on the project included:  1. Developed robust client and form management system with React Native, Redux, and Firebase.   2. Worked with industry professionals to implement individual forms, and built respective components and styles.  3. In response to changing requirements, I re-implemented the application's database to have offline functionality, from Firebase into Realm Mobile Database.  4. Implemented automation, interactive UI flow, and dynamic data entry into forms.  5. Designed and optimized complex and data dense UI for optimally efficient usage on a mobile device, both in display and interaction. Education Front- End Developer Certification freeCodeCamp March 2017 to July 2017 Skills HTML / CSS (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Git (2 years), React JS (1 year), Node (1 year), React Native (1 year), Redux (1 year), Linux (3 years), Polymer (1 year), Front End, Angular, React, Angularjs, Front-End, UI, JQuery (Less than 1 year), HTML5, Java, User Interface, CSS3, Bootstrap Certifications/Licenses Programming Foundations with JavaScript, HTML and CSS (With Honors) March 2017 to Present https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/AGEZ3LKRMLSU Additional Information Open source contributions:  • Assisted in maintaining an open source organization providing re-published ES6-compatible versions of popular projects    Other skills:  • Proficient in Linux/Unix development environments.   • Experienced with Linux workflow optimization, automation, and general system configuration.