Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Sperling Interactive Everett, MA Work Experience Full Stack Developer Sperling Interactive September 2017 to Present • Working with over 550 client, building a custom project management web application.  • Developing reusable UI components using React and implemented Redux flow as a model layer for all the react components.  •Implemented React Router on 20+ routes for rendering desired components without reloading the page.  •Collaborated with across teams to effectively resolve dependencies.  •Closely working with framework team to make the components more customizable and reusable for different  use-cases.  • Installed, & configured the dev dependencies like, ESlint, Babel, Webpack.  • Developing and Designing IOS and Android App Front- end Web Developer FREELANCE June 2016 to Present Designed unique UI experiences for businesses in the Boston area. Products aimed towards converting visitors.  • Creates high fidelity mockups for presentations  • Writes clean, readable and modular code.  • Manages content, SEO and hosting for clients.  • Designed an SPA, mobile-responsive movie app using Fetch API, ES6 Async/Await, and HTML5 Local Storage.  • Developed an interactive menu using dynamic routing, data persistence, and server-side authentication.  • Created a social web app with CRUD functionality using the REST API and server-side authentication. REACT FRONT END ENGINEER OverNite Software April 2017 to April 2018 In charge of leading Front- End development and UI/UXina suite of SAAS applications to aid learning management.  • Presents prototypes to CEO and Stakeholders  • Leads design direction for a suite of applications  • Develops highly robust Front- End products in Express.js that connect to RESTful Microservices Education Associate Skills Android (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), CSS (3 years), Firebase (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (3 years), IOS (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), jQuery (2 years), MongoDB (1 year), Photoshop (5 years), Premiere (5 years), Python (1 year), Node, React, Nodejs Links http://bit.ly/mywebportfolio Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    HTML5 JavaScript Express.js WordPress C4D  CSS jQuery MongoDB Heroku Photoshop  Bootstrap Node.js Firebase GitHub Premiere Pro  Python React Git After Effect  React.js React Native IOS App developer Android Developer