Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Intuitive Surgical San Jose, CA • A devoted Front End Software Engineer with 5 years of experience in developing web applications using JavaScript, Java, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, React, Redux, Vue.js.  • Strong Familiarity with React, Redux, AJAX, jQuery and JSON for front- end development.  • Solid experience with PHP, Node.js, Express and REST API for back- end development.  • Experience in developing Responsive web design using Bootstrap and Semantic-UI.  • Worked on CSS preprocessors SASS and modern techniques such as Flexbox.  • Hands on experience in using the D3.js charts for the development of the animated charts.  • Strong experience in both relational database MySQL and NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in code testing tools Karma, Jasmine and Jest.  • Worked on different Package docs like Webpack and Babel as transpiler.  • Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  • Expertise in data analysis using Python with NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, Scikit-Learn.  • Excellent foundation of statistics tool language R and SPSS.  • Skilled in big data analysis using MapReduce of Apache Hadoop framework.  • Experience in deploying and configuring database on the Cloud Server AWS.  • Good ability to work in different environment such as Windows, Linux and Macintosh.  • SKILL    Strong analytical, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.    • Programming Language: JavaScript • Python • Java • HTML5 • PHP • SQL • R  • Front End Development: React • Vue.js • Redux • AJAX • jQuery • Bootstrap • SASS  • Back End Development: Node.js • Express • REST API • Laravel • Django  • Database: SQL Server • MySQL • PostgreSQL • MongoDB • Redis • HBase  • Data Analysis: Hadoop • NumPy • Pandas • Scikit-Learn • TensorFlow • Tableau • D3.js  • Tools: Git • Bitbucket • JIRA • Slack • Karma • Jasmine • Postman Work Experience Full Stack Developer Intuitive Surgical - Sunnyvale, CA January 2019 to Present • Designed Web UI components for our client management system of Da Vinci surgical robots using HTML5, JavaScript and React.  • Implemented Searching, Sorting and Scrolling functions on webpages then fulfill Image Uploading and Input validation Modules with Bootstrap for CSS design.  • Applied Redux for state management to store the data transferred between different components and Thunk middleware to implement complicated business requirements.  • Sent HTTP request via Axios to fetch JSON data from back- end server.  • Conducted URL parsing using React Router to switch between different web pages.  • Constructed server-side structure using Node.js and Express to parse requests and provide the support for all the web services in the front end.  • Developed interfaces according to REST API architectural style requirements to conduct CRUD operations in database. Utilized MongoDB on cloud server for data storage and optimized data structure to accelerate searching speed.  • Handled asynchronous problems with Promise to avoid errors of the web application to make it run smoothly. Bundled all the modules together with Webpack and compiled all the codes to ES6 with Babel.  • Tested the code with Karma and Jasmine to ensure that every component functions well.  • Technologies: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, React, Redux, Thunk, Bootstrap, Node.js, Express, REST API, MongoDB, Webpack, Babel, Karma, Jasmine Backend Developer LifeCubby - Columbus, OH June 2018 to June 2018 • Constructed backend data warehouse architecture for our daycare management system using star schema in the MySQL database.  • Developed SQL queries for front end requests through cross-functional collaboration with other team members in product development team.  • Deployed the database system on AWS Cloud and optimized the key nodes with Redis to speed up information retrieval from database by 35% for 65M data records.  • Conducted web log analysis utilizing Hadoop MapReduce with Java then extracted critical KPI Page View and hot search words with high frequency.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach to ensure high quality code.  • Technologies: Java, MySQL, Redis, Hadoop, AWS, Bitbucket, Jira Front End Developer Progressive Insurance Group - Columbus, OH June 2017 to May 2018 • Implemented a real-time news pipeline to fetch, scrape and deduplicate 1000+/day latest headlines published on famous news sources by Python, Scrapy, RabbitMQ, Redis and MongoDB.  • Built a web application for users to browse news using React, Node.js and news statistics visualization using RPC and Highchart.  • Constructed a click event log processor to collect users' click behavior, then updated the news preference model for each user to conduct personalized news recommendation.  • Designed an offline training pipeline by TensorFlow using 2-layer Convolutional Neural Network model to predict news category.  • Improved 3X of CNN computation speed by GPU acceleration and increased model accuracy by 28% through NLP techniques for feature engineering.  • Technologies: Python, React, Node.js, Redis, RabbitMQ, MongoDB, Scrapy, TensorFlow Front End Developer MoboTap Inc - Wuhan, CN August 2014 to June 2016 • Built webpages and designed UI with JavaScript, HTML5, AJAX, jQuery and CSS3 to show the airport handling capacity on the website for our client.  • Implemented dynamic visualization of the real-time airport handling capacity by D3.js.  • Analyzed the busy level of different time periods each day and punctuality for each airport by Spark SQL with Scala.  • Applied One-Hot Encoding method to transform categorical data, PCA to conduct dimensionality reduction and Cross-Validation to tune hyper-parameters.  • Predicted flight delay probability using Random Forest and SVM models of Spark ML library and obtained 85.77% accuracy with satisfactory ROC Curve.  • Technologies: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, D3.js, Spark ML, Scala Education Master of Engineering in Data Analytics Ohio State University Bachelor of Science in Automobile Huazhong University of Science and Technology