Front End Developer (Contract) <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contract) Web Developer La Habra, CA Dynamic, quick-thinking self-starter with an entrepreneurial spirit and an innate, hunger for success. My goal is to obtain a position in Web Development to utilize my strong background in both Front End and Back End technologies and professional acumen to the fullest while contributing to the continued growth of the organization. Today, I enjoy the challenge of keeping up with the latest trends that the field of web development has to offer. Work Experience Front End Developer (Contract) Stax Labs, LLC - Irvine, CA March 2019 to Present • Created Front- End UX/UI High-fidelity Wireframe using Photoshop and Zeplin   • Working closely with other developers using Github and Shopify Themekit.   • Applied Skills: Git Source Control, Photoshop, Zeplin, Ajax, Liquid, JavaScript, Themekit, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap  Web Developer MNG Enterprise - Irvine, CA October 2018 to March 2019 Applied Skills: Jira, Bitbucket, Abstract, Ajax, Liquid, JavaScript, Themekit, CSS3, SASS, Wordpress, HTML5, PHP, Docker, Node.JS, NPM, Bootstrap, JQuery, SEO, Google Tag Manager, Firebase    ? Built Social Media Application landing page using PHP with WordPress and also added custom Shopify pages with functionality to company eCommerce platform using Javascript, SASS, and Liquid  ? Worked with Wordpress platform using PHP to build pixel by pixel corporate landing page which would release our  iOS and Android app updates monthly.  ? Lead the efforts of our Shopify Retail offshore development team (one in Ukraine and another in Austria) and coordinated to properly size tasks, delegate responsibilities, and dive in and help code to meet deadlines.  ? Converted UX/UI prototypes to interactive digital experiences using Shopify's HTML templating language Liquid, CSS (SASS), and JavaScript (jQuery) while adhering to a mobile-first, min-width media query approach  ? Utilized Google Tag Manager to encapsulate tracking scripts and enforce MVC patterns  ? Integrated third party eCommerce service like Email Marketing Software (MailChimp) and customer retention  software (Gorgias Live Chat Window)  ? Worked with multiple developers using Sourcetree and Bitbucket UX/UI Designer Puffy App - Santa Ana, CA August 2018 to October 2018 • Created high-fidelity wire-frame for new website revision using Photoshop  • Collaborate with lead UX/UI designer to create dynamic and static web pages in PHP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Applied Skills: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Photoshop   Web Developer Toolots Inc. - Cerritos, CA July 2016 to October 2018 • Participated in web and mobile specification meetings, analyzed user requirements, coordinated with Sr. Developers and team members  • Cooperate in the design of Business Requirements Document for After-Sales mobile application  • Researched and introduced 3rd party software such as AWS, JivoChat, Cyberduck, Hootsuite, and Yotpo  • Designed Web and Mobile Wireframe for Board meeting presentations and flow documentation  • Followed Agile and Scrum Methodology Communication and collaboration, functioning software  • Created static and mobile responsive web pages for yuutool.com using HTML5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, C#, ASP.NET  • Extensively using the browser for checking developing pages for debugging the application( Google Chrome, IE and Firebug of Firefox browser)  • Use Visual Studio Team Service for collaboration on code development of Application software Toolots.com/Aftersales  • Record and edit all company's product videos using Adobe Premiere and Adobe After Effect Education Associate's Degree in International Business Golden West College 2008 to 2010 Skills C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, HTML5, SASS, AJAX, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, jQuery, JIRA, WORDPRESS, SEO, PHP, Front End, HTML, NET Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/cesarareyes https://github.com/devcesar Additional Information SKILLS    ? Git Source Control ? C# ? Wordpress  ? Node.js ? ASP.NET ? Shopify (Liquid)  ? JavaScript ? Google Analytics ? Postman  ? AWS ? SEO ? Google Tag Manager  ? HTML5 ? AJAX ? Abstract  ? CSS ? jQuery ? Zeplin  ? Bootstrap ? Jira ? Adobe Suite  ? Sass ? BitBucket  ? Less ? SourceTree