Software Engineer Software Engineer Front end developer - BI WorldWide Eden Prairie, MN • Around 5+ Years of experience as front- end UI developer in developing Java/J2EE Web Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Restful Services and knowledge experience on PHP.  • Strong experience in Banking, Insurance, Healthcare, Commercial, Airlines Domains.  • Rich experience in Developing Responsive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Familiar with JavaScript API's like Prototype JS, Ext.js, JQuery and JQuery UI.  • Solid experience in Angular Routing, UI router, Services, Factories, Directives and Filters.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Expertise in Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Good experience in using various JQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • In-depth understanding of DOM manipulation, Form validation using JavaScript Regular Expressions and JQuery.  • Analyzed and tested software products, features and functionality.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE developer Toolbar.  • Worked on Virtual DOM creating an in-memory data structure cache, computed the results and updated the browser's displayed DOM efficiently using ReactJS.  • Developed the Single Page Application (SPA) using ReactJS, Redux.  • Implemented view part by ECMAScript 6 with React framework, designed web pages by React-Bootstrap, SCSS and controlled state of the application by using Redux.  • Sound understanding in JavaScript Unit Testing using QUnit and AngularJS End-to- End testing using Protractor.  • Expert in building Microservice applications using Spring Boot for developing RESTful web services.  • Skilled in developing applications in TDD approach.  • Experienced with SDLC models like Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Extensive experience in code repositories using Git, CVS, SVN version controls.  • Experienced in writing structuredmarkup Tags, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and keeping up to date with technologies.  • Experienced in documentation using MS-Office like MS-Word, MS-PowerPoint, MS- Excel, MS-Access.  • Ability to work in all development life cycle phases and design, user application using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax meeting W3C standards.  • Experience in producing an efficient processing of queries in XML data for business Enterprises.  • Effective communication and quick decision making in the common interest of the team and can handle stress full situation in an effective manner.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Work Experience Software Engineer BI WorldWide - Edina, MN June 2018 to Present Edina, Minnesota.  Project Name: TSG EAST Development Team  Domains: Commercial, Healthcare  Jun 2018 to Till date    Working on Large application that allows users to find commercials providers and their manage year Sales. Working as part of aAgile team on a Vue application with a strong focus on VueX,Javascript, ES6 layout based on Foundation, Git version control with Jest unit testing. Worked closely with backend team to develop service contracts.  Responsibilities:  • Designing the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Vue JS and Ajax.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application, created HTML navigation menu.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Design, code and modify websites from layout to function and according to client's specifications.  • Create site's layouts and integrate graphics and applications such as login , registration and other content into the site.  • Write new code and refactoring an existing codebase and styles  • Involved in daily Stand up's meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Working with GitLab for source control.  Honeywell Global Commercial:    • Working in Vue JS components, forms, events, keys Vue-router, and Vue-X concepts and modules and popup modals.  • Create MVC to implement Vue JS framework both server and client side rendering to optimize the front end  • Backend we are using PHP for Laravel framework  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used IDE chrome for debugging and for element styling.  • Involved in daily Stand up's meetings to keep track of the project status.    UHC Baby blocks:    • Used IDE chrome for debugging and for element styling.  • Working with content manager to translate content for different languages.  • Backend we are using PHP for YII framework    Environment: MySQL, HTML5, Content Manager, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, web service, Bootstrap 3, Vue JS, PHP, PHPStrom, YIIframework, Laravel framwork. React JS Developer RedBox Oakbrook, Illinois February 2018 to May 2018 Domain: Ecommerce website  React JS application development with Redux. A responsive, high traffic web site built using Webpack and unit tests in Jest. Github for version control with code review and CI integration. Using ES6, Accessible semantic HTML5 and CSS3 (SCSS) on an agile scrum team.  Responsibilities:    • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJs and Ajax.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application, created HTML navigation menu.  • Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involved investigation of the UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods.  • Built ReactJS modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file up loader.  • Worked with the development team, involved in creating MVC to implement ReactJS framework for client side rendering to optimize the front- end.  • Created ReactJs directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Implemented ReactJS client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back- end.  • Developed ReactJs pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the applications used in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used ReactJs in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • CSS styles were developed in order to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Responsible for design and development of web pages. Worked on Front end by using JavaScript.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJs, Redux for SPA development and implemented client side Interface using ReactJs.  • Worked in using ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front- end application using ReactJs and Redux architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using ReactJs.  • Thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Firebug for debugging and for element styling.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Worked with Git for source control.    Environment: MySQL, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Enzyme, React JS, NodeJS, RESTFUL web service, Bootstrap 3. UI Developer Delta- airlines - Eagan, MN September 2017 to February 2018 Delta is one of the largest American Airlines company based in Atlanta and Minneapolis. In this Project, I worked on building a single page responsive application for Delta.com. Used by customers to save their personal information like phone number, email address, passport information, mailing address, etc. It is basically revolved around updating the look and responsiveness of the current existing application  Responsibilities:  • Developed and Designed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, Ajax,Angular JS 2 and JQuery based on the w3 standards.  • Involved in creating responsive web pages with Bootstrap 2.x and 3.x and CSS framework like SAAS.  • Experience in working with HTML5 canvas element to create work flow chart with libraries and framework.  • Extensively used JavaScript,JQuery, Angular JS 2 to provide UI functionality.  • Expertise in designing web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery Custom-tags and CSS3.  • Refactor the code from one to multiple files to remove hard-coded values and increase response time by 20%.  • Used spring, J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC and JSP/Servlets to develop the application  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring framework to isolate each layer of the application.  • Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant AWS infrastructure and microservice container orchestration.  • Used Bootstrap to develop the pages.  • Used JavaScript to monitor client-side activities and for validations.  • AngularJS framework is used to develop the frontend application.  • Uses SVN for Version control.  • Experience of consuming Web services and RESTful Services.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring.  • Involved in the development of Microservices for all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Web pack 2.0, Tomcat, Angular JS 2, GIT, Node.JS, AJAX, Unit test, Jenkins, Bootstrap, IntelliJ. UI developer Angular January 2017 to August 2017 Charles Schwab Austin, TX  Responsibilities:-  • Used Angular JS in developing single page applications.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using angular.js  • Used Angular MVC and two way data binding.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using Angular JS.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Angular.js  • Development of the interactive UI's for the front end users using the front end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Tested frameworks using Jasmine and Karma.  • Responsible for client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI and AngularJs  • Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap for creating responsive web design for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Created automation and deployment templates for relational and non-relational databases including MS-SQL, MySQL, Cassandra and MongoDB for different micro-services  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Developed common CSS classes for the user interface using CSS and CSS3.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Used TFS for user story tracking.    Environment: Java, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat, Angular JS, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, GIT, Visual Studio 2013. Front End Web Developer Dallas, TX August 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application)  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Defined technical requirements based upon business requirements and worked within cross functional teams.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN. Web Developer, Oct '14to ICICI Bank - IN April 2015 to April 2015 -India  Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation layer using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Developed custom web forms a JavaScript.  • Participated in developing the online transaction system.  • Used simple XML to build/process xml documents.  • Worked extensively with the FILE upload features and video libraries.  • Support installation of the software.  • Upload the code and do necessary changes and test the application in server, if needed then fix the bugs and test again.  • Extensively used JQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions with back- end teams as well as front- end team to integrate front- end and back- end.  • Worked on JQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Involved in providing pseudo application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.    Environment: - HTML, XHTML CSS, JavaScript,JQuery, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse, Windows. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri Bachelors of Electronics and communication Engineer in Electronics and communication Engineer JNTU Kakinada University Skills Application server, Content management, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Vue.js, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Web server, Angularjs, Html5, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jboss, CSS, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, JavaScript, SQL.  Web Technologies HTML5/4,CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, XML ,JSON, JQuery, React JS,Bootstrap, Angular JS 5/4/2/1.6, DOM, SAX, and PHP.  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows 8/7/vista/2000, UBUNTU.  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, AngularJS, React.Js, Vue.Js  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer Tools, IE Developer Tools, FTP, SVN.  IDE Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, NetBeans, Oracle, Putty, Microsoft Expression web 4, Sublime text.  Content Management Tools WordPress, Web Site Builder.  Application Server& web Designing tools Adobe Photoshop CS3, Git, Illustrator and Flash, Dreamweaver, Http web Server, JBOss, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, ANT.