Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Minneapolis, MN • 3+ years of hands on experience in coding HTML, CSS, JavaScript as Frontend Developer in a professional environment.  • 2+ years' experience in backend development using Java.  • Experienced in object oriented design, design patterns, and distributed programming. Involved in all stages of Software Development life cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display business data using JQUERY with Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Proficient in Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Understanding on Web Application debugging using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  • Experience in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Chrome.  • Experience in working with Spring framework in the backend.  • Involved in the design and development of RESTful web services. Experience in integrating with the existing web services.  • Experience in implementing Core Java & J2EE design patterns like Singleton, DAO.  • Proficiency in using JavaScript, JSP, XML, HTML, AJAX.  • Experience with Agile development methodology including TDD and SCRUM.  • Experience in using version controls like SVN, Git.  • Experience in e-commerce domain applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Fun.com January 2016 to December 2017 Worked on an Application which is used for making purchases on the website. The main objective was to provide optimized search results with efficiency. And, recommend items based on previous purchases and searches. We had to implement a module as well in the application, where the customer could search for coupons eligible based on the type of items and where the purchase can be made. The customer recommendations during checkout could be easily added to the cart and update the items in the checkout.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirements, designing a solution, and interacting with team members to provide effort estimates, Coding, and Unit testing.  • Built the reusable service components using AngularJS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Worked with UI designers and User experience team to define screen designs. Developed angular partials based on UI screens  • Develop HTML5 templates and perform client-side Validation using JavaScript.  • Generated new and edited existing user interface with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQUERY as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Developing custom HTML5 elements using Angular JS directives.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Created REST based controllers to handle the incoming request and output the response.  • Involved in enhancing the application for client's requirement based on the market demand and updating in SharePoint using the MVC pattern, Angular JS, JQUERY, Bootstrap, and Web API.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Used Angular JS to create the data in the table using ng-repeat attributes.  • Used Angular JS and bootstrap to style the pages.  • Use JavaScript for client-side scripting that reduce server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  • Environment: HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSON, Angular JS, AJAX, Bootstrap, Protractor. Front End Developer Bed Bath and Beyond - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2013 to July 2014 I was part of a team which was responsible for developing the Customer Management System. This system enables them to get information which includes clients rating, feedback, and profiles. It also enables to update and manage customer information.  Responsibilities:    • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQUERY plugins for Drag and Drop, JavaScript.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Worked on JQUERY to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Created and performed SQL queries to fetch data from the backend database.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Worked on testing the cross-browser compatibility.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.  • Documented the entire project, which contains detail description of all the functionalities.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing, and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.    Environment:JavaScript, JQUERY, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, HTML, MySQL, SVN, Sublime, and Windows Education MS University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX BE in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills AJAX (3 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), jQuery (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, RESTful Web Services, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON, Bootstrap  Framework: Angular.js, Spring.  IDE & Tools: Sublime, Notepad++, Edit plus, Brackets, Eclipse, Intellij Idea, Web Storm  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Google chrome debugger.  Languages: C, C++, Java.  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux.  Web Experience: Responsive Web Design, Adaptive Web Design  Programming concepts: Object Oriented Programming Concepts  Database SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle.