Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> HTML Developer - Sigma Soft Wheeling, IL Looking for a HTML developer position to help clients in developing and maintaining websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Sigma Soft - Naperville, IL October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Creating Website layout/User Interfaces by using standard HTML/CSS practices  • Gather and refine specifications and requirements based on technical needs  • Writing CSS code for making browser-compatible web pages  • Converting table-intensive webpages into div format in CSS  • Researching and using royalty-free images appropriate to web pages  • Coordinating with graphic designers for image editing and layouts Front- End Developer Onset Technologies April 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various website projects from medical, to insurance, and banking  • Constructed CSS based layouts and worked with JavaScript  • Created website banners and logos for clients  • Created forms for websites and maintained data filled by users  • Ensured files and information on the web servers are preserved thoroughly    Achievements:  • Scholarship in Masters in Computer Applications.  • .net 4.5 certificate (VMM Educational Institute, India)  • SQL Certificate (VMM Educational Institute, India)    Internship Project:  Project Name: E-Learning (Harper College, IL)  Duration: 2 months  Technologies Used: HTML (5.0), CSS  Description:  This project is based on online education. All the information related to different courses like asp.net, html, CSS, JavaScript are available on this website. Every student can easily access this information. The videos and e-books are also available, students can download or print these videos.    Project Name: E-Learning (VMM Educational Institute, Amritsar)  Duration: 6 months  Technologies Used: .Net (Asp.Net and C#.net), SQL Server 2012  Description:  This project is based on online education, means that the teachers upload the video lectures and the students can view them online. Firstly, the student is registered, then according to his course the video lectures are displayed then the student can view the video lectures after the first lecture of the course the student can give the online test if the student secures the passing marks then the second lecture displayed otherwise the same lecture displayed on the screen. Also, the assignments are given to the students. So, this project is based on the online study.    Project Name: Hospital Management System (Lala Lajpat Rai Institute of Engineering and Technology)  Duration: 6 months  Technologies used: VB 6.0, Oracle 10g  Description:  This project shows how the data is stored in the hospitals like the information related to the doctors, nurses and other staff that works in the hospital i.e. personal information, their salary etc., information related to the patients, related to number of rooms that are available.    Project Name: Computerized Software for transportation and Courier Services (Mata Ganga Girls College, Tarn-Taran)  Duration: 1 year  Technologies used: VB 6.0, Oracle 8i  Description:  This project includes how we can send the couriers using different type of transportation. In this project, the couriers are sending by using the railway, buses and the plains. All the information related to the sender and the receiver is saved in the forms. It also contains the information related to the weight of the courier. Education Masters' in COMPUTER APPLICATIONS Punjab Technical University - Moga, Punjab 2010 to 2013 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Mata Ganga Girls College Affiliated - Tarn Taran, Punjab 2007 to 2010 High school Punjab School Education Board - Tarn Taran, Punjab March 2007 Certification in Web Development Harper College Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), ACTIONSCRIPT (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (1 year) Additional Information Summary of Skills:  • Strong experience in managing database driven web pages  • Excellent experience with HTML, JavaScript, CSS  • Ability to design web pages and handle CSS and JavaScript code  • Excellent communication, interpersonal, and coordination skills  • Remarkable knowledge of graphic designing and image editing  • Proficient with Open Social, Facebook, Flash, ActionScript etc.  Familiar with Ms Office.