Senior UX Designer Senior UX Designer Senior UX Designer - Zappos.com Henderson, NV Customer-centric, results-oriented product designer with experience in e-commerce, employee engagement, and SaaS applications. Proven record in leading and shipping user-centered design projects at the enterprise level, on both desktop, and mobile, in an agile product team environment. I'm currently seeking to join a collaborative team with strong design leadership, where I can create experiences that inspire meaningful change, grow professionally and mentor others. Work Experience Senior UX Designer Zappos.com December 2015 to Present Lead product designer for the largest internal application developed at and for Zappos to support market based dynamics (internal and external billing, project/task board, employee transfers, and company wide reports).  • Product designer for one of Zappos' first SaaS products zapposculturekit.com that  provides companies the ability to track employee networks, send company wide pulse  surveys, employee skill finder, and progression feedback requests with dashboards. Project  currently on hold. UX Designer and Developer Zappos.com February 2014 to November 2015 Designed several internal applications for skill badging, 360 employee feedback, employ  sentiment surveys and data visualization dashboards.  • In collaboration with our recruiting department and Jobvite, we successfully launched  Zappos' careers site jobs.jobvite.com/zappos. Senior Visual Designer Zappos.com June 2011 to February 2014 • As a team, 6pm.com grew annual revenue from $210M to over $700M in a span of 4 years.  • Designed 6PM Limited Access (flash sale site) which was estimated to have earned $1.2M in sales its first year.  • Managed team of 3 designers and oversaw all aspects of design.  • Notable projects include 6pm site redesign, record-breaking site take overs, and maintaining our design system. Visual Designer Zappos.com March 2010 to June 2011 • Created visual assets for homepage, landing pages, social-media, and marketing emails.  • Worked closely with user experience team to transform wireframes into hi-fi mockups  on an ongoing basis. UI Designer and Front- End Dev Graphic Intrigue June 2008 to March 2010 Interviewed customers for business requirements, conducted research to understand  their customer needs, and created a design strategy to solve for problems discovered.  • Produced task flows, wireframes, low and high fidelity mockups to present and test  prior to developing.  • Responsible for reviewing projects from junior designers, providing ongoing feedback  and mentorship. Creative Designer and Developer FHCSD December 2005 to June 2008 Simultaneously worked on multiple social awareness campaigns with budgets ranging  from $50,000 - $1,000,000.  • Conducted research, surveys, and focus groups for social marketing campaigns.  • Lead design strategy for print collateral and websites based on research findings. Education Bachelor of Arts in Graphic Design San Diego State University Skills User Experience Design (6 years), User Interface Design (10+ years), Visual Design (10+ years), Usability Testing (6 years), Adobe (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Art Direction (6 years), Research (6 years) Links http://jimenezabraham.com Certifications/Licenses General Assembly - UX Circuit November 2018 Completed 8 Week UX Circuit