Vice President Of Technology And Marketing Vice President Of Technology And Marketing Vice President Of Technology And Marketing - Brokers & Engineers Bradenton, FL Work Experience Vice President Of Technology And Marketing Brokers & Engineers - Tampa, FL June 2019 to Present Intellectual Property  Protection.  B+E is a modern investment brokerage firm, specializing in net lease real ? 10+ years Integration of estate and 1031 exchanges. big data, tracking systems  ? Provided oversight and leadership in the marketing, digital marketing and analytics.  and technology departments. ? 5+years Of Cryptography  ? Clearly articulated to technical and non-technical audiences, while and Encryption Research  communicating difficult messages in a professional and productive and Development.  manner, excellent presentation and facilitation competence with the ? 5+years Of Patent  ability to represent IT as a leader in a cross-functional role. development in Systems  ? Ability to build trust and strategic partnerships with assigned and Methods For  business area contacts, project teams and leadership to facilitate Managing, Tracking, And  two-way collaborative communication. Utilizing Copy And/Or  ? Deep, thorough understanding of technical and marketing processes Paste Events.  with a broad knowledge of information technology functions  including information systems design and development, systems  planning, programming, operations, architecture, data processing TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  and integration, data security, networks, systems support, and Development  analysis. ? Enterprise Software  ? Excellent decision-making, problem-solving, organization, Development  prioritization, team-building, conflict management and time ? Sass Development  management skills. ? Software Architecture  ? Insider Threat  Cybersecurity    ? Obfuscation, Cryptography    and Encryption Methods.  JPMorgan Chase  CMS Expert Level Vice President Of GIAM Strategy Wordpress, Sitecore - Tampa, FL August 2018 to May 2019 Magento, Shopify.  Analytic Tools AI Machine  The Global Identity and Access Management (GIAM) division of Cybersecurity Learning:  Technology Controls (CTC), which is a part of the Corporate Sector ? Omniture, Hadoop, Hive, responsible for working across the firm to reduce exposure to access control Google, IBM Watson.  related threats, regulatory and audit issues. ? Multiplatform and  ? Delivered streamlined and consistent solutions supporting J.P. Multi-party Computation.  Morgan Chase's Controls, Access Management and IT Risk agendas. Programs and Platforms  ? Ensured standardization, consistency and methodology in a ? Balsamiq Mockups, Draw  JPMorgan Chase's architecture that fostered long-term productivity, IO.  quality and innovation across the entire enterprise. ? Photoshop, AI.  ? Served as executive in charge of strategy in GIAM. Provided ? PPM Tools ( Jira, enterprise leadership and direction in the management and Confluence, BitBucket,  operations within the department. Basecamp).  ? Developed Identity & Access Management processes and controls, CRM and Email Platform  software and functional account lifecycles, data analytics (including Proficiency  queries, scripting, and macros), technical operations, authentication ? Zoho, Hubspot, Mailgun, protocols, and password vaulting technologies. Mautic, Mailchimp,  Salesforce.  Cloud Computing  ? AWS, Azure, IBM Cloud  Lite, Godaddy. Chief Technology Officer CopyStrong - Sarasota, FL August 2013 to August 2017 Cybersecurity Enterprise SaaS application that provided Intellectual Property  Protection with Insider Threat and Counterintelligence reporting.  ? Presented demonstrations and speaking engagements in the private and public sectors, USSOCOM, DOD TEs, as well as B2B, and B2C.  ? Lead strategic development and was responsible for the delivery of a    successful enterprise Saas.  ? Developed patents for advancing and new coding technologies.    Platforms/Tools Used: Amazon and Azure Web Services, IBM Cloud Lite, CodePipeline, Lambda, S3, ECS (Fargate), API Gateway, RDS, ElasticSearch, GitHub and Bitbucket ( for  version control) and Confluence, Jira, Trello Slack (For general collaboration). Docker for containerization. Agile Software Development Methodology. Digital Director WWSB - Sarasota, FL February 2013 to January 2015 Launched a successful in-house digital agency within ABC 7, WWSB. Growing the department across 7 TV stations and 14 Newspaper.  ? Transitioned media advertisers into both media and digital customers by  delivering digital services such as: websites, e-commerce, branding, search engine optimization, search engine marketing (SEM) and pay per  click (PPC) increased revenue on average $600,000 monthly within the first year per station.  ? Increased traffic and engagement on digital properties including mobile  and OTT apps. In order to do this, a number of different teams were  hired to provide web design, partner marketing, social, product  development, SEO, analytics.  ? Created strategy and implemented performance & audience  development campaigns. Sr. Designer / Front End Developer ProSure Group - Sarasota, FL April 2012 to February 2013 Developed and maintained websites, graphics, branding guidelines, infographics, video integration, custom interactive graphics and other digital  creatives  ? Confident with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and various content management  systems.  ? Created cross-browser and mobile responsive designs and development projects.  ? Utilized QA methodologies, processes and techniques.  ? Designed software used: Photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign.  ? Created pixel perfect websites that followed design and technical  requirements.  ? Conducted Search Engine Optimization, SOPs and created SMM  channels and advertisements for SEM and PPC campaigns.    Senior Consultant  Software Developer Front End Developer Software development and general technology consultant Sears and Hilton February 2008 to February 2013 for a variety of projects within larger organizations, such as Disney, Sears and Hilton. Contracts ranged  from 4-7 months and included development projects such as platform and  application development, website development and design.    ? Developed channels for data analyzation through segmentation turning  data into actionable reporting and further insight. (Sears -6 Month  Contract- Front End Developer).  ? Performed routine implementation strategies incorporating e-commerce, payment gateways, login portals, membership vendors. (Sears -6 Month  Contract- . Sr. Front End Developer).  ? Created new digital channels using statistical data and reported  analytics to increase desired conversions and optimized customer  tracking through theme parks. (Disney- 7 Month Contract- Lead  Digital Analyst )  ? Tracked, priorited, and managed analytics and implementation  initiatives across multiple teams; served as contact for analytics/tracking  implementation requests, and effectively translated stakeholder  objectives into technical requirements for all digital channels, including  web, mobile apps, and microsites. (Hilton - 8 Months -Sr.Web  Applications Developer) Skills Software development, Saas, Enterprise architecture, Software architecture, Digital marketing, Marketing, Architecture, Forecasting, Program management, Advanced analytics Additional Information PROFESSIONAL AREAS OF EXPERTISE: CAREER ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? 10+ years Software  ? Software Architecture and Engineering Engineering through a full  ? Cybersecurity Technology Controls software development  ? SaaS Applications and Cloud Computing lifecycle.  ? Enterprise Architecture and Development ?  10+ years Project and  ? Advanced Analytics, Forecasting, Predictive Models program management.  ? Marketing and Digital Marketing ? 5+ years Experience  leading cybersecurity  development.