Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - PARSEC MEDIA Farmingdale, NJ Work Experience Front- End Developer PARSEC MEDIA - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Responsible for building interactive mobile ad unit campaigns from initial development stage to tag placement, launch and duration of ad-tech campaigns.  • Build 5-10 custom mobile interactive ads with HTML, CSS & Javascript per week.  • Maintains marketing website using PUG and SASS templating in conjunction with Gulp.  • Introduced process for creative A/B testing and asset optimization, enabling data driven design.  • Build tools with SCSS JS to automate ad creation, reduce risk of software defects, standardize UI/UX.  • Logs progress of campaigns using AWS and analytic platforms to provide data insight across teams. Digital Operations Coordinator YASHI - Toms River, NJ June 2017 to August 2017 Serve as liaison between the buying and account management, and sales strategy to collaborate on varying effective KPI's, targeting for campaigns and delivery tactics.  • Manage programmatic activations for digital advertising campaigns from local to national in scale.  • Optimize performance to successfully deliver according to client KPI's and industry benchmark standards. Publisher Development, Direct October 2016 to May 2017 Expected to research new publishers across all media and identify potential partnerships for channel revenue.  • Onboard strategic partners through campaign and performance consideration matrices, negotiate minimums rates and T&C for efficient digital partnerships.  • Purchase inventory, cutting pre-roll video tags and ensuring publisher is live and optimize. Restaurant Group Sales Coordinator CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT - Las Vegas, NV April 2015 to September 2016 Planning, and managing successful group and event dining to increase sales to over 70 restaurants, lounges and buffets throughout the nine Caesars Entertainment hotel properties.  • Grow event business with tour operators, hotels/resorts, destination companies, convention and visitor bureaus/associations, trade shows, area attractions, and meeting planners.  • Negotiate and manage group/event Guest relationships through accurate drafting of proposals and contracts, as well as facilitating arrangements as they relate to the group/event. Field Account Executive DHL EXPRESS - Las Vegas, NV September 2014 to April 2015 Responsible to maintain a high level of engagement with existing and new customers, while coordinating with global operations to support industry leading service.  • Consult existing customers on international knowledge of the DHL Network and processes.  • Collaborate with Operations and Marketing to build remote team to maximize customer satisfaction. Women's Vice President FRONT RUNNERS NEW YORK - New York, NY January 2014 to December 2014 Sitting on the board for a 750 member non-profit running club. Responsibilities include member recruitment and working with an $80,000 annual budget to provide scholarships for members, fundraise, and organize official NYRR races. Key Account Manager PINCHME - New York, NY April 2014 to June 2014 Strategically drove revenue and brand awareness for new business and existing customers through integrating PINCHme's sampling program and developing next-step strategies.  • Discovered clients marketing initiatives and distribution.  • Created client sharing sales collateral, competitive analysis, sampling data and social media data for clients and PINCHme sales team. Internet Recruitment Consultant MONSTER.COM - New York, NY June 2011 to March 2014 Successfully managed a book of key accounts while forecasting and developing creative approaches to identify upsell opportunities and generating new business.  • Maintained and grew a book of business valued annually at $0.5M - 1.0 million.  • Met and exceeded sales quotas by upselling existing accounts and uncovering new business opportunities via field visits, cold calling, and in-person networking.  • Increased territory's overall media sales by 27%.  Small Business Account Manager • Identified customer needs, offered appropriate solutions, overcame objections, negotiated prices, and closed sales over the phone and in person.  • Proficient with Applicant Tracking Systems, talent acquisition, recruiting, account management, cold calling, business development, technical recruiting, and CRM.    Leadership Pride Run Sponsorship Coordinator February 2013 to June 2013 Stewarded sponsorship with corporate and nonprofit entities for the 7,000 participant 2013 New York City Pride Run.  Managed donations totaling $35,000 which went to race logistics and a featured charity. Team Captain TCNJ TRACK AND FIELD - Ewing, NJ September 2007 to May 2011 Seven time NCAA DIII All-American in the 800M and 4x400. Four time TCNJ Scholar-Athlete. Education Bachelor of Arts in History and Religious Studies THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY 2007 to 2011 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/merylwimberley https://github.com/merylsays https://codepen.io/merylsays/ Additional Information Technical Skills  HTML, CSS, Javascript, Pug, Gulp, SVG, GSAP, Node.js, Beyond Hackathon    Platforms: Git, AWS, Looker, LKQD, Spot X, Optimatic, Springserve, Google DFP, The Trade Desk,  Salesforce, Delphi, LMS, Microsoft Office, Gmail, MOAT, comScore