Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Geomodules/Self-employed - Philadelphia, PA March 2011 to Present • Updated or transformed old websites into new modern websites, including making them responsive designed  • Made sure the new or updated websites were HTML compliant and fixed any layout bugs for clients.  • Hand coded all changes and updates to clients websites using a text editor. Proficient in HTML, CSS, JQuery, and Smarty.  • Provide ongoing support and maintenance to repeating clients ensuring continuous business.  • Embed/add third-party content such as social media applications (e.g. twitter, Facebook, etc...) Security guard Roman Sentry - Philadelphia, PA 2014 to February 2016 • Maintained daily logs all incidents, visitors, and irregularities during assigned shift.  • Guarded entry control point and tracking authorized personnel entering and exiting the premises  • Engaged and maintained a courteous behavior with the public, giving directions and responding to inquiries. Lockbox Associate Wachovia bank - Philadelphia, PA April 2006 to June 2007 • Job required us to process checks in mail. The mail was weighed and usually came with invoices that needed to typed in.  • Met and exceed job requirements of processing 10lbs of mail. Upwards to 12-15lbs regularly.  • Excelled at data entry and typing up invoices. Became one of the lead workers for processing large invoices. Shift Manager McDonald's - Philadelphia, PA March 2004 to February 2006 • Promoted from crew worker to Shift manager after 10 months of hard work and integrity  • Pushed workers to serve only hot and fresh food. Re-educated them into understanding it's ok to throw out stale, cold food.  • Created a fun environment which made workers happy, allowing them to greet customers with a smile and enjoy coming to work.  • Assisted in created a culture that emphasize open communication among managers and crew workers  • Increased sales by 20% roughly due to effectively running the night shift. Education High school or equivalent Kensington High School - Philadelphia, PA 1997 to 2001 Skills Microsoft office (5 years), Security (1 year), 70 wpm -- 10 key (9000 KPH) (1 year), Supervisor (1 year), Web Design (editing, fixing, etc) (2 years), Front End, Computer Repair (5 years), Front-End