Owner Lead Developer / Designer Owner Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Designer Experienced Web Developer Kelso, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner Lead Developer / Designer Kaos Kreations Web Design - Beaverton, OR June 2000 to Present * Develop and present proposals for website design to individuals, small business and non-profit organizations, owners and managerial staff for projects ranging from new features to their existing site, to new websites, to complete branding overhauls of the company or organization.   * Responsibilities include conceptualization and execution of designs, resolving projects to the client's satisfaction, working as a project manager, with 3 people underneath me for larger projects, accurate billing and payment collection.  * Maintains and sustains long-term client relationships through continued web support and easy accessibility for rush project.    Key Accomplishments:  * Creation of my first Wordpress Parent theme, that includes a full slide-show, built in SEO, and the ability for clients to control the colors, fonts, and look of their site through the Admin panel.   * Property Management Plugin for Wordpress, allowing real estate clients to list and display property's for sale and the key features of the property.  * Creation of Zencart satellite site. Which allows my client to completely install a new site site for different products via the the normal install process, and upload of a CSV with the new products info. Web Developer / SEO Expert Effective Web Solutions - Vancouver, WA October 2017 to May 2019 I managed and built websites for 35-47 clients. Including creating custom plugins for SEO purposes, a custom Wordpress theme suited for the best SEO practices possible for all of their clients, and regular site maintenance and checkups. I also created a platform for quickly and easily creating PPC landing pages for multiple clients? Web Developer / Internet Marketing Manager Turtledove Clemens Inc - Portland, OR May 2015 to December 2017 ?Developing and managing client websites. Creating and managing analytics, managing social media accounts and campaigns.  Front End Developer Parthenon Software Group - Portland, OR May 2012 to November 2014 * Front End Development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and Javascript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Python Backend.  * UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experiences for high traffic websites through desktop and mobile applications.  * Web Application development for backend systems using AngularJS or Backbone.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3   * Creating interactive HTML emails for dating sites, that display uniformly across multiple email clients on all desktop and mobile operating systems.     Key Accomplishments:  * Creation of an HTML email testing system that allowed the quality control department to pull up the email, look at the code for the email and send it to all of their different emails accounts to assure it displayed properly.  * Converted a Wordpress Plugin (Buddypress) to work with Python and Django, rather then wordpress. Chief Technology Officer The Lab Productions - Salisberry, MA April 2000 to August 2005 Keeping the web systems and computer equipment up to date and running in a small recording studio.   Maintained the companies computerized equipment, installed new audio, visual, and computer equipment.  Worked closely with the owner of the company to keep up with all the latest in technology.  Designed and maintained the company website  Designed CD covers, social media sites, and web sites for artists. Education A.S. in Computer Information Systems Chemeketa Community College Salem - Salem, OR June 2010 Certificate Chemeketa Community College Salem - Salem, OR June 2010 Skills Customer Service, Graphic Design, Web Design, Web Development, Web Maintenance, Web Master, Front End Development, System Administration Links http://dswebdesign.biz Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient July 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0rbu3v-6b6xkyomp Graphic Design — Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pwoqnlr8pcrxgezd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.