Remote Web & Graphic Designer / Music Teacher Remote Web &amp; Graphic Designer / Music Teacher Web & Graphic Designer / Music Teacher Owens Cross Roads, AL I am a well-seasoned, decades-experienced Web Development and Graphic Design veteran proficient with many platforms and design tools. I have been building professional websites from the ground up for Government subcontractors, small businesses and world-class musicians & entertainers alike for most of my career. I’m an adaptable, fast learner and loyal team player whose experience with both private and public sector clients has given me a well-rounded business acumen with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Web & Graphic Designer / Music Teacher Freelance Independent Contractor - Owens Cross Roads, AL February 2018 to Present Remote independent contractor performing graphic design and website customization duties; Music Teacher offering weekly private lessons on Guitar, Bass, Banjo and Ukulele. Service Advisor/Writer Campers Inn RV - Madison, AL March 2019 to August 2019 List of duties and responsibilities include: Identify RV problems and services by listening to customer’s description of symptoms; verification of warranty and service contract coverage by examining records and papers, explaining provisions and exclusions; develop estimates by costing materials, supplies, and labor; preparing Repair Orders; handle customer complaints while maintaining high customer satisfaction standards; periodically checking on the progress of the vehicle during servicing and contacting the customer as needed to keep them up to date with their RV’s status. Web & Graphic Designer / Front End Developer Cintel Strategies, Inc. - Huntsville, AL April 2016 to February 2018 Head of Web Services for Cintel providing customers with the following: Analytics, Coding, Design, Development, eCommerce, Hosting, Maintenance, Quality Assurance, Responsiveness, SEO, UI/UX, Tech Support, Brand Awareness Campaigns, Online Coupons and Email Blasts. Primary tools used: WordPress and Joomla CMS, Shopify eCommerce platform, PHP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and MySQL. Creation of custom images and graphics using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, and source code customization of the CMS and/or associated plugins for specific client needs. Web & Graphic Designer / Business Process Modeler & Scheduler Freelance Independent Contractor - Owens Cross Roads, AL November 2014 to March 2016 Independent contractor consulting, designing, developing and/or maintaining commercial websites; Graphic Designer; Business Process Modeler & Scheduler (MS Visio and Project). Retail Sales Associate / Web & Graphic Designer / Marketing & eCommerce The Fret Shop - Huntsville, AL May 2012 to November 2014 Designer, developer and maintainer of the company’s eCommerce website using WordPress CMS, WooCommerce eCommerce plugin and extensions, PHP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and MySQL. Source code customization of the CMS and associated plugins for specific business needs. Creation of images/graphics using Adobe Photoshop for use in print ads, store signage, website and Constant Contact email blasts for promotions and events. Creation of in-store product demo videos for publishing on the company’s YouTube channel. Other responsibilities include: eBay store setup and integration with website inventory, and Retail Sales support. Web & Graphic Designer / Music Teacher Freelance Independent Contractor - Owens Cross Roads, AL February 2009 to May 2012 Independent contractor consulting, designing, developing and/or maintaining commercial websites; Graphic Designer; Music Teacher offering weekly private lessons on Guitar and Bass. Web & Graphic Designer / Front End Developer Baron Services - Huntsville, AL February 2008 to February 2009 Lead web designer and developer as part of the internal Marketing department, and primarily responsible for revamping and maintaining the company’s three commercial websites, Baron's intranet portal and their customer service login website using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP and Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Dreamweaver and Flash.  Created web graphics, including logos, web publication advertisements and email blasts for event and training seminar announcements. President & Owner / Web & Graphic Designer Smooth Edge Designs, LLC - Hampton Cove, AL October 2005 to February 2008 President and owner of Smooth Edge Designs, LLC, developing comprehensive and concise commercial websites for businesses, internationally-renowned musicians and celebrity entertainers using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Perl, Dreamweaver, Swish Max and Flash. Created web graphics and logos using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  Client sites included: Damon Johnson (Thin Lizzy, Alice Cooper, Brother Cane), The Hellecasters (John Jorgenson, Will Ray and Jerry Donahue), Rivera Amplification (Boutique Guitar Amplification), Beth Donahue (Comedian and Radio Personality), Moon Town Disc (Digital Media Replicators), Living Art Water Gardens (Custom Landscaping), Clearview Cancer Institute (Cancer Research and Care Center), Charter Performance (Project Management Training and Consulting). Oracle Systems Developer / Web & Graphic Designer / Help Desk DB Admin Gradkell Systems, Inc - Huntsville, AL September 1991 to October 2005 Designed, developed and implemented Oracle database system modules for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Defense and various U.S Armed Forces customers. Converted external business processes into Oracle interfaces. Worked with functional users and customers to gather requirements for new functionality, interfaces, system change requests, etc. and wrote technical guides.    Responsible for the design, development and maintenance of GSI’s two commercial websites and company Intranet utilizing extensive Flash interfaces and UNIX shell scripting using JavaScript, Perl and PHP. Created corporate and product logos using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Designed and developed interactive CD-Rom product demonstrations using DemoShield. Also designed large-scale graphics and kiosk displays for use at industry conventions and seminars.     Responsible for configuring and maintaining the CA Unicenter Service Desk database, software, servers and knowledge base management system that provided the help desk for the U.S. Army’s worldwide P2 system. Provided specialized customization of the user interface, and established business rules and policies for the help desk team and end-users. Developed custom reports for management and set up user privileges. Shipping / Receiving Intergraph Corporation - Madison, AL June 1988 to September 1991 Responsible for shipping computer hardware and software to and from customers and Intergraph offices worldwide. Also responsible for handling and tracking R.M.A.'s (Return Material Authorizations) of defective materials to vendors. Education Coursework towards major in Computer Information Systems John C. Calhoun State Community College - Huntsville, AL 1993 to 2008 Coursework towards major in Computer Information Systems University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL 1994 to 1996 Skills Web Developer, WordPress Developer, Joomla CMS, Shopify eCommerce (Liquid/Ruby), LAMP Stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP), JavaScript, HTML 5 / CSS 3, WooCommerce, Graphic Designer, Adobe CS (Photoshop/Illustrator), MS Visio, Oracle Developer (10+ years), Joomla (5 years), Drupal (5 years), Graphic Design, Photoshop, Adobe, Printing, Print Production, Guitar, Percussion Links http://Behance.net/wclksmoot9863 Certifications/Licenses CA Unicenter Service Desk Manager February 2004 SAP BC400 ABAP Workbench Foundations August 2005 Additional Information References:  Doug Haynes ~ SVP Business Development at PAC3 Technologies (205) 447-1888  Kelly Meassick ~ Principle, Charter PMG (256) 755-0449  Jamie Jones  ~ Talent Acquisition/HR Business Partner at Sentar Inc. (256) 653-4289