Lead Software Engineer, Solutions Architect Lead Software Engineer, Solutions Architect Sacramento, CA With a career spanning 18 years, I've held positions in software engineering, operational management, marketing, and product development. My diverse experience has given me a holistic view of the challenges facing an organization, and the ability to quickly deliver solutions.    I am seeking a leadership position where my cross-functional experience and technical knowledge can be used to identify problems, develop processes, and improve operating efficiencies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software Engineer, Solutions Architect Undisclosed - San Francisco Bay Area, CA March 2015 to Present I developed and maintain the company's operating platform for coordinating construction jobs throughout North America. Our clients are primarily big-box retailers, medical facilities, and discount chains. I became familiar with the company's departmental operating processes to implement cohesive solutions for Management, Account Management, Project Coordination, Accounting, Field Technicians, and Clients.     • Analyzed existing process workflow and planned new system architecture to replace aging software.  • Incorporated an array of reporting tools to give management and staff greater operational visibility.  • Improved employee productivity through process enhancements.  • Vetted applicants for new technology positions, managed junior staff and coordinated with vendors.  • Developed data migration plan.  • Opened up our platform for integration into clients' internal project management systems via a REST API.  • Implemented redundancy and backup processes to protect against data loss and downtime.  • Implemented a bug tracking system. Director of Online Operations Auto Tours International, Inc. - Mountain View, CA January 2007 to March 2014 Auto Tours International, Corp is a purveyor of self-driving tours. As Director of Online Operations, I managed our engineering and online marketing resources, and was responsible for the development of both the consumer facing site and our administrative back end.    • Attended daily strategy meetings with the President.  • Wrote technical specification from business requirements.  • Developed the data model and custom multi-currency e-commerce framework.  • Built an administrative back- end allowing staff to view KPI reports and revenue charts.  • Coordinated with offshore vendors and consultants.  • Managed PPC/advertising campaigns and budget.  • Designed and developed our user frontend.  • Performed SEO targeting for international markets, resulting in growth of annual traffic, lower bounce rates, and increased average time-on-site by 35%. Senior UI Developer - PHP/JavaScript Offermatic, Inc - San Mateo, CA March 2010 to April 2011 Offermatic was a transactional marketing start up funded by Kleiner-Perkins. I was the company's second full-time employee and worked with the CTO to develop our consumer dashboard and administrative interfaces – both AJAX applications implemented with PHP/jQuery. Offermatic was taken over by Linkable Networks.    • Developed AJAX-enabled UI for consumer dashboard and corporate back-office.  • Integrated Facebook and Twitter APIs and built the company's first Facebook App.  • Conducted A/B testing on landing pages and homepage variants.  • Built landing pages for aggressive co-branded ad campaigns.  • Integrated conversion tracking for a number of affiliate and ad networks.  • Maintained additional company websites. Project Manager/E-commerce B-Bridge International, Inc. - Mountain View, CA 2008 to 2010 B-Bridge is a US/Japanese biotech supplier. I transformed the company's static site into a CMS-driven ecommerce application with a multilingual framework and language detection. Later, I assumed responsibility for all web related system administration after their MIS person departed.    • Introduced a staging environment, source control, and engineering best-practices.  • Worked with the company's in-house MIS to manage email migration, DNS, and other hosting changes.  • Installed and configured Ubuntu LAMP server at a new host.  • Performed database migrations and wrote deployment scripts.  • Built a multilingual framework for corporate site.  • Developed a back-office tool for editing products, managing suppliers, category and application groups.  • Created a MySQL export tool that generated CSV inventory lists for partner and distributor use.  • Transformed static inventory list into a thousand-product eCommerce system with focus on SEO performance.  • Took over maintenance of a separate Rails application and WordPress site.  • Integrated VerticalResponse newsletter system.  • Implemented a site optimization strategy which saw rapid growth and brought 82% new visitors — originating from 102 countries — during the first 4 months.  • Introduced over 14,000 contextual internal links, greatly improving both usability and search engine performance.  • Reviewed traffic patterns and usage funnels and tweaked UI to reduce mid-purchase abandonment.  • Rewrote URLs for increased usability and search engine performance and mapped old non-existing URLs to new pages.  • Generated XML sitemap and implemented recommendations of Google Web Master Tools. Senior Front- end Developer/QA Engineer Tonic, Inc. - Palo Alto, CA April 2006 to June 2007 Tonic was a service that eliminated postal junk mail for our subscribers by removing their names from hundreds of bulk-mail clearinghouses. As part of the engineering team, I developed our first generation web sites and store front.    • Reporting to VP of Engineering, worked with Project Manager and in-house/off-shore engineering teams to design, develop and maintain the company's separate service and retail sites – including the launch of a new multi-currency eCommerce storefront.  • Instrumental in the development and maintenance of the store's flash-based shopping cart system, site animations, and widgets that tracked inventory, goals, and statistics via XML feeds.  • Optimized the output generated by the CMS resulting in 50% leaner code that reduced bandwidth and measurably improved responsiveness.  • Assisted porting multiple websites from Joomla to a custom solution with PHP/Smarty.  • Conducted A/B testing, user testing and pre-release QA.  • Managed a Jr. UI Developer and liaised with remote developers and service providers. Online Marketing Manager Travel Express LA - Los Angeles, CA 2001 to 2007 Travel Express LA was a premiere corporate entertainment travel agency.    • Web design and development.  • Site optimization and SEO.  • Designed print and digital marketing assets.  • Bookkeeping.  • Posted regular site content and tour listing updates.  • Implemented Google Analytics and reported performance metrics to owner. Web Developer/Ecommerce Manager Wildcat Press LLC - Los Angeles, CA January 2001 to January 2005 Wildcat Press (defunct) was a private book publisher and media company.    • Redesigned and developed the company website.  • Integrated Google Analytics.  • Implemented onsite ordering.  • Bookkeeping.  • Designed print advertisements and web banners.  • Managed Amazon book sales.  • Assisted with order fulfillment.  • Posted weekly content updates. Education Information Technology Heald College - Milpitas, CA 2002 to 2004 High school or equivalent Melbourne High School - Melbourne, FL 1995 Skills PHP (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), OOP (10+ years), Object Oriented Programming (10+ years), System Architecture (10+ years), Codeigniter (10+ years), ColdFusion (5 years), SQL (10+ years), API Development (7 years), MySQL (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Bootstrap (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), SEO (10+ years), CodeIgniter (10+ years), Composer (7 years), SVN (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Ecommerce (10+ years), Front End (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), A/B Testing (10+ years), Google Analytics (10+ years), Google Webmaster Tools (10+ years), Google Maps API (7 years), Redmine (2 years), Track (7 years), MailChimp (3 years), Constant Contact (5 years), Mailgun (5 years), LAMP (10+ years), DevOps (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Visio (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), XML, Operations Managment (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License