Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Quality Engineer intern - Platform by Per Scholas Dallas, TX Software Developer with experience of Quality Engineer, Front- end developer and Project management. Skilled in Core Java, Databases, Web Applications, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. My background skills include web development and user interface architecture areas in both technical and functional areas covering a wide range of industries including e-leaning, Enterprise Resource Planning and service industry. Possess extensive knowledge in Quality Engineering, Project Management, Front- end Development and Data Analysis. Career supported by a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Quality Engineer intern with Platform by Per Scholas. Work Experience Web Application Developer KJMB solutions - McKinney, TX May 2019 to Present Quality Engineer intern Platform by Per Scholas January 2019 to April 2019 • Award entry to 12 weeks full time program developed and funded by Cognizant. A pipeline to Quality Engineer.  • Conducted Automation testing within organizations without disrupting daily operation.  • Developed home insurance project using JSP servlet, Spring, Oracle SQL and tested with JUnit, Selenium and Cucumber(gherkin)  • Tracked user stories using JIRA.  • Created test scenarios and test cases based on requirements. IT Specialist Samsung Digital System America (SDSA) 2017 to 2018 • Researched Software and/or Server items to support internal customer request.  • Created vendor purchase orders based on work Order and Coordinated with AP to monitor receipts, returns, credit limits, etc.  • Resolved hardware, software and mobile issues. Front end developer/ Project Manager Asti Manufacturing Corp 2014 to 2017 - Executed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end development, responsive web design and cross-browser compatibility to provide positive customer experience.  - Wrote templates and front- end code for .Net based on b2b web application, increased revenue more than 30%.  - Independently manage all technical aspects in regards to the company.  • Data Analyst  - Worked with ERP systems and interfaces to provide various reports to stock holders.  - Optimized data collection procedures and generated reports on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis.  - Used advanced Microsoft Excel to create pivot tables, power Map and other Excel functions as needed. Web Master Handbagshopping.com 2014 to 2014 • Provided website management and operational services for e-commerce site.  • Coordinated with different departments to identify technical issues and priority issues, and resolved it with timely manner. QA Manual Tester Assured Digital Systems Inc 2013 to 2014 • Analyzed requirements and developed test cases to meet the functional requirements.  • Worked with key stakeholders, defining the product roadmap.  • Developed approaches to content structuring and categorization. Assistant Manager LaQunita Hotel & Suites 2011 to 2013 Assisted a general manager to provide best customer satisfaction and it marked top 3 for over years in regional rank. Sales Associate/Inventory Manager Unik Beauty Supply 2009 to 2011 Sold variety of items to meet sales goal and managed inventory based on store sales and customer needs. Project Manager/QA Tester GANYMWONRI Inc 2007 to 2008 • Analyzed business requirements and accordingly created UI specifications to updated application features.  • To report the status of the software testing through an analysis of reported defects. Project Manager/QA Tester CDI Holdings Inc 2006 to 2006 • Collaborated with business analysts, stakeholders, and developers to integrate requirements with usability and technical needs.  • Created user interface including screens and interaction elements  • Assisted QA team with front- end testing Project Manager/QA Tester Biz Click LLC 2004 to 2006 • Managing IT projects and driving project team from start through to completion.  • Created test scenarios, test cases and tracked by each test case to provide Web Developer/Server Administrator Tech & Tech LLC 2000 to 2003 • Maintained Windows server infrastructure and components to providing a stable environment.  • Customized and updated websites utilizing ASP, SQL and HTML within schedule. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science SangJi University Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/monakang