FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER/DESIGNER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span>/DESIGNER FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER /DESIGNER Vancouver, WA Goal-oriented & entrepreneurial-minded Front End Developer & Web Designer with a demonstrated history of work in the eCommerce and marketing industries with experience in UX/UI, social media & custom Wordpress website builds. Currently seeking a career in a creatively professional environment where I will be able to utilize my work experience and design degree to its maximum potential. Work Experience FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER/DESIGNER BIZIQ - Phoenix, AZ September 2017 to Present • Design and build WordPress sites, logos & graphics using Adobe CS, HTML5, CSS & JQuery.   • Ensuring a mobile first UX and implementing responsive design across all sites.   • Updating existing roster of websites per client/ account manager request.   • Team collaboration of innovative ideas to bring an effective product to our customers.   • Wireframing, user flow journey maps and ensuring the best UX for users on new build themes.  Digital Marketing Specialist BIZIQ - Phoenix, AZ December 2016 to September 2017 • Suggest, design and implement digital products to increase customer ROI.   • Optimize web content to increase traffic and improve SEO.   • Analyze marketing metrics, report findings, and redefine strategies on a bi-monthly basis.   • Analyze digital campaign success and report on web performance metrics.  Social Media Communications Specialist Freelance/Self employed - Phoenix, AZ October 2015 to May 2017 • Reported performance metrics of all social media platforms & executed ideas to improve performance.  • Contributed to developing press releases, media relations content, staff bios, e-mail blasts, social media content, and blog content.  • Created, scheduled and published content on social media channels via Hootsuite.  • Managed and scheduled out content calendars on a rolling basis.  • Post-production of editorial and inventory images for online content per assignment basis.   • Unique graphics and social media content creation per client request.  Marketing Content Manager Post-production - Scottsdale, AZ May 2012 to December 2015 • Conception and design of in-house marketing materials including: email designs, website layouts for mobile and desktop, online ads, social media image campaigns, trade show materials and other various brand projects as needed.  • Work with the Creative Director to hone art direction for digital campaign content; help craft narratives and develop unique and trendy designs.  • Assist with technical production duties as needed, such as videos, images, design comps and wireframes and help with brainstorming and implementing new features to augment site functionality.  • Create digital marketing collateral for website, email, social media and sponsorship use.  • Post-production of editorial and inventory images for eCommerce site.  • Coordinate and efficiently manage editorial & product photoshoots. Trade Show Coordinator O.T.R. Marketing - Tempe, AZ October 2008 to November 2014 • Execute on-site event set-up, check-in, flow, venue layout, branding, and breakdown.   • Maintain a status of all on-going projects and make sure all deliverables are met by deadline.   • Preform sell-through analysis to allocate products based on performance trends.  Education B.S. in Design Arizona State University Continuing Education Paradise Valley Community College Skills MAC (10+ years), MS OFFICE, Bootstrap 4, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface, Javascript, Front End, Front-End, UI, React, CSS3 Additional Information Skills  HTML5, CSS  WordPress, WooCommerce, Shopify, MailChimp  Cloud-based services such as, Google Docs, iCloud & DropBox.  Proficient on Mac and Windows OS.  MS Office (Excel, Word, Powerpoint)