Sr. Full-Stack Manager, Engineer Sr. Full-Stack Manager, Engineer Sr. Full-Stack Manager, Engineer - Jump Ramp Games Inc Ridgefield, NJ ? Responsible for the planning and development of all our web based, revenue first, high-monetizational  properties. These products extend the Native mobile experience for our users, into the web space, keeping our  users engaged with our platform beyond Native, increasing the ARPDAU and ROI significantly.  ? Pioneered the planning, development, and successful launch of several Highly monetized products that extend  the user experience and life-span of active users on our Native applications:  o Lucktastic Plus  o Search & Win for Lucktastic.  o Lucky Trivia Live Plus  ? Created various successful, innovative user facing experiences leveraging HTML5 Canvas gaming, and  Javascript frameworks like Phaser. Some of these projects include:  o In-Ad playable games.  o Interactive Ad placements  ? Strategically developed High engagement Microsites to accompany marketing promotions resulting in an  increase of user activity, traffic, decrease in bounce rate, and an improved user conversion rate of nearly 500%.  o Conversion here are only calculated when a user downloads the native application, and begins to play.  ? Engineered various Facebook Canvas single page applications from scratch, no frameworks. These included a  custom user experience which involved HTML5 and Javascript Phaser.js mini-games, rewards, and user unique  experiences, leading to higher retention rates, increase in DAU's and ARPDAU.  ? Demonstrated great commitment to excellence and ability to learn, hereby earning a promotion from internship  role to full-time junior role in 2014, and then Mid-level role in 2015, eventually working up to Managing  Director, leading a team of 10 remotely offshore and domestically.  ? Innovated and developed dynamic HTML5 emails for our marketing campaigns, which implemented a regular  update feature to ensure it contains the most current information whenever it is opened. This reduced our spam  rates, and increase user activity, and the total number of returning users.  ? Contributed immensely to the development of the company's initial HTML5 Application before switching to  Android and iOS native platforms.  ? Responsible for writing all initial Unit Tests for Android in the early days of our startup.  ? Re-engineered the inventory system and processes by developing and maintaining a web-based internal ERP to  track inventory and equipment usage by the staff, particularly related to QA and supplies we use daily that need  to take into account.  ? Pioneered our initial internal CMS tools, and continue to contribute significantly to our custom in-house PCMS  system which manages all departments most critical internal processes, including marketing, and in-house ad  placements for example. Work Experience Sr. Full-Stack Manager, Engineer Jump Ramp Games Inc - New York, NY 2016 to Present Web Development  Primary Technologies during this Period: Laravel / PHP LNMP / PHP LAMP / NGNIX / AWS / MYSQL / REDIS / Javascript ES 5, 6, 7 / CSS3  Noteable Secondary Technologies during this period: Vue.js / REACT.js / Docker  ? Architected, developed, and owns all Web properties and Products for Jump Ramp Games, NYC.  ? Management of local, and remote agile development team members (10), comprised of several full-stack, and front- end  development engineers, as well as a project manager and QA team.  ? Defines website objectives by meeting with product manager and stakeholders, to identify user and system  requirements including features, and functionalities.  ? Collaborates with stakeholders and managers to plan and prioritize software development projects, defining  project timelines, developing budgets and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Demonstrating exceptional ability in software cycle development by writing clean and functional code, debugging and running functionality testing, and efficiently handling Pull Request Code reviews and staging for  versioning.  ? Managing and evaluating all software technologies such as the deployment of all web-based applications via  AWS, integrating modern software solutions to improve system and process performance, and developing  software documentation and requirements. MAJOR stickler for documentation and organization.  ? Collaborates with designers to improve site aesthetics by defining design methodologies and selecting  appropriate UI/UX elements.  ? Stays updated on current software development trends and technologies by reading relevant documentation, taking skill development courses and attending professional events.  ? Serving as the Lead Technical Product / Project Manager and ensure team members are equipped with necessary skill sets by organizing various training and capacity building programs such as the training in  containerization technology for testbed initiatives.  ? Spearheading the creation of In-house CMS tools for use by various teams and departments, for critical  everyday use in planning and launching products and promotions on our platforms. Instructor on Front- end Web Development and Backend Programming General Assembly, Inc - New York, NY 2014 to 2018 Teaching frontend technologies and methodologies to students of all ages including HTML5 for modern Web  development and e-mail engagements, CSS3, JavaScript, and Light Server samples to promote understanding of AJAX, via MAMP  ? Develop creative techniques in breaking complex programming concepts into simpler terms.  ? Motivate students and advise them on how to persevere through the challenging process of trying to acquire  analytic thinking skill and problem-solving ability.  ? Developing suitable projects and assessments metrics to evaluate students' performance and improve their skill  level. Full-Stack Web Developer Jump Ramp Games Inc - New York, NY 2013 to 2016 Primary Technologies during this Period: PHP LAMP / MYSQL / Javascript / CSS3  Noteable Secondary Technologies during this period: Rails, Java for Android, Express Node, Wordpress, Angular 1  ? Applied the best software development practices in writing efficient and robust code.  ? Developed software specifications and requirements based on the technical needs of each web development  project.  ? Collaborated with the design team in developing and implementing matching visual designs in line with the project plan.  ? Updated knowledge on emerging technologies and industry trends, then integrated relevant technologies into an existing application.  ? Developed and implemented strategic email marketing and social media campaigns to trigger lead generation.  ? Demonstrated expertise as a digital marketing strategist in Search Engine Optimization and Marketing, which led to higher conversion rates and improved Google ranking.  ? Provided Native Android and all Web-based features support. Junior Front- end Developer / Programmer Cordsel Technologies - New York, NY July 2013 to February 2015 Contributed to the code base by applying swift software development skill in writing clean and robust code  ? Designed wireframes, mockups and prototypes based on project briefing and software requirements.  ? Collaborated with the back- end developers in optimizing applications.  ? Performed other assigned duties relevant to achieving overall organizational goals. Engineering & Product Manager | Brand Development Consultant MANOLUCCI HANDBAG MANUFACTURING 2001 to 2013 Leather Goods Engineer specializing in Handbags. Patterns, Samples, Production.  ? Managed daily manufacturing operations and implemented efficient processes to improve workflow  ? Developed marketing and advertising strategies to drive overall business growth for contract based solutions.  ? Served as the production manager. Supervised product and material sampling, sourcing and development.  ? Handled both offshore and domestics logistics for all inbound and outbound goods and supplies.  ? Served as the product development consultant for various independent and established designers and brands.  Notably; Elie Tahari, C.C. Skye, and various independent, and well known brands.  ? Notable Client List: Botkier, Marc by Marc Jacobs, Rebecca Minkoff, Tulle, DKNY, Betsey Johnson, Kooba, The Row, LVMH, Kage, Bindya, Cole Haan, Theory, Anthropologie, Worth, Bulga, 311 Phillip Lim, Aleya  NY, Garrigue & Jarossay, Samsung, Panasonic, Weight Watchers, Andrea Brueckner, Cara Landy, Antoinette  Lee, Carrie Valentine, J.O.B., Design Guru, Butler Bag Co., Cynthia Rowley, Jessica Jensen, and the list goes  on. Xiao Ling Accessories Corp - Hong Kong, HK 2007 to 2012 Designer & Director of Operations BYSOG New York (Luxury Leather Goods Brand, Division of Manolucci) 2005 to 2010 Implemented efficient business strategies that generated a revenue of about $30.26 Million between 2005 and  2008 ? Oversaw the execution of creative design to manufacture top-notch products that beat industry standards. This  led to a soaring recognition within the fashion industry such as been featured in Women's magazines: Lucky, Elle, Nylon, Vogue, Accessories, WWD, W, V, Marie Claire and many more in the USA and Europe, along with several Blogs, TV shows, and Websites.  ? Organized products display and participated in fashion shows in order to promote design style. This publicity  has led to products been photographed and worn by many Celebrities, Socialites and Top Stylists Studio Manager and Bookings Representative ALIEN FLYER Recording Studios & 36 Chambers WU-TANG Studios 1997 to 2001 Demonstrated excellent commitment to work and was promoted internally from internship to studio manager, thereby handling several important relationships with managers and artists  ? Introduced and booked clients for recording sessions and other events/occasions.  ? Managed studio sessions, client needs, and services.  ? Developed alternative business solutions in strategy development.    AWARDS & PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS  Accessories Council, former active member.  Handbag Designer 101.com - "Designer of the Day" July 30, 2008  LIM- (University) Lecture "The Business of Fashion  LIM - (University) Lecture - "The Handbag Business"  Learning Annex Lecture Assisted Jen Groover of Butler Bag during a taping covering the "Handbag business"  Learning Annex Lecture - "Business of Handbags" Education Fashion Institute of Technology 2004 International Business & Commerce Bergen Community College 2002 Skills APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT, DOCKER, JAVASCRIPT, VUE.JS, JENKINS, PHP, LARAVEL, Ruby, Rails, LAMP, nginx, MYSQL, ANDROID, HTML5, USER EXPERIENCE DESIGN, NOSQL, JAVA, jQuery, APACHE, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Links http://linkedin.com/in/vickenvartanian Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Functional Office Software: Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint), full Microsoft suite  ? Frontend Technologies: JavaScript 5-7, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Vue.JS, REACT.js, Angular 1, Java Android  ? Backend, Server Tech: PHP LAMP, Laravel, Symphony, Javascript Node, Express, Ruby Rails, Apache,  Nginx, MySql, Reddis, NoSQL, AWS, Jenkins, Docker  ? Design Tools: Illustrator, Photoshop, Optitex CAD    CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Web Applications Development ? Customer Experience & Support  ? Systems and Business Analysis ? Sales & Marketing  ? Blogging for Business ? Digital Advertising  ? Requirements Documentation ? Product Development  ? WordPress Development ? Effective Communication  ? Project Management ? Detail Oriented  ? Cross-functional Collaboration ? Problem Solving Ability  ? Talent Acquisition & Retention ? Analytic Thinking  ? User Experience Design ? Strategic Planning  ? Negotiation & Closing ? Mentoring  ? Logistics ? Team Building