4th Grade Math and Science Teacher 4th Grade Math and Science Teacher Upper Marlboro, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience 4th Grade Math and Science Teacher Prince George's County Public Schools - Upper Marlboro August 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities included:  ? After School Tutor 4th Grade Math: Provide math instructions to 4th-grade students to help them gain knowledge and skills in preparation for MCAP and life.  ? Technology Coordinator School Website: Providing access to Clever and Gmail for students by resetting their passwords using Active Directory.  ? Instructional Chair 4th: Serve as a member of the school site Leadership team; Interact with the Curriculum & Instruction Department to assist with curriculum implementation for the grade level; Facilitated scheduled Collaborative Planning meetings every Tuesdays, Thursdays, and some days after school; Coordinate grade level responsibilities for activities; Perform other related duties as assigned.  ? Provided instruction that reflects multiple perspectives and multicultural education using knowledge of school organization, goals and objectives, curriculum, teaching techniques, current trends, research, and materials of instruction in the field of specialization; Infused technology into the curriculum. 5th Grade Math and Science Teacher Prince George's County Public Schools - Upper Marlboro, MD August 2017 to June 2018 Provided instruction that reflects multiple perspectives and multicultural education using knowledge of school organization, goals and objectives, curriculum, teaching techniques, current trends, research, and materials of instruction in the field of specialization; Infused technology into the curriculum. Package Handler FedEx May 2017 to August 2017 Substitute Teacher Prince George's County Public Schools March 2017 to June 2017 Front- End Developer Matrix Group International, Inc September 2005 to January 2017 Responsibilities included:  ? Slice design comps into functional web pages, across different browsers, including Mobile browsers while using valid XHTML/HTML markup with CSS.  ? Implementing site content.  ? Conduct site audits.  ? Maintenance of existing sites - this may include adding a nav item, a new image, new content, etc.  ? Client training in the use of CMS and Lyris List.  ? Support designers in the production of web site designs.  ? Assist Project Managers in coordinating team members on projects. Web Developer OAO/Lockheed Martin August 2001 to August 2005 Perform routine HTML and graphical updates. Web Developer Computer Sciences Corporation April 2001 to August 2001 Perform routine HTML and graphical updates. Supervisor Conversion Applications BOWNE of Washington DC - Washington, DC October 1995 to March 2001 Convert and edit financial documents to EDGAR/EDGAR II from word processing and spreadsheets formats for electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ? Convert prospectuses and annual reports to PDF and HTML formats for on-line access.  ? Proofread and perform quality control measures on all files before processing out the shop.  ? Analyze and provide recommendations and researching problems and issues relating to online formats, word-processing, electronic publishing and data conversion technologies. Research software.  ? Write and assist in the writing of programs and macros to streamline word-processing, electronic publishing, and data conversion tasks. Test programs are written by other team members and providing verbal and written reports and feedback.  ? Write and/or revise user training manuals and procedures.  ? Aid in the training of new employees. Administrative Assistant United States Senator Howell Heflin May 1995 to October 1995 Handle general administrative office duties. Administrative Assistant United States Senate Judiciary Committee June 1986 to February 1995 Track committee legislation.  ? Attend hearings and summarize testimony for subcommittee counsel.  ? Edit speeches for subcommittee counsel.  ? Handle general office administrative duties. Education M. Ed. in Elementary Education Grand Canyon University - Phoenix, AZ June 2021 B.S. in Computer Science Bowie State University - Bowie, MD 1994 Skills Teaching, Typing, problem solving, Teaching, Typing Certifications/Licenses Driver's License CPR/AED December 2017 to December 2019 Assessments Teaching Skills: Elementary Lesson Planning — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to develop lesson plans for elementary-level classrooms that promote effective learning. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3abltdpg-5pxfp5i Teaching Skills: Elementary Classroom Management — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to promote learning in an elementary school environment by maintaining classroom order among students. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mnrvxkef9capxppm Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s2lnw6ygve4lzueo English Communication Skills: Typing — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hsmjsdro24rhkw5i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.