SENIOR WEB DESIGNER/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER SENIOR WEB DESIGNER/<span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SENIOR WEB DESIGNER/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER - Park Group Solutions Sandy Hook, CT Accomplished and experienced Senior Interactive Designer and Web Builder noted for integrating back- end and front- end experiences that optimize web site performance for professional service organizations and businesses. Skilled in HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Adobe Creative Suite, Axure, MS Office, Premiere Pro, Word Press, Bootstrap, Responsive Page Layouts, UX Design, Wire Framing, Page Functionality Prototyping, Digital Strategy, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), User Experience, Print Production, Logo Creation, Integrated Marketing, and Advertising. Strong information technology professional graduated from Connecticut Institute of Art. Work Experience SENIOR WEB DESIGNER/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER Park Group Solutions - Newtown, CT 2018 to Present Brought on to help build, design and maintain customer websites utilizing a wide range of back- end systems.    * Key Responsibilities: Maintaining, customizing and overseeing a wide range of websites for well known automotive companies like Ford, Chevrolet, Dodge/Jeep/Ram, Lincoln, Land Rover, and Cadillac. My primary responsibilities include designing, coding and managing custom landing pages, email blasts, and overall website improvements for our clients. I have a lot of exposure in print, digital and web design utilizing tools like Photoshop, InDesign, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and some PHP. I have a solid understanding to code for all view ports.    * Accomplishments: Re-designed and coded the front- end for the Classic Home and Garden Website. Participated in numerous onsite meetings with the client to better understand their goals and needs and how I could visually and functionally beat their competitors. Home page re-design and front- end coding for The Jim Winter Auto Group. Designed and built custom new car and manager specials pages for Executive Chevrolet, Island Acura, Quality Subaru and Star Hyundai that beautified and enriched those experiences to set their brands apart from other dealerships. I'm very competent to quickly attend to site issues and to turn around projects in a timely manner in a very fast pace environment such as the automotive industry. SENIOR INTERACTIVE DESIGNER/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER ExecuNet - Norwalk, CT 2006 to 2017 Recruited to support the company's e-commerce business development, marketing and sales efforts and ensure its dominance in its market space.    * Developing Compelling Web Sites Through the Effective Utilization of Technology: Designed and coded the front end experience for the execunet.com company website. Participated in daily scrums with technical/development team to help direct the layout and functionality of (IA) web content and (UX) user experience. Conducted walk throughs of low and high fidelity prototypes to business stakeholders to gather feedback on the flows. Made any necessary adjustments to transform prototypes and final color concepts into responsive valid HTML and CSS markup for WordPress.    * Liaison to the Marketing and Development Teams: Played a key role in marrying the backend to the front end experiences with strong verbal and written communications between our management, development and marketing teams to join those technologies. Worked closely with those teams to bridge the gap between the backend functionality and the front end user experience in visually delivering the right messages and information to our members and prospective clients.    * Daily Roles and Responsibilities: Building, constructing and maintaining the information architecture and user experience of the website. Performed at a high level; wire framing, page(s) prototyping, web graphics, landing pages, concept mock-ups, e-mail communications, javascript prototyping and strict compliant coding of front- end experiences for desktops, tablets and mobile view ports.    * Building High-Performance Teams: Trained and managed junior artists/producers involved in ExecuNet Email campaigns to ensure consistently high-quality designs and proper coding. Assisted in effectively tiering to both member and non-member audiences.    * Improving the Brand to Ensure Consistent and Reliable Membership Levels: Re-designed the ExecuNet logo in 2008 to create and establish a better brand identity. Implemented new visual branding across all major marketing vehicles including print, web, video and all email communications.    * Enhancing the Organization's Visibility Within the Industry: Planned and directed on and off-site filming and video production. Shot and produced footage from 2012-2014 World Business and World Innovation forums in NYC. Managed the ExecuNet company You Tube channel as well as incorporated mobile friendly videos into the website experience. WEB DESIGNER Tech Depot - Trumbull, CT 1999 to 2006 Brought on to develop and design online and printed marketing vehicles during and following the dot.com boom.    * Maintaining A Competitive Advantage: Directed the redesign of the product page for the Tech Depot website. Brainstormed with the I/T Team and Product Managers to provide a better user experience and markedly improve the web site's look and feel.    * Improving the Customers' First Impressions and Experience: Constructed the Tech Depot Welcome Kits geared  toward the Business, Education and Government Markets and utilized as support materials for the sales force. Executed all phases from initial rough concepts to generating the final 4-color booklets.    * Major Roles and Responsibilities: Standardize and continually enforce all graphic design elements used by the company, including: enhanced site redesigns, splash pages, manufacturer store pages, sales documentation, direct mail, targeted promotional materials, trade show signage, weekly email customer communications, banner ads and company newsletters.    * Driving Change that Spurs Business Growth: Played a pivotal role in the Tech Depot/Office Depot integration consisting of system analysis, training and enforcing the Tech Depot/Office Depot brand. Senior Artist IBM - White Plains, NY (Computer Graphics Resources, CGR) - White Plains, NY March 1994 to December 1998 ·  Assisted high-level consultants on-site to graphically intensify their presentations for Fortune 500 companies.  ·  Developed my own client base. Worked individually with executives on key projects such as Electronic Banking and Rubbermaid.  ·  Managed and supervised a team of artists, duties included: Training and art direction, project distribution and overseeing that a consistent quality of work was accomplished with in a timely fashion for our clients. Education Certificate Connecticut Institute of Art - Greenwich, CT Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nick-brenia-2788722 https://www.nickbrenia.com/ Additional Information SKILLS:  HTML/HTML5 • CSS/CSS3 • JavaScript • jQuery • Sublime Text • Microsoft Visual Studio • Adobe Creative Suite • Axure • Microsoft Office • Premiere Pro • CMS Systems • Word Press • Bootstrap • Grid Systems • Responsive Web Design • Web Graphics • UX Design • Wire Framing • Low/High Fidelity Page Prototyping • Email Design/Production • Video Production • Print Production • Logo/Icon Creation • QA testing