Digital/Web Producer - Consultant Digital/Web Producer - Consultant Digital/Web Producer - Consultant Lyndhurst, NJ Accomplished technical professional with more than eight (8) years of web content management. Strong emphasis on web  enhancements in diverse industries including: financial services, e-commerce and manufacturing. Work Experience Digital/Web Producer - Consultant JP Morgan Chase c/o Aquent - New York, NY March 2019 to May 2019 • Perform day-to-day operations of website and email channel production for digital properties including the main website  • Collaborate with multiple teams to gather assets and materials to build, test and launch digital content.  • Adhere to timelines to ensure all work is tested and published on schedule in AEM.  • Ensure quality of content across all platforms, fix display issues, and escalate coding errors and bugs.  • Uphold brand / style guidelines, review all content for optimized SEO and UX best practices.  • Create and update news & stories pages and monthly mobile retail and research flow tips.  • QA for Daily rates CMS Content Coordinator - Consultant AMEX - Plenti c/o Aquent - New York, NY September 2017 to July 2018 • Management of FirstSpirit CMS system for the Plenti website and mobile app  • Daily content updates and partner exit removals  • Performing updates to the JSON code for the mobile feed tiles on the Plenti app.  • Landing page builds for Plenti brand offers  • Set up of message notifications on enrollment pages, etc.  • Coordinate on day-to day task with the German web development team  • Managed the Plenti partner exit campaigns Webmaster, Digital Marketing & eCommerce NESTLE Nespresso - New York, NY May 2015 to April 2017 • Manage the day-to-day content related activities of the digital channels (Website, Mobile website and app, social )  • Performing maintenance and enhancements on the B2C and B2B websites  • Ensure product descriptions are consistent from one digital platform to the other (including mobile site and app), in all  available languages.  • Liaise with Digital Marketing Project Manager and Digital Marketing Specialist (acquisition media) to ensure a seamless  experience and optimized purchasing path from call-to-actions to landing pages (including search optimization - SEO).  • Manage campaigns integration, new features implementation and platform roll-out.  • Run Market Acceptance Tests (both front- end and back- end) in coordination with local IS stakeholders for all digital  boutiques as per OP plan.  • Ensure a fast, updated, bug free user experience on all digital boutiques, following International eBusiness guidelines.  • Updated existing digital material (banners, landing pages) to gain agility in managing digital assets, aligned with HQ guidelines.  • Ensure all visuals are up to date, web optimized and cleared from a digital rights prospective.    1 Front - End Web Developer Barnes & Noble - New York, NY July 2014 to May 2015 - Contract  • Producing a variety of site-wide e-commerce pages and HTML emails.  • Hand-coding of weekly carousel Emails for B&N and Nook Brands for distribution.  • Developing solid cross-platform pages using HTML, CSS and Javascript.  • Coding standard and responsive HTML emails that follow internal guidelines and adheres to industry best practices.  • Providing guidance and solutions for business owners in executing their requests and needs.  • Researching new technologies and approaches to address business needs more efficiently.  • Responsible for follow up, implementation of creative request and closing out Run the Business (RTB) & JIRA tickets. Web Production Associate - Contract WebMD - New York, NY April 2014 to June 2014 HTML and CSS coding within Documentum CMS application.  • Optimized images for web to attach to physician profiles.  • Hand coding of medical articles and clinical briefs to post on Medscape.com website.  • Prepared Q&A activities for physicians to earn CME accreditation.  • Performed testing in the staging environment.  • Utilized AtTask to keep track of projects and issues.  • Prepared media slides, video and transcripts using the xml slide generator.  • Responsible for tagging of articles for SEO prior to posting Digital Media Specialist/PM Benjamin Moore & Co - Montvale, NJ July 2012 to July 2013 • Management of Digital Media Web Projects from start to completion.  • Assisted with SEO content to increase site traffic.  • Performed QA testing following server moves to ensure consistency and functionality of the website.  • Experienced with Agile methodologies.  • Responsible for assisting management with tracking of budget invoices for the IT department.  • Coordinated meetings with Front & Backend Development teams and the Business to discuss projects.  • Tracking of project status within AtTask System. Web Content Manager The Bank of NY Mellon - New York, NY September 2006 to July 2012 • Performed training sessions with the business on the Content Managements System.  • Responsible for maintenance of the Dreyfus.com, Intranet and external websites.  • Consistent follow up with (LOB) lines of business/marketing regarding updates for daily, weekly, quarterly and annual web  content updates and for out of compliance performance materials.  • Optimized assets for optimal speed and performance.  • Maintained the content expiration system for web updates, expired content removal and logging for audit purposes.  • Collaborated with Web Developers/Designers to brainstorm, develop and build new sections of the Dreyfus website.  • Created instructional manuals for the offshore teams in London and India to aide in their transition of web management for Dreyfus.  • Responsible for building marketing advertising campaign splash pages for specific channel viewing which included retail, investment professionals, regional consultants and institutional representative audiences.  • Assisted web team with preparation of BRD and FRD documents for web projects including the redesign of Dreyfus.com. Education A.A.S. degree in Visual Communications Gibbs College 2004 to 2006 A.A.S. degree LaGuardia Community College 1996 to 2000 Skills HTML, JSON, B2C, CSS, CMS, DOCUMENTUM, UAT, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, TEAMSITE, ORACLE, SAP, B2B, CAMPAIGN MANAGEMENT, GRAPHIC DESIGN, QA, TRANSLATIONS Additional Information SKILL HIGHLIGHTS:  • CMS Platform Experience: AEM Adobe CQ5, Drupal, Oracle, Documentum, FirstSpirit, SAP Hybris and Teamsite  • Campaign Management, Web: Banners, DAM repository and translations  • Email Campaign Management: ATG, Powermail & ExactTarget  • Web and graphic design background: Adobe Suite, HTML, JSON & CSS experience  • Experience working with cross-functional teams local and overseas  • QA, UAT and MAT testing experience  • E-commerce: B2C & B2B experience. Product management