Design Integrator ( Front End Developer) Design Integrator (<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Front- end developer and design integrator. Interested in large-scale framework development, component development, accessibility, interface design, React, Typescript and all new and upcoming web industry technologies. Portland, OR Over 10 years in-field experience, excellent attention to detail, superb communication skills, self-motivated, knowledge of industry best practices, able to translate customer/client needs into requirements, proficient in error resolution, error handling, and debugging; strong knowledge of modern user interface design, knowledge in cross-browser web development best practices and accessibility.    Highly proficient? in:   ? Fully-developed multi-browser modern framework and component development.  ? Full-scope design and continued development of uniquely themed and purposed websites and applications.  ? Documentation writing and editing. Learning new frameworks/systems/programs and developing within them.    General  ? Web development & design  ? Large scale framework & component development  ? Responsive/adaptive design and development  ? Accessibility best practices  ? UX, HCI concepts, and interface design  ? Mobile and App design and development  ? Documentation writing and editing    Core Skills  ? HTML  ? Javascript  ? CSS/SASS/JSS   ? Accessibility  ? Documentation    Frameworks/Libraries/Languages etc...  ? React  ? Typescript  ? NPM/Node.js   ? Jest/Enzyme   ? Bootstrap  ? Handlebars   ? jQuery  ? Angular  ? Wordpress    Other Language  ? Webpack   ? SEO  ? VMWare   ? C#  ? Unity    Programs  ? Adobe Suite including Photoshop,? ?Premiere?, Edge? ?Animate?, After Effects, ?Captivate?, Illustrator  ? Microsoft including GitHub?, ?VSO?, ?TFS?, Microsoft Office Suite    Other  ? Experience in all operating systems  ? Source control (Git, SVN, etc...)  ? Code reviews  ? Agile/SCRUM Methodologies  ? Educational materials  ? Amazon S3 & CloudFront  ? Network cabling infrastructure  ? Soldering and digital circuitry  ? Physical network and workstation layout and construction  ? Live demonstrations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Design Integrator ( Front End Developer) Microsoft - Seattle, WA January 2016 to Present As a current employee of Microsoft (via ?Allovus Design Inc?.), I have been an integral part in the creation and design integration of the ?Microsoft Web Framework? (MWF). This framework is being used across ?thousands of Microsoft sites including microsoft.com, xbox.com, msn.com, etc... Despite a small team footprint, the framework is monolithic in scale. I worked closely with the Microsoft design team to translate common core components and modules into web fully accessible HTML. This team has now evolved into an open-source project hosted on GitHub called FAST-DNA. Using React, Typescript, NPM, Webpack, and a myriad of other technologies, we have created an accessible core grouping of packages useful in many aspects of modern web development. Our group operates underneath the Edge Design team, and I am working closely with developing several experiences that ship with the Edge browser, including the new tab page experience. Microsoft has deemed the upcoming Edge work as one of the most important growth sectors within Microsoft  Director of Web Development & Marketing SIMmersion - Columbia, MD August 2013 to Present Responsibilities  As a current employee of SIMmersion, I have been integral in the design, creation and release numerous commercial products, various private products, and mobile applications available on the Apple App Store. I redesigned/updated all of SIMmersion’s various web presences, bringing their technology up to modern web practices (responsive, html5, mobile, etc…); this included a complete redesign of SIMmersion’s corporate website (simmersion.com) and training portal, and therefore full corporate identity and theme. I designed a system to aid in the development and presentation of educational material for all SIMmersion products, based on a heavily modified version of Wordpress. I designed several complex web-based applications based in AngularJS and canvas that has shipped to several universities. I designed all of SIMmersion’s marketing materials. I took place in several video productions, acting as producer, assistant, and editor. I traveled and worked with subject matter experts in various fields for the development of several systems. I took part in conferences demonstrating SIMmersion products. Owner/Operator Red Raptor Designs - Gambrills, MD July 2009 to Present Personally owned company for web design and development, graphic design, and sound and video production. Portfolio can be viewed at www.redraptordesigns.com Cyber Software Engineer Northrop Grumman - Millersville, MD April 2008 to March 2013 As an employee with Northrop Grumman, I took part in various projects as part of the Internal Research and Development team. This included rapidly learning new technologies and how to integrate them into existing frameworks, solving complex, ambiguous problems by creating new ideas, working within a large team of people in different locations and time zones, working under a deadline, working under several managers and project leads, and working with secure material. Areas of high experience include: designing, creating, publishing and continually updating web and user interface elements, icons, map markers and logos as well as various other image manipulation work; web design (HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, django, photoshop), writing and editing documentation (Microsoft writing platforms), design and construction of physical servers, workstations and augmented technical workstations and virtual environments (VMWare). I seek to be as versatile as possible, not placing myself into one distinct job area, but rather attempt to learn all aspects of what I am working on. I created, wrote and published the main web site for the NG IR&D efforts using HTML5, CSS3, jquery and django. Technical Assistant Sound Advice, LTD - Gambrills, MD March 2003 to 2008 Worked with all aspects of Ethernet cabling infrastructure (running, pulling, fishing, crimping installing connectors and wall sockets.) Gained experience with CAT 5, CAT 6, and fiber. Subcontracted for Capitol Cable. Technician Nordstrom INC - Gambrills, MD December 2005 to July 2006 I was the assistant technician at Atlantic Espresso Outfitters. In shop I preformed everything from motor rebuilds and preventive maintenance, to entire machine overhauls. I am familiar with how to troubleshoot complex and dangerous systems such as pressurized tanks, heating systems, and three-phase electrical circuitry. In the field I preformed installations and repairs at many different sites throughout the Maryland and Virginia areas. Server/Barista Nordstrom INC - Annapolis, MD October 2005 to July 2006 I worked as a server in Nordstrom's Cafe. I was in the top three of the ranking schedule and was often asked my opinion by the managers. I have learned customer service skills and how to work in a demanding fast-paced environment. I was often called for help if there were unforeseen problems. I was known for my reliability and hard work ethic. I also was a barista. Sales Associate The Sharper Image - Annapolis, MD December 2004 to September 2005 The Sharper Image was a commissioned-based job where I learned how to help customers make an informed buying decision. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD 2009 to 2012 A.A.S. in Electrical Engineering Technologies – Electronics Option Anne Arundel Community College - Arnold, MD 2004 to 2008 Skills Front-End Development (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), React (2 years), Typescript (2 years), Jest/Enzyme (2 years), git (4 years) Links https://github.com/nalogiudice http://www.redraptordesigns.com