Web Content Coordinator Web Content Coordinator Web Content Coordinator - 15th Judicial Court West Palm Beach, FL As someone who has been working on the web since 1996, I have held most of the titles  available at some point or another including designer, developer, publisher, and  manager. My skills carve a wide swath across the web landscape. Most of all though, the  thing I bring to any project, is the experience of 20 years of web design and  development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Content Coordinator 15th Judicial Court - West Palm Beach, FL January 2017 to Present As the Web Content Coordinator, my primary responsibility was the building, theming and management of the court's website, 15thcircuit.com as well as other internal sites. I  also assisted in various media production including video recording and production,  creation of training materials and graphic design. Co-owner E.I.C.C., Inc - West Palm Beach, FL July 1996 to Present At E.I.C.C., Inc. I work on company projects. My duties include web design for multiple  properties. In addition to design and content management, I also manage all our social  media marketing for accounts such as @elephpant, @daycamp4devs, and @nomadphp.  My marketing duties include the management for 6 mailing lists and the campaigns that  go to them.    While I do not create the content that we publish, I am responsible for creating the final  output of the content. This included:  - Blog posts  - Youtube Videos  - Podcasts  - Ebooks    On each of these I handle everything from the content design to the final production  using tools such as:  - Adobe Premier  - Audacity  - WordPress  - WooCommerce  - Kindlegen    I am also the production manager for the 3-4 live events produced each month.    Our websites include:  • Voices of the ElePHPant  • Day Camp 4 Developers  • Cal Evans Front End Developer Oreck LLC - Nashville, TN September 2011 to May 2014 I work within the web marketing team to help spread the word about Oreck throughout the Internet. My work includes updating and maintaining the various product and  category pages throughout the site, construction of HTML email, and working with the developer and other designers to create new features throughout the site including  interactive elements. Work can be seen at www.oreck.com. In addition to working on the main Oreck website I have themed a careers site (www.oreckcareers.com), re-  themed the new Demandware e-commerce site and worked with various 3rd party  marketing systems including Knotice (email solution), ION Liveball, Webcollage (for implement of product information on various larger retailer sites), and Shortstack  (Facebook implementation).    I am also responsible for changes to various Demandware templates utilizing ISML  code, HTML, CSS and jQuery that have created newer layouts within the category and product pages not standard with the Demandware installation. We have incorporated  many changes within the Demandware infrastructure to improve the performance of the website and increase conversions. Developer / Project Manager Horton Group - Nashville, TN March 2010 to September 2011 I design and develop Drupal based sites, including installing and configuring modules,  using CCK, views, panels, fusion and skinr. I am responsible for designing interfaces and theming sites. I also have managed dozens of development projects, aided with  estimating, budgeting and guiding the team. I'm responsible for discovery,  documentation, task assignment and seeing each project through towards launch and beyond. HCA Physician Services October 2009 to February 2010 I worked in a contract capacity with HCAPS designing and building out web sites for physician's practices. My duties included interface layout, XHTML/CSS coding,  implementation of jQuery scripts and working with the .NET team to implement  dynamic elements. Adjunct Instructor Art Institute of Nashville January 2009 to December 2009 I taught both Information Architecture and XHMTL/CSS in the Interactive Media  Department of The Art Institute of Nashville.    Draughon's Junior College  Adjunct Instructor, 08  I was a part-time instructor in the Interactive Media Department at Draughon's Junior  College (Now Daymar). My duties included teaching web design classes. My last class  focused on the use of Adobe's Fireworks. UI / Web Designer Zapfire Communications May 2007 to September 2008 I was responsible for interface design, page design and build out of all web sites for our  clients including the implementation of Flash and other dynamic media. I implemented  custom and open-source CMS solutions including Joomla and WordPress. And I was  responsible for training clients in data entry including producing manuals. UI / Web Designer Horton Group - Nashville, TN January 2007 to May 2007 I worked with a small team to design and develop several websites. My responsibilities  included design of logos and web sites, HTML/CSS build out of the web sites,  implementation of simple PHP forms and of video and audio media. Designer Digital Dog, Inc - Nashville, TN September 2005 to December 2006 My position of designer and production artist included working within a team on various web design and multimedia projects as well as working with clients during both the planning and production phases of their websites.  My primary responsibilities included designing and preparing graphic layouts for web  display as well as constructing the pages within the site. My duties entailed creating  various interactive interface elements such as flash navigation and banners, roll-overs,  drop-down menus and pop-up boxes. Communications Director / J&J OnLine - Web Master J&J Music, Inc - Chickasaw, AL 1983 to 2005 As the Web Master my duties included design and maintenance of the web site. I was  responsible for assembling content, creating graphics, writing HTML code, maintaining  mailing lists, hosting Internet chats and maintaining the extensive online catalog. I  created an online community for our users consisting of email lists, specialized sections within the site, tutorials, online classes and Internet chats. Education Associate of Arts in General Studies in General Studies Valencia Community College - Orlando, FL Bachelor of Science in Interactive in Multimedia Design Art Institute Online - Pittsburgh, PA Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (4 years), jQuery (3 years), WORDPRESS (10+ years), Javascript Links http://@elephpant http://@elephpant Additional Information Skills include  ? HTML/CSS/SCSS  ? JavaScript/JQuery  ? Graphic Design - Print and Web  ? Web platform management (Wordpress, Drupal and Joomla)  ? Theme Creation for content management systems  ? CMS theme creation using Bootstrap  ? Video and webinar production  ? Podcast production and management  ? Managing social media messaging  ? Designing and managing email campaigns  ? eBook production