Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Visa Inc San Jose, CA • Over 2 Plus years of experience in User Interface (UI) applications using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, DOM, AJAX.  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC.  • Expertise in building device independent UI designs using both @media queries and frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Good hands-on experience implementing charts in application using chart.js.  • Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Worked extensively with IDE's like Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX), Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in using Design patterns and object oriented methodologies to design software for mobile phones  • Designed and implemented mobile web applications using frameworks such as Cordova and Phonegap.  • Having good understanding with low-level Component Lifecycle.  • Experience in using test-driven development in JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax-based applications, HTML and CSS.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and TFS and project management tools like JIRA.  • Have little experience with databases like SQL Server, MySQL.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Developer Visa Inc October 2016 to Present Visa is an American multinational financial services corporation, where it facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the world, they work with different banks around the world.    Within Visa I have worked on three different projects, and had a good experience working with different teams.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery as per company standards.  • Developed Prototype and helped my product owner in presenting the application to clients before starting the actual development, with this we can collect feedback from client and develop the real one accordingly.  • Helped a team in resolving some minor bugs in their application.  • **Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Now am developing an application for all visa clients which is responsive, for that am using HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Here I have met with a new application Zeplin, which makes developer job little easy.  • In future we are thinking about migrating Jquery UI pages to AngularJS single page application (SPA).  • In order to make CSS page smarter we used CSS LESS preprocessor.  • Worked on generating the plain CSS using the LESS framework.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript.  • Created Filters in the application, where our application has different kind of applications like application level and page level using JQuery.  • Worked on dynamically rendering the UI based on user actions using JQuery.  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed page layouts, navigation-menus, animation buttons and icons, animations in login page with vis flag.  • Worked in Agile environment.  • Handled cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implemented Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and custom media queries, etc.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features.  • Developed web page layouts using CSS mechanism to include different colors, layout, width, height, font size, images size to the web pages.  • Using chart.js for bringing dynamic charts into picture, got some really good experience in using chart.js.  • Also got trained for handling the accessibility issues.  • Worked closely with business team's members, designers and architectures, and also involved in all the design review meeting and shared my opinion on designs.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, chart.js, AJAX, DOM, XML, Zeplin, Sketch, Agile, LESS, Bootstrap, Photoshop. Front- end Developer Econosoft Inc - Sanjose, CA, US January 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI layout and front- end programming for web application that matched requirements using hand written HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  • Implemented HTML5 feature like, local storage, data and required attributes and sliders.  • Involved in all functional areas including performing audits of requirements, test activities, defect triage meetings, project-related activities, and all project artifacts  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Refactored existing code and redesigning structures to improve performance of the entire app.  • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented WEB API to support single page application and mobile applications.  • Used CSS, CSS3, XHTML, HTML, HTML5, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery and mobile frameworks.  • Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests.  • Completed the implementation of Data-Driven Hybrid application using Cordova and Phone Gap frameworks.  • Worked closely with the architect teams and gained good exposure in implementing the various design patterns.  • Used Fiddler and Chrome Developer tools to analyze and debug the UI issues while developing  • Used JIRA extensively for organizing issues, tracking the assigned work, and following team activity.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, SQL, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MVC, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Cordova, Phone Gap framework, JIRA.    PROJECT    University of Central Missouri  CAR-RENTAL    Me as part of my Masters education I need to submit a project, so I have decided to develop application related to car rental. First I have drafted a document which includes how the rental car websites look like and how the navigate one page to another page and what information they ask and then I have started building my application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  Help: Online websites and professor. Education Masters of Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 Skills AJAX (2 years), HTML (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Client Side Programming HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Chart.js  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js  RDBMS Other Applications MySQL, SQL Server Zeplin, Sketch