ENTERPRISE WIDE WEBMASTER ENTERPRISE WIDE WEBMASTER ENTERPRISE WIDE WEBMASTER - SHERWIN-WILLIAMS Cleveland, OH Work Experience ENTERPRISE WIDE WEBMASTER SHERWIN-WILLIAMS - Warrensville Heights, OH 2014 to Present Manage multiple concurrent projects, deadlines and teams to drive efficient solutions across Sherwin Automotive domestic and international web properties. Provide training, consulting and support for a wide variety of new and ongoing web initiatives.  • Design web presence for the More Than Just Great Paint promotion making it one of the top performing automotive pages for pageviews and sales leads.  • Assist with transition to Agile for IT group significantly improving communication, project launch efficiency and content quality.  • Manage the migration of over 550 pages of Sherwin-Automotive web content into new CMS to improve user experience, accessibility and search.  • Utilize Agile process to research and launch internal company data into IBM Connections platform, increasing user accessibility and interaction by over 60%.  • Streamline automotive training events by building RegOnline form templates and supporting material to improve efficiency and increase attendance by over 50%.  • Expand international online presence with addition of US French and US Spanish translations, and addition of China, Ecuador and Argentina websites.  • Work with 3rd party vendor to develop Google Analytics dashboards, audience filtering and goal conversion tracking to better evaluate site ROI performance.  • Expand Automotive and associated sites by over 50% with new sites and section build outs including: Aerospace, Custom Restoration, Motorsports and others.  • Execute the seamless transition of commercial, sign and Heavy Truck & Bus sections into Product Finishes website as part of company restructure. FRONT END DEVELOPER THINGS REMEMBERED - Highland Heights, OH 2012 to 2014 Responsible for the design and maintenance of web content supporting more than six thousand products for a fast paced online retailer. Developed new initiatives and processes to increase the efficiency and profitability of site.  • Launched Black Friday midnight madness event page for over 430 stores helping to drive online revenue up by $205,000 from previous year.  • Created promotional pop-up to promote discounted bonus gifts making it one of the top revenue drivers with over $22,000 during the first week.  • Executed a comprehensive solution to convert all carousels from Adobe Flash to HTML5 - reducing load times and delivering dynamic mobile content.  • Proposed and Implemented a cloud based wireframe solution for the ecommerce teams delivering faster turn-around and improved workflow and collaboration.  • Developed front end solution to test company promotions in select markets saving 4 weeks development time and $30,000 over vendor proposal. WEB GRAPHIC DESIGNER NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES INC - Aurora, OH 2010 to 2012 Maintained and created new content and promotions for company ecommerce site including SEO management, photography and sales initiatives. Migrated foreign websites from static HTML pages into content management system.  • Deployed over 100 web pages per month using valid web standards by streamlining tasks and creating efficiencies for redundant processes.  • Utilized Google Analytics and SEO research to improve pageviews by 25% and Google Search results by 30 positions for target products.  • Improved migration of foreign sites into Magento CMS platform by 30% with detailed documentation and process and workflow efficiencies.  • Delivered up to 500 qualified leads per month into company sales database in new target industries using effective SEO and keyword research. HEAD OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DESIGN GRIFFITHS HEALTHCARE GROUP - Rocky River, OH 2006 to 2010 Provided graphics and support material for a growing chain of long-term care facilities. Managed both marketing and IT departments to create effective external marketing strategies and the efficient support and distribution of IT resources.  • Effectively managed Marketing and IT departments at 2007 levels through a period of 300% growth.  • Reformatted nursing documentation for quick reference to help achieve perfect Ohio Survey results for up to 40% of facilities from 2007 - 2009.  • Increased facility visibility with new and effective marketing campaigns leading to occupancy rates of over 90% chain-wide. Education BA in Fine Arts Cleveland State University, Cuyahoga Community College 2005 Cleveland State University Skills content management (8 years), database (2 years), Flash (2 years), marketing (8 years), training (3 years) Links http://ronaldlthomas.com/ Additional Information SKILLS  PROFICIENT  Consulting and project management, Training services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Google Analytics, Adobe Suite: Photoshop, Illustrator, In-Design, Dreamweaver, Flash, Acrobat; Content Management Services: Oracle WCS, Oracle UCM, WordPress, Drupal, Magento, Site Manager; RegOnline event forms, FTP services, Microsoft Office Suite.    EXPERIENCED  Google Tag Manager, JavaScript Libraries: JSON, JQuery; Regex, Marketing Automation: Marketo, Hootsuite; PHP, Java, SQL, Apache Servers, Digital Photography, Omniture Web Analytics, SEO Tools: Link Sleuth; Database Management: Paradox; UX Design, Email Management: PHPlist, Marketo.