DeCA US DoD Contract DeCA US DoD Contract DeCA US DoD Contract - Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) Chesterfield, VA Cyber Security Specialist | Cleared | CEH | Sec+ Work Experience DeCA US DoD Contract Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) - Fort Lee, VA 2019 to Present SOC CSSP Watch Analyst  CSSP SOC Watch Analyst for Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA). Worked in support of monitoring a 24x7x365 Security Operations Center (C2SOC). Primary responsibilities were to monitor, detect, analyze, investigate, report, and track security-related "events" such as signs of intrusion, compromise, misuse, and compliance. Utilize provided sensors, systems, tools to monitor networks and systems for signs of intrusion, compromise, misuse, and non-compliance. Proactively monitor and track down anomalies, non-compliant systems, and other observed events that were detrimental to the overall security posture of the IT infrastructure.  * Monitored and analyze logs and alerts from a variety of different technologies across multiple platforms in order to identify and mitigate security incidents affecting the DeCA enterprise this includes analysis of logs  * Managed, tuned, and optimized security controls such as, IDS/IPS, SIEM, network anomaly detection, endpoint security, vulnerability management, data loss prevention (DLP) tools  * Executed analysis of email based threats to include understanding of email communications, platforms, headers, transactions, and identification of malicious tactics, techniques, and procedures and phishing attempts  * Utilized and adhered to defined workflow and processes driving the threat monitoring and escalation/handoff actions. Analyzed potential cyber threats from a variety of sensors taking appropriate response actions to include threat containment and/or escalation.  * Leveraged network security tools and capabilities to support Cyber Threat Monitoring activities. Documented results of cyber threat analysis effectively and prepared comprehensive handoffs.  * Processed tactical mitigations based on results of analysis and determination of threat validity. Followed escalation and handoff procedures to team members and leadership based on defined threat and priority determination US DoD Contract Summit Technologies - Fort Lee, VA 2018 to 2019 Web/SharePoint Developer  Accountability for designing custom systems and functions to develop and enhance new and existing websites and web-based applications. Coordinated with business sponsors and government customers to re-engineer business processes to automate workflows in SharePoint Designer and other web development tools. Assisted in developing content in step with best practices and organizational governance.  * Developed methods for dashboard publications using various services such as JavaScript, SSRS, Web Parts, and Excel services to meet client user requirements.  * Updated and streamlined code to improve site performance utilizing cutting edge JavaScript and HTML 5 techniques, frameworks, and libraries.  * Wrote Support documentation on project deliverables and provided training to government users. IT Administrator / Tier II End User Support Expiris/The Greater Richmond ARC - Richmond, VA 2018 to 2018 Responsible for provisioning and setting up new user accounts in Active Directory as well as issuing new and existing users' new hardware. Managed existing user accounts in Active Directory and made sure all users were able to perform their duties with their current hardware and accounts. Assisted in establishing and managing user emails and licenses in Office 365.    * Implemented IT policies, procedures, and system controls.  * Implemented patches, updates and corrective actions needed to mitigate security risks and any possible vulnerabilities.  * Provided workstation, laptop, and printer hardware and software support/troubleshooting and patching to all users.  * Managed mobile devices (i.e. - iPads, iPad Pros, iPhones) using MDM and Apple Configurator 2.  * Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  * Authored training manuals for users and for IT department.  * Responded to and resolved tickets, technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems in a timely manner Freelance Web Developer/IT Technical Specialist Horizon Industries, Ltd., and Experis - Richmond, VA 2008 to 2018 Employed mastery of front- end languages (JavaScript, CSS, HTML) to create user-oriented visuals and features to increase client site traffic.  * Designed logos and flyers for various companies' business collateral using Adobe Creative Cloud.  * Gathered client requirements to interpret needs and built websites to meet their business objectives using ASP.NET MVC, C#, and SQL.  * Performed a variety of support functions including implementing IT policies, procedures and system controls performing as IT Administrator.  * Configured Microsoft OneDrive and SharePoint site for users to file share and store content.  * Designed online advertisements via social media mechanisms and other business documentation design for clients. Web Content Manager Capital One 2016 to 2017 Established web project scope in step with strategic business drivers and discovering and validating business and technical requirements and parameters. Developed web solutions by formulating objectives and planning the project lifecycle deliverables, resource availability, and application.  * Responsible for managing all web content for all lines of business for the bank. Develop content strategy aligned with short-term and long-term marketing goals.  * Collaborated with marketing and design teams to plan and develop site features.  * Edited images (banners, graphic logos, icons) for web content using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  * Managed projects that required both, CMS and HTML, CSS, and JavaScript using Adobe Dreamweaver. Marketing Web Developer Capital One 2014 to 2016 Collaborated with colleagues and teams to strategize solutions for business issues requiring improvements. Leveraged Agile team environment. Designed and coded emails and email templates for Capital One LOB's lines using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML and XHTML.  * Performed email production design on 1-Way Alerts, Mobile/2-Way SMS Alerts, Secured and Unsecured Messaging, EBM's (Event Based Messages) and Campaigns. Front- End Developer Net Search Digital Marketing - Richmond, VA 2010 to 2011 Responsible for maximizing SEO for various websites through research and utilizing online tools. Designed and coded web pages for various clients using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS. Updated existing applications to meet the security and functionality standards. Implemented testing tools that monitor the ongoing performance of the company website. Developed comprehensive application testing procedures. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Chesterfield, VA 2012 Associate of Science in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Chesterfield, VA 2010 Associate of Science in Information Technology ECPI University - Chesterfield, VA 2008 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, XML, SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, WEB DESIGN, WEB SERVICES, IDS, IPS, NMAP, SPLUNK, WIRESHARK, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MYSQL, SQL, HTML5, SASS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/alan-crown Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)