Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Self-Exmployed - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to Present ·        Tailoring user experience  ·        Bringing a designer’s concept to life with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ·        Production, modification, and maintenance of websites and web application user interfaces  ·        Creating tools that enhance how users see and interact with your site in any browser  ·        Implementing responsive design for mobile sites  ·        Contributing some back- end experience, collaborating on APIs, and more  ·        Maintaining software workflow management with a project management tool like GitHub  ·        Consulting on SEO best practices  ·        Testing the site during development for usability and fixing any bugs Warehouse Specialist Synovos - Glendale, CA June 2018 to May 2019 • Distribute production schedules or work orders to departments.  • Review documents, such as production schedules, work orders, or staffing tables, to determine personnel or materials requirements or material priorities.   • Requisition and maintain inventories of materials or supplies necessary to meet production demands.   • Arrange for delivery, assembly, or distribution of supplies or parts to expedite flow of materials.  • Confer with department supervisors or other personnel to assess progress and discuss needed changes.   • Confer with establishment personnel, vendors, or customers to coordinate production or shipping activities and to resolve complaints or eliminate delays.   • Examine documents, materials, or products and monitor work processes to assess completeness, accuracy, and conformance to standards and specifications.   • Record production data, including volume produced, consumption of raw materials, or quality control measures.   • Calculate figures, such as required amounts of labor or materials, manufacturing costs, or wages, using pricing schedules, adding machines, calculators, or computers.   • Compile information, such as production rates and progress, materials inventories, materials used, or customer information, so that status reports can be completed.   • Compile and prepare documentation related to production sequences, transportation, personnel schedules, or purchase, maintenance, or repair orders. Eurasia Regional Coordinator "WYATT Communications" - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to April 2019 • Handle regional office work requests with vendors, requester and contractors to arrange service response  • Help to create projects and schedule and manage contract process  • Process project expense and revenue invoices along with finance, accounting, legal and external partners  • Achieve internal progress targets and enhance company product and customer service quality, supply chain and regional management.  •Represent company in negotiating contracts and formulating policies with suppliers  •Monitor and follow applicable laws and regulations   •Research and evaluate suppliers, based on price, quality, selection, service, support, availability, reliability, production and distribution capabilities, and the supplier’s reputation and history  •Obtain information about goods or services. General worker NAVI Pacific Construction - Phoenix, AZ September 2017 to January 2018 • Plumbing: sink installation (kitchen, bathroom), bathroom set up.  • Painting: surface preparation, sand paper cleaning, painting.  • Outdoor deck floor installation, sanding, demolition works.  • Light fixtures installation, home appliances installation, blinds installation. Flight Attendant Ukraine International Airlines - Kiev June 2016 to July 2017 • Attend preflight briefings on details of the flight  • Ensure that adequate supplies of refreshments and emergency equipment are on board  • Assist in cleaning the cabin between flights  • Demonstrate the use of safety and emergency equipment  • Ensure all passengers have seatbelts fastened and ensure other safety requirements are met  • Serve, and sometimes sell, beverages, meals, or snacks  • Take care of passengers’ needs, particularly those with special needs  • Reassure passengers during flight, such as when the aircraft hits turbulence  • Administer first aid to passengers or coordinate first aid efforts, when needed  • Direct passengers in case of emergency Bartender, Waiter Sea Side Hotel - Crete Island May 2015 to October 2015 • Greet guests and seat them at tables or in waiting areas.  • Provide guests with menus.  • Assign patrons to tables suitable for their needs and according to rotation so that servers receive an appropriate number of seatings.  • Speak with patrons to ensure satisfaction with food and service, to respond to complaints, or to make conversation.  • Check with customers to ensure that they are enjoying their meals and take action to correct any problems.  • Collect payments from customers.  • Write patrons' food orders on order slips, memorize orders, or enter orders into computers for transmittal to kitchen staff.  • Prepare checks that itemize and total meal costs and sales taxes.  • Take orders from patrons for food or beverages. Waiter MSC Orchestra (cruise ship) August 2014 to February 2015 • Wipe tables or seats with dampened cloths or replace dirty tablecloths.  • Set tables with clean linens, condiments, or other supplies.  • Locate items requested by customers.  • Scrape and stack dirty dishes and carry dishes and other tableware to kitchens for cleaning.  • Perform serving, cleaning, or stocking duties in establishments, such as cafeterias or dining rooms, to facilitate customer service. Professional swimmer Dvorec Podvodnogo Sporta - Kiev October 2000 to December 2008 Education Bachelors in International Relations (Diplomacy, Political Science, Translations - English, Norwegian languages) Kyiv Academy for the Humanities - Kiev 2009 to 2013 Full General Secondary Education Secondary School ?129 with profound studying of English - Kiev September 1999 to June 2009 English language Kyiv State Interlingua Language School 2008 to 2009 Skills Well-organized, Efficient, Detail orientated, Polished communication skills, Accurate, General office functions, HTML, CSS, Javascript, MySQL, JQuery, JavaScript Frameworks, Git, Command Line, Front End, HTML5, React js Links http://firstorder-development.com/ Awards Swimming 2002 Kiev city competition (crawl style) – 1 place Swimming 2003 Kiev city competition (crawl style) – 2 place Swimming 2004 Kiev city competition(backstroke style) – 3 place Swimming 2005 Kiev city competition(breaststroke style) – 3 place Swimming 2006 Kiev city competition(crawl style) – 1 place Swimming 2007 Kiev city competition(backstroke style) – 2 place Swimming 2008 Ukrainian national championship - 3 place Certifications/Licenses freeCodeCamp December 2018 to Present Front End Web Development Additional Information Native languages: Ukrainian, Russian.  Other Languages & level: English – fluent, Norwegian – Pre-Intermediate.  Technical: HTML/CSS, JavaScript/jQuery, CSS and JavaScript Frameworks, CSS Preprocessing, Version Control/Git, Responsive Design, Browser Developer Tools, Command Line.    List of conferences organized by my team and me:   • Scientific and Practical Conference of the Faculty members and Students "Ukraine in the Context of Globalization and Regional Development".  • Kyiv Academy for the humanities "Ukraine's accession to the EU, pros and cons" "Does Ukraine Need Democracy"    Participated list of conferences:  • Round table "Strategy of innovative development of higher education in Ukraine after 2010 through the prism of the Bologna process: a student's view".  • "20 years of Ukraine's independence: achievements, expenses and strategy for the future".  • Ministry of Education and Science of Youth and Sports in Ukraine "Typical regulations and positions of the scientific students society and graduated students in the university", "the development of student self-management."  • 55-th Euro-Atlantic Treaty Assembly  • 8 Assembly of the Public League Ukraine-NATO.  • Civilizational values in the context of the Euro-Atlantic Ukrainian choice   • Ministry of Education and Science of Youth and Sports in Ukraine, Ukrainian Festival of Youth Creativity "Student Station 2011".    List of visited countries:    1. Austria (Wien)  2. Azerbaijan (Baku)  3. Belarus (Minsk)  4. Brazil (Fortaleza)  5. China (Beijing)  6. Czech Republic (Prague)  7. Denmark (Copenhagen)  8. Finland (Helsinki)  9. Georgia (Kutaisi)  10. Germany (Kiel)  11. Greece (Crete Island)  12. Israel (Jerusalem, Tel Aviv)  13. Italy (Rimini)  14. Kazakhstan (Astana)  15. Lithuania (Vilnius)  16. Moldova (Kishinev)  17. Morocco (Casablanca)  18. Norway (Bergen, Flom, Stavanger)  19. Poland (Gdingen, Warsaw)  20. Portugal (Lisbon)  21. Russia (Saint Petersburg, Taganrog)  22. Slovakia (Bratislava)  23. Spain (Malaga, Vigo)  24. Sri Lanka (Colombo)  25. Thailand (Bangkok)  26. Turkey (Istanbul, Marmaris, Alanya)  27. Ukraine (Kyiv, Lviv, Odesa, Crimea)  28. United States (Los Angeles, Phoenix)  29. United Arab Emirates (Dubai)