Visual, Graphic, Web Designer, Webmaster Visual, Graphic, Web Designer, Webmaster Web and Visual Designer, Webmaster Waltham, MA Peter Kery is a Project Manager, Senior Web and Visual Designer, Webmaster and Content Manager, (http://pkery.com) at his current position. Responsibilities include achieving clear visual communication solutions across both web and print while working with a variety of media while maintaining the given branding guidelines and marketing objectives. Peter designs and manages his current projects and works collaboratively with the inter-departmental personnel.    Portfolio of professional experience includes design and visual problem solving for internal and external corporate communications, websites, visual identities/branding, urban design reports, annual reports, posters, cover designs, environmental signage, publication designs, and vehicular graphics. Online work also includes: implementation of sites, including design and user interface (UI) through development; SEO integration; Google Analytics and/or third-party integration; wireframe and user experience; and additional development and customization of the content management system.     Peter designs, plans, manages, updates and maintains content on the major company website (https://harriman.com), as well as designing and implementing client websites and is responsible for the organization and layout of their web content. Peter has designed and developed (HTML, CSS, PHP) multiple websites while working and collaborating with marketing and creative services. Portfolio of professional experience has included web content, design and visual problem solving for: internal and external corporate communications, websites, visual identities/branding, urban design reports, annual reports, posters, cover designs, environmental signage, publication designs, and vehicular graphics. Online work also includes implementation of sites including design and user interface (UI); SEO integration; Google Analytics and third-party integration; wireframe and user experience; final development and customization using Wordpress as a content management system.    Experience includes the position of Director of the Graphic and Web Design Department at the Boston University Center for Digital Imaging Arts in Waltham, MA. Responsibilities included managing a set of professionals from the development, web, graphic, photography, audio and video professions to implement communication objectives from clients. Responsibilities also included managing the capstone project while providing leadership between clients and team members that also included integration and cooperation between the graphic, photography, 3D animation, and video fields.     TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE  Technical proficiency: HTML, CSS, CSS Responsiveness, Wordpress, Adobe Creative Suite - Illustrator, Photoshop, InDesign, Acrobat, Microsoft Word and Powerpoint    Wordpress/content management experience includes:   - Wordpress theme development  - Custom HTML, CSS, and PHP to create custom templates  - Custom fields integration and user interface WP-Dashboard  - Custom field and PHP integration with custom posts  - SEO enhancement with guidance to client on content  - Coding modifications to enhance performance of site including page speed and http page requests    ADDITIONAL SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS    • Managing and implementing multiple professional design, storytelling, marketing and creative projects from concept through production, creating original designs to convey ideas and adapt complex written material into coherent design, while maintaining established brand identity and design standards.    • Responsible for growing and strengthening web presence through direct development, support, and maintenance of external and client websites; working closely with content development and with marketing and business development; work closely with IT and 3rd party vendors and consultants.     • The willingness and adaptability to collaborate with internal partners and external offices and client departments on content, design, image preparation and processing, mailing issues, and storage of projects directed at internal and external audiences. Encouraging best practices for brand execution and visual identity objectives. Working in team-oriented processes with strong interpersonal skills and professional demeanor.     • Meets graphic design standards by following production, productivity, quality, and inter-department standards, resolving operational problems; identifying work process improvements. Willingness to work with cost and budget goals by monitoring expenses, implementing cost-saving actions.    • Experience in enhancing past graphic design departments by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests, supporting the creative process through both strategic and production goals, exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments and curriculums. Continually open and exploring new graphic and web design trends.    • Fluid communication and presentation skills with both client and company team members. Work with management of department and its integration with the professional community. Enjoys training, assigning, scheduling, and coaching employees.    • Experience with communication campaigns, projects and branding related to transportation industry, including public and community relations, vehicular graphics, as well as presentations and brochures.    • Designed and managed production of a variety of high impact marketing collaterals across the web and print environments, including brochures, proposals, advertisements, posters, banners, presentations, video and web graphics, designing interfaces and unique, intuitive user experiences that adhere to clients’ style guides and brand standards. Awareness of project and traffic management and objectives.    • Additional projects include but not limited to ads, banners, images preparation and archival needs, infographics, email templates, presentation materials, newsletters, whitepapers, case studies, signage, website and portal design enhancements and other marketing materials.     • Design, layout, clean typographic sensibilities, and development for web sites, visual identities, brochures, annual reports, publications, environmental signage, wayfinding and vehicular graphics. Is very interested in graphic design processes including studying, evaluating, and re-designing processes, implementing changes, and integrating with production objectives. Consistently taking the initiative, capable of thriving in a high-pressure, highly dynamic environment. Excellent organizational skills, and attention to detail. Looks forward to resolving production issues and juggling multiple priorities.    • Knowledge of production, graphic design, user-interface design, usability methodology, information architecture, industry standards and trends, multi-media, platform and browser capabilities and web constraints. Designing new concepts for web design and digital content (landing pages, email blast design, banner ads) and explores front and back end systems to support company goals.    • Analyzing production requirements and advising clients on design, production, development, and printing issues. Has developed project specifications and production scheduling across print and web. Responsible for the creation, maintenance and accuracy of all project documents.     • Working with outside vendors (across print, web, and environmental graphics) and has worked within an agency to purchase services as needed. Acts as contact and liaison between parties. Creates and maintains a working production schedule for each project.    • Substantial portfolio that demonstrates expertise and success in creative and professional practice (http://pkery.com) and further demonstrates conceptual and fundamental understanding of web design and the creative process that also includes strategy to execution of interactive experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Visual, Graphic, Web Designer, Webmaster Harriman - Boston, MA January 2016 to Present Web and Visual Designer. Design, user interface and development of new website (harriman.com); Design and project management for environmental design projects; Design and production for urban design and planning reports and proposals; Design of illustrative and mapping graphics for urban renewal and planning projects; Developing of branding for urban renewal and design projects; Design for Harriman marketing collateral. Ensuring Harriman visual identity is consistent across firm-wide communications. Worked with the Marketing and Creative Director to improve creative workflow process and internal operations. New website responsibilities included: technical maintenance and upgrades; guidance in content including both visual and pertinent to the SEO strategy; integration with Google analytics; offer reports on engagement and conversion rates; work with multiple service departments to ensure branding standards and communication objectives; ensuring alignment of print and screen presentations align with company goals; update new projects and community articles relevant to company’s current involvement with clients and their community. Web and Marketing Designer and Front- End Developer Active Data, Inc - Bethlehem, PA June 2014 to June 2015 Working remotely from Waltham and coordinating with the main office in Bethlehem on: modifications to design and front- end coding of corporate website, Active Data (activedata.com) and subsidiary website, Active Calendar (activecalendar.com); design and production for marketing collateral, icon development, email designs, and informational graphics. Director, Graphic and Web Design Department Boston University Center for Digital Imaging Arts April 2008 to May 2014 Management of department program. Responsibilities include: developing and facilitating new standardized curriculum and its expansion into further integration of Graphic and Web Design with Web Development; planning and review of current program curriculum and its continuity; management of faculty, maintaining departmental regulatory compliance standards; monitoring program retention; teaching courses; student advising, redesign and project management of BU Center for Digital Imaging Arts website. Also management of capstone project involving coordination and direction between graphic design, web design, illustrators, photography, video, and 3D animation departments. Capstone projects involved leading teams of designers who were responsible for overseeing design work from brief to final execution. Results led to a partnering of cross-functional teams developing data visualization results across a broad range of digital and print solutions. Independent Contractor Peter Kery - Philadelphia, PA September 2000 to March 2008 Independent design work for strategic communication and visual solutions including corporate, retail, environmental, transportation, academic, industrial and non-profit clients. Responsibilities include design, layout, and production for web sites, visual identities, brochures, annual reports, publications, environmental signage, vehicular graphics, and packaging, Boston, MA, and Philadelphia, PA.  Has also worked on websites directed at litigation audiences. Working closely with legal teams and consultants to brand and communicate clear objectives and direction of the legal process. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design in Graphic Design The University of the Arts - Philadelphia, PA September 1980 to May 1984 Skills printing (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Indesign (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), HTML (8 years), CSS3 (5 years), PHP (2 years), Wordpress (4 years), Infographics, Visualization, User Interface, UI, Typography, Audio Visual Links http://pkery.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/pkery Additional Information Specialties: Experience in working closely and professionally with clients and/or through employers to help resolve and present visual communication solutions over and a wide variety of media. Portfolio of work includes examples of projects that have hands-on experience that includes all phases of a project from initial conceptualization to final production objectives both across print and web platforms. Print work has included preparation of files for printing. Web design work has included Wordpress integration and theme modification including a level of PHP coding development. Has integrated the web design process within the development phase of projects. Has taught design principles for the past 10+ years across both interactive and print environments while addressing current technical trends for all media and web-based knowledge.