Developer / Architect <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Architect ( Front- End) UI Developer / Architect San Diego, CA I am a web development professional with a focus on user interface (UI) front- end programming as it applies to a corporate web presence. My nearly 2 decades of experience in web development have encompassed IT infrastructure, DB design, project & personnel management, business needs analysis & requirements gathering in addition to my core competency in programming. One of my greatest strengths is objectively creating UIs based not only on business needs but also usability and UX feedback.    Some prominent accomplishments:  ? As Lead UI Developer at MarketShare, I established a more modern JavaScript code-base with best practices. In addition, I mentored junior developers in best-practices and legacy code concerns. As the primary developer for a new branding effort before acquisition, I led development efforts for the largest tech sale in Los Angeles in 2016.  ? As Front- End Development Manager for Acquity Group (now Accenture Interactive), I was responsible for FED efforts in the Los Angeles location. I also consulted onsite at Walmart Labs as a Front- End Lead utilizing the latest JavaScript frameworks for the new Walmart.com (late 2014).  ? As Front- End Development Manager at Advance Internet, led 3 developers in building and managing public Websites supporting newspapers nationwide, including NJ.com, AL.com, Syracuse.com, and OregonLive.com.  ? Managed 7 programmers and one DBA at Thermo Fisher Scientific, developing multiple business-critical Web applications emphasizing content management and eCommerce. Sole onsite Manager, making daily decisions on staff, 3rd-party hosting and Web services, software purchases (application support software) and costs.  ? For the FBI, played key role as Technical Liaison, relaying technical needs and requirements for FBI's Web-based operations to hosting and account personnel at Sprint. Previously, led project teams on multiple Vignette CMS development and integration projects at Prudential, New York Life and AIG, delivering each on time and within budget. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer / Architect Short-term Contracts - San Francisco, CA August 2016 to Present • Tillster: Moved to San Diego to support Tillster's kiosk development for Burger King. Looking for long-term opportunities.  • Realtor.com: Onsite Technical Lead for international developer (outsourced) personnel. Responsible for JavaScript (ReactJS /w Redux) code and project documentation including requirements gathering plus groomed user stories.  • GAP, Inc: Responsible for assessing technological needs and requirements as well as writing front- end build processes and code. Wrote AngularJS based-on best-practices outlined by John Papa and Angular core teams. Build tools and app platform included NodeJS, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Webpack, MongoDB, and other relational databases.  • Sony, Inc: Engaged to write UI (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript / Angular.js) code for Sony's internal Digital Management Asset application which provides a content management platform for content authors, publishers, approvers, and schedulers to implement their workflows for all Sony [consumer] digital media. Lead UI Developer MarketShare - Los Angeles, CA November 2014 to April 2016 Responsible for implementing and coding best-practices MVC-based JavaScript utilizing native ES5 JavaScript, HTML5, CSS (including SASS), and AngularJS. Guide Ops / QA in server setup and configurations.  ? Re-engineered client-facing (Strategy, Action, and Login-Portal) applications for the newly branded MarketShare DecisionCloud. While writing UI-code, gave instruction and guidance toward the development of back- end (Java) RESTful APIs to support new dashboard and reporting tool requirements.  ? Conduct interviews and code reviews. Mentor junior front- end developers in best-practices and JavaScript.  ? Worked with off-shore team (on-site) in Bangalore, India on team collaboration. Contributed to improved verbal communication through agile-scrum project management efforts.  ? Left to work full-time on a personal web project with partners. Occasionally, worked short contract(s). Senior JavaScript Engineer SOA Software - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to October 2014 Responsible for implementing and coding best-practices MVC-based JavaScript utilizing Can.JS, Backbone.JS, jQuery, HTML5, CSS, and "vanilla" JavaScript.  ? As the senior developer, provide suggestions on UI and accessibility best-practices for the Community Manager Application and API product.  ? Enhance the current product code-base through JavaScript code optimization and best-practices. Front- End Development Manager Accenture Interactive - Los Angeles, CA August 2013 to March 2014 LA Office  ? Led front- end development efforts in the Los Angeles office of Acquity Group (now Accenture) working closely with ID, IA, SEO, Creative and PM team members. Clients include: IHS, Edison Int'l, and Walmart.  ? Architect and develop (code) web sites from inception using latest industry standards and best practices.  ? Interview prospective college-hire and experienced-hire applicants for front- end development positions.  ? Position eliminated as business needs changed due to acquisition by Accenture and lack of LA-area Dev needs. Senior UI Developer iCrossing, Inc - Santa Monica, CA April 2012 to May 2013 Completed many projects autonomously while also working with teams to maintain legacy sites. Work laterally with PMs, Sr Managers and UX from project inception to completion while mentoring team members (especially in regard to JavaScript).  ? Code Object-Oriented (custom) JavaScript, HTML (including XHTML5), and CSS (including SASS) utilizing native ECMAScript standards as well as jQuery (1.8), PrototypeJS (legacy code), Backbone, and Bootstrap. Use HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript for Response Web Design sites.  ? Primarily engaged to the Toyota account (including Toyota.com, desktop and mobile sites). Developed web sites to use single code-base to render on desktop to mobile and tablet devices. Lead UI Developer SweetyHigh.com - Manhattan Beach, CA November 2011 to March 2012 Analysis of performance of all front- end code (HTML, CSS, JavaScript). Prepared documentation for code re-organization and phased-in approach to re-write as well as new object-oriented JavaScript MVC application architecture (using Backbone and Underscore with jQuery).  ? Utilized cutting-edge web technologies, especially HTML5, CSS 3, and OO JavaScript within a Ruby-on-Rails application framework. Implemented latest jQuery, includes updates to code-base for plug-ins (and removal of antiquated libraries). Introduced Backbone and Underscore JS libraries to architecture. Fixed (and reported) bug in jQuery 1.6 (IE6/7 bug) core library.  ? Mentored two UI developers in several areas of front- end development, especially JavaScript. Senior UI Developer Sony Network Entertainment - Los Angeles, CA May 2011 to September 2011 Implemented the User Interface for desktop and web applications for the Sony eBook Reader platform using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other web technologies including jQuery, XSLT, and AJAX.  ? Demonstrated professional engineering practices including adherence to coding standards, producing design documentation and supporting integration.  ? Utilized cutting-edge web technologies, especially HTML5, CSS 3, jQuery, and XSL(T) / XPATH. Sr. Web Developer Experian Interactive Media - Los Angeles, CA July 2010 to March 2011 Produce and maintain clean, high quality, standards compliant JavaScript code. Develop code that is cross-browser/cross-platform UI compatible and troubleshoot associated issues.  ? Assist with planning and development of rich user interface for new web-based applications in accordance to design specifications, user interface style guides and established usability standards.  ? Work with other members of the development Team to ensure successful implementation and integration of presentation tier with other tiers in multi-tier web-based applications.  ? Maintain cutting edge knowledge of current and emerging technologies, industry trends and standards, modern web browser capabilities, compatibility issues, W3C standards compliance and accessibility issues.  ? On a daily basis, I wrote (object-oriented) JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, and JSP code, including DMLs based on PL/SQL, for prod A/B testing. Exclusive to Auto Insurance vertical: http://insurance.lowermybills.com/auto/ CMS Consultant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center - Los Angeles, CA September 2009 to June 2010 Engaged to implement new CMS for Cedars-Sinai Internet and Intranet (employee) web sites. Created new templates utilizing Velocity Macros, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX for content management applications utilizing the Percussion Rhythmyx platform.  ? Contributed to refinements of the user interface based on outsourced deliverables. Created and modified JavaScript and CSS, including XHTML, for cedars-sinai.edu.  ? Configured and customized Google Search Appliance for Cedars' web searches. Web Developer (Consultant / Lead / Manager) - NYC & Washington, D.C People Magazine - New York, NY August 2000 to December 2008 New York City)  ? Engaged to write code, add new sections and optimize performance of People.com public Website. Tested page delivery in many browsers on Microsoft and Apple platforms.  ? Wrote code to display Flash-based Brightcove video player embedded in Web pages, entailing XML file generation (video meta-info). Also developed video/Web pages for 2009 award shows content. Integrated social networking features.  ? First to identify major bug causing site to not appear in a user's browser; diagnosed problem to root cause and implemented corrective action.    Client: Advance Internet (Jersey City, NJ)  ? Hired into newly created position to lead 3 Web developers in rebuilding and managing public Websites supporting newspapers, including nj.com and syracuse.com. Interacted with many project managers/stakeholders to define project goals, prepare schedules and manage multiple concurrent projects. Supplied technical direction for implementation of all front- end Web development to Graphics Design and Programming Departments.  ? Redesign of the Websites led to nearly 100% ad sales revenue increase (millions of dollars annually) from autos.nj.com and realestate.nj.com. Classifieds revenue also saw marked improvement from click-thru ad revenue.  ? Functioned as technical advisor on outsourced usability sessions. Determined how varied users interacted with the Website's main areas of revenue generation.  ? Implemented guidelines for integrating front- end code to back- end homegrown content management system, using Python/Linux shell scripting.  ? Wrote coding standards for HTML, JavaScript and CSS. Also authored documentation and personnel guidelines to ensure adherence.    Client: Thermo Fisher Scientific (New York City)  ? Directed team of 7 programmers and one DBA on business-critical development in the Web Services Department. Company utilized Vignette (V/6 and VAP) platform for content management and eCommerce transactions. Drove application development through team leadership and technical design, as well as direct interaction with numerous internal business units to determine technical needs. Consulted and made decisions on personnel resources, 3rd-party hosting and Web services, software purchases ( developer tools and application support software) and costs.  ? Sole onsite Web Services Manager, reporting to VP of Global Applications and Web Services Project Manager, both in offsite locations.  ? Completed and delivered documented assessments for purposes of comparison and decision-making. Also produced technical requirements documentation adhering to company practices/templates and following guidelines set by executive management.  ? Headed successful migration of Tcl code to Java/JSP platform on UNIX/Oracle.    Various Clients: Independent Contractor (Washington, D.C.)  ? Walmart (through Acxiom): Designed Web application for employment background verifications, including analysis of formal business and technical requirements.  ? Orphan Foundation: Performed system maintenance and security checks for Windows 2000/XP/NT based network. Documented all work and provided recommendations for future enhancement.  ? State of Maryland: Built a fully functional prototype of a Web-based system for Maryland's TANF application process. Process included significant client interaction.  ? Instrumental in system design, implementation and requirements, including a rule-based decision making system for application and interview process as well as design issues for tablet PC use. Conducted usability sessions with client.  ? FBI/Sprint: Served as a Technical Liaison, relaying technical needs for FBI's Web-based operations to hosting personnel at Sprint. Education None in Nuclear engineering US naval nuclear power training command - Goose Creek, SC November 1998 to May 1999 None in Business Towson University - Towson, MD September 1997 to December 1997 None in Pre-med Drew University - Madison, NJ September 1995 to December 1996 High school or equivalent in Honors Dulaney High School - Timonium, MD September 1991 to June 1995 Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), TCL (10+ years), XML (10+ years), Git (9 years), MySQL (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Architecture (10+ years), Java (1 year), Usability Testing (5 years), Linux (10+ years), Information Architecture (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years) Links https://gist.github.com/say2joe http://github.com/say2joe http://NJ.com http://AL.com http://Syracuse.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/say2joe Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator January 2003 to January 2007 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Sample Code: https://gist.github.com/say2joe (http://github.com/say2joe)  Development: JavaScript, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, SQL, TCL, JSON, XML, JSP  Frameworks: Angular, React, Backbone, MEAN, CanJS, ES6, custom architectures