Senior Applications Developer Senior Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Applications Developer - Tesla Fremont, CA Highly accomplished and experienced software engineering professional with a record of achievement guiding all aspects of software design, development, testing, and validation with focus on Web development. Always improving organizational quality, effectiveness, and efficiency through a personal contribution that aligns the business processes and infrastructure to realize cost savings, accelerated performance, and strategic flexibility that provide a competitive advantage for the organization.    Focused and motivated, able to work both independently and collaboratively in a variety of settings, conditions, and environments. Driven to both succeed and contribute, diligent, goal oriented, conscientious, and dedicated to personal growth and improved performance. Able to remain calm and work well in high-pressure situations, widely recognized as a quick learner and articulate communicator with excellent organizational and interpersonal skills.    • Technically savvy and a quick study in emerging technology, able to quickly assess and utilize the appropriate response to meet the specific needs of the business requirement at hand. Adept strategist who transforms strategic plans into workable solutions. Work Experience Senior Applications Developer Tesla - Fremont, CA 2018 to Present Developing internal applications that support the service and supply chain operations worldwide for Tesla. Rearchitecting existing monolithic applications into microservices supported by lightweight responsive UI (Angular).  • Enabling SMS capabilities for all European services operations via Twilio  • Third party logistics order creation and notification integration to automate the supply chain process with less human intervention and better flow of inventory tracking  • Optimization of heavy load workflows via queues (RabbitMQ) for enhanced performance and less downtime for stakeholders Lead Developer Fly Holdings - Foster City, CA 2017 to 2017 After acquiring Fly.com worked with a team of engineers to redeploy the existing product within AWS using just the source code and limited documentation. Lead a team of developers that in enhancing the existing Fly.com flight metasearch product while architecting the metasearch platform of the future.  • Developing new platform architecture (Angular 4, .NET Core, MongoDB, WebAPI, ) using a SaaS approach  • Working with Business Stakeholders and Industry Experts to develop new features within the metasearch industry  • Creating technical solutions for enhanced SEO and SEM strategies to support 100K daily users Technical Lead - Core Team Travana, Inc - San Francisco, CA 2016 to 2017 Leading a team of developers using Agile Methodologies in the development of the core website and services that enable customers to book travel accommodations on Janbala.com. Solving complex business problems by architecting solutions that leverage the latest technologies (Microsoft and Amazon Web Services). Working closely with the product team to build the preferred platform for booking travel across the world.  • Managing the agile development process of Janbala.com (ASP.NET MVC website).  • Architecting solutions within a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using WCF and WebAPI.  • Working closely with developers and product to build a superior product while clearing both business and technical blockers. Senior Software Developer Stanford University - Stanford, CA 2013 to 2016 Establishing the architecture and frameworks to be used for deploying websites and web applications used to support the online learning initiatives offered by the School of Engineering.    • Developing HTML5 video platform enabling video annotation and advanced search algorithm across the video library using a combination of ASP.NET MVC 5 and AngularJS.  • Leading analytics initiative to aid in the research of how students interact with online video across University platforms by connecting data from multiple databases (SQL Server and MySQL).  • Researching new methods of engaging students with technology inside and outside the classroom. Software Engineer The Coast Distribution System, Inc - Morgan Hill, CA 2013 to 2013 Developing websites, desktop applications, and other software solutions to enable the organization to fully maximize its Business Intelligence by integrating LAWSON (AS400) data into each application. Advising the organization on new technologies to improve business processes while reducing cost.    • Architecting numerous ETL packages with SQL 2012 Integration Services for better utilization of data in a SQL Server environment.  • Developing software using best practices in a Microsoft C# environment.  • Innovating new processes to more efficiently handle day-to-day business tasks. Consultant Pariveda Solutions - San Francisco, CA 2012 to 2013 Providing consultation to clients on technological solutions that best meet their needs. Working with in house software development teams in development and project management roles in order to accomplish medium sized IT projects.    • Working with premier client based in San Francisco and Seattle adding additional functionality to Java Spring Platform.  • Providing clear documentation during Analysis phase of project to expedite development and QA tasks.  • Advising best practices for maintaining the team's Agile approach to software development. ASP.NET (C#) / Front End Web Developer MicroD Inc - Charlotte, NC 2010 to 2012 Office Manager / IT Consultant It's Your World - Travel - Seattle, WA 2006 to 2010 English Teacher JET Programme 2005 to 2006 Education Master of Science in Information Technology Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Hong Kong, HK Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration and International Studies Queens University of Charlotte - Charlotte, NC Hong Kong Baptist University - Hong Kong, HK Skills architecture (5 years), C# (3 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kyle-barnes-67346318 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Software • User Interface Development • User Interface Design • User Interface Architecture  Client Collaboration • Project Management • Team Leadership • Team Development  Server Side Technologies • Client Relationship Management • Process Improvement  Program Management • Client Training • Site Management  Installation • Hardware    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Adobe Creative Suite • Adobe Photoshop  SQL Server Management Studio • ETL • SQL Server Integration Services • SQL Server Reporting Services  Java Spring • IntelliJ • Visual Studio • .NET • .NET Core • C# • HTML • PHP • SQL  jQuery • Angular • WCF • WebAPI • FFMPEG • Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO)  UML • MS SQL Server • MySQL • Oracle • MongoDB • Amazon Web Services (AWS) • Azure DevOps