Remote Monitoring Engineer / Management Services Remote Monitoring Engineer / Management Services Senior Web Developer / Graphic Designer Haverhill, MA I'm a Senior Web Developer / Graphic Designer with 14+ years of experience who thrives on being competent, personable and highly motivated professional. I'm also fluent in French. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Monitoring Engineer / Management Services SeaChange International - Acton, MA 2018 to Present • Responsible for creating and maintaining custom reports for different accounts based on client's needs.  • Readily identified difficult issues with hardware, software, and third-party vendors.  • Applied patches and performed upgrades to correct problems with hardware and software in live customer impacting environment. Front End Web Developer / Graphic Designer InstallerNet - North Andover, MA 2013 to 2017 • Responsible for creating Landing Pages for our clients.  • Managed the SEO tracking for clients.  • Collaborated with the back- end developers.  • Creative Director for Mobile Electronics magazine.  • Interact with vendors to ensure accurate representation of advertising. Senior Graphic Designer Digital First Media - Lowell, MA 2008 to 2012 • Over-seeing the advertising department artists.  • Mentor and train designers.  • Providing company marketing strategies to clients.  • Maintaining a positive rapport with clients. Creative Services Manager Media One New England - Lowell, MA 2004 to 2008 • Responsible for the design and illustration of ads for the Media One New England Customers.  • Provide creative strategy and art direction to a team of ad designers.  • Develop recommendations for graphical user interface standards.  • Design advertising for the top 10 percent of The Lowell Sun advertisers.  • Interact with customers and vendors to ensure accurate representation of advertising.  • Customer on-site and telephone consultations. Graphic Designer Lowell Sun Newspaper - Lowell, MA 1998 to 2004 • Responsible for the design and illustration of ads for the Lowell Sun Newspaper.  • Proofreading.  • Communicating with Press Room. Education Certifications in Javascript and HTML5 New Horizon Computer Learning Center - Nashua, NH 2013 Bachelor of Arts degree in Graphic Design Plymouth State College - Plymouth, NH 1998 Associates Degree in Commercial Design New Hampshire Technical College Institute - Manchester, NH 1995 Skills SEO, MARKETING, BRANDING, ILLUSTRATOR, CONTENT MANAGEMENT, Wordpress, Javascript, C#, Bootstrap, HTML, Jquery, HTML5, NET, Front End, PHP Additional Information Technical Skills  Adobe Creative Suite: InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, InCopy and Lightroom  JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, SQL and Amazon AWS.    Areas of expertise  • Programming skills • Project Management  • Web content management • Strong collaborative skills  • Landing page development • Excellent problem-solving skills  • SEO • Leadership skills  • Corporate branding • Marketing strategies