Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Crown Equipment Corporation Wapakoneta, OH Work Experience Front- end Developer Crown Equipment Corporation 2017 to Present I use HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and some javascript and PHP in order to hand off designs to IT  developers. I work in Adobe Experience Manager, WordPress, TYPO3 and utilize IntelliJ, Bitbucket, Coda, Sketch, InVision and Adobe's Creative Cloud. Web Design Administrator Crown Equipment Corporation 2005 to 2017 Working closely with content providers in Germany, Australia, China, Canada, Latin America and Brazil, I support marketing initiatives on crown.com, extranet, intranet and off-brand  internet properties including hamech.com, crownhealthwise.com and17west.com. Project Lead Crown Equipment Corporation 2013 to 2013 for the 2013 redesign of crown.com  I designed and worked directly with global contributors to refresh a site of approximately  1100 pages. I led the in-house team to refactor legacy code and to lessen dependence on Serena Collage's proprietary architecture. Crown Equipment Corporation 1999 to 2013 Web Design and Photography  Digitally photographed Crown's annual employee appreciation event, Branch Principals  and occassional product and training photography. During this timeframe, I developed a salesforce resource on our corporate intranet site, designed the intranet, the dealer locator, as  well as numerous templates for the continuing development of crown.com such as news.crown.com, online PTH cart, branch websites (and their later integration into crown.com), and the ePortal. I researched, recommended and configured workflow management software  for departmental projects. Web Designer Crown Equipment Corporation 1997 to 2005 Illustrated and designed content for crownlift.net, and later, crown.com Graphic Designer Crown Equipment Corporation 1992 to 1997 Illustrated and designed content for literature printed in-house Lead Color Technician and Production Artist Graphtext, Inc 1990 to 1992 Scanned and edited photos for a variety of clients. Imaged color separations to film  for process printing. Clients included newspapers and manufacturers such as the Daily Standard, Casad, Visons, Mercer Color and Messenger Press, among others. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Computer Graphics in Computer Graphics Bowling Green State University 1989 Fine Arts Ohio Northern University 1985 Mechanical Engineering The Ohio State University 1983