Web and Mobile Accessibility Consultant (Division | 442) Web and Mobile Accessibility Consultant (Division | 442) Web and Mobile Accessibility Consultant San Francisco, CA As a web and mobile accessibility consultant and developer I bring with me 20 years of experience within web development. It has provided me with a strong foundation based in the technology that allows me to understand the technical requirements that drive accessible web sites and mobile applications. I believe that the internet is universal, therefore all web sites need to be fully accessible for all. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web and Mobile Accessibility Consultant (Division | 442) 2009 to Present Partnering with clients from startups to larger corporate focusing on front end web development for desktop and mobile.    • Consultant targeting small businesses  • Specializing in Open Source Application implementation such as WordPress  • Existing site analysis and ongoing strategic planning  • Usability, user interface and accessibility consulting  • Recently I have started assessing and developing VR experiences and how they can benefit people with disabilities. As well as researching the hardware involved as to how accessible it is, currently not very good, with a potential partner under the to be established company Subversive Zoetrope.    Companies I have worked with include: Purrchance Rescue, Resist Everywhere (PAC), Advocacy Data, The Contemporary Jewish Museum, Tally Technologies, Enterprise Accessibility, Alliance Resource Consulting, Disability Health Access, Adventures in Writing Camp, Ringtail Learning, Poshly, Stealth Startups, BabyCenter, Teachscape, Credit.com, and Organic. Web Developer, Database Administration Advocacy Data March 2016 to June 2018 Consultant  • This was a part time role under Division | 442  • Accessibility consulting and building of various web sites that relate to their core business of compiling voter data that is used by their clients, Democrat and Republican Senate Offices, election related campaigns and other government departments that use email to communicate with their constituents  • Assisting in email campaigns and database management related to voter data. Web Developer Advocacy Data May 2016 to May 2016 • Developed front facing, brochure, web site based on supplied designs  • Implemented and integrated accessibility into development roadmap  • Worked closely with design team to create a responsive pixel perfect web site. Lead Front End Developer Poshly January 2015 to May 2015 • Worked with design team, ensuring specifications were inline with application goals and style vision utilizing the built in accessibility frameworks of AngularJS  • Implemented and integrated accessibility into development roadmap  • Core frameworks in use HTML5, CSS3, SASS/Compass, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, D3. Web Developer Ringtail Learning August 2014 to November 2014 • Assisted in converting legacy site to current standards for responsive web sites  • Implemented and integrated accessibility into development roadmap. Web Developer/Consultant Stealth Startups September 2013 to June 2014 • Provided recommendations for specific technologies to achieve purpose and goals  • Generated wireframes to establish web site/application functions and flow for user experience  • Implemented and integrated accessibility into development roadmap  • Rapid prototyping of desktop and mobile sites/applications using Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery and 3rd party API integration. User Interface Developer/Web Developer Teachscape December 2012 to August 2013 • Worked with UI/UX team to develop core library of styles, themes and widgets  • Implemented and integrated accessibility into development roadmap. Front End Developer Credit.com April 2012 to December 2012 • Integration of legacy code and new code and ensuring that they worked together  • Ensured that the global framework remained intact with new code additions as the code base at that time was over 4 years old, merging HTML5/CSS3 with HTML4 and older code  • Implemented and maintained legacy browser support. Web Developer Organic December 2011 to March 2012 • Developed templates to be used within Walmart's Content Management System for their intranet  • Upgrading and expanded existing Flash and Flex based modules for Kimberly Clark Products. Lead Front End Developer Healthiest You January 2011 to October 2011 • Developed HTML pages from design mockups  • Rapid prototyping of application concepts and methodologies. Systems Development Engineer Barclays Global Investors February 2006 to April 2009 • Founding member of the usability and accessibility committee  • Core responsibilities were within the support team maintaining and extending existing ColdFusion applications and Rich Internet Application development using Flex. ColdFusion Developer and Client Support A.S.K June 2004 to December 2005 • Managed and extended their in-house Learning Management System (LMS)  • Lead technical support engineer and worked directly with clients to establish and implement requirements that were specific to their industry. Senior ColdFusion Developer Southern Nevada Water District January 2004 to June 2004 Assigned to the Ground Water Management Project that integrated with spacial mapping software/databases to manage and track ground water usage and permits. Education Masters of Fine Art in Experimental Animation Film School May 2009 to June 2011 Links http://www.division442.com