SEO Content Strategist SEO Content Strategist SEO Specialist St. Louis, MO Google Certified Marketing Professional with over 10 years of experience in SEO consulting, account management, content marketing strategy, and digital copywriting. Responsibilities have involved client facing SEO consultation, content creation, copywriting, strategic planning, and overall support of marketing initiatives in liaison with clients, vendors and in-house departments. Experience has led to advanced knowledge of SEO best practices, content management systems, social media platforms, CRM software, and Google analytics. Work Experience SEO Content Strategist Duane For Hire - St. Louis, MO October 2011 to Present Qualified SEO professional with over ten years of experience in developing SEO campaigns, analytics, SE rankings monitoring, keyword research, site auditing methods, social media optimization, and link building. A clear communicator with a background in copywriting, web development and digital marketing. I have a passion for optimizing websites to achieve business goals and a talent for improving organic SE rankings with my creative approach and thorough research and analysis. Google certified in digital marketing with an advanced understanding of WordPress CMS.    •Excellent verbal and written communication skills.   •Extensive experience in reviewing and analyzing client sites for areas that can be improved or optimized.  •Ability to present information and strategy at a high level in understandable terms.  •Familiarity with online marketing software such as SemRush, Raven, WebTrends, Majestic SEO, MOZ, Brightedge, and Wordtracker.  •Proficient with MS Office suite, HTML, CSS, PHP, Jquery, and Java.  •Advanced working knowledge of WordPress CMS and Yoast suite.  •Effective in Google Analytics, Google Search Console, and third-party website optimization.  SEO Copywriter duane For Hire - St. Louis, MO October 2010 to Present Full Stack Writer responsible for writing, editing, and publishing digital marketing copy. Storytelling is the skill that my clients are hungriest for. My most loyal clients come back time and again because I help them tell great stories; about their business, about their products and brands, about their charitable causes, about their own lives. Storytelling is, in my experience, the most powerful way to get out your brands message.    • Ability to write strong, newsy headlines and sub-headlines.  • Effective in writing according to the client’s industry.  • Solid understanding of SEO knowledge when writing copy and content.  • Enhanced knowledge of WordPress and CMS Platforms.  • Ability to convey proper writing tone and style according to the client’s needs.  Digital Consultant, Freelance Duane For Hire™ - St. Louis, MO July 2008 to Present Entrepreneurially minded and results-oriented strategist with a strong background in search engine optimization and content marketing. Certified By Google, I work with businesses and agencies to develop and execute search-centric strategies designed to help you get more traffic, cultivate more leads, and make more sales.    • Experience working with remote teams while taking ownership of large projects and making recommendations for new processes.  • Ability to analyze and act on data; familiarity with tools like Google Analytics, Search Console, Keyword Planner, Conductor Searchlight and other SEO tools; and a knack for testing and optimization.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, both written and in person. Experience communicating with senior executives.  • Solid understanding of search engine algorithms, ranking factors, and preparing for Google algorithm changes before they happen. Front End Developer, Freelance Duane For Hire™ - St. Louis, MO August 2003 to Present Detail oriented WordPress expert with a strong history in consulting, design, development, and management.     •Knowledgeable in consulting on WordPress solutions.  •High-level communication skills and emotional intelligence.   •Ability to write code in the following computer languages: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, Angular, React and PHP.  •Advanced understanding of Woo-Commerce, Shopify and third-party e-commerce integration.  •Adaptability in diagnosing bugs and support requests.  •Excellent communication in WordPress training and troubleshooting.  •Proficient understanding of cross-browser compatibility issues.  •Knowledge of A/B test methodology  •Displays leadership under tight deadlines and pressure. SEO Content Strategist Dynamic Transit CO August 2018 to May 2019 Lead a digital strategist team of three in bringing Dynamic Transit to the forefront of the OTR trucking industry. Provided effective digital consulting, content strategy and WordPress development support for company's initiatives and goals.    • Conducted searches such as evaluating competitor websites to incorporate best practice and create marketing strategy to ensure optimal results  • Through my work on back pages and optimizing the CMS - organic unique visitors went from 3,000/day to over 70,000/day as of May 2019.  • Developed a content and social media strategy to position the brand as a 'top 3' in the OTR trucking industry. Within the first 3 months of working together - we increased truck driver recruitment by over 60%.  51 Blocks SEO Account Manager (remote) 51 Blocks - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to February 2018 Selected to work closely with the lead SEO manager on large client account of 70+ domains for Century 21 while managing 12 SEO accounts of my own. In charge of client retention and SEO Audits using SEM Rush, Ahrefs, Moz, Raven, and Majestic.    • Initiated search engine optimization within each account in order to increase companies' page rank on all major search engines  • Managed on-site and off-site SEO for 12 company clients thus advancing front page organic and Google map rankings in a timely matter usually between 1-2 weeks per keyword.  • Evaluated websites based on technical factors, on-page analysis, and backlink profiles to summarize the current SEO strength the site. SEO Strategist & WordPress Developer Cultivation Capital August 2016 to April 2017 Lead digital consultant, WordPress developer and SEO strategist in rebranding of Cultivation Capital & Yield Lab the largest venture capital firm in Missouri. The results, Cultivation Capital receiving first page rankings for "venture capital firms St. louis" within 30 days before their next round of funding.    • Worked directly with the company directors to implement core structural changes geared to increase organic rankings and develop paid incoming strategies.  • Optimized Cultivation Capital and increased organic hits from 5k to over 50k hits per month.  • Created a custom SEO strategy that raised organic traffic by 55% in 6 months involving SEO content creation and social media. SEO Consultant & Strategist (remote) The Creative Group September 2015 to June 2016 Provided consulting, strategy and implementation for WordPress development of existing or new company websites. Onboarded clients walking them through the process of enhancing their online presence through SEO.    • Researched and developed personal SEO tactics based on available data and trends using a combination of resources provided by on-site experience and authoritative SEO tools  • Developed and implemented interactive marketing strategies for about 15 clients that improved search engine performance, attracted users to websites and drove growth, resulting in annual traffic increases of an average of 23% year over year.  • Advanced understanding of Experience with Google Analytics, DeepCrawl, Screaming Frog, Majestic and other technologies that enhance organic search strategies and initiatives. Education Web Design and Development Program IADT - Chicago, IL Skills DIGITAL STRATEGY, SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION, SEO, COPYWRITING, COMPETITIVE ANALYSIS, SEARCH ENGINE, OPTIMIZATION, WORDPRESS, RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT, CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM SOLVER, Front End, React, Front-End, Angular, CSS3, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/duanewashingtonjr http://duaneforhire.com/ http://duanewashington.com/ Assessments Teamwork: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient July 2019 Resolving disputes, solving team problems, and understanding nonverbal cues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rlarqd2xc2vaunx Search Engine Optimization — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dwwdqkz-nvtd6sfa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    • Digital Strategy Consulting  • Search Engine Optimization  • SEO Content and Copywriting  • WordPress Design and Development  • On page/Off page Traffic Optimization  • Competitive analysis and reporting  • Critical Thinker and Problem Solver  • Customer Relationship Management  • Experience taking ownership of large projects  • Keyword Research and Planning