SDET SDET Herriman, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SDET PEOPLEKEEP April 2019 to Present SDET  ? Created and developed the QA process  ? Chose and implemented the decision on automation framework, and created automated tests  ? Wrote test automation in Java with Selenium and TestCafe(based on NodeJS)  ? Helped the development team convert the existing product from Angular to React FREELANCE ZAC RANCK DESIGNS January 2009 to Present OWNER  ? Designed and developed multiple sites for a wide variety of services  ? Created Android apps  ? Sports team app implementing APIs for score and records  ? App that provided a marketplace of sorts for backgrounds  ? Created WordPress sites (themes, custom plugins, setup)  ? Created sites using different PHP frameworks such as Laravel  ? Created custom JavaScript/jQuery plugins for a variety of features, such as carousels, modals, and image zoom and span  ? Created Python scripts for data scraping and personal projects  ? Deploy services from the command line  ? Volunteer work in the form of creating or fixing websites for nonprofits  ? http://www.pebblesofhope.org  ? http://littledropsorphanagefund.org/    SKILLS, PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES, INTERESTS  ? SKILLS:  ? Planning & Gathering Functional Requirements  ? Git  ? Managing CI Pipelines  ? Directing Builds  ? Creating Test Plans & Strategies  ? Creating Automated Testing Platforms  ? Selenium  ? Saucelabs  ? Mobile Testing  ? Web Testing  ? Wireshark  ? Postman  ? API Testing  ? Functional, Regressive, Integration, End to End, and Manual Testing  ? Bug Reports    ? Jira  ? Jira Integration  ? LiquidPlanner  ? LiquidPlanner API  ? Communication Skills  ? Experience in Agile/Scrum Environments  ? PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES:  ? Java  ? Javascript  ? Node  ? Python  ? PHP  ? SQL  ? NoSQL  ? C#  ? INTERESTS  ? Sports (College Football, NBA, College Basketball, Soccer)  ? Writing programs to scrape stats from said sports and create algorithms  ? Sci-Fi and Horror movies  ? Camping  ? Traveling  ? RTS, RPG, and FPS games  ? Playing with new technology Worked on many projects varying from Physical products, mobile, customer service CAPTIONCALL January 2019 to April 2019 January 2019 - April 2019  SDET  ? Instrumental in reforming their automation process  ? Worked on many projects varying from Physical products, mobile, customer service, and endpoint  ? Heavy testing in SQL  ? Tested against a C# platform  ? API testing using Postman QUALITY ASSURANCE LEAD THOUGHTLAB January 2018 to February 2019 Created a testing process and helped start a truly agile process  ? Created documentation wiki site listing out checklists for site readiness, and requirements  ? Integrated standards among a medium-sized development team, that works with C#, PHP, and React QUALITY ASSURANCE ANALYST RALLYSPORT DIRECT September 2015 to January 2018 Created QA department from the ground up, as the company grew    ? Created documentation on how the testing process should flow, guidelines, and expectations on when pull requests should be ready in order for consideration in the next release  ? Created automated testing platform from scratch based on Node, Electron, and JavaScript, that can  connect to MongoDB  ? Created automated testing framework in Selenium and Java  ? Maintained, created, and ran automated tests  ? Created documentation identifying core features and pain points of the site  ? Ran weekly meetings with stakeholders from the various sister companies  ? Helped to implement a new ERP 'Netsuite'  ? Mentored and oversaw one employee  ? Managed and kept five stage sites up to date with the latest release candidate code  ? Used Saucelabs and its API to test on a multitude of devices, including mobile device testing  WEB DEVELOPER  ? Designed mockups of improvements and new features using Adobe Suite of tools  ? Implemented various new features in Javascript with some jQuery  ? Worked with MongoDB and PHP when creating or maintaining backend framework  ? Worked in an Agile environment using Jira DEVELOPER & PART TIME MANAGER ALEXANDRIA YELLOW CAB September 2014 to October 2015 Created and maintained the companies QA system  ? Performed testing and troubleshooting on hardware and phone systems  ? Integrated a new tracking API for the companies fleet  ? Stepped in to perform call center and dispatch management duties as needed FRONT END DEVELOPER READING HORIZONS February 2009 to June 2011 Coded and designed new email templates  ? Worked on backend features using C# and ASP.NET as needed  ? Created new website widgets using Javascript and jQuery  ? Worked closely with marketing in an agile scrum team Education High school or equivalent Skills QA, Selenium, Java, Python, Quality Assurance Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zacranck https://www.zacranck.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License