Senior PHP Developer Senior PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Durham, NC An enthusiastic, accomplished and experienced web developer and consultant with comprehensive skills in web-based applications from conception to launch including programming, proof of concept, requirements definition, prototyping, unit testing, maintenance, and database management all focused around best practices and standards compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior PHP Developer DaVinici Education December 2018 to July 2019 • Responsible for maintaining current legacy PHP code base.  • Manual SQL queries as well as stored functions and procedures.  • Bug fixes, new features/functionality. Software Engineer II February 2015 to November 2018 Oracle+Bronto  • Maintained legacy PHP 5 code base, migration to PHP 5.6 from 5.3; bug/security fixes, new features  • Lead initiative to migrate to PHP7; static code analysis, compatibility reports, etc.  • Lead initiative to implement security features driven by OWASP recommendations.  • Worked across multiple teams to break out functionality from PHP to Java services.  • Work across multiple teams to implement CDN support; implement 3rd party client; testing; rollout.  • Other responsibilities include:  • Deploying PHP code to production, On-call duties.  • Handling Customer Service cases; meeting SLA.  • Maintaining server configurations via Puppet.  • Co-created our Moogfest 2017 exhibit; designed & built custom MIDI controllers; wrote Python conversion tool to convert data to MIDI; see:  http://blog.bronto.com/engineering/the-making-of-moogfest-2017-how-bronto-transformed-data-into-music/ Lead Web Developer and Consultant Arts for Art, Inc March 2008 to 2016 - www.artsforart.org  • Took client from conception to launch.  • Coded both front and back ends (LAMP). Also wrote a custom CMS for client to use.  • Closely worked with Executive Director to advise on best practices and address business needs.  • Worked with a graphic designer to produce the site.  • Re-engineered old sites and data into one web application using Zend Framework.  • Organized 15 years of content into a normalized, relational database and provided a scalable infrastructure.  • Developed e-commerce capability using PayPal. Senior front- end web developer AT&T May 2013 to February 2015 email marketing campaigns.  • Responsible for meeting short deadlines, creating responsive HTML emails, improving overall process.  • Must coordinate with multiple internal departments as well as client email vendor to meet client requirements.  • Lead the initiative to work out issues in the email vendor process.  • Senior front- end web developer for other projects.  • Responsible for building sites from scratch with given PSD's and specs, maintaining existing sites with a variety of back-ends, iPad iRep presentations for pharma clients with Sales Force integration. Robert Half Technology 2009 to 2015 with the following companies: Consultant Center To Prevent Youth Violence / Speak Up October 2013 to April 2014 - Took client from conception to launch, advising on best practices.  • Worked in conjunction with a graphic designer and web hosting service to produce the site.  • Configured production server for proper web font headers and CORS.  • Responsible for all coding (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP) and set up.  • Used Dojo JavaScript tools. BBDO February 2013 to February 2013 • Assisted in building a parallax page for www.experience.hyatt.com.  • Responsible for completing front- end of desktop, mobile and tablet versions (iOS and Android).  • Implemented forms using JavaScript validation on front- end. Organic, Inc February 2012 to December 2012 Webmaster, Jason Kao Hwang www.jasonkaohwang.com June 2006 to 2012 • Took client from concept to launch (LAMP), advising on best practices.  • Coded both front and back ends (LAMP). Also wrote a custom CMS for client to use.  • Assisted a working professional musician in organizing 25 years of professional history into a coherent site.  • Created audio, video and photo galleries.  • Developed digital downloading using PayPal API as well as on-site e-commerce capability. LBi, Inc October 2011 to December 2011 • Worked on multi-lingual Wordpress website; created HTML5/CSS3 landing page using Arbor JS to produce complex interactive animation with HTML5 canvas. http://clifjackson.net/web/canvas-app  • Built Facebook pages for Americans Elect; Email sign up pages for iOS & Android mobile platforms. Heartbeat Digital, Inc August 2011 to October 2011 • Part of 4-person iPad app team using iRep. Responsible for building HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript animated charts.  • Front- end dev for pharma clients implementing HTML5 pop up videos (Video.js and jQuery).  • Incorporated my work into an existing ASPX framework.  • Completed site fixes and suggested improvements for pharma clients.  • Provided solutions to global functionality needs across the larger application. Senior/Lead of 3 developers on www.pepsi.com March 2011 to July 2011 Advised on best practices and assigned tasks. Worked on both front and back ends as needed in a LAMP environment. Worked on existing code base to resolve scaling issues with both PHP & MySQL database.  • Administered GIT repository. Responsible for branching and merging.  • Responsible for coordinating deployments using continuous integration (Jenkins) and working with Detroit office, management, and 3rd party hosting service.  • Built interactive Facebook app for P&G Pur campaign.  • Assisted in build of Bank of America Neighborhood Excellence Initiative site.  • Worked on various other JSP sites for Bank of America. PHP Developer Fractured Atlas, Inc May 2010 to November 2010 working on in-house, custom framework and web site ( front & back ends).  • Updated existing code base; implemented Doctrine and new functionality as needed with unit testing.  • Employed AJAX via jQuery and complex form validation/manipulation.  • Created a custom Zimbra API using the existing Zimbra API via SOAP. Web Developer and Consultant Spin The Bottle, Inc August 2007 to July 2010 • Brought an existing older site up to W3C standards and created a new web application.  • Employed new technologies such as sharing and video streaming.  • Created a scalable infrastructure.  • Worked with third party developers to incorporate streaming video capabilities.  • Developed on-site e-commerce capability using PayPal. A contract consultant/programmer The Week, Inc June 2009 to August 2009 • Assisted with the coding of site redesign using CakePHP and made suggestions for best practices.  • Assisted with normalization of MySQL database and made suggestions for relational data.  • Created a custom AJAX Digg widget using the Digg API.  • Installed and set up PHPList.  • Worked with Sphinx full-text search package.  • Made extensive use of jQuery for advanced, non-obtrusive functionality. Consultant Columbia University Office of Communications and Public Affairs June 2007 to March 2008 • Worked in cooperation with the webmaster to make changes and updates.  • Advised on the implementation of new technologies and the development of new sites. Lead Developer March 2006 to February 2007 Columbia University Gutenberg-e Project  • Converted manuscripts from MS Word documents into HTML pages and e-books for online publication.  • Developed cross-browser CSS solutions; handled graphic design for each book I produced.  • Worked directly with authors to produce a finished site/e-book.  • Individual books required specific solutions depending on content, including audio and video. Education Associate's in Specialized Technology Degree in Industrial Design Art Institute of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA Bachelor's Degree in Music Performance on the Double Bass in Music Performance on the Double Bass State University of New York at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY Skills PHP (10+ years), Javascript, MySQL, Adobe CS (10+ years), Agile, MS Office, Python, CSS(3), HTML(5), JSON, Git/GitLab, Continuous Integration