Lead UI Developer, Dynamics 365/CRM Consultant Lead UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Dynamics 365/CRM Consultant Dynamics 365/CRM Consultant, Lead UI Developer - Infosys Marietta, GA Work Experience Lead UI Developer, Dynamics 365/CRM Consultant Infosys 2018 to Present Collaborate with clients to determine and document their business and technical  requirements  • Customize and configure system according to client's specifications  • Setup integration with Microsoft products.  • Create HTML pages styling with CSS3  • Manipulate functionality using JavaScript  • Make API calls to pull data from databases Freelance Developer 2016 to Present Ravenous - Business Search site connected to Yelp API  ? Look up businesses and get their reviews.  ? React, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Yelp API  ? Fetch is used to get information based on search terms via the Yelp API. The returned information is mapped resulting in an array of returned businesses. ReactJS then maps through the array of businesses and creates individual business cards which are displayed on the screen.  ? CSS3 is used to style the elements of the site.  Code: https://github.com/havisk/Ravenous---React  Website: http://diz-info.surge.sh/    ? Drum Machine - A virtual instrument  ? A 9-pad virtual drum machine  ? HTML5 uses keycodes for keyboard keys set to 'data-keys' to connect to the audio element that has the key-data attribute to trigger sound source  ? Vanilla JavaScript - has an add event listener on the window that listens for a key down event that gives the key code. Then a query selector is used to see if an audio element with the matching key code exists. If it does the sound plays. Also has a query selector for the key that adds a class to trigger the animation. All keys are queried and given a transition end which calls a function that removes the animation class.  ? CSS has transition property to change the size and border color of the pad when the corresponding keyboard key is pressed.  Code: https://github.com/havisk/DrumMachine-App  Website: http://drum-machine.surge.sh/    ? Test Your Memory - A picture memory game  ? A memory matching game using the icons from the Big Ten collegiate conference. The title animates with every match  ? JavaScript, Kute.JS, CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap  ? An array of the school mascots is created and concatenated with itself to create the solution array. The shuffle array function shuffles the solution array. The gameboard is created by iterating through the solution array and displaying the cards on the screen. A JavaScript function checks if two cards are flipped over. If the cards match, Kute.JS (animation library) is triggered to perform an animation. The pick again function then runs a sore is kept. If the cards do not match, they cards flip back over after one second. Once the tallied score equals the length of the mascot array, the game is over.  Code: https://github.com/havisk/Memory-Game  Website: http://big10_memory_game.surge.sh/ Act as subject matter expert as it pertains to Cyber Security CareerBuilder 2016 to 2018 2016 - 2018  • Enforce CareerBuilder Terms and Conditions  • Monitor account holders' activities by way of IP tracking  • Mitigate threats by employing proactive search tactics  • Review ecommerce orders for fraudulent activity  • Address employer or job seeker issues via email or phone  • Act as subject matter expert as it pertains to Cyber Security  • Improve efficiency and reliability by proposing changes and updates to processes MS Dynamics CRM Specialist (Contract) American College of Rheumatology - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2016 Advised clients on CRM features and system use to help them identify their best solution  ? Solicited internal staff to determine and document their business and technical requirements  ? Participated in sprints to drive the project.  ? Managed CRM change request for clients  ? Increased user adoption by 60%  ? Conducted root cause analysis for systems issues.  ? Reduced system downtime by 100%  ? Created SSRS Reports for client  ? Manipulated system functionality with JavaScript Front- End Engineering Apprentice The Iron Yard - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2015 The Iron Yard is a 12-week coding bootcamp specializing in highly focused, immersive training centered on language fluency, object-oriented programming, and project-based learning    ? Text Editor - A collaborative text editor  ? Text editor where you can collaborate with individuals in a browser of your choice. Editing can be done simultaneously  ? Meteor, MongoDB, Bootstrap, mizzao:sharejs-codemirror, and Session  Code: https://github.com/havisk/Collaborative-Text-Editor2  Website: https://ancient-journey-56493.herokuapp.com/ Contract Consultant 2011 to 2015 MS Dynamics CRM Implementation Consultant  ? Collaborated with clients to determine and document their business and technical requirements  ? Coordinated technical resources for installations, migrations, data cleansing, integrations, and other custom development projects  ? Managed entire projects to completion and oversaw their status meetings, status reports, issue tracking, budget management, and risk management  ? Managed in-house and offshore development, and support teams.  ? Contributed to the company's implementation methodology by creating tools and templates  ? Created SSRS Reports, Business Rules, Business Process Flows, and Workflow logic  ? Coded in JavaScript to give desired system functionality  ? Performed UI development using XML, CSS3, HTML5 Cyber Transport Specialist US Air National Guard - Marietta, GA September 2008 to September 2014 Provided mission critical voice, data, and video services and installed systems/circuits/IP-based and infrastructure devices and systems  ? Isolated malfunctions with diagnostic software and removed and replaced assemblies to sustain networks and managed projects  ? Conducted periodic inspections of systems and repairs and ensured equipment and components met all required specifications; maintained network and circuit databases, records, and forms NCR - Peachtree City, GA April 2010 to July 2011 Helpdesk Support (Contract)  ? Managed calls, monitored and followed up on open cases, and performed troubleshooting on hardware and software  ? Performed root cause analysis and ordering replacement parts Education Certificate American InterContinental University 2015 Master of Science in Engineering University of Illinois - Urbana-Champaign, IL 2005 Links http://kool-portfolio.surge.sh https://github.com/havisk