Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - TECHNOMAX, LLC Troy, MI ? Over 4 years of experience in Front- End web development. In-depth knowledge of current web markup and scripting  languages. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, take ownership, and learning new skills quickly on the job.  ? Excellent in UI application development using HTML4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Good understanding the backend knowledge such as NodeJS, MySQL, PHP .  ? Expert level in CSS3 preprocessors styling including Sass/Less with support from Compass framework.  ? Proficient in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS/ ReactJS framework.  ? Good understanding in ReactJS and worked with React Flux architecture, ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel, web pack  with ES2015, react JSX presets  ? Utilize PHP to get data from database and making it available to the front end.  ? Familiar with SOAP/REST web service and related protocols for data-intensive and complex analytic systems desired.  ? Experience in Twitter Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for different devices, such as desktop, laptop,  mobile, and iPad.  ? Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display  them on the browser.  ? Deep knowledge in package manager like Bower and Grunt to perform installation and maintain necessary packages for  required projects.  ? Solid proficiency with distributed version control tools such as SVN and GIT.  ? Experience in Unit Testing with Jasmine framework.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome,  Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.  ? Expertise in using Sublime IDE, Brackets text editor as well as familiar with Notepad++, Eclipse, WebStorm, and Visual Studio.  ? Strong communication skills, with ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  ? Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Capable of quickly adjusting to new environments, as well as learning and applying new technologies. Work Experience Front End Developer TECHNOMAX, LLC October 2015 to Present Project: Products presenting system  Products presenting system is a project building platform to present the different products and services that company provide, it is a simple, lightweight, well organized website which is easy for customers to browse every product they want, the specific  information of products and services are also provided to client. Designing and coding the website front- end with Bootstrap and  AngularJs with team member.  Responsibilities:  • Created requirement analysis, design, coding using Javascript, jQuery, jQuery UI libraries, HTML5, CSS3 using Sublime editor.  • Systematic markup in semantic fashion for HTML5 that make use of advancedfeatures  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using Javascript andCSS.  • Manipulated data using MySQL database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on Restful web service.  • Implemented MVC pattern of AngularJS and Angular2 framework to developed Single Page Application(SPA).  • Applied responsive webpage that fits all users and devices from desktop to mobile phone using Bootstrap.  • Wrote AJAX call using jQuery syntax to get latest product information as JSON data files from server and output into webpages.  • Wrote application code to perform client side validation using jQuery andJavascript.  • Managed scripting packages with Bower installation and Grunt for task runner such as linting, compilation, unit testing,  minification.  • Embedded objects such as videos on webpage that respond accordingly when sizes of browser alternate.  • Used version control tolls GIT and SVN.  • Conducted cross-browser testing in all browsers:IE8+, Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera. Used tools included IE tester, Firebugs,  Web Developer and Chrome DevTools.  • Defined technical requirements based upon businessrequirements.  • Maintain, enhance and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs form UI standpoint.    ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, SVN, GIT. Front- End Developer CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORPORATION - Puyang, CN January 2011 to December 2013 Project: Internal Management System  I was responsible for developing the internal management of the company. The administrator can login his account and check the company's internal data such as the number of people who visited the webpage, how many people login and what is each day's  revenue. Also the project can be used to manage the customer's information and products details. The system we designed makes  company management more convenient.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented a web app for storing the information of customer, generating saving personal contacts,  payment information and handling schedule management.  • Built AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom  directives and custom filters.  • Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application.  • Created custom Directives which contain restrict values (AECM), isolate scope, template, and link functions in order to display a list of items inside a grid.  • Deployed Bootstrap to apply responsive utilities and appropriate positioning of elements to the website.  • Use AJAX to retrieve customers' information as JSON data across Restful web service.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and performed simulations for web application, page  navigation and form validation.  • Worked on resolving numerous cross browser compatibility related to JavaScript and CSS, such as IE, Mozilla Firebox,  Google Chrome and Safari.  • Implemented the product quote function in the product search section by using AngularJS, AJAX and JSON.  • Used version control tools Git to update the project with other team members.  • Work with back end developer to finish the account management process.  • Worked on documentation and involved in maintenance and support.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, AngularJS Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Western Michigan University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, AJAX, JSON, XML,  Angular JS, Agile, Grunt, Bower, npm, UnderScore.JS, backbone Js, Node.JS, Node.JS, PHP    Testing tools IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Safari Web Inspector, Jasmine  Version Control System tools SVN, GIT  Debugging Tools Firebug, IEtester, Chrome Element Inspector  IDE / Text Editors WebStorm, Sublime, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Notepad2++  Database Management System mySQL, Access