Contractor: Online Communications Administrator Contractor: Online Communications Administrator Front- End Web Designer specializing in WordPress Development Honolulu, HI “Overall, Stephen is a very honest and reliable worker. He kept his time commitments and was very mindful of adding value to the team as a contributing member… I would definitely recommend Stephen for a front- end web development position. This is something he is passionate about. I believe he has good character and always keeps to his commitments.”  - Donna Mun, Hawaiian Electric Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor: Online Communications Administrator Hawaiian Electric Company - Honolulu, HI December 2018 to Present • Updating the company's website content and articles utilizing proprietary CMS Ingeniux.  • Training new contractors the policies and procedures for website updates, analytics reports, and pdf ADA compliance.  • Compiling weekly and monthly Google Analytics reports on performance of site projects.  • Optimization of pdf files to adhere to with American Disability Act compliance standards.  • Designing slides for electronic bulletin board utilizing Photoshop to be displayed at business facilities. Freelancer: WordPress Developer, and Web Graphic Designer BigO Services - Remote January 2017 to February 2019 • Develop custom dynamic WordPress themes with PHP and SCSS with mobile-first responsive design.  • Developing brand identity strategies by designing custom logos, and unique website mockups.  • Enhancing SEO with semantic accessibility, loading speed performances, and Google Analytic tracking.  • Web graphic design, photo restoration, and image optimization utilizing Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Building client trust and relations with open communication and transparent work ethics. Contractor: Online Communications Administrator Hawaiian Electric Co - Honolulu, HI July 2017 to April 2018 • Updating the company's website content and articles utilizing proprietary CMS Ingeniux.  • Quality assurance testing of online application management systems in active development.  • Designing slides for electronic bulletin board utilizing Photoshop to be displayed at business facilities.  • Designing ADA compliant and interactive pdf application files for web utilizing InDesign and MS Word.  • Optimization of pdf files to adhere to with American Disability Act compliance standards. Lead WordPress Developer and Front- End Designer UpDog October 2015 to January 2017 • Building client websites with custom WordPress theme design and customized user experience.  • Development and maintenance of storefront websites utilizing WooCommerce and a variety of plugins.  • Efficient workflow with SASS and JavaScript optimization with Grunt, Uglify, and Git version control.  • Pixel perfect responsive designs that adhere to webpage mockups in Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Managing the security and content integrity after updates to UpDog's website, and over 20 client sites.  • Website performance optimization utilizing caching methods, minifying files, and CDN networking. Lead Front- End Developer Certified Hosting August 2013 to October 2015 • Overhaul of company website rebuilt from XHTML to web standard HTML5 and CSS3.  • Improving user interface and experience with jQuery libraries and custom scripts.  • Developing webpages to pixel perfect design based on Photoshop and Illustrator mockups.  • Implementing Search Engine Optimization best practices and Google Analytics tracking.  • Quality assurance testing with Cross-browser troubleshooting and user experience optimization. Inbound Web Marketer Intern InTouch Marketing July 2013 to January 2014 • Designing content with a focus on call to action recognition, blogging, and social network correlation.  • Learning the essentials of WordPress design and strategic inbound content marketing. Snowboard Instructor Mountain High Ski Resort March 2007 to 2012 Seasonal)  • Adaptive Program focused on providing a safe snowboarding experience for people with disabilities.  • Teaching people of all ages how to safely snowboard with demonstrations and thorough explanations.  • Advertising myself as a representative of the Ski / School for private lessons and customer service. Production Assistant Mountain High Ski Resort February 2010 to October 2010 • Assisting with nuance tasks while working with film photography, music production, and video editing.  • Learning and understanding the fundamental operations of a functioning production studio. Education Associates Degree in Web Graphic Design DeVry University - Pomona, CA March 2011 to September 2012 Skills WordPress (6 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), PHP (4 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Javascript (6 years), jQuery (6 years), SASS Preprocessor (5 years), E-Commerce (5 years), WooCommerce (5 years), Google Analytics (5 years), Adobe (10+ years), Indesign (4 years), Outlook (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Web Graphic Design (7 years), Front-End Web Design (7 years), Site Optimization (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/scosborn http://webent.net