COE Sr UI Developer, Drupal Dev, and Accessibility SME COE Sr UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Drupal Dev, and Accessibility SME E-commerce, Agile, SalesForce, Responsive UI/UX Dev, Drupal, WordPress, Accessibility (Section 508/WCAG 2.1), Digital Analytics, Active Fed Clearances Washington, DC Note: My resume is detailed up to May 2, 2019. I just completed my most recent contract Aug 9, 2019    *Please see my attached resume.    I have not had a chance to add the following:  Contract: Freddie Mac  Prime Company: Capco (Sub: Tekfortune)  Role: COE Sr UI Dev, Drupal Dev, Accessibility SME  Project: Apigee Edge API Dev Portal    Additional skills/experience using:  ———————————————  Bootstrap 3&4  Drupal 7&8  Zurb Foundation  HTML5, CSS3, ARIA, PHP, Javascript, JQuery  Section 508 and WCAG 2.1 (JAWS, NVDA, Keyboard, TalkBack, Voiceover, WAVE, WAT, aXe, Worldspace, AInspector, W3C Code Validators)  VisualStudio  Prod and Non-Prod VDI  Git  Agile (Kanban) - PI Planning, daily scrums, sprints, backlogs, grooming sessions, spikes, etc.  VersionOne, Jira, Confluence, Teams  Salesforce Commerce Cloud (Demandware)  CustomerHub  Wordpress  Drupal 7&8  Modules/Plugins  Security Critical Controls  OAuth  MCSE    I look forward to your response. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience COE Sr UI Developer, Drupal Dev, and Accessibility SME Freddie Mac - McLean, VA May 2019 to Present Sr Accessibility SME Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA March 2019 to April 2019 • The Senior Accessibility SME, responsible for Validating offshore Bugs for the AI+R Division of Microsoft (Bing Search, Bing EDU, and MSN Apps such as MSN Sports).  • Leverage knowledge of WCAG 2.1, HTML5, ARIA, CSS3, Accessible design, and aid with formulating compliant remediation techniques for the Bing and MSN Responsive JavaScript Code Libraries.  • Participate in Agile dev meetings to help facilitate completion of Bugs remediation within defined timelines.  • Validate Bugs identified and documented by 5000 Off-Shore (HCL) Web and App Testers uploaded into the MS Azure Bugs Query Lists.  • Participate in, and several times host, weekly Microsoft AI+R Space Lab Dev and Design inter-team 'lunch and learn'-type discussions.  • Provide testing, documentation, validation, and suggested fixes when the off-shore testers insufficiently identified and documented Bugs.  • Utilize the new Microsoft collaboration with Deque aXe open source accessibility browser plug-in.  • Tested websites (in development, and in production), as well as Web Apps such as MSN Sports, Bing EDU, and Bing Search. SENIOR FRONT- END DEVELOPER AND ACCESSIBILITY SME Regions Financial Corporation - Birmingham, AL May 2018 to November 2018 Birmingham, AL (100% Remote)  Contractor with Apex Systems  05/21/2018 - 11/20/2018    • The Senior Accessibility SME, responsible for identifying and detailing Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 Level A and AA compliance issues occurring within all public-facing Regions.com web domains, using AT's and other accessibility testing methods (manual and automated)  • Participate in Agile planning and development, including attending PI Planning and Inspect and Adapt meetings at the Birmingham, AL Regions Bank T HQ, once a quarter.  • After identifying bugs, Incorporate accessibility bugs/issues into the Alpha and Omega web team JIRA backlog boards  • Participate in providing Regions.com Dev and Design team lunch and learns.  • Provide testing, documentation, validation, and suggested fixes for 3rd party identified non-  • compliance website-related accessibility lawsuits.  • Expert at testing using Assistive Technologies (AT's) including such tools as JAWS, NVDA, ZoomText, VoiceOver, and more.  • Helping to create the standardized/global accessible dev and design libraries for Regions.com  • Best Practices SME for HTML5, CSS3, ARIA, plus  • Skilled at configuring/creating automated and manual Deque WorldSpace Assure test cases, test runs, and reports.  • Validate A11y non-compliance issues, whenever lawsuits filed against Regions Bank's public-facing websites.    SENIOR DRUPAL FRONT- END DEVELOPER AND ACCESSIBILITY SME  Vietnam War Commemoration (VWC), Joint Services Providers (JSP) Sr Drupal Front- end Dev, and Accessibility SME U.S. Department of Defense - Arlington, VA November 2017 to February 2018 • The Vietnam War Commemoration Agency's Digital Accessibility (A11y) SME, responsible for identifying and detailing Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 Level A and AA compliance issues occurring within the VWC web assets, using AT's and other accessibility testing methods (manual and automated).  • Recommend automated and manual accessibility tools and testing methods for VWC Govt. in-house team to maintain Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 A and AA compliance post project launch.  • Suggest best A11y remediation techniques/methods for the Public-facing (PF), Partner Portal (PP), and Staff Portal (SP) sites to comply with Section 508 accessibility compliance guidelines.  • Share my knowledge with project designers and devs to test their respective work themselves, using Assistive Technologies (AT's) (e.g., screen readers, magnifiers, alternative input, etc.).  • Test to confirm, then document all Drupal module admin settings are correctly configured for all user types (rights and capabilities) for the Agency's website/portals for proper site access and security purposes.  • Break-out the websites' business requirements into discreet Excel spreadsheet documented line- items, used to in the validation process to ensure BRD and FRD compliance (both design- and dev- related).  • Train content editors in the correct usage of the Drupal WYSIWYG CKEditor to incorporate site-wide consistent accessibility standards.  • Customized the CKEditor and associated CSS3 for usage within the VWC sites  • Taxonomy SME, assisting the VWC with creating and utilizing consistent terminology across the PF, PP, and SP websites.  • Document the Drupal modules and configuration settings.  • Compile a VWC website style guide, which includes accepted web accessibility patterns and best practices (UI/UX- and code-related).  • Communicate accessibility findings and remediation strategies to a range of project stakeholders (e.g., Executives, Managers, Designers, Developers, etc.)  • When needed, work hands-on to create and remediate designs and code for Agency's digital products and web content.  • Guide and coach colleagues and clients to use Best Practice Web editorial standards, in one-on-one, small group, or large forum environments.  • Act as an accessibility consultant and a web engineer.  • Leverage my accessibility expertise using various desktop platforms (including Windows and MacOS), as well as using various mobile platforms (including Android and IOS).  • Incorporate accessibility best practices for Video and other digital media presented on the site  • Create and promote agency-wide accessibility standards and guidelines for PDF and other digital documents.  • Work with designers and devs to prepare for 'next-gen' accessibility APIs.  • Work with the devs to clean-up/re-architect the sites' confusing, redundant, and outdated IA and navigation structures.  • Work with designers to create a more consistent look and feel and consistent taxonomy for all of the VWC digital assets.    SENIOR WORDPRESS DEVELOPER AND WEB ACCESSIBILITY SME  ITD Office, U.S. Mint Sub-contractor U.S. Department of Treasury - Washington, DC June 2016 to August 2017 • The U.S. Mint's WCMS Digital Accessibility SME, responsible for developer and site adherence to W3C WCAG 2.0 guidelines and standards, and Section 508 compliance for all ITD WCMS websites (including usmint.gov, the Apollo 11 Coin Design Competition, the U.S. Mint Kids site, the U.S. Mint Educators site, CCAC, and the Denver Mint Tour booking site).  • Taxonomy SME, assisting the Mint with creating a classification system for keywords, consisting of three distinct classes - navigational, informational and transactional keywords, that helps facilitate internal and SEO, in addition to helping to define Mint standards and guidelines for optimizing copy and landing pages for optimizing SEO, by performing ongoing keyword research including discovery and expansion of keyword opportunities, and through research and implementation of content recommendations for organic SEO success.  • Software developer, who works with a small and code-savvy team to move the U.S. Mint's legacy info- and micro-sites from ColdFusion to a new WCMS - utilizing WordPress as the new, open source, responsive platform; mirroring the look and feel of the newly migrated U.S. Mint catalog (e-commerce) site utilizing Demandware, thus furthering an integrated 'look and feel' for the Agency's digital properties. Coding includes PHP, CSS, JavaScript, HTML5, ARIA, jQuery, and theme, plugin code modifications/customizations, etc.  • Tasked with recommending, testing, submitting to the CRB, installing/upgrading, and configuring of WP plugins, as well as customizing WP themes, WP security critical controls implementation  • Participate in troubleshooting/fixing defects, providing timely technical research/reports, technical implementations, testing, configuration, code modifications, migration assistance, and new or improved functionality/features delivery for each sprint release.  • Attends and contributes to daily checkpoint meetings, which are attended by senior developers/team leads, contractors, and U.S Mint ITD management.  • Participate in leading the U.S. Mint's Dev, QA, and Prod WCMS environments' HA and Performance testing, including working with dozens of Apache WordPress web servers, WAFs, file servers, DB servers (MariaDB master and slaves / HyperDB), MaxScale servers, F5s, and more.  • Assist with flattening the U.S. Mint's legacy ColdFusion datacenter-hosted websites, and migrate them to the new responsive WCMS WordPress environment.  • Help to QA test and migrate the U.S. Mint's 'Artist Portal' for Coins & Medals Design Competitions, including functionality for collecting artist submissions, judging, and competition administration to the U.S. Mint's WCMS.  • Assisted with migrating the U.S Mint's Sales & Production Figures website to the new WCMS environment from a legacy Cold Fusion site  • Collaborate and recommend solutions for implementing a new U.S. Mint Denver Tour Booking site  • Research, create, implement, and document custom user 'Roles and Capabilities' within Oasis  • Workflow Pro WP plugin.  • Senior technical writer and editor for many of the projects' test scripts, SOPs, SOWs, and WordPress plugin Wikis, utilizing SharePoint and MediaWiki.    SENIOR IT 508 AND WCAG 2.0 SHAREPOINT ACCESSIBILITY SME  IRAP Office, U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Sr Accessibility Specialist U.S. Department of Treasury, U.S. IRS - Lanham, MD November 2015 to May 2016 • Sole IRS IRAP liaison, auditor, and accessible code SME for the IRS Source Intranet Redesign project (migration of IRWeb Intranet).  • Provide recommendations to improve the agency's 508 service offerings, processes and artifacts  • Author advisory documents.  • Review and analyze systems engineering/design/requirements documentation so that Section 508 requirements are included where appropriate.  • Participate in solution evaluation process, providing input and advice on architecture  • Support requirements elicitation and validate high level system requirements development  • Provide guidance on the pending changes to 508 regulations (Access Board, WCAG 2.0)/impact assessment.  • Develop project-level standardized checklist of Section 508 activities and deliverables to be used during sprint planning and sprint end of checkpoint reviews.  • Advise project managers and staff on Section 508 best practices as well as AT and site testing procedures, remediation techniques and suggestions, implementations, etc.  • Develop and apply 508 test cases and scripts.  • Participate in project- and program-related stakeholder meetings  • Assist with technical support related to Section 508 and assistive technology, including, but not limited to training, hands-on development assistance/clinics, etc.  • Provideiterativedevelopmentsprintsupport, technologies.  • Prepare and present reviews for Agency websites and applications Section 508 compliance reports  • Work with management and staff in evolving accessibility regulations and performance criteria for 508 Refresh and WCAG 2.0 across the agency websites.  • Develop and maintain quality standards for all testing activities, test reports, and other artifacts  • Provide technical writing expertise and document review as needed.  • Plan daily activities within the guidelines of the job description and supervisor's instruction to  • maximize personal and project output. WEB ACCESSIBILITY SPECIALIST JPMorgan Chase & Company - Wilmington, DE June 2015 to August 2015 • Responsible for identifying and suggesting potential solutions to deliver accessible apps and content on mobile platforms based on the W3C WCAG 2.0 standards and Mobile Web Best Practices, as well as compliance with the ADA, Section 508, Twenty First Century Communication and Video Accessibility Act (CCVA) and other accessibility related laws.  • Accessibility auditor, educator, and advisor for assigned to J.P. Morgan Chase digital commercial banking Web and application developers, designers, and QA team members (including Global Trade Services Group Application Team in Hong Kong and Bangalore for APAR, TCFE, and BIRXT).  • Work with each assigned LOB (domestic and off-shore) to determine a representative sample set of pages, covering site templates and different types of content and features for review.  • Work with each LOB to educate how to use the JPMC specific W3C WCAG 2.0-based Accessibility Checklist and Accessibility Tools, and techniques to validate W3C WCAG 2.0 compliance through a number of human checks, testing with the tools that people with disabilities use such as JAWS, ZoomText, and Dragon Naturally Speaking, reviewing color contrast, checking keyboard access, evaluating the underlying code, etc.  • After implementing the changes identified through the web accessibility audit, conduct a review of each website/web app to facilitate off-shore meetings and present non-compliant artifacts for each tested JPMC digital property.  • Provide hand-on, training, manages online role-specific CBTs and educational resources, and promote best practices, standards, and guidelines for JPMC web developers, designers, and QA testers.  • Accessible PDF file SME, including providing training resources and guidance for PDF file and MS Office document accessible file creation and conversion    IBM DIGITAL ANALYTICS, ECOMMERCE, SEO, AND DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY SME  OMS II COE, OCIO-OIT, U.S. Mint Sr Digital Analytics SME U.S. Department of the Treasury, U.S. Mint - Washington, DC November 2014 to May 2015 • Utilize my experience to advise management on the sales and marketing teams on how they might increase conversions on the USMint.Gov eCommerce website, by interpretation of digital reporting, analytics and web strategy, UX/UI, keyword optimization, site performance, taxonomy creation and compliance.  • Maintain up-to-date integration of the Mint's eCommerce site with the latest trends and best practices in SEO and SEM; incorporating qualitative, quantitative and problem-solving skills.  • Track, report, and analyze website analytics for the U.S. Mint's eCommerce and Infosite, by pulling data from web analytics tools and other reporting applications, to create reports, workbooks, and data dashboards required by various agency users using Google Analytics and IBM Digital Analytics.  • Solid understanding of performance marketing, conversion, and online customer acquisition.  • Compare, correlate, and interpret site usage, customer, and eCommerce/sales data from Business Analytics reports and insights collected from SiteCore reports, generated during U.S. Mint's eCommerce solution search.  • Leverage usability analytics and experience with complying and implementing ADA Section 508, WCAG 2.0 guidelines and standards to optimize and improve U.S. Mint websites and mobile apps.  • Contribute recommendations for improvement of the agency's web style guide, SOPs, and help identify and analyze web-related KPIs for the agency.  • Analyze various data pieces including competitive, qualitative, web analytics, social media, and financial data, to help drive positive business changes.  • Work with executive-level management, stakeholders, developers, and staff to help deliver actionable insights and recommendations to improve the agency's online presence and to create a more '21st century' eMarketing strategy, such as applying analytical, and 'outside-the-box' thinking to better optimize multi-channel marketing.  • Execute UAT and QA testing to identify issues, and recommend potential optimizations and improvements to the agency's eCommerce (catalog.usmint.gov) website and agency-related social media websites  • Provide business recommendations to the agency's implementation developers to optimize Agency analytics tags.  • Assist the U.S. Mint's Sales and Marketing (SAM) team with AgilOne reporting data analysis for the Mint's multichannel sales platform: eCommerce site (Demandware), social media sites, chat service, call centers, stores/kiosks, and inventory control, distribution and production facilities.  • Create training workshop agendas and materials for the U.S. Mint's ITD, SAM, and OCC teams, to educate them on how to best utilize and interpret IBM Digital Analytics (Coremetrics) data.    WEBMASTER, DRUPAL WEB PRODUCER, SENIOR WEB CONTENT EDITOR III, AND MOBILE APP DEV MANAGER  Government Affairs and Communications Department, and DC Department of General Services (DGS) Agency Webmaster (Drupal), Sr Content Editor, and Accessories SME Government of the District of Columbia, Dept. of General Services (DGS) - Washington, DC January 2014 to September 2014 • Drupal subject matter expert (SME) and executive consultant working independently to proactively work with managers to promote positive agency website strategies and processes.  • Sole POC for all CMS web-editing and publishing (posts, issues, etc.) related to the DGS.DC.Gov website  • Utilize HTML5 in Drupal to edit copy and refresh content to keep text and images relevant and current depending upon DGS's needs.  • Contribute ideas and feedback on current and future editorial content based on DGS's goals and trends.  • Help define, document, and communicate content processes, timelines, and style guidelines for DGS.  • Conduct scheduled maintenance content reviews and site optimization to uphold standards compliance in collaboration with the Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO) lead web maintenance editor and the Department of General Services (DGS) Government Affairs and Communications Deputy Director.  • Partner with DGS's Communications Director and team members to better liaise with DGS's deputy directors and key stakeholders to identify existing areas of the website that need content supplementation and/or optimization and define strategy to meet DGS's communications and utilization optimization goals.  • ADA Section 508 SME and trainer for agency content contributors on how to correctly implement and adhere to DCGov's strict accessibility standards and guidelines.  • Define SEO and Section 508 best practices for DGS website and mobile app content in conjunction with OCTO.  • Conduct keyword integration and optimization tests.  • Train DGS's editorial team to enhance the agency's SEO rankings by integrating appropriate and strategic keywords and enforce adherence to communications industry best practices.  • Create detailed weekly Google Analytics reports for the Director of DGS, and review, analyze, and integrate with DGS's Social Media websites' analytics.  • Technical adviser and decision-maker related to the new DGS Mobile Application (including APIs, RSS/  • XML /ATOM feeds, filtering and parsing of website data).  • Graphic designer and editor for all Agency web postings  • Publish all Agency events to the Agency website, including ceremonies, community meetings, outreach presentations, and solicitations.  • Manage and maintain all DSG Contract and Procurement Division's solicitations (RFPs, IFBs, etc.) and associated documentation on a daily basis.  • Schedule and implement DGS's website for search engine index crawls.  • Participate in requirements gathering, creation, testing, and deployment of the DGS Mobile App.    SENIOR WEB CONTENT EDITOR III (DRUPAL), WEB ACCESSIBILITY SME  Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO) Arc Drupal Content Migration Lead, Contrnt editor, and Accessibility SME (Section 508) Government of the District of Columbia, Dept. of General Services (DGS) - Washington, DC October 2012 to December 2013 • Web Content Editor (migration expert) for more than 140 District Agency websites during the District's transition from a legacy content management system (DSF) and a second content management system (Vignette/Open Text) to the District's permanent unified content management system (Drupal 7).  • Member of the Web production team at OCTO who helped the DC.Gov win a national award recognizing excellence in government and municipal websites; "Best of the Web 2013" Runner Up, and "Best of the Web 2015" Winner.  • Collaborate with OCTO BA's and Agency's content owners and key stakeholders to refine migration sitemaps and update site content.  • Manage website content migration publication workflow.  • Acquire, create, edit and/or optimize images and publications to comply with DCGov's web standards and guidelines as well as accessibility requirements.  • Customize and optimize HTML code, thus reducing errors and increasing site performance.  • Provide editorial and standards oversight for migrated content utilizing the Web Style Guide for the District of Columbia.  • The Agency's website Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 Web Accessibility SME.  • Assist with Drupal training for District Agency content owners in preparation for site launches/handovers.  • Utilize OCTO's JIRA trouble ticketing system to report and track DCGov's global Drupal-related web defects.  • Interact daily with District Agency web contacts and content owners.    OPEN-TEXT WEB PRODUCTION MANAGER  Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Sr Web Production Mgr U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) - Washington, DC September 2009 to September 2012 • Web Production Manager for the CBP's Intranet Web Content Production Team of 10 content editors.  • Delegate tasks, manage training, and helped mentor team members.  • Manage the daily production workflow of internal CBP web content utilizing Vignette CMS on a SharePoint web platform.  • In charge of quality control, best practices implementation, and oversight of the production of the CBP intranet site.  • Created a training manual and SOP's for the team.  • Part of a 3-person team to evaluate, test, select, and implement the CPS's Intranet Search software.  • Manager for the CBP Intranet KPI's and other Wiki updates on the Web production team's SharePoint site.  • POC for Section 508 accessibility for the CBP's Intranet Web production site/team after Certification as a Trusted Tester through the DHS program.  • Direct report to CBP's Director of IT web services.    WEB ANALYTICS PROFESSIONAL SERVICES ENGINEER  Merck Sharp & Dohme Pharmaceuticals (MSD)  Merck Pharmaceuticals Intl.  Brussels, BE Digital Analytics SME Merck (MSD) - Belgium, WI 2005 to 2006 • Perform in-depth customer needs analysis to support the MSD UNIVADIS country- and region-specific Web portals and customized dashboards, researched existing and potential MSD clients and their respective working environments to obtain insight into current business and technological capabilities and gaps, identify and established necessary points of contact, managed data extraction and analysis expectations, provided on-time reporting, assisted with scorecard deliverables, and documented future needs.  • Integrated clients' CRM applications into useful Google Web analytics reports.  • Organize and document research findings into a comprehensive Customer Needs Assessment document  • Provide recommendations for strategic alignment of in-house and Akamai/partner consulting capabilities to meet current and future identified customer needs.  • Developed strategic plans and business process to support the alignment of consulting capabilities and customer needs.  • Manage the Akamai OnDemand services for all of MSD's international Web Portals.  • Monitor, analyze, and make recommendations for web portal application load testing and benchmarking  • Troubleshoot web network and server-side application performance problems.    SENIOR PRODUCTION WEBMASTER  Offices of RM/EX/ISSO Sr Production Webmaster U.S. Department of State (DOS), RM/EX/ISSO - Washington, DC 2004 to 2005 • Perform Project Management Leadership and oversight for business process analysis of three DOS Bureaus (Resource Management, Executive Offices, and the Information Security Systems Office - RM/EX/ISSO) unclassified Website efforts.  • Mange the day-today operations team members who architect, analyze, automate, build, configure, deploy, document, fix, install, integrate, prototype, load test, migrate, monitor, optimize, scale, script, support, troubleshoot, and tune all U.S. Department of State Web servers.  • Discover, document and assess current as-is customer processes, workflows, and instrumentation.  • Collaborate with customer leads and team members to identify process improvement opportunities and implement approved changes.  • Design, build and scale customer and application specific web hosting environments.  • Collaborate with the technology developers to identify and manage all design, development, testing, evaluation, and re- engineering tasks for the unclassified RM/EX/ISSO Website efforts.  • Develop and manage detailed project plans, as well as resulting artifacts and task deliverables.  • Manage all Section 508 development projects, as well as monitor and enforce implementation.  • Execute quality assurance measures to ensure the completeness and delivery of all deliverables on time or ahead of schedule.  • Monitor, enforce, recommend, and document best practices efforts.  • Assist with the development and implementation of Webtrends reports, views, templates, and scorecards for all three Bureaus.  • Manage the teams responsible for the Web Data Center's daily operations.  • Execute quality assurance measures to ensure the completeness and delivery of all deliverables on time (or ahead of schedule), and on budget.  • Scope, network architect, and recommend hardware and software applications necessary to fulfill a directive to implement a redundant blade server array in an onsite data center hosting all US Embassy and Consulate websites.  • Instrumental in championing secure collocated and replicated Web servers in various secure U.S. Government data centers, for U.S. Embassy and Consulates websites.  • Mentor team members.  • Brief senior executives on the status of all projects and deliverables.  • Member of the U.S. Department of States' Internet Best Practices and New Initiatives Steering Committee.    SENIOR WEB PROJECT MANAGER, WEB PROJECT TEAMS LEAD, AND WEB ANALYTICS MANAGER Sr Web Projects Lead, Web Teams Lead, and Digital Analytics SME Cable & Wireless, Intl - Vienna, VA 1999 to 2004 Vienna, VA  FT/Perm    1999 - 2004    • Responsible for managing all Web teams and projects involved with the site-wide redesign, artistic interpretation, deployment, testing, and optimization of 250 portal sites (developed in 8 languages).  • Manage the Accenture Team contracted to develop the code required to migrate all of the Global Internet Group's (GIG) .html and .asp pages to a standardized .jsp platform.  • Web Hosting Solutions Architect, who manages the software development lifecycle of the Internet architecture framework by facilitating, detailed communication between the Internet application developers, web designers, quality assurance testers, and architecture developers (Software O&M).  • Host inside-team, 3rd party contractors, and Exec level meetings, and lead the site-wide migration's GAP analysis reviews.  • Document all issues, delegate tasks, set deadlines, review and test solutions required to migrate from static Web pages to customizable Web portals and dashboards.  • Implement Web Analytics reporting across all segments and channels of the GIG Websites, and utilized the results to create monthly  • usage reports and scorecards, as well as lead weekly analytics interpretation meetings with marketers, designers, key- departmental managers and other executive stakeholders.  • Lead measurement, tagging strategy and implementation for the redesign of the multi-million Ecommerce platform consisting of dozens of managed hosting services, with segment marketing to 157 countries and customized sites developed and produced in 11 different languages.  • Collect analytical requirements in support of business goals.  • Define Measurement Strategies, and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).  • Formulate consistent tagging requirements based on business requirements  • Work closely with the Development team to ensure tagging implementation including tag testing/QA.  • Design/Set up necessary reports into the reporting interface, included scheduled as well as responsible for ad-hoc reporting requests.  • Provide analysis and insights for post-launch testing and performance.  • Ecommerce analytical support including conversion analysis, A/B testing, site optimization, customer satisfaction, and on-line  • campaign optimization.  • Modeling and integration of new data sources; i.e., weblogs.  • Partner closely with multiple stakeholders including Product, Usability, Content, Design, Demand Generation, and Ecommerce teams to establish shared analysis goals and deliver insights into customer behavior leading to online performance improvement.    INTRANET WEBMASTER  Host Marriott Services Corporation  Bethesda, MD  FT/PERM Employee  1997 - 1999    • Install, configure, administer, secure, and maintain the HMSHost Intranet Server (IIS).  • Design, maintain, develop, and deploy the Intranet Website.  • Web server and Intranet Administrator, Web Developer/Programmer, Content Editor, GUI and IA.  • Engineer, Publisher, Software Integration Evaluator, Liaison to non-technical sales teams, Site Administrator, CRM, Trainer, and Graphic Artist).  • Prepare technical proposals, initiated new directives for hardware and software systems, and provided vendor/subcontractor coordination and support for third-party projects.  • Post all corporate and departmental documentation and communication, deploy and manage all internal web- based training, gather/analyze all related digital web usage statistics, and include in a monthly executive report/scorecard.  • Enforce project governance and comply with project delivery controls and responsibility.  • Determine structure of project teams, identify resources required, and staff appropriately.  • Create and maintain project schedules.  • Identify, track, and resolve project issues.  • Communicate project status through written reports.  • Manage and control the creation, use, and retention of all project artifacts. INTRANET WEBMASTER Host Marriott Services Corporation - Bethesda, MD 1997 to 1999 • Install, configure, administer, secure, and maintain the HMSHost Intranet Server (IIS).  • Design, maintain, develop, and deploy the Intranet Website.  • Web server and Intranet Administrator, Web Developer/Programmer, Content Editor, GUI and IA.  • Engineer, Publisher, Software Integration Evaluator, Liaison to non-technical sales teams, Site Administrator, CRM, Trainer, and Graphic Artist).  • Prepare technical proposals, initiated new directives for hardware and software systems, and provided vendor/subcontractor coordination and support for third-party projects.  • Post all corporate and departmental documentation and communication, deploy and manage all internal web- based training, gather/analyze all related digital web usage statistics, and include in a monthly executive report/scorecard.  • Enforce project governance and comply with project delivery controls and responsibility.  • Determine structure of project teams, identify resources required, and staff appropriately.  • Create and maintain project schedules.  • Identify, track, and resolve project issues.  • Communicate project status through written reports.  • Manage and control the creation, use, and retention of all project artifacts. Education High school or equivalent in General Gaithersburg High School - Gaithersburg, MD 1977 to 1980 Skills HTML5, CSS3, ARIA, SQL, PHP, JQuery, Javascript (10+ years), Iphone, Sharepoint (10+ years), Git (10+ years), MCSE (10+ years), Systems Engineer (10+ years), MS Visio, Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Project (10+ years), Accessibility WCAG 2.1 and Section 508 (JAWS, NVDA, Worldspace, COMPLYFirst, aXe, Colour Contrast Analyzer, WAT, WAVE, TalkBack, VoiceOver , keyboard, etc.) (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Agile (Teams, JIRA, VersionOne, Confluence, Scrum, Sprints, Lessons learned, Spikes, Grooming sessions, Backlogs, etc.) (10+ years), UI/UX (Developer and designer) (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), UX, Wireframes, Mockups, Prototypes (10+ years), Justintime, Sketch, InVision, Adobe (10+ years), User Experience (10+ years), Information Architecture (10+ years), Sketch, Adobe (Doc Cloud, Creative Cloud, AEM) (10+ years), Axure, Bootstrap 3 & 4 (10+ years), Drupal 7 & 8 (10+ years), WordPress and Plugins SME (10+ years), SalesForce Commerce Cloud (Demandware) (10+ years), CustomerHub (10+ years), QA, BA, FA, Tech Writer (10+ years), Zurb Foundation, Web/Digital Analytics ( Google, IBM Coremetrics, Hootsuite, Salesforce) (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE (NT4) 1997 to Present Also A+ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    OPERATING SYSTEMS  Windows NT through Windows 10, Apache (web and file servers), Apple iOS, and Android OS    MICROSOFT  MS Office 2019 and 365, Visio, Project, and SharePoint    ORACLE  OpenOffice, Oracle 8i, Oracle Reports, Forms Builder certificates    ADOBE  Acrobat Pro and DC, PageMaker, Illustrator, Photoshop    DEV LANGUAGES  HTML5, ARIA, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, and PHP    DESIGN AND UI/UX  UXPin, InVision, and Balsamiq    DIGITAL ANALYTICS-RELATED  Google Analytics, and Website Optimizer, IBM Digital Analytics (Coremetrics), Adobe AEM and Analytics Cloud  Tealeaf, Hootsuite and various other social media analytics apps    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TEAMS-RELATED  GIT, JIRA, Axure Confluence, Skype for Business, Slack, and Teams    ACCESSIBILITY (A11Y)-RELATED (WCAG 2.1 A AND AA, AND SECTION 508)    • Automated Testing/Reporting Platforms  Deque WorldSpace (Assure, Attest, Attain, and Comply), Odellus ComplyFirst Pro 2012, and Level Access AMP    • Manual Testing Tools  Deque's aXe, FireEyes (Firefox), WAT (Internet Explorer), Colour Contrast Analyzer (FireFox), WAVE toolbar for chrome and FireFox, W3C HTML Validator, aViewer, AInspector, JuicyStudio Accessibility Toolbar, Accessibility Evaluation Toolbar (Chrome), DOM Inspector (Firefox), ChromeVox, FAE Plugins, PAC2, MS Dev Network, Firebug, ARIA Validator (Chrome), Inspect Object, Tenon.io, Quail (Tests browser and server)    ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGIES (AT'S)  Freedom Scientific's Magic Adapted Keyboard and JAWS, Narrator, NVDA, ZoomText, VoiceOver (Mac / iPhone), Dragon Naturally Speaking, TalkBack (Android), ChromeVox (Chrome), keyboard -only, etc.    IT-RELATED EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATIONS    DEQUE UNIVERSITY, WORLDSPACE AND A11Y CERTIFICATION  Deque, Inc.  (Online Certification)  2018    BLOCKCHAIN IN GOVERNMENT WORKSHOP SERIES -  BLOCKCHAIN AND ITS USE IN GOVERNMENT TRAINING WORKSHOP II:  AN ADVANCED TUTORIAL FOR GOVERNMENT EXECUTIVES, MANAGERS, AND STAFF  Potomac Forum  Washington, DC  2018    COMPLYFIRST PRO CERTIFICATION  Odellus, Inc.  Washington, DC    2016    HELLO DRUPAL TRAINING  FigLeaf Software Education Center  Washington, DC  2013    DHS TRUSTED TESTER PROGRAMSECTION 508 ACCESSSIBILITY CERTIFICATION U.S. Federal Government  Washington, DC  2012    PMP BOOTCAMP TRAINING GRADUATE  Velociteach, Inc.  Arlington, VA  2011    LICENSED LIFE INSURANCE AGENT  New York Life, and MassMutual  DC, MD and VA Licensed  Registered Rep Certification, and Certified Long-Term Care Training  (Series 6, 63, CLTC Training, and CE Credits)  Bethesda, MD  2007-2013    MICROSOFT CERTIFIED SYSTEMS ENGINEER (MCSE), COMPTIA A+ CERTIFICATIONS GRADUATE, ORACLE DBA/DBD, ASP, JAVASCRIPT DEV TRAINING  Computer Institute  Rockville, MD  1996-2002    MACROMEDIA APPLICATIONS, HOMESITE, AND COLDFUSION TRAINING  FigLeaf Software Education Center, Washington, DC  2004-2005    MACROMEDIA APPLICATIONS, HOMESITE, AND COLDFUSION CERTIFICATION TRAINING  FigLeaf Software Education Center  Washington, DC  2003    PRE-MED STUDIES  Biology, Organic and Inorganic Chemistry, Microbiology, Genetics), Computer Science, Astrophysics, Advanced Mathematics, and Economics  Montgomery County Community College  Germantown, MD    1979-1985    MD ACADEMY OF SCIENCES HONORS PROGRAM FELLOW  Physics Department Internship in Optics, Lasers, Holography  University of Maryland  College Park, MD  Summer 1978    AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT ACADEMY - SABRE TERAINING GRADUATE  SABRE Reservation System Training  Las Colinas, TX  1996    AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION COMPETITIVE FELLOWSHIP AWARD WINNER AND NIH SUMMER INTERN / CANCER RESEARCHER  Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Cellular Metabolism Lab, National Institutes of Health (NIH)  Bethesda, MD  Summers 1977, 1979, and 1980    GAITHERSBURG HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE  Gaithersburg, MD  1977-1980