Founder / Front- end Web Developer Founder / <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Founder / Front- End Web Developer - Imaginative Soul Dallas, TX Highly motivated and enthusiastic individual with years of experience as an IT Professional. Ability to successfully accomplish job tasks, plus go above and beyond those job tasks to ensure integrity of company is upheld. Professional experience as a DataFlex Programmer, Graphics Designer, Visual Basic Programmer and Programmer Analyst, along with knowledge of .NET, VB.NET, HTML, BASIC, SQL Server, Electronic Health Record, Electronic Data Interchange, TDD/Agile/SCRUM, SDLC, COBOL, VAX 11/750, Oracle ODBC, UNIX, Visual FoxPro, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2010, CSS, ASPPDF and PC-DOS. Work Experience Founder / Front- end Web Developer Imaginative Soul January 2010 to Present An intellectual property company I created.    SKILLS: JavaScript / HTML5 / CSS3 / React / Angular IT Tech Support Amazon - Hutchins, TX October 2015 to January 2016 Seasonal Position    Responsible for supporting 500+ Linux terminals and provisioning laptops for management, in addition to supporting other electronic devices. ASP.NET VB Programmer/ Graphics Designer ASI - Richardson, TX May 2012 to January 2013 Developed a Web Application using VB.NET which Auto Dealers used to enter payment plan agreement information and populated a PDF finance agreement. Wrote a invoice program from scratch using VB.NET that read input records to feed the invoice from T-SQL.    SKILLS: VB.NET, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASPPDF, FoxPro, Adobe Illustrator, Excel and Word Senior Business Advisor Generational Equity - Carrollton, TX November 2011 to February 2012 Advised privately held business owners in regards to how and when to exit their business for the most profitability.    SKILLS: CMR, Excel and Word Sr. Programmer Analyst United HealthCare / Student Insurance - Plano, TX September 2005 to January 2010 Wrote conversion programs for six different EDI types. Maintained over 1.6 million lines of DataFlex code contained within 2,000+ programs using TDD. Migrated DataFlex tables to SQL tables and accessed them from DataFlex code. Developed a program that would create an ERD for the DataFlex tables so the .NET programmers could easily understand the DataFlex tables. DataFlex Programmer Analyst Broadspire / Kemper National Services - Plantation, FL June 2000 to December 2003 I automated insurance check information data entry process in the accounting department. The impact of that automation eliminated two FTE's. I maintained extensive health insurance company code along with 5 other programmers.    SKILLS: Visual Basic, Oracle ODBC, Unix and DataFlex IT Manager/Systems Analyst/DataFlex Computer Programmer Healthsouth / Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc - Nashville, TN November 1987 to December 1999 I supervised 3 programmers and 2 help desk employees. Before the internet developed an EIS (Executive Information System) which collected information from the remote 85 outpatient surgery centers.    I implemented and managed all of the company's Novell networks thru each surgery centers local Novell CNE.    I developed and maintained Physician Credentialing, Surgery Inventory/Billing and procedures for collecting and consolidating information from all 85 surgery centers.    SKILLS: Visual Basic, Crystal Reports, DataFlex, EIS, Excel, Word and Novell Computer Programmer Arrowsmith Eye Institute - Nashville, TN November 1983 to November 1987 Developed software for use on a DEC VAX 11/750 using BASIC and COBOL. During my employment I developed a patient calling program for efficient scheduling which the receptionist utilized. Dr. Arrowsmith was in the process of copyrighting this software at the time of my departure. IT Trainer and Computer Programmer MAPCO Petroleum - Nashville, TN April 1983 to November 1983 Developed all training material related to a device each remote gas station would use to call in and digitally transfer their daily numbers to the corporate office.    SKILLS: PC-DOS, BASIC and Lotus 123 Education Associate in Business Data Processing Nashville State Technical Institute - Nashville, TN August 1981 to June 1983