Data Center Technician Data Center Technician Data Center Technician - Robert Half Sunrise, FL Currently seeking a position in the Information Technology Division that provides an excellent working/learning environment. I am interested in opportunities in using today's advanced (IT) technology, with security techniques. Work Experience Data Center Technician Robert Half May 2019 to Present Network Installer responsible for the installation, adjustment, and maintenance servers for hardware and software usage support for Data Center 24/7. Responsibilities also include physical activities such as: climbing, bending, stooping, kneeling, crouching, crawling, twisting, reaching, sitting, standing, walking, pushing, pulling, lifting, finger dexterity, grasping, feeling, repetitive motions, and visual acuity when installing server racks, monitoring server, name tagging server and server racks, TCP/IP DHCP, DNS/VPN. Documentation is required in accordance within the (IT) infrastructure. Monitor HVAC temperatures of the Data Center, electrical systems, electrical generation/distribution, specific to the IT environment of systems and UPS Power environmental regulations, local building codes, fire and safety systems, preventive and predictive maintenance and diagnostic equipment, as needed. Behavioral Admin/IT Support Anne Arundel Public School Old Mill South August 2015 to June 2018 Effectively working, and communicating with a diverse population of Staff and Students. Monitored morning breakfast, lunch duty, and all areas inside/outside the classrooms. Assists teachers and administration in maintaining the flow of traffic in the building. Participates in behavior modification activities for students, and provide direction. Communicated with students, and families in person, or through phone conference calls. Monitored students during school via cameras and computers. Conducted in school DMR administrative detentions during lunch, seeked assistance, when necessary, if student behavior becomes violent or disruptive, and anti-bullying/harassment issues, which I created reports. Mentored 10 students that were assigned to me for grades, progress techniques and attendance. Provided technical support services for Windows 7, 8, classrooms, computer labs, WiFi and staff computer systems throughout the department, and social media control. I also would troubleshoot Ricoh printers, other devices Chrome computers, overhead projectors, analyzing Social media content to protect students, and school. Web Developer Front End/Desktop support District of Columbia Public School August 2004 to March 2008 Front- End ASP.NET Developer building web based User Interfaces for the District of Columbia Public Schools website, and post web content. Overseeing web server and projects under HTTP, FTP, and Websocket protocols, and web resources such as HTML, and PDF, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, web video. I lead efforts to improve connectivity of the (IT) Infrastructure, using in-house software, or off-the-shelf COTS for processing, departmental goals and priorities while working with team members providing integrity, creation, development and maintenance of web content and all associated web protocols. I would assist with Active Directory creating Faculty or staff User accounts, logons, provide TEMP password for Users to change later. Also assist supporting Windows 7, & 8, platforms for Faculty for the school. Dreamweaver was the C.M.S used to for maintaining website. Multi-tasking, and prioritization are essential skills I used when performing and understanding the complexities of the (IT) Infrastructure for D.C.P.S. Also performed research, and investigations when preparing to meet with Mayor, Elected D.C. officials, Board members and Staff members to direct, guide, and motivate them towards the latest (IT) innovations to stay compliant with the (IT) infrastructure. Communication skills, both (written and verbal) non- technical staff. Strong attention to detail to meet deadlines. Senior Systems Analyst 2 Prince George's County September 2000 to December 2002 Supervisory level responsibility to provide support, by overseeing, managing, delegating and performing myself a wide range of (IT) functions. I facilitated cross-functional communication to ensure project progress for agency invents, and upcoming elections. Understanding business requirements and how they exist with present, and future projects that benefited, while establishing and maintaining current project deadlines and milestones. I provided status reports for Director, and Stakeholders. I tracked project budgets and forecast probability and cost. I communicated, and drove (IT) resolutions for potential security risk or issues pertaining to (IT) infrastructure. I maintained all project's documentation hard copy, or within the web-portal. I lead efforts to improve the planning for, migrations, both software, & hardware installations, and implementations to the (IT) infrastructure. I would create Novell accounts for Staff to gain access to the Network. I supported multi-platforms of (O.S.) such as Windows 95, 98, XP, while eventually migrating the whole office to one (O.S.) for stable use of Microsoft Exchange, Outlook. I also tracked (IT) incidents, and Computer devices for internal audits. I managed State staff and 3rd-party vendor partnership involvement closely for enhancing agency gains for profitable returns on their investments. I would meet with County Executives, Elected officials, to direct, guide, or motivate them towards the latest (IT) innovations so the agency would be ahead of potential drawbacks that would plague the (IT) infrastructure.  Great communication, both written and verbal as needed. Assisted with the use of GIS ArcView geographic information system when creating, and share maps, scenes, layers, analytics data for new polling precincts, for Residents. I posted election results to the website, or maintenance. I provided small training sessions at times on (IT) equipment or devices.    OAO Consulting Courthouse Application Programmer 2 Prince George's Courthouse, Dept. of Corrections, and Sheriff Dept July 1995 to September 2000 Under supervision, I worked independently and with a team in an IBM Mainframe environment to analyzed, code, debug code, design, develop, configure, integrate, test, troubleshoot system bugs for existing programs. I also had to create daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly reports, while supporting critical production for Prince George Courts applications. I also provided production support on multiple enterprise mainframe applications. I would oversee application projects, using in-house software, or off-the-shelf COTS to ensuring alignment with departmental programming needs, goals and priorities. I supported the integrity and confidentiality of sensitive courts information, and documentation, including compliance initiatives to protect court case party's information, in an ethical manner. I interpret complex requests & implementations based on aggressive timelines. Evaluate tasks, service agreements, for business needs, with urgency, and prioritize workload accordingly. I would research, and perform investigations when preparing to meet with Supervising Court Judges, County Executives, Elected Maryland officials, Board members and Staff members to direct, guide, and motivate them towards the latest (IT) innovations so we could stay ahead of potential outdated systems and issues that will plague the (IT) infrastructure, with strong communication skills, both (written and verbal). I collaborate with team members in an Agile development, while working on multiple projects simultaneously to meet the criteria of the Court's dates. I created programs and maintain daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly reports. I also created Windows 95, 98, XP, documentation about the production load based on the requirements of the reports. I was part of on-call support for application. I pay attention to detail, to work effectively in a team environment, and along with business involving 3rd party vendors when needed. I also spoke well with technical, and non-technical staff as needed. Data Center Technician KCM Computer Consulting September 1994 to June 1995 Supervisory Senior level responsibility IBM Mainframe Data Center 24/7. I would lead and establish training and monitoring programs to ensure all Operations staff, and contractors performing work in critical facilities are appropriately trained in accordance with critical environment process and procedures. Manage and improve (IT) infrastructure and design risk mitigation programs process, and procedures designed to enable maximum uptime at a complex data center environment. Collaborate with project management in the delivery of projects & construction related activities supporting the critical operations and functions.  Oversee online Business applications, projects, ensuring departmental goals and priorities. Input/output device laser printers, 3420/3480 magnetic tape drives. Monitor the system console; mount tapes using Jes2&3. Monitored CICS Mainframe applications, and prepared backup tapes for rotation, and offsite. Also, Ipled the system as a Computer Operator and other duties. I believe in building User, and Customer loyalty. Support issues 24/7/365 after hours callbacks. Education master's degree in Information Systems. Web Development Certificate Learning Tree Science Degree Information Systems in Technology University of Phoenix Bachelor