UX Research and Design Lead UX Research and Design Lead UX Research and Design Lead - Cambria Solutions / Client: State of California Sacramento, CA Work Experience UX Research and Design Lead Cambria Solutions/Client June 2017 to Present User experience researcher and designer, building a new foster care system for the State of California. DesignOps team of UX researchers, designers, SMEs, developers building an easy to use, multi-module SaaS application to facilitate social workers in placing children in safe  homes. We use a variety of techniques in research: Design sprint workshops, UX gaming activi-  ties (such as sketching, Crazy 8s, Moscow), user interviews. I did legacy system data modeling  and mapping; refactored design, prototyping, visual design, collaborated on the design system  for the enterprise. Lead the system parity initiative and designed for the greenfield state; deep  dive into journey mapping how work is done, both online and offline. Proposing and advocat- ing for policy changes and impacting processes for social workers. This is the first California  State project using Human Centered Design and Agile. User Experience Designer InEight/Kiewit January 2017 to June 2017 UX and application design for a subsidiary of Kiewit, building a complex, multi-module SaaS  software suite for managing very large infrastructure projects (freeways, airports, stadiums ) in the construction industry. It is a construction project control and procurement platform.  Worked on a large, geographically distributed team of UX designers, SMEs, developers and  researchers. User Experience Researcher and Designer United States Ski and Snowboard Association May 2014 to April 2016 Provided direction for the technology strategy for USSA, the NGB for Olympic snow sports in the USA; includes U.S. Ski Team. Improved user experience for applications, mobile app and  organization website; managed technology projects.  • Managed a heavily customized Microsoft Dynamics CRM implementation, complex Member- ship online purchase application using Magento; requirements gathering, UX and UI design for  the custom applications  • Overhauled ussa.org - A complete responsive redesign of the user experience, information  architecture, look and feel for ussa.org; built wireframes for the site; unified the management  team around the new strategy and received executive buy-in  • UX, design and IA for US Ski Team mobile iOS app  • Mapped user journeys for online applications  • Re-architected online applications for a better flow and usability  • Evaluated and negotiated content delivery systems (CDNs) for video and web  • Discovered requirements for consolidating and streamlining systems; prioritized projects and communicated business requirements to the internal and external development teams  • Managed staff developers and external consultants  • Moved development team to Agile methodology Sr. User Experience Designer - Lead BidSync.com October 2010 to April 2014 Lead the user experience design for a complete refactor of this complex eProcurement SaaS  application.  Responsibilities included:  • Up- front user research, working closely with product owners and end users  • Mapping user journeys  • Writing user stories  • Interaction and visual design for more efficient task flows  • Close collaboration with the Agile Scrum dev team  • Usability testing  • Coded front end templates using XHTML, JQuery, CSS 3, Javascript and JSF (java server faces)  • Attended conferences to stay current on research and trends in the IA and UX fields  Work  2  Consulting, Freelance and Contract User Experience, Visual Design and Web Developer January 2008 to September 2010 Web design, hands-on web development (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript), UX design, information architecture and UI design; Flash for multiple site redesigns and site  maintenance, analyzing web metrics. U.S. Dept. of Energy SmartMeter project. Project Manager Charles Schwab August 2007 to December 2007 Project manager for a data migration of Cybertrader's data into Schwab's web-based  account self-management system. Roadmap for enterprise platform consolidation  effort. Business/System Analyst, UI designer Wells Fargo October 2006 to June 2007 Application design, user experience for a new data validation tool. Also, systems analyst for WF data systems deep-dive initiative. SharePoint Architect and Developer Delta Dental April 2006 to October 2006 Intranet Developer, UX Design, SharePoint Architect  Designed and customized user interface and rolled out Sharepoint to the enterprise  intranet. Developed training materials and trained trainers.  Developed governance, standards and a strategy to manage growth.  Finished early, under budget. Intranet Content Manager, User Experience Designer RAND Corporation August 2004 to March 2006 Responsible for overhauling this think tank's corporate intranet: managing and organizing content to optimize use by research staff; used the scientific method in the  research phase; using good practices in usability, IA, UX and visual design; extensive  user research, usability testing and change management. Served on several IT-relat- ed committees. Developed skills of low-tech staff.  USAID/Geekcorps - Fmr Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia  Tourism development strategist  Designed UX and visual design for a new national tourism site.  Developed marketing plan to develop tourism, focusing on international tour  operators using the internet. Onsite USAID project in Macedonia.  Deutsch LA, advertising agency  Interactive producer, User Experience Design  Coors Beer account; managed interactive development and developed detailed  navigation flows, site maps, wireframes, interface design and functional specifications Web Manager, UX Design, Front end developer, Business Analyst Intel Corporation February 2003 to February 2004 Designed intranet, external websites ( developer.intel.com), intranet application UI  design, IA, mockups, wireframe and prototypes, technical writing. Project Creative Director Hippa Startup November 2001 to January 2003 Creative Director  For successful software startup in the HIPPA compliance space. Included developing the company's branding, marketing, website strategy, design and web development.  Company was acquired. Consultant, User Experience Design Deloitte Consulting April 2000 to November 2001 Visual designer in Deloitte's eStudio practice in the San Francisco office. Overhaul of the Fireman's Fund Lotus Notes corporate intranet, migrating to Vignette, my roles  included Information Architect, User Experience Designer, Visual Designer, Business Analyst. Worked on similar projects for many other clients in media, tech  and finance: Siebel Systems - site redesign; Federal Reserve Bank of New York - business analyst; Hewlett Packard B2B site - Developed templates using Vignette;  AOL/Time Warner - Industry research; Sun Microsystems - business analyst for Sun  eStore. Deloitte internal projects - research for "eTransformation Handbook", published by Harvard Business School Press.  Applause Inc  Webmaster, User Experience designer, Visual Designer  Manufacturer of licensed movie property merchandise, since acquired by Russ.  Design and development of the first corporate website. Received a "Best in Industry"  award for the website. Developed corporate branding and visual design, information  architecture, user experience and coded the site. Worked with studio's brand  standards for all of our licensors, all of the major studios and entertainment  properties (Disney, Lucasfilm, Pixar, Warner Bros, etc.). Webmaster, User Experience designer, Visual Designer Vivitar Corporation February 1996 to August 1998 Designed and developed the first corporate website, with a full product catalog, downloadable drivers and tech support knowledge base.  Received a "Best in Industry" award, positioning us as "Serious about ecommerce".  Axure RP Pro, Sketch, Jira, VersionOne, Google Analytics, Omniture, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Omnigraffle, Basecamp, Teamwork, Github; RealTime Board, Optimal workshop,  Zoom; Adobe Creative Cloud: Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Premiere Pro, AfterEffects; MS Office suite of tools, MS Project, MS Dynamics CRM;  Keynote; Revit; a little Maya for 3d modelling; HTML5, CSS3, SVG, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, JSF, Flash  UCLA Extension  Perl programming for CGI, Unix, Computer Graphics and desktop publishing, AutoCad 3d modeling and animation  California State University, Northridge  Double major Business/Marketing and Fine Art. Bachelor of Arts, in Fine Arts  El Camino JC  Advertising Design major, transfer to CSUN  Software Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/loristevenson http://loristevenson.com