Freelance Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Glendale, CA Dynamic and detail orientated software engineer with 18+ years of experience developing websites and website applications. Currently specializing in the front- end utilizing React/Redux, with a passion for keeping up to date on the latest technologies. Work Experience Freelance Developer Self - Glendale, CA September 2001 to Present Full Stack Developer - Greater Los Angeles Area, CA  • Developing custom websites and projects based on client driven requirements, developing both the front and back ends.  • Utilizing WordPress, Shopify, Codeigniter, Laravel, Drupal, Knockout, React, Angular, and custom PHP/HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Contract Senior Full Stack Developer CORPORATE TRAVEL MANAGEMENT US - La Crescenta-Montrose, CA December 2018 to April 2019 • Utilized a Linux platform, Jira, GIT/GitLab, Yarn, Swagger, Docker, and Postman, using the Agile method to develop/debug various applications in the migration platforms.  • Assisted in the migration from the legacy platform to the new flagship platform including configuring Laravel/PHP back- end authentication from legacy program entry points into the new system, and updating legacy booking systems code to allow for modern improvements, and to work with both the legacy and new platforms, allowing a seamless migration amongst the various clients in different phases of the migration process.  • Developed and configured front- end templates in Laravel/PHP, various React/Redux components, and retooled the existing legacy datepicker code, improving the overall user experience for their clients. Lead Front End Developer VIKING CRUISES - Woodland Hills, CA February 2016 to September 2018 • Developed responsive view/templates on top of C#, using HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Knockout and React, from Photoshop/Sketch designs, participating in all stages of the product life cycles.  • Assisted product owners/designers to translate business requirements into working solutions, collaborating with multi-cultured internal/external teams, with multiple competing priorities in a deadline driven environment.  • Streamlined and organized the existing HTML/SASS/CSS structure to create consistency and reduced code throughout the mobile/tablet/desktop versions of international and domestic domains, maintaining cross-browser and cross-device compatibility.  • Developed modular components in React/Redux using NPM, Webpack, Node, Express, Bitbucket, Jira/Confluence, and GIT in the development process.  • Worked in both Agile and Waterfall development settings, participating in scrum sessions, sprint planning, code reviews and mentoring junior developers. Contract E-mail Developer QUIGLEY-SIMPSON - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to February 2016 - Los Angeles, CA  • Developed HTML E-Mails for various marketing campaigns.  • Utilized Litmus.COM for accurate testing of emails amongst all the various platforms. Contract Full Stack Developer PRIDE + PIXEL - Los Angeles, CA October 2013 to February 2016 - Los Angeles, CA  • Utilized Basecamp.COM on a daily basis for accurate project management.  • Developed for CMS platforms including WordPress, Shopify, Magento, Squarespace, Drupal, and custom PHP/HTML/JavaScript. WordPress Development Team Ciplex - West Hollywood, CA October 2011 to July 2012 • Worked with the sales team on a daily basis to properly quote out the estimated costs for new project sales leads.  • Collaborated with designers to ensure the development process will be able to match the designs properly.  • Developed WordPress websites from Photoshop PSD's, creating fully custom themes for each website; both front and back end development.  • Communicated with clients on a regular basis ensure needs were properly being met.  • Extensive use of JavaScript, jQuery, and the Google Maps API.  • Worked in an Agile development setting. Education A.A.S. in Computer Science Arapahoe Community College - Littleton, CO March 1993 Skills Visual studio, C#, Firebase, Git, Javascript, HTML, Jquery, XML, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Proficiency: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap4, Foundation6, JavaScript ES6, jQuery, AJAX, Node, Express, React/Redux, Knockout, Angular2, PHP, C#    IDE/Tools: Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Photoshop, Sketch, PhpStorm/WebStorm, GIT/GitLab, Jira/Confluence/Bitbucket    Platforms: WordPress, Shopify, Codeigniter, Laravel, Drupal    Database: MySQL, Firebase    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux