Front End Developer NASA MAPI Contract <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> NASA MAPI Contract Front End Developer NASA MAPI Contract - Barrios Technology Houston, TX • Over 15 years of professional experience in analyzing information, requirements elicitation, software architecture and design, development, testing, and maintenance.  • Developed high performance, high volume, and business critical systems  • Strategic thinker with strong technical leadership skills.  • Strong organizational skills with attention to details.  • Self-motivated with a passion for learning new technology. A high level of drive, initiative and capacity for hard work.  • Dependable, reliable, and responsible with a proven track record of delivering applications and technology solutions on time.  • Excellent analytical and communication and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer NASA MAPI Contract Barrios Technology - Houston, TX August 2015 to Present • Lead Software developer on the MIDAS Prime manifesting application. Lead the development efforts of the distributed application in both coding and architecture choices.  • Created resuseble components which facliated faster application turn around from start to finish.  • Assisted in the the implementation of coding standards and techinques for unit testing.  • Created standards and for automated deployments of projects. Senior Software Developer The Cleveland Clinic Foundation - Cleveland, OH June 2012 to August 2015 • Collaborated with engineers and other developers on Converting ASP.NET Application to ASP.NET MVC (Razor) Applications.  • UI Upgrade lead to bring a new freash look to current UI using HTML5 CSS and JavaScript  • Created JSON Webserices to allow consumtion of Knowledge program data by third parties.  • Software Development Lead on ASP.NET MVC / HTML5 and JQuery patient data collection application. The application was an add-on to an existing ASP.NET Web forms application.  • Software Development Lead on a hybrid Silverlight and HTML interactive image rendering engine. Used to display image-based questions to patients on a variety of mobile and desktop-based devices.  • Provided mobile device support for Windows based tablets as well as Apple iPad.  • Using a verity of technologies which include ASP.NET Webserices, web api, XML and XSLT created multiple extensions to the existing patient data collection application based on the stake holder requirements. Consultant Focused-EC - Cleveland, OH December 2014 to July 2015 • Converted an Existiing ASP.NET Application to ASP.NET MVC with modern UI using BootStrap.js and JQuery  • Design, architect, and developed custom EDI products for new and existing Focused-EC clients. Consultant Beit Hanina Society - Cleveland, OH February 2015 to June 2015 Time and Expertise donation)  • Create an iOS application for a community calendar and events notification using Objective-C and Swift. All native application using native Apple tools.  • Designed JSON web service using C# that is consumed by the iOS application. The web service allowed for the transfer of data from the iOS application to SQL and vice versa. Senior Software Developer Angstrom Graphics Inc - Cleveland, OH October 2011 to June 2012 • Designed Virtual Magazine IDE a windows forms application using C# and SQL Server, The IDE allowed the creation of virtual magazines that are HTML5 Javascript Application from a PDF  • Create WCF web service using C# that accepts connections from in-house application and then allows the application to publish and or create a new web application on IIS 7 server.  • Created Web based applications using C# to scrub customer-supplied data on excel sheets and complied it into XML format for effortless consumtion by in house developed and third party printing software  • Designed and built an HTML5 JavaScript touch friendly version of the digital magazine application.  • Designed and built a Web based inventory management and control system, the system allows several different clients to managed printed material inventories and reorder items as needed. Using ASP.net, C# and SQL server, with Active Directory security. The application sent notifications via email and SMS.  • Designed and built several Extensions using C#, JavaScript and HTML to a purchased application (Page Flex), the extensions added custom functionality to the product that streamlined and enhanced the product work flow and improved overall user experience. Owner/Operator Hymie Enterprises Inc - Cleveland, OH January 2003 to October 2011 • Purchased hardware/software for in house developed Point of Sale System.  • Designed and built the backend database on an SQL server 2005 using stored procedures and T-SQL.  • Designed and built the front end GUI with Windows Forms and C# using Visual Studio 2005. Setup networked Point of Sale positions.  • Designed and built an interface to the Gilbarco Veeder Root tank monitoring system using C# and Windows forms with Visual Studio 2008.  • Used C# interfaces to create a pluggable application where plug-in may be developed without recompiling the parent application.  • All interactions with the Veeder Root System used serial communications with built in C# functionality no third party software or components purchased. Education Bachelor of Information Systems and Software Engineering in Information Systems and Software Engineering University of Phoenix 2015 Associate of science in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science Remington College 2002 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT, C#, CLIENT/SERVER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, SVN, SWIFT, VBSCRIPT, VISUAL BASIC, XML, XSLT, ADO, DBMS, ADO.NET, Front End, Angular, UI Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Architecture: N-Tire, Client/Server, Plug-ins, IoC  Development Languages and Tools: C#, Visual Basic, VBScript, .Net, Win Forms, HTTP, HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, VBScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, AJAX, JSON, REST, ASP, ASP.Net, Web Forms, MVC, Web API, ADO, ADO.Net, Web Services, IIS, Visual Studio, Enterprise Library, Entity Framework, LINQ, Nuget, COM, Bootstrap, XML, XSLT, Active Directory, Objective-C, Swift  DBMS and DB Tools: MS SQL Server 2005/2012  Operating Systems: DOS, Windows XP/7/Server 2003/2008, Linux, Mac OSX, iOS, Android  Source Control: TFS, SVN, GIT  Other: Pageflex Web to Print, SharePoint Application Development