UI/UX Engineer UI/UX Engineer UI/UX Engineer Vallejo, CA Work Experience UI/UX Engineer Business Wire, San Fransicso, CA August 2017 to May 2019 Building custom, mobile-first sites for over 250 clients in both Drupal 6 and Drupal 8 environments. With the latter  being created with a templatized approach, using Bootstrap as a base theme.  • Creating and updating various views for content based on user requests.  • Troubleshoot and implement front- end issues that may arise.  • Solving compatibility issues between our code and client code.  • Being involved in meetings with both sales and clients. Front End Web Developer Missing Link Networks - Calistoga, CA April 2014 to June 2017 Web maintenance and new functionality for over several dozen winery websites, using  HTML/CSS/ColdFusion/PHP/jQuery and Responsive Design.  • Responsible for creation of new client storefronts.  • Create custom HTML email templates for clients.  • Use Foundation framework for backend admin UI.  • Minor Photoshop work for clients Web Operations Specialist Business Wire, San Fransicso, CA December 2012 to April 2014 • Diagnose problems and file bugs with development.  • Communicate with internal and external customers to obtain necessary information and provide updates in a timely  manner  • Maintain and modify information on corporate site  • Assist Development with QA activities.  • Create HTML documents as needed. Front End Web Developer Jackson Family Wines - Santa Rosa, CA May 2010 to June 2012 • Web maintenance for over 30 different winery websites.  • Create and maintain shopping brand cart settings.  • Maintained the corporate website with regular updates.  • Web maintenance and backwards browser compatibility for emerging mobile sites, which include HTML5/CSS3  specifications. Client Services Representative iPost - Novato, CA October 2006 to March 2010 • Received web creative from clients or created web content based on clients specifications and converting it to an email- friendly format, keeping in mind known limitations of some email and web clients.  • QA self service clients for email and web client limitations.  • Maintained the corporate website with regular updates.  • Provide technical assistance to customers with deliverability issues. Downloadable Games Technician iWin Inc - San Francisco, CA October 2003 to May 2006 • Work as part of the Development team to fix website issues, which include web pages, banner ads, and graphics.  • 'Wrapping' 3rd Party Games, which includes altering HTML and JavaScript pages, to include iWin branding.  • Assist QA department with testing of new versions of product and website.  • Provide technical assistance to customers and manage service issues that involve technical research. Web Developer OICW - Menlo Park, CA July 2004 to April 2005 • Maintenance of school's website, including the addition of new pages and graphics  • Creating a new version the website, which will have a more useful navigation  • Cleaning up existing graphics, and creating new animations for the web. Webmaster RadioCentral - San Francisco, CA August 2000 to February 2002 Created and maintained company's corporate website, coordinated updates for continuing accuracy as the company  evolved.  • Worked with graphic mock-ups to create website content based on designer specifications.  • Collaborated with customers and internal artists to design and build interactive web-based applications.  • Designed and maintained company's intranet site, worked with other departments to ensure continued accuracy. Quality Assurance Engineer Brightware - Novato, CA December 1999 to June 2000 • Was a team member responsible for testing the web version of products, which included, load balancing and the accuracy of new database connections.  • Created and maintained product test plans and posted updated information on the company's intranet site.  • Maintained and modified HTML and JavaScript code for product templates.  • Worked with LoadRunner and WinRunner scripts for stress testing and usability.  • Reported bugs and tracked the implementation of correct fixes. Education High school or equivalent Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP Links http://www.joecjimenez.com Additional Information Skills  Languages: HTML, CSS, Responsive Design, Cold Fusion, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, ASP, SASS  Applications: Macromedia: Flash, Dreamweaver, and Fireworks. Adobe Photoshop, ImageReady, Drupal, GIT,  SVN, Bootstrap, Firebug, FireFTP, Bugzilla, JIRA, Redmine.