Advisory Software Engineer Advisory Software Engineer Advisory Software Engineer - Constant Contact Carlisle, MA I'm a strategist who gets his hands dirty.  Front end Architecture. UI. Technical Product Development.  Application Architecture. System Architecture. Enterprise  Architecture.  I have been designing high-performance, technically challenging  software applications since 1991.  My greatest contributions to a project are those that require the  ability to faithfully bring to life the vision of a creative design team,  especially when that vision calls for innovation and integration of new  and different technologies.  Research. Prototypes. Training. Presentations. Solutions Design.  JavaScript, JavaScript, JavaScript. Compile-To-JavaScript.  Custom JavaScript Frameworks. Custom JavaScript Tooling.  TDD/Custom Unit Testing/Continuous Integration/jsDoc/Static Code  Analysis.  Agile Scrum/Kanban/Extreme >>> "Enlightened" Waterfall?  Whatever. Work Experience Advisory Software Engineer Constant Contact - Waltham, MA July 2016 to Present Front end specialist. Principal engineer working with the chief UI Architect, within the Email Editor team, helping the legacy codebase catch up with a  great UX. Rather than switching over to a big framework, we're pulling out abstractions and 3rd party frameworks and boiling the code down to the dumb  essentials. Remove CoffeeScript, RequireJS, Ampersand, JQueryUI, and a massive class tree.  Environment: WebPack, Backbone.js, Bootstrap/postcss, Node.js, ES6, Babel, RequireJS, git, grunt, React.js, etc. Director Virtusa April 2014 to July 2016 2 years 4 months)  Greater Boston Area  Enterprise JavaScript expert providing training, analysis, and solutions for Banking and Financial Services clients. Building Web UI competencies within the practice organization. Front End Architect (JavaScript) Wayfair - Boston, MA March 2013 to April 2014 JavaScript Exorcist / Front End Lineman for this vast, fun-to-use e-commerce  platform. Director Virtusa July 2012 to March 2013 9 months)  Greater Boston Area  Architecture and technical leadership for Virtusa's ECM consulting practice.  Delivered web applications using HTML5 Canvas/SVG graphics, Backbone.js  MVC/MVVM, jQuery, Handlebars templates, and lots of hand-made  JavaScript.  Major Contributions  Benchmarked major HTML5 charting libraries, created a test harness for mobile/desktop presented the results in a live demonstration to client.  Developed a lightweight, unobtrusive tag management engine that ran 100%  client side, working with an existing web analytics stack comprised of Adobe, Google, etc. Integrated solution with the Ensighten TMS. Built an intranet  application for managing shared data assets across a global IT organization. Client Software Technical Lead Apollo Group - San Jose, CA October 2009 to July 2012 Senior Rich Internet application developer. Principal liaison across UI/UX  designers and web developers. Participated in the evaluation and selection  of the core technologies for Apollo Group's new online learning platform, including open source LMS frameworks, LCMS systems, content management  systems, and javascript frameworks.  Major Contributions  Ensured our new user experience was faithfully delivered as a GWT  application. Developed techniques to apply corporate UI design patterns to custom GWT Widget library. Provided knowledge transfer and documentation for this innovative process. Client/UI Technical Lead, Modular Messaging Avaya - Westminster, CO March 2008 to October 2009 Technical lead for remote R&D team. Re-design of thin clients using RIA  frameworks. Used automated test tools and frameworks and continuous  integration to ensure quality and monitor development issues in near-real-time.  Major Contributions  Extended voice messaging client support to Mac OS X in 5 months. Prototype  of 100% browser-based messaging client. IPTV Client Software Lead Kasenna - Sunnyvale, CA March 2007 to March 2008 Lead a team of experienced IPTV developers to take on the steep challenge  of overhauling Kasenna's PortalTV solution. This involved a complete re- write that was nearly 100% backward compatible. Our business objectives  were customization, stability, and performance. Our greatest obstacle was the rapidly evolving set-top box market, with pressure to support HD resolution and multi-program hard disk recording.  Major Contributions  New version was built on an object-oriented JavaScript framework supported by a lightweight service-oriented server architecture. Unlike its Web 2.0  cousins, this framework was fine-tuned to work well on weaker, embedded,  hardware with limited memory. Applications were designed from a template  using inheritance, and the user interfaces could be customized with 100%  WYSIWYG web design tools such as DreamWeaver. This new PortalTV was  successfully deployed to DTC Communications in Tennessee in 2008.  Alcatel-Lucent  2 years 6 months Applications Architect IPTV - Plano, TX April 2006 to February 2007 Designed, built, and delivered Interactive TV applications for the Microsoft  TV IPTV Edition platform. Lead a small, quick team of developers to make it  happen.  Major Contributions  TV Applications for AT&T U-Verse, Prototypes for CenturyTel and Turner.  Thin client framework for Microsoft TV, integrated with SOAP web services, automatic JSON serialization.  Delivered Turner prototype to lab in Atlanta. Customer delighted. Team of 3  developers. Senior IPTV Developer IPTV - Mountain View, CA September 2004 to April 2006 Made IPTV applications using Alcatel's OMP solution for Telmex in Mexico, AUNA in Spain. Team lead for CeBIT demo.  Major Contributions  Co-developed the Television Services Framework, a thin client toolkit for IPTV, including middleware that allowed Alcatel to bridge data and services across IPTV platforms. CTO's office responded with recognition and a bonus.  Team of 5 developers. As Alcatel prepared for its vendor role in AT&T Project  Lightspeed, I was one of six Alcatel Mountain View employees to participate in the Microsoft IPTV Technology Immersion Project. Developed prototype  applications for Microsoft TV, IPTV Edition on the Microsoft Silicon Valley  campus. This work led to my next role in Alcatel. Senior Interactive Developer Cramer - Norwood, MA October 2003 to September 2004 Jack of all trades interactive programmer.  Major Contributions  Delivered interacive applications for Serono, Gillette, and Bayer. Senior Software Engineer Inflexxion - Newton, MA November 2002 to October 2003 Brought software development process in house. Provided technical  requirements analysis for grant application process. Mentored junior staff on programming, best practices.  Major Contributions  Delivered interactive projects for Pacificare, Ely Lilly, and grant-funded web  sites. Senior Interactive Engineer / Architect Benchmarking Partners - Cambridge, MA March 2000 to January 2002 Integrated graphically intensive interactive media into a web-based  collaborative environment used to deploy Benchmarking's proprietary content to customers. Advised in selection of web development platforms, content  management systems, web conferencing products. Contributed research to  major "buy-vs.-build" decisions. Presented demonstrations of 'eConsulting'  web applications at offsite company meetings and for Board of Directors.  Major Contributions  Architecture and programming for Interactive Sales and diagnostic tools for UPS Logistics, IBM, BroadVision, and J.D. Edwards. Senior Interactive Engineer / Architect Surgency - Cambridge, MA 2000 to 2002 Re-launch of Benchmarking. (subsidiary) Senior Interactive Developer Planet Interactive - Boston, MA March 1997 to January 2000 Worked closely with Executive Producers throughout project lifecycles, including initial meetings with clients, brainstorming, proposals, budgets,  reviews, production and installation/deployment/support.  Major Contributions  Delivered interactive CD-ROM, web design, and touch-screen kiosks for Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic, Lotus, Boston Museum of Science, Avid, Pfizer, and more. UI Software Engineer / Multimedia Specialist Saba Software - Cambridge, MA August 1995 to February 1997 First UI designer of small team to develop Centra's product offering.  Major Contributions  Researched consumer Internet software, especially 3D space browsers  including VRML. Worked with Product Manager and Producer to evolve  prototype into online training application. Ported functional prototype to Java.  Computer History Museum Exhibits Programmer Boston, MA January 1992 to January 1995 Used HyperCard, Director, and Spinnaker Plus to create museum kiosks.  Reported to director of exhibits.  Major Contributions  Delivered end-to- end design and implementation of five museum exhibits.  Researched hardware and software technology options for 13 exhibits.  Supervised software development relationships with 4 vendors.  Cambridge Digital Media, Inc. Interactive Developer, Contractor AppleScript - Cambridge, MA 1994 to 1995 MA  Principal programmer for CD ROM title "Drivin' Route 66". Developed first  web-enabled application for Oracle Media Objects. Developed CBT media for Oracle using Oracle Media Objects.  (Oracle Media Objects, Macromedia Director, HTML, JavaScript, AppleScript)  Various Freelancer 1992 to 1995 4 years)  Various gigs with the Boston interactive media community of the early 1990s. It  was a fun time. Education Massachusetts College Of Art September 1991 to December 1992 BFA in Video Art San Francisco Art Institute September 1987 to May 1988 Skills Javascript, Requirements analysis, Technical leadership, Estimation, Prototyping, Problem-solving Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bentremblay?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BhzYbL3rWSHWTcaMLlQY%2FWg%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Specialties: Strategy/Philosophy  Brainstorming What young folks call "ideation".  Prototyping  Product Definition  Feature Prioritization  Risk Estimation & Management  Cross-Disciplinary Communication  Team Alignment  Hands-On Problem-Solving  Working With Artists & Engineers  Did I say JavaScript?    Top Skills  Requirements Analysis  JavaScript  Technical Leadership