Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Forge Labs San Francisco, CA With over 3 years of hands-on front- end developing experience and UI/UX design background, I am skilled in building responsive websites, mobile apps, JavaScript plugins and React reusable components. Work Experience Front End Developer Forge Labs October 2018 to Present • Develop dashboard for BMEX with React and Redux.   • Implement proxy between Google Firebase and China to solve blocking issue.   • Develop token purchase page, fetch data from backend and render it using React, Saga.   • Develop gaming and QA pages’ layouts, as well as UI for BETX using React and Ant Design. Front End Developer Freelance - San Francisco Bay Area, CA October 2015 to May 2018 • Introduced lazyimg.js, a JavaScript plugin that applies lazy load images technique. Improved first time loading spend up to 12% under slow Internet conditions with the whole bunch of custom settings.  • Created Qjax.js, a JavaScript plugin that lets team send AJAX and JSONP requests more efficiently, reducing the amount of code by 40%.  • Developed ShadowOne Media Inc company website by using jQuery, a live chat platform for customer service use with Node.js.  • Built Lychee Inc company website using React, as well as promotion mini-games: TicTac and Simon.  • Made Qslide.js, a JavaScript plugin that allows the team to build slideshows quickly with two modes: image only and custom block.   • Implemented easymobile.js, a JavaScript plugin that supports different gestures for mobile devices with custom settings and extra position data.  • Developed Splitt, an iOS App that allows users to split their bills and calculate their portion of the bill automatically by using Swift 3 with Realm as a localization permanent storage solution.  • UI/UX design for Pocketrip, an iOS App that helps people to plan their travel based on budget considerations.  • Branding for Enough, an SF local coffee shop, including logo, website, menu, accessories, poster design to prove the story behind it. Education Master in Web Design & New Media Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to December 2018 Master in Photographic and Electronic Media The Maryland Institute College of Art - Baltimore, MD July 2013 to January 2014 Bachelor in Game Design Communication University Of China - Beijing, CN September 2009 to July 2013 Skills Javascript (3 years), React (2 years), Redux (2 years), HTML (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS (3 years), Web Development (3 years), Mobile (2 years), Databases, MongoDB (1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years), Webpack (1 year), User Experience Design (1 year), User Interface Design (2 years) Links http://jzdevelopingstation.com https://github.com/Leftscenery Additional Information With two years of hands-on experience efficiently coding HTML, CSS and JavaScript with the latest frameworks, I am not only good at building user-friendly websites and applications but also passionate about making components and JavaScript plugins. These skills have allowed me to stay ahead of the curve and deliver exceptional work to all of my employers, as well as boost team efficiency.    I am a self-motivated person who is always learning new technologies and digging into the core principles behind them. These make me think deeply, understand different programming design patterns, and prepare for coming trends in a fast-paced front- end world.     I know how important user experiences are for a front- end developer. Stemming from my Web Design Master’s degree background. My keen attention to details and design thinking.