Operations Manager Operations Manager Software Engineer Centennial, CO With a deep understanding of the entire software development life cycle, user and team empathy drives my work. Being part of a team that challenges me to learn and grow motivates me to constantly strive for nothing short of excellence in everything I do. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operations Manager Colorado Help at Home - Centennial, CO February 2018 to Present • Developed brand identity, marketing materials, internal & external forms, and company website.  • Developed and integrated technologies to process data and streamline workflows.  • Supervised selection process for medical records software and implementation of software.  • Managed scheduling of 20 clients and 11 staff members for complete medical and non-medical coverage.  • Insured compliance with all state and federal regulations.  • Managed all Human Resources functions; Application processing, interview scheduling, on boarding, orientation & training, payroll, benefits.  • Calculated and prepared invoices, received payments, logged and tracked expenses, and reconciled books. Front- End Engineering Student Turing School of Software Design June 2017 to February 2018 Studied Front- End engineering, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES5/ES6), Object-Oriented and Functional Programming, Test Driven Development, Git, React, Redux, Node.js, Express.js, Knex.js, Progressive Web Apps, React-Native, and PostgreSQL. Helicopter Mechanic / US Embassy Guard / Sergeant United States Marine Corps April 2008 to March 2017 • Supervised 12 team members across 3 specialties performing overhaul maintenance on 12 aircraft valued at $865M.  • Managed workflow, timeline and planning of 100+ inspections for each aircraft.  • Implemented Scrum methodologies into aviation maintenance frameworks to streamline efforts, cutting 5-6 week average inspection time to 2-3 weeks.  • Provided physical security for personnel and classified material at high threat US Embassies overseas. User Experience Designer Fuser - Boulder, CO July 2007 to April 2008 • Developed prototypes, wireframes, and user workflows for cloud application.  • Designed and developed user interfaces across entire application.  • Worked with UX team, product owner, and development team to rapidly identify and solve UX/UI problems and create excellent user-centered design. Front End Developer Velocera Engineering - Denver, CO March 2005 to June 2007 • Designed and developed user interfaces, ranging from small brochure-ware websites to enterprise-level intranets.  • Produced user work flows, wireframes, prototypes and site maps  • Provided client training on use and management of end products.   • Provided client service, communicating with 3rd parties, internal team and stakeholders to organize projects and exceed expectations. Art Director / Interface Developer RunningWolf Design - Westminster, CO April 2003 to February 2005 • Managed design, development and deployment of web and print projects.  • Designed and produced advertising, collateral and web /applications.  • Concepted marketing plans to meet specific needs.  • Planned and problem solved user experience within applications.  • Coordinated with hosting and print vendors to insure flawless transition from development to finished product. Art Director / Interface Developer Sumaato Advertising - Denver, CO January 2000 to April 2003 • Concepted advertising campaigns across mixed medium to accomplish marketing goals of the clients.  • Designed and developed advertising, collateral and web sites.  • Developed HTML/CSS templates from PhotoShop designs and integrated with PHP back end application.  • Oversaw print pre-press and preformed regular press checks to maintain delivery of quality products. Education Turing School of Software Design June 2017 to Present Skills Javascript, MySQL, CSS3 (5 years), HTML (5 years), Adobe CC (10+ years), Sass (1 year), git (2 years), React (2 years), Redux (2 years), Express.js (2 years), Node.js (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), HTML 5, jQuery, CSS, React Native (1 year) Links https://github.com/alexbanister Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant April 2008 to April 2017