UX Architect / Co-Founder UX Architect / Co-Founder Owner / Creative Director / Marketing - SilasRyan Media, LLC Antelope, CA An experienced senior professional with a great understanding of the nuances of interaction that occur between brands and consumers, especially within the context of all digital environments.    Creativity, Leadership, and Getting Results    • Established experience in brand, strategy, and creative team leadership along with proven track record of success in leading campaigns in integrated marketing, advertising, branding and video with consideration of target markets.  • Proven track record of empowering teams to gain insight, creativity, and develop breakthrough work along with implementing successful marketing campaigns with seamless teamwork and collaboration.  • Polished Senior Management skills experienced in leading team with success developing mission, vision, marketing, business development, operations, vendor management, and employee mentoring at all levels of business.  • Confident, organized, passionate, and thoughtful leader known for getting results by leading by example with the ability to sift through the noise and get to the essence of what matters to bring great work to life.  • High aptitude for analytics and measuring success for all facets of marketing. Understanding business intelligence is necessary to strategy and planning of marketing initiatives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX Architect / Co-Founder Treverse, LLC. - Elk Grove, CA February 2015 to Present • Project Management and Tram Lead for Development Team  • UX Process and Application Flow  • UX Research and Studies  • UX Design using UX standards and strategies  • Prototype and User Flow Diagrams  • User Test Scripts  • Design Mockups and High/Low Fidelity Wireframes  • Navigation Flow and Studies to build well thoughtful design patterns that are User Friendly and Meaningful to enhance the application flow. IT Manager / Creative Director Valley Christian Church January 1998 to Present Owner / Creative Director / Developer / Designer SilasRyan Media, LLC January 1995 to Present I own my freelancing business where I help non-profit companies in the Sacramento area make a statement within their communities. I build websites and all digital marketing collateral. Merchandise Marketing, Manager / Front- End Developer VSP Global Omni-Channel November 2015 to February 2017 • Understanding Human and Computer Interaction to build innovative solutions and solid User Interfaces that limit usability issues and enhance User Experience.  • Usability testing including heuristic evaluations, eye-tracking research, and usability testing.  • Using evidence-based recommendations to improve or optimize designs  • Information Architecture taking into consideration goals of target users, scenarios that support your users meeting their goals, and business objectives for the different components of application design.  • Front- End Development and Product Merchandising  • Taking concepts and building thoughtful solutions using wireframes, design patterns, user interface design, user experience, information architecture and design layout. Using HTML 5, CSS, and Bootstrap. Building Responsive Design Interfaces. UI Developer Internet Marketing Bar February 2015 to May 2015 • Understanding Human and Computer Interaction to build innovative solutions and solid User Interfaces that limit usability issues and enhance User Experience.  • Usability testing including heuristic evaluations, eye-tracking research, and usability testing.  • Using evidence-based recommendations to improve or optimize designs  • Information Architecture taking into consideration goals of target users, scenarios that support your users meeting their goals, and business objectives for the different components of application design.  • Taking concepts and building thoughtful solutions using wireframes, design patterns, user interface design, user experience, information architecture and design layout. Using PHP, HTML 5, CSS, and Bootstrap. Building Responsive Design Interfaces, mobile first design. Sr. Online Design and Development Manager MyEcheck, Inc May 2014 to February 2015 • Established UX Design as the first stage of all web and mobile developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach  • Overhauled website to optimize the user experience. Newly launched site catapulted visit-to-lead and visit-to-order ratios, while shrinking page-abandonment rate by over 40%.  • Led UX design on groundbreaking mobile applications that displaced competitors by remaining ahead of the curve in anticipating user needs; delivered interactive device app designs that met the requirements and strategy goals of the company.  • Pioneered the use of A/B split testing for several marketing campaigns, facilitating response-rate gains of 25% on email campaigns and landing pages.  • Built PHP Plugins and Modules for WordPress and Drupal 7 Sr. Online Design and Development Manager Care Innovations July 2011 to April 2014 • Managed, strategized, and launched several web projects for multiple customer-facing websites.  • Management and Development of an award winning e-commerce web store and corporate website.  • Helped execute Advanced SEO strategies along with managing keywords and optimizing content for lead generation campaigns  • Setup Advanced Analytics for measuring success and overall ROI for multiple campaigns running in parallel.  • Project Management for several projects running simultaneously with great a high success rate and always on time or ahead of schedule  • Responsive Design on Drupal and WordPress platforms. Sr. Web Designer & Developer February 2010 to June 2011 Worked several small contract jobs Web Designer SAFE Credit Union May 2009 to February 2010 • Web Content Management  • Customer Messaging and Newsletter management  • Redesigned FAQ section of the website  • Motion Graphics Chief Information Officer Brand New Homes, Inc March 2006 to May 2009 • Established and Developed IT infrastructure and documentation for Network Design for over 50 nodes  • Digital Channel & Advertising Management - Inbound and Outbound Marketing  • Researched, strategized and launched several iterations of the Brand New Home Construction search engine website  • Managed several projects to success while managing several teams in the IT department (Design, Development, Support, Data, and Information Architecture) Education Master's in Internet Marketing Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL March 2012 to January 2014 Bachelor's in Web Design / User Experience / Web Development Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL October 2010 to February 2012 Bachelor's in Information Technology/Information Technology Systems University of Phoenix-Sacramento Valley Campus - Sacramento, CA July 2006 to September 2010 Associate in Application Development MTI Business College Inc - Sacramento, CA 2005 Diploma in Computer Support Specialist MTI College - Sacramento, CA 2004 Communication & Analyst Skills MTI College 2004 Skills Sketch (8 years), User Experience (10+ years), Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), UX (10+ years), Wireframe (10+ years), UI Design (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), User Stories (10+ years), User Flow (10+ years), Usability Testing (10+ years), Analytics (10+ years), User Research (10+ years), User Journey (10+ years) Patents User Interaction and Live Auction (#Patent Pending - User Interaction and Live Auction) 2018-06