Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Boston, MA Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Pulsar Security May 2019 to Present worked with React JS, Node and Material framework. Fixed site for responsive design and architected atomic design. Also created graphs using Canvas.js for React. Senior Front End Developer Contracts and Work 2002 to Present United Technologies January 2019 to May 2019 worked with React JS with JSS, Node and Sitecore Integration and created test scripts with Jest for react for several of their product pages.    • Eaton Vance (March 2018 to December 2018)  Work on an internal app called Sherpa that allow financial advisers to compare several sources of data.  Bootstrap 4, sass, Angular 5, 6, node and typescript.    • Analog Devices (April 2017 to February 2018)  Re-write the analog.com site in react JS, Team lead and worked on the integration of React and Sitecore CMS, develop react framework for future projects and current PST app.  React JS, Redux, Material Framework and bootstrap.    • Liberty Mutual (September 2017 to November 2017)  Internal Claims data iPad application for field adjusters  React Native, Redux, IOS JavaScript, CSS3. JavaScript and manager in Adobe Marketing The Children's Place July 2017 to September 2017 Manager. Customer Service Admin Application September 2016 to February 2017 React JS, Redux, Sass, Material Framework, MSSQL. respistory.com June 2014 to December 2016 JavaScript, Knockout.js, Angular.js, Ember.js, Ajax, jQuery, react.js, ember.js, tree.js HTML5, CSS3, lazy-loading, GIT, Cold Fusion, Bootstrap, Integration with Adobe Experience Manager.  Coded and implemented respistory.com, http://www.bdunscripted.com/, brovana.com, http://www.bevocalspeakup.com. Team lead and developer Sapient Nitro March 2016 to August 2016 for Liberty Mutual Telematics Mobile App. React Native, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, node.js and watchman environment.  Setup Jenkins build server for IOS, Android and React Native client Arabella insurance January 2016 to March 2016 Develop and build an app for client Arabella insurance.  HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Express, node JS, gulp, Sequializer. (MEAN Stack) http://www.distractology.com  React - Redux, Sass, Node, Developed an Interactive quiz for Liberty Mutual.  http://jackmorton.sshstech.com:3000 Boston Financial Data Services January 2014 to June 2014 JavaScript, Knockout.js, Ajax, jQuery, ember.js, HTML5, CSS3, local storage, GIT, JAVA, bootstrap.  Designed, Coded and implemented an exchanges solution for mutual funds. Developed all front end and UI from wire frames to function application. Novartis June 2013 to December 2013 JavaScript, Knockout.js, ember, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, local storage, SVN, .NET, Designed, Coded and implemented a CELN web app, that allowed to view list and content of experiments for the chemist use.    • Loomis Sayles (January 2013 - June 2013)  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, knockout JS, Ember.js, HTML5, CSS3, web apps, SVN, mongo db.  Design Microsoft SQL DB implemented a web app that allowed employees to follow news and colleagues. I also Implemented an administration too.    • MIT. (October 2012 - December 2012)  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery, backbone, bootstrap, Mobile, knockout, HTML5, CSS3, iPad iPhone web app.  Implemented a prototype front end for a grading application, Agile, GIT, Rails. Harvard Business School January 2012 to October 2012 JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, HTML5, CSS3, FBML iPad iPhone app.  Implemented and designed mobile website, Developed home page carrousel HTML5 jQuery CCS3, Microsoft SharePoint.  http://www.exed.hbs.edu  http://m.exed.hbs.edu PHT Inc April 2010 to December 2011 JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, css3, SQL lite, cake PHP, web app, iPad iPhone app, agile environment ruby on rails.  Implemented a web app to be used on iPad, iPhone, and android devices.  http://leapfrog.sshstech.com (this is an HTML5 web kit project only works on chrome or safari)  http://leapfrog.sshstech.com/webcakeservice/ (PHP Cake, jQuery)    • Pink berry.  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, FBML iPad app.  Implemented an iPad application to interact with pink berry Facebook fan page.  http://pinkberry.sshsmedia.com    • CDFmax.  JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, PHP, WordPress.  Worked with the UI front end and backend of WordPress to implement the templates as well and dynamic and static content.  http://www.CDFmax.com    • Gogreenwingreen.com site for Tank designs  JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, PHP, MySQL.  Worked with the ui and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages.    • Texbooks.com.  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, PHP, smarty.  Worked with the ui and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages. And created the web cart.  http://www.texbooks.com    • Goby.  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, PHP, smarty.  Worked with the UI and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages.    • Graytogreenadventures.com.  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML.  Designed and Implemented the page from the ground up, implementing design on html, ajax, jQuery and CSS  http://www.graytogreenadventures.com    • ACI Worldwide.  JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML.  Designed interactive menus for banking web applications. Designed the UI and programmed the menus that drive the applications for the intranet applications.    • Bostonmunch.com  CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, HTML, PHP, WordPress, MySQL  Designed, programmed the whole site from the ground up.  http://www.bostonmunch.com Kayak Inc March 2007 to March 2009 CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Velocity, jQuery, jQuery-UI  Used jQuery, CSS, java and velocity templates to implement UI components on the search results pages, like the slider controls, and the caption system for the search results.  www.kayak.com    • Second Rotation Inc.  CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Ruby on Rails, Flex  Created and developed, pricing widgets on AJAX, jQuery interfacing with the back end on ruby on rails back end, also implemented an interface for displaying results page interface with rapid ruby on rails development front end.    • TimesHealth.co.uk  CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL.  Converted and produce the site for the magazine, from the traineo.com engine platform.    • N2N Commerce, Victoria Secret online store  CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and Demandware scripting language, In charge of front end development and UI design.  www.victoriasecret.com    • Harvard Business School.  Online Friends Survey  Business and Economics Research Faculty.  http://survey2.hbs.edu/mp/?hid=ty67zz  https://survey2.hbs.edu/mpj/margarita.php  Designer, Developer and Producer / Manager, PHP, smarty, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax    • Barebonz Entertainment.  www.barebonz.com  PHP and smarty templating, AJAX, UI web 2.0, MySQL and flash, action script, CSS, AJAX, Smarty, PHP, JavaScript, I also Managed and Directed the project    • www.geek.com  Price Grabber Widget, AJAX, PHP and XML, Developer    • Red Sox  Internal Ticket system. Intranet Only, AJAX, JavaScript, C#, MSSQL  UI Designer, Developer, Manager, Google Map  Ajax, Java Script, Google API    • www.mexaboston.com  PHP Fox, PHP, smarty, Ajax. UI web 2.0  Designer, Developer, Manager, Producer.    • www.berkleemuisc.com  TCL, AJAX, DHTML, JavaScript, PostgreSQL  UI Designer, Developer and producer    • BKJ Productions, Worked on customizing custom packages, like OS-Commerce for non profit www.humanmedia.org, Open-Reality, (www.otisahearn.com ), Also worked with Flash Action, www.thepenmark.com, www.cedarmearcohaset.com    • Modernista!.  Napster Ad Website. Responsible for the coding of PHP and MySQL and flash also integrating In vision bulletin board into the site.    • Barebonz Entertainment LLC  Responsible to Support technology Setup the MySQL PHP database driven side of the website for their artists. www.barebonz.com www.superlowmusic.com  Implemented VPN and secure access to the internal LAN, also developed a reporting tool for online record sales and Online royalty reports for artist all of this on the web and user access controlled.    • Professional Audio Design Inc.  IT Director. In charge of designing, managing, supporting the intranet, and accounting systems. Other responsibilities included maintaining internal hardware and software, network management, and customer service support on IT related issues. Skills include: Asp, C#, and .net integration with dynamics accounting system, also PHP, Java, MySQL database development, management and installation of Microsoft 2000/2003 server, Linux 7.0, Macintosh OS X server, Apache Server, MySQL server, ftp server, DCHP server, MSSQL 4D server. TCP/IP, Routers, DNS, 802.11 and VPN networks connecting the Developed dynamic report queries from MS SQL and Horizons Reporting tool into dynamic Intranet generated websites  SSL encryption generated websites on ASP and PHP  implemented Backups and Security of the LAN and VPN WAN between the corporate in MA and offices in NYC and LA    • Massachusetts Communication College,  (Assistant Engineer) Digital post and Analog Studios. Managed deployment of Macintosh workstations for MIDI, audio recording, and digital post production on Windows 2000 servers.    Other Abilities or Skills  Music producer, music writer, sound design, music for commercials, music production for Boston Local Rock Bands and LA are bands.    Speaks: Spanish, French Education Bachelor's