Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Amplify.com Kingston, NY Work Experience Front- End Developer Amplify.com - New York, NY September 2016 to Present As part of the design team, headed the creation of a company-wide design system to create a unified style across departments and create reusable web components.  ? Worked with designers and developers to revamp the company's administrative panel for educators and administrators. I developed web interfaces and functionality that were incorporated into the administrative tool by React developers.  ? Created UI functionality prototypes of components and pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Vue.js and React.js.  ? I created the company's Center For Early Education site.  ? Animated a cartoon owl.  ? Created prototype of educational software product for early word training for children, incorporating animation and interactivity. Revamped functionality reflecting user testing and research. Principal, 2bit Creative www.2bitcreative.com - New York, NY May 2003 to Present Designed and developed web sites, printed communications and brand identities for small businesses, off-Broadway theaters, celebrity chefs, educational institutions and artists. Front-to-back design and implementation of web sites, including use of Flash, HTML, CSS, WordPress, PHP and JavaScripting. Created print products for clients, including catalogs, logos, business identities, CD packaging, advertisements and other promotional materials.    Clients include: ? Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, Built web sites for numerous Brookyn-based businesses ? Penguin/Viking Books, Designed web site for the novel After: www.after-book.com ? J Walter Thompson, Designed Flash banners and comps for site sections ? Ally's Kitchen, www.allyskitchen.com, Wireframe and WordPress implementation ? CafeMom.com, Created Flash banner ads and templates ? Education Dynamics, Designed and coded e-mail messaging ? TransitCheck, September 2008: Designed mailings and e-mail blasts ? First Impression Interactive, Flash/HTML banner design for online schools ? Doubledown Media, Designed microsite www.wallstreetsmoke.com ? Superhifimusic.com, designed web site for afrobeat band ? Triad Theater, www.triadnyc.com, designed web site for off-Broadway live performance venue ? Lisa Lindgren.com, designed Flash site for NYC visual artist ? Ghastly Greetings.com, designed web site for alternative greeting card company ? Harris Radio, designed promotional materials for music promoter Senior Front- End Developer / WordPress Developer Mediabistro.com - New York, NY May 2016 to September 2016 Worked on front- end development of sites Mediabistro.com and Clios.com. Created HTML and styles and scripted UX interactivity on the site.  ? Employed HTML, CSS and Javascript, including JQuery to create interactive elements on Mediabistro.com and Clios.com.  ? Created WordPress custom plugins and themes for the Clios.com site.  ? Created custom WordPress templates for special pages.  ? Used Git for version control and file conflict management. Senior Developer / Designer / SEO Specialist Docero.com - New York, NY June 2014 to November 2015 Created web development infrastructure for marketing company geared toward doctors and medical professionals.  ? Developed and sometimes designed multiple sites (30+) for the start-up company, setting up staging environments, databases, WordPress installations, form structures, SEO and other analysis tools.  ? Created fully-responsive web sites based on designs using SASS and the Bootstrap framework to ensure cross-device compatibility.  ? Developed all sites under industry-standard semantic web guidelines to ensure maximum SEO and relevance in content-based web searches.  ? Leveraged Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager and Google AdWords as well as other tools to develop effective keyword strategy and user-conversion strategies.  ? Set up Git version control for all projects and created development environments for sites.  ? Launched sites when completed, handling all domain pointing, MX records and URL forwarding to retain SEO value.  ? Trained staff on using WordPress to update content on site. Front- End / User Interface Developer KBS+ - New York, NY March 2012 to May 2014 Agency has since shuttered. Read about it here:  https://digiday.com/marketing/inside-agency-kbs-new-york    Created numerous sites for the advertising agency's premiere clients, including BMW, Audi, Puma, Goldman Sachs, Luden's, Chloraseptic and Nicki Minaj.    ? Crafted unique user interfaces in conjunction with designers and UX team.  ? Created sites from design mockups using HTML, CSS, SASS, JQuery. Optimized imagery and code files for maximum site performance with file spriting, concatenation and minification.  ? Adhered to fully-responsive and mobile-first web development philosophies.  ? Optimized sites for ease-of-use on tablets and phones.  ? Incorporated meta-tagging and semantic HTML to improve sites' SEO performance. Front- End / Flash Developer Saatchi and Saatchi - New York, NY April 2009 to February 2012 Created touch-based multimedia sales presentations for Pfizer pharmaceutical representatives using Flash CS5, ActionScript 3 and the proprietary Exploria platform. Designed and developed user interface of tablets as part of user experience team. Wireframed tablet functionality and created intuitive animations for pages and navigation. Implemented Flash and JQuery functionality on tablets, sites for pitches and the Saatchi and Saatchi Health company web site. Created HTML e-mails as well as Flash and static ad banners for numerous clients, including Allegra, Nestle and Pfizer. Newsletter Art Director Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation - New York, NY February 2002 to July 2002 Managed production of newsletter with circulation of 70,000 for the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, helping it achieve its yearly goal of raising 5 million dollars for cancer research Producer/Web Developer CNET Networks, Inc - San Francisco, CA March 1999 to May 2000 Headed up co-branding development projects, coordinating business, design and engineering departments in timely completion of co-branded products Content Producer Netguide Live, CMP Media - San Francisco, CA March 1997 to December 1998 Developed and produced entertainment and news channels of Snap!, writing and editing stories and creating topic-oriented pages encapsulating the best sites on the web Education BA Wesleyan University - Middletown, CT UX and Web Development Parsons School of Design - New York, NY Interaction Design Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA Skills Front End Development (10+ years), UI (7 years), React (2 years), Javascript (9 years), User Interface (5 years), CSS3 (6 years), HTML5 (6 years), Node (4 years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Jquery (6 years), Adobe Illustrator (10+ years), User Experience Design (5 years), SEO (5 years), Vue.js (1 year)