Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Confex Technologies Cumberland, RI Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Confex Technologies - Cumberland, RI 2009 to Present Provide Web design services within team environment for leading provider of conference support services for hundreds of client conferences annually in the United States and around the world. Style client-hosted Web sites, create original Web  content, and customize Web pages to ensure consistency with client brand, look, and feel.  • Design, build, and implement Web sites using HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  • Restyle and update designs for internal company Web pages.  • Create and redesign Perl templates to craft dynamic Web pages.  • Fashion MySQL reports for client use.  • Convert MySQL reports to Adobe InDesign files using tagged text formatting for near-printer quality output.  • Utilize HTML5, CSS, SASS, Jquery, and javascript Technical Support Convex Technologies - Cumberland, RI 2000 to 2009 Assist system users with technical issues in navigating online abstract collection system. Provide laypersons with step-by- step written instructions, guidance, and support; write HTML code to assist users; coordinate as member of client  representative team to answer feedback and resolve client service issues. Freelance Web Designer Cumberland, RI 1998 to 2000 Generate original content and redesign, code, build, and implement client Web pages and sites. Field Agent, IT Trainer, and Web Designer Rhode Island Division of Taxation, State of Rhode Island - Providence, RI 1993 to 1997 After starting as a field agent, performing tax audits of corporations for sales/use tax compliance, selected by Directors of  Rhode Island Division of Taxation to train other field agents in the use of database and spreadsheet software, purchase  technology for the department, upgrade laptops used by field agents, and design and construct the first Division of  Taxation website. Education B.S. in Business Administration Bryant University - Smithfield, RI 2004 to Present Skills UI, Front End, Front-End, Javascript, React, CSS3, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface Additional Information • Coordinate with team members to plan, maintain, and code public and private Web site content.  • Create and improve Web pages to ensure internal consistency and consistency with client brand.  • Use MySQL to create reports, and Perl templates to format output.  • Create, code, and style mobile applications for user-friendly access to Web site content.  • Create and edit Perl templates to manipulate dynamic Web site content.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages SASS, CSS, HTML/HTML5, jQuery/Javascript, MySQL, Perl, Template Toolkit  Software MS Office, Adobe Pro, Adobe InDesign, Calibre, Photoshop, Git