Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer - Orion Communications Frisco, TX Driven professional with broad technical skill-set, very strong attention to detail, and over 10 years' experience in front end development technologies including Agile Scrum Methodologies, Jira, SVN Repository, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SQL, jQuery, JSON, XML, Bootstrap and jQuery Mobile. Work Experience Web Application Developer Orion Communications - Dallas, TX October 2018 to Present • Develop and design front- end application for use by public officials using .Net, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.  • Introduced the concept of Cache busting to the company to resolve a cache refreshing issue.  • Coordinate with Interface Design Architects to meet accessibility standards at code level.  • Conduct usability testing to resolve interface problems Front End Web Developer - Contract Citibank - Irving, TX May 2016 to August 2018 • Worked in a very fast paced Agile Scrum team, with 2 weeks sprint cycle and monthly releases.  • Created and edited webpages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2, Typescript, Node.js, XML and JSON to craft standards-compliant cross browser compatible web pages based on design guidelines.  • Redesigned and customized global footer, and content for pre and post logins for responsive and non-responsive pages.  • Used Fire Eyes to provide web accessibility compatible branding across the websites.  • Used HP team site Content Management System for content creation and deployment in tests, UAT and prod environment.  • Heavily used Chrome Developer Tools + Firebug to ensure front- end code and assets were optimized and high-quality. Software Developer Second Phase, Inc - Richardson, TX October 2015 to April 2016 • Developed and maintained a large portion of the smartpointe.net website in an Agile environment using .NET 4.5 technology, HTML, jQuery and CSS.  • Planned and executed website mock ups and took oversight of the project from start to finish.  • Created dynamic JavaScript link for properties that allows a potential customer to click on any address for a map to that particular property.  • Converted selected pages to a responsive design using Bootstrap, SASS and CSS Media Queries.  • Maintained, created and updated multiple stored procedures using T-SQL. Neiman Marcus Group - Irving, TX September 2014 to October 2015 • Maintain and support e-commerce websites in a global cross-functional Agile environment associated with the Neiman Marcus Group of companies using HTML, CSS, SQL, IIS and JavaScript.  • Develop requirements for projects specific to Neiman Marcus and partnered sites.  • Assist in training of new and existing non-technical associates about front- end systems and best practices for Neiman Marcus sites.  • Analyze problems, evaluate solutions, and effectively communicate options and recommendations to the leadership team concerning responsive website development. Website Developer Sally Beauty Holdings - Denton, TX July 2012 to September 2014 Maintain and update multiple Sally Beauty Holdings websites using .NET technology,  HTML, jQuery and CSS utilizing full life cycle development.  • Developed iPad credit application using HTML, CSS, jQuery Mobile and C#.NET  technology.  • Used T-SQL and .NET technology to enhance online customer order history to display  notes that are submitted with orders as well as providing users the opportunity to download their order history via an export to Microsoft Excel. Website Administrator Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship - Dallas, TX March 2009 to June 2012 • Create and maintain church and outreach website of over 200 pages: www.ocbfchurch.org and www.turnaroundagenda.org  • Developed website using content management system, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Collaborated with website hosting company and directors to help develop a proper understanding of customer requirements for website project roadmap.  • Proactively communicate verbal and written project status, issues and concerns to organization directors.  • Clarified requirements, business needs, and project objectives to provide successful launch of website features. Education Bachelor's Skills Front End, Javascript, Angular