Customer Service Customer Service Fort Myers, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Fort Myers Concierge Services (FMCS), FL - Fort Myers, FL January 2008 to Present • Office assistant which included light bookkeeping, setting appointments and correspondence.  • Courier and errand service.  • Made travel arrangements and restaurant reservations.  • Home sitting including but not limited to checking all systems, call for repairs when necessary as well as communicating with repair person and waiting for repairs to be finished and inspected.  • Computer training basic and advanced as needed. Front End Team Member Total Wine & More - Fort Myers, FL October 2017 to August 2018 • Using Point of Sale software to check out customers and collect payment.  • Counting money to be sure till is counted in and out properly.  • Answering phones while helping customers and redirecting to proper persons when needed.  • Customer service by meeting customer needs and answering questions.  • Packing wines, spirits, and beer while occasionally lifting twenty to fifty pounds.  • When necessary restock products. Programmer / Analyst City of Fort Myers - Fort Myers, FL February 2006 to November 2008 • Designed and developed software systems using object oriented design, .Net and VB6 programming languages.  • Assisted with troubleshooting and bug fixing of all systems.  • Wrote documentation of new and existing programs to ensure effective communication. System Developer SourceInterlink Companies, Florida - Bonita Springs, FL 2003 to 2006 • Supplied senior management and department heads with data/reports using SQL data mining techniques such as, queries, stored procedures and ASP.  • Specified and programmed a report generation system using VB/ASP.NET.  • Developed and maintained DTS packages for the export and manipulation of data.  • Maintained and troubleshot EDI Invoicing issues by interfacing with clients and VAN. Education Bachelor's in Forensic Science minor Chemistry Florida Gulf Coast University - Fort Myers, FL August 2011 to December 2014 Skills Marketing (5 years), Quickbooks (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Administrative Assistant (5 years), Data Entry, Outlook, Receptionist