Director of Product Director of Product Director of Product Union City, NJ ? Over 15 years' experience working in an agile (scrum) & waterfall development environment improving user and customer experiences by implementing timely internet solutions that elevate brand image, meet short-term business goals and prepare for long term success. Fluent in translating business requirements from stakeholders into technical specifications.  ? Well-versed in digital media, marketing and data concepts/technicalities i.e. websites, tagging, user journeys, CRO funnel, digital campaign data, A/B testing and building segmentation. Created roadmaps, user stories, clean code and concise documentation that fully detailed the entire software development lifecycle from initial conception to production launch.   ? Resolved multifaceted issues despite the challenges of shifting priorities, deadlines and differing team agendas. Experienced in a variety of design, development, product, data, instructional and technical support roles and extensive experience in web, mobile, OTT, TVE and API development and data management. Work Experience Director of Product AMC Networks - New York, NY June 2016 to December 2018 • Defined product roadmap by collaborating with stakeholders across engineering, product marketing, social media, CRM, digital content/editorial, ad sales, research, business intelligence, project management, QA, customer support and legal.  • Led A/B and multivariate test roadmap strategy, cadence and best practices for personalization, rapid online improvements and development for marketing landing pages and signup flows for video streaming subscription service.   • Improved SEO and SEM performance on AMC Networks websites and apps, based on data and analysis from LeanPlum emails, Localytics push/rich push notifications and in-app messages, Firebase deep and dynamic links, Google universal app campaigns and Appsflyler Onelink universal deep linking for mobile attribution recommending tools and partners for acquisition and activation of new users and customers. Created tagging structure to be used on all external campaigns.  • Launched AMC’s first B2C streaming e-commerce business AMC Premiere, Facebook Instant Articles, Google AMP, Firebase Deep/Dynamic Links, CalReply Marketing Calendar, LiveRamp & Google Optimize.  • Led cross-functional teams on features being used by customers and suggested improvements to increase video views, user video engagement, installs/downloads, upsells, email submissions, account logins and creations.  • Defined audience segments from rewards programs like TWD Rewards and Supply Drop subscriptions and AMC SVOD services like Sundance Now and Shudder.   • Translated business, marketing and editorial requirements into individual epics, features and user stories.   • Recommended processes and procedures to increase subscriptions and to improve CRO, LTV and decrease churn.  • Managed the process to document, assess, prioritize, and deliver product enhancements and roadmap initiatives, while grooming the backlog and managing priorities and tradeoffs during weekly sprint meetings.  • Created and implement go-to-market-strategies, tracked product performance and communicated results to internal teams to develop action plans to meet customer performance targets.  • Defined and set KPIs for new product features and improvements that launched across all video streaming platforms including Web, iOS, Android, Live TV & OTT devices i.e. AppleTV, Roku, FireTV, XBOX, AndroidTV & Chromecast.  • Put into practice user acceptance testing (UAT) for data dependent projects and ensured data development timelines are met. Conducted internal user surveys and user studies on product usability.   • Analyzed site API content, product performance and recommended adjustments to fit business needs.  • Implemented a plan for reviewing historical data, fixing incorrect data, identifying tracking issues and collecting missing data. Improved and maintained data standards, quality, polices and data collection procedures for structured and unstructured data.   • Created periodic and on-demand reports and analysis on KPIs using Google Analytics Premium, Google Data Studio, Tableau, BI Cognos, Big Query, Facebook Insights and MS Office. Managed analytical tools necessary to support ecommerce channels including outside vendor tools like Recurly for e-commerce transactions. Managed vendor relationships.  • Produced automated and simplified dashboards and visualizations to help stakeholders make data driven decisions.   • Chaired the first Employee Resource Group for Diversity & Inclusion sponsored by Josh Sapan, AMCN CEO.  Manager of Digital Media & Web Production AMC Networks - New York, NY June 2009 to June 2016 ? Worked effectively with content/editorial, marketing, PR, ad sales, research, project management and engineering groups to launch marketing initiatives including interactive games and features, newsletters, press kits, sweepstakes and contest.  ? Drove product development with a team of developers and designers. Communicated status of projects to company executives and key operations personnel.  ? Executed an email collection strategy that increased marketing and CRM email distribution list by over 3 million emails for CDP and DMP systems.  ? Implemented targeted, mass marketing campaigns and promotions which increased Web site visits, monthly active users, video views and ad revenue. Measured and reported on performance of campaigns against goals and optimized against future deployment.  ? Drove execution through process improvements, tracking progress and action items, and organizing and overseeing project plans and technical resources allocated within the web team.  ? Worked with cross functional teams to manage content on websites and mobile apps. Provided day-to-day support for WordPress and other content management software.  ? Managed and balanced in-house and offshore developers to meet project timelines. Participated in code reviews and acceptance process in order to improve methodology and delivery of products.  ? Drafted documentation to aid future code usage of content management systems and launches of new website features using Jira, Basecamp, Slack, Microsoft Teams, Confluence, LucidCharts, Zeplin & Trello.  ? Briefed team members on expectations and project progress, and educated them on the operation and nuances of system /software capabilities and upgrades including site redesigns  ? Managed escalations on development related items in case resource conflicts occurred.  ? Implemented and managed tags and code on multiple websites analytics using Omniture, Brightcove, MPX, Google Analytics & Tag Manager.  ? Developed full life-cycle sweepstakes from designing database schema to implementing front- and back- end components, using Adobe CC, Video, HTML, CSS/SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, PHP/MySQL, ChromeDev Tools, and integration with social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and Tumblr.  ? Maintained the AMC.COM & Sundancetv.com website using Movable Type, WordPress, SVN, Git, BrightCove, MPX Akamai and Limelight Senior Front- End Web Developer Condé Nast - New York, NY March 2008 to April 2009 ? Worked with Engineering, Product, Management, QA, Ad Ops, Designers, Information Architects, Creative Services, and the Editorial team to build and maintain Brides.com in an in an agile environment.  ? Responsible for reviewing and providing feedback on product specifications, wireframes and design, developing standards and best practices, drafting technical specifications, cross browser unit testing and using source control and versioning procedures.  ? Responsible for full lifecycle development of templates and client-side functionality based on wireframes, design files, and functional specifications utilizing Photoshop, Flash, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript/JQuery.  ? Collaborated with backend developers and database team to integrate backend code with frontend code in JSPs using JSTL and Tiles. Worked with QA team to make sure all code worked properly for schedule builds and releases. User Interface (UI) Engineer THE Ladders - New York, NY September 2007 to February 2008 ? Implemented user-centric Web application interfaces from wireframes and PSDs by working closely with the design and product team. Developed weekly emails using front- end code and testing emails in Lyris.   ? Worked closely with back- end developers to integrate JAVA code and front- end code using Photoshop, XHTML, CSS, JSTL, ECLIPSE, IntelliJ, CVS, and JavaScript maintaining a clean well-structured code base using Web 2.0 standards. Used Jira for project management and team workflow.   ? Responsible for giving estimates on all new web applications to project managers and business owners. Created and documented internal web standards and processes to be used by all UI team members. Worked with QA team to make sure all front- end code works properly for weekly releases and A/B test. Education MA in Media Management & Interactive Multimedia NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - New York, NY BS in Information Technology NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY - Raleigh, NC Skills JIRA (5 years), Google Analytics (9 years), Adobe CC (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Wordpress (8 years), Confluence (3 years), Basecamp (8 years), SQL (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Product Development (5 years), Product Management (5 years), Marketing (9 years), Agile (10+ years), Scrum (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Data Analysis (5 years), Business Analysis (5 years), Photoshop (10+ years), A/B Testing (5 years), Git (3 years), Javascript (5 years), PHP (5 years), jQuery (5 years), MySQL (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Android (5 years)