Graphic Designer Graphic Designer Graphic and Web Design Woodland Hills, CA I'm a Graphic and Web Designer with experience that ranges from working with startups to consulting on corporate global design. I love challenges, learning new skills and I'm passionate about branding and identity. In addition to being a creative, my professional background began in sales and my focus will always be on providing customers with the best experience possible.     Some of my skills include template creation, typography, wireframing, publication and digital design as well as Adobe CC, Sketch, HTML and CSS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Designer Meltwater - San Francisco, CA November 2016 to March 2019 As Graphic Designer, I was tasked with redesigning all major assets within the America’s marketing department. This included Meltwater’s case studies, ebooks, resource and blog webpages.     I regularly collaborated with the Lead of Content and Senior Graphic Designer regarding the Meltwater brand, it's projects and direction. I also partnered with other departments in conceptualizing, organizing, and developing global design.     I created on-brand, customer-focused design solutions that met measurable business goals and requirements by integrating marketing objectives, insightful data and creative elements into strong campaign designs.    I supported sales teams by bringing big ideas to life through ideation and creation of high fidelity designs for marketing collateral and materials. Production Artist Meltwater - San Francisco, CA September 2016 to November 2016 Created, edited and designed files of deliverables for Marketing and Sales. Generated graphics for use in various social media channels. Supported strategic projects and initiatives under the direction of Senior Graphic Designer.     Responsible for executing compelling and strategic online, mobile and print campaigns. Seeing a project through to the end was important in order to ensure effective branding. Front- End Developer/Designer Lee • Jagoe Architecture - Monterey, CA July 2015 to September 2016 As Web Developer, I oversaw the creation Lee-Jagoe Architecture’s website. I worked closelywith the owners to prioritize work with a focus on efficiency. Together, we created a website thatmet the company's growing business needs. Web Designer Intern Boomity - San Francisco, CA August 2015 to October 2015 As a Web Design Intern, I was accountable for creating various landing pages for a range of targeted audiences.     I concepted, designed and executed using a wide variety of tools such as Adobe CC, Balsamiq and Dreamweaver. I also supported the Developer by making changes to HTML, CSS and Javascript within Bootstrap templates. Retirement and Investment Specialist Bank of America May 2005 to May 2013 Sold FDIC backed IRAs, Money Market and 401 accounts to a range of clients. Education Bachelor of Science in Graphic and Web Design The Art Institute of California - San Francisco, CA June 2016 Associate of Science in Graphic Design The Art Institute of California - San Francisco, CA June 2014 Associate of Arts in Liberal Arts Diablo Valley College - Pleasant Hill, CA May 2008 Skills Front-End Web Development, Web Design, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Wireframing, Branding, After Effects, Indesign, Photoshop, Graphic Design, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Layout, Typography, Publication Design, Banner Design, Marketing, Landing Page Design, Marketo, Google Analytics, Bitly, Bootstrap, Sketch, High Fidelity Mockups, Case Studies, Project Management, Concepting, Copywriting Links http://designbyadamlee.com Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vlgxhgprzl5laut7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.