West Hftd, CT - Technical Support Specialist West Hftd, CT - Technical Support Specialist Programmer/ Developer Cheshire, CT I am returning to the software development field. Over the past couple of months I have been coding in PHP for web development and C# for Windows Desktop. I now administer and develop on 3 Linux web servers running Ubuntu 19.4, Apache 2.4, MySql, PHP 7. I am now experienced in generating and installing a commercial SSL certificate on Linux.    Filezilla, PuTTy, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio 2013, 2019    I am a life-long learner. No challenge is too big! No problem unsolvable! Work Experience West Hftd, CT - Technical Support Specialist Rugsale.com March 2016 to December 2016 Provided technical support for the development of www.rugsale.com  • Coded in C# a Windows application to convert MySQL queries to XML to import product base into WordPress, Shop Site, Woocommerce, AmeriCommerce  • Developed in jQuery, HTML, PHP, SOLR to provide search on website Web Developer, Back- end Logosportswear - Wallingford, CT August 2012 to March 2016 Coded PHP for back end enterprise software system in a Team environment  • Developed the Product Returns (RA) system to improve user experience and add new features  • Worked on other systems as needed  • Attended SCRUM meetings  • Utilized PHP, JSON, jQuery, Ajax, MySQL, XML    Developed VB.NET Windows application for the shipping department  • Validated the completeness of every order by comparing order requirements to the application user's visual review of the order  • Determined the most efficient and cost effective method of shipping Web Developer, Front- end Barker Specialty Co - Cheshire, CT 2016 to 2016 • Maintain existing custom websites for clients  • ASP.NET/VB, MS Visual Studio 2010, SQL Express Sr. .Net Developer Barker Advertising Specialties - Cheshire, CT June 1999 to October 2009 Programmed and developed custom e-commerce websites  • Developed sites in ASP/VB.NET/SQL ( B2C & B2B Punch-out )   • B2B using: cXml, CIF, SAP, OracleExchange, ProcureIT  • Developed Windows Desktop Applications in VB.NET  • Managed relationship with web hosting company  • Provided first-issue network, hardware support  • Developed highly visible sites for Honeywell generating $90,000 / mo. for www.AutolitePLP.com     Windows Server 2000-2003, IIS, DNS, SMTP, FTP, MS SQL    • Earlier website development in Classic ASP/VBScript, XML, XSLT  • Earlier Windows development in VB6 Shipping/Receiving Manager Rush Computer - Wallingford, CT November 1996 to June 1999 • Receive hardware, software and peripherals into inventory system  • Dispatch hardware to clients throughout North America  • Performed weekly inventory of hardware    • Developed MS Excel application to maintain and track location of new hardware/software   • Developed CA-Realizer VB application to post retired rental equipment to eBay for sale  • Wrote an HTML Shipping/Receiving help system Programmer/Analyst Anacomp, Inc. - East Hartford, CT 1988 to 1996 • Setup parameters in Bell & Howell COM ( Computer Output Microfiche ) software to add Titles, page numbers, dates, etc. onto 105mm microfiche at run time.  • Setup external indexing programs to capture customer data, sort it, and film  • Programmed on DEC PDP-11 mini computers using the RT11 O/S  • Dumped customer data, reviewed programming logic to determine cause and solution for problems    Accolades:  • Wrote a BASIC program to determine correct amount of duplicate copies to make of a microfiche, replacing a hand-written method, increasing efficiency by 40%. Received a letter and $100 bonus from our data center manager.  • Wrote an RT11 BASIC program batch file editor. Batch file needed to be entered correct the first time or be reentered.  • Wrote a GW-BASIC program to read binary microfiche setup files ( .com ) and make changes to exposure reduction parameters. This was done to complete a software conversion scheduled to be done manually by a few programmers. The success of this project lead to a promotion transfer to the New Hampshire satellite as lead Programmer/Analyst. Education High school or equivalent Cheshire High School - Cheshire, CT 1985 Skills .net, C#, Desktop applications, Javascript, Json, Php, Vba, Vb6, Xml, Xsl, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Mysql, Sql, Apache, Linux, jquery, Ms office, Photoshop 5.0, HTML, Paint.NET Additional Information SKILLS  Linux server, Ubuntu 19.04 OS, Apache 2.4, MySql, PHP 5, 7,   ASP.NET/VB, VB/C# .NET Windows Desktop Applications, MS SQL  JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, XML, XSL, JSON  VBA, VB6, MS Office suite, PhotoShop 5.0, Web Services