Front- End Computer Programmer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Computer Programmer Front- End Computer Programmer - CHELLE LLC Marion, WI Work Experience Front- End Computer Programmer CHELLE LLC 2019 to Present Founder of a computer programming company after splitting from ICTUS Communications LLC.  Focusing on graphic design, website design, website programming, and virtual assistance  services. Primarily provide front- end website programming as independent contractor for Minnesota-based software company. Doubled net income in first six-months of business. Level 3 Treatment Foster Parent FOUNDATIONS 2018 to Present Provide foster care for children placed through Foundations as a state licensed foster parent.  Completed all required training hours and maintain appropriate documentation regarding care for children. CFO/Web Developer ICTUS COMMUNICATIONS LLC 2010 to 2019 Joint founder of communications company focusing on graphic design, website design, website  programming, and virtual assistance services. Started company with 1 national client and expanded to 20+ repeat clients. Completed an average of 300+ professional work orders  annually; designed and programmed 10+ dynamic websites. Increased gross revenue by 67%, net income by 258%, and decreased expenses by 21% in 6 years. Substitute Paraprofessional MARION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 2016 to 2018 Work as a substitute for the local elementary school, providing one-on-one support for children with special educational needs. Sales Coordinator ACCUVAL ASSOCIATES 2007 to 2010 Implemented CRM, developed report and contract templates, and managed integrity of contact and project data. Developed and implemented training programs. Solicited,  researched, wrote, and programmed newsletters to 40,000+ subscribers, maintaining an 18%  to 20% open rate. Assisted with a complete rebrand of two companies in 2008/2009, including  drafting website content for 250+ pages. Awarded for "Highest Quality Work Product" and member of the Selection Committee for the "Tigger Award". Account Representative / Corporate Sales Coordinator VEOLIA ES SOLID WASTE MIDWEST, INC 2004 to 2007 Presented company products and services using corporate sales process, including negotiation  and execution of service contracts; provided proactive account retention; assisted with the development of goals, tracking procedures, and direct marketing campaigns. Developed and  coordinated: responses to requests for proposals, marketing campaigns, manuals, and training  guides. Implemented training programs for sales representatives and managers, incorporating  software, sales strategies, and management skills. Generated sales statistics and analytical  reports for forecasting and budgeting purposes. Sr. Project Representative of NDPPS (National Design, Proposal & Production Services) KPMG, LLP 2001 to 2004 Coordinated and completed 800+ financial statements, correspondence, proposals, and presentations annually from initial draft to final production. Maintained a high level of  customer service satisfaction, achieving a perfect score of 5.00% in 2002 and receiving an  "Encore" award in 2003. Sales Administrator CHANEY INSTRUMENT CO 2000 to 2001 Teamed with Director of Sales and Marketing to provide daily support. Assisted with development of new commercial segment: marketing, product development, sales, customer  service, and support. Prepared monthly forecast for 500 SKUs achieving 70% accuracy.  Maintained customer, prospect, and manufacture representative databases. Designed  proposals and presentations. Office Administrator MAX GENEVA REALTY 1998 to 2000 Administered day-to-day operations. Created and implemented organizational systems, policies, and procedures; published internal informational newsletters, coordinated public and  company events. Developed marketing tools for multi-million dollar properties Receptionist / Executive Assistant / Team Leader ARROW PRODUCTS 1997 to 1998 Maintained positive customer and vendor relationships on a multi-line switchboard, averaging  300+ calls per day. Managed a staff of temporary and permanent employees. Team responsible  for processing pallets of returned fulfillment products. Successfully brought the entire  department to the current status of same day processing within 6 months, eliminating the backlog of 163 pallets of merchandise. Education BA in Pre-Law Liberty University March 2021 BA in Social Work Walden University 2016 to 2018 Carthage College General Education 1993 to 1995 Skills Graphic design, Wordpress, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, C#