Software Developer V Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> V Software Developer V - Bank of America Charlotte, NC Work Experience Software Developer V Bank of America - Charlotte, NC May 2018 to Present Continuation of Risk Analysis UI work with BofA.. Worked with a team 5-6 UI developers to bring the Value Information Services Management Sytem project from the groud to production in approximately 9 months. This a very large banking application that hepls the bank, regulators, and external vendors manage colateral appraisals.  Technologies: AngularJS 5 HTML5, JavaScript, Jasmine, Protractor, ag-grid, KendoUI Developer Project Initiator February 2018 to May 2018 • Open source project web application designed as a container for consumption and 2D/3D graphical presentation of freely available data. Financial market and news data is used as a starting point.  • UI/UX: React/Redux/Re-select Materia-UI SPA container for D3 and Canvas Visualizations.  • Services: Python Flask. Flask-Restful, uWSGI, Nginx, MongoDB, Ubuntu 16.  Technologies: D3, WebGL, 3js, HTML5 Canvas API, reactJs, redux, jest, enzyme, re-select, github, Node, Angular 5, Material-UI, Python Flask MongoDB, Node, PHP and Postgres Database.  Motivation: Design, build and deploy a container application for use by the community and collaborative development, learning and exposition by data analitics developers and others for implementing common visualization frameworks as part of modern UI frameworks. Future implementations are in progress using Angular 5 for the UI/UX and alternate server implementations using Node, PHP and an alternate database solution with postgresql. Web Software Developer RedBox - Chicago, IL January 2018 to January 2018 React JS programmer helping to recode Redbox website.  Technologies: reactJs, redux, jest, enzyme, re-select, github Software Development Architect/Lead GUI Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC October 2015 to December 2017 • Perform general working sprint functions as primary software architect and lead programmer on a full stack web application team developing screens and business logic using Angular 2+, in addition to development of J2EE services to Oracle, and PySpark to HDFS/Hive and Flask Rest Framework.  • Providing Proof of Concept designs, AngularJS 1.x and 2.x.  • Lead migration of JavaScript layer to Angular 2, angular-cli, Node, Webpack.  • SME and Lead functions for a group of front end developers (4 - 6), and Client/Server integration design strategies for server stacks mentioned.  • Design/Code/Test of model executions for regulatory agency CCAR submission in BOA Commercial Asset Quality Risk Department.  • Provide custom reports via HTML Canvas with WebGl, jsPDF, and/or SVG DOM with D3 and React JS.  • Designed and coded Reporting REST service in Python Flask-Rest and Apache Hive using AVRO Schemas as a Real Time persitant store.  Technologies: AngularJS 1.x, 2.0, HTML5, JavaScript, Jasmine, Protractor, D3, WebGl, Custom 2d Canvas PDF and Report, jQuery, Java REST Services, Python RPCs, Agile SDLC, GIT, Jira, Bitbucket, SVN, Maven J2EE build stack, Oracle DB, Stored Procedures, Impala to Hadoop Bridge, PySpark, AVRO, Hive, Hadoop Linux execution environment. Software Engineer/AngularJS Front End Developer Scholastic Inc - Boston, MA January 2015 to October 2015 • Currently in active development of a conversion of educational software written in FLEX to pure native HTML5/JavaScript.  • Using AngularJS and RequireJS to build a single page application for young readers.  • Performed advanced Jasmine scripting for code coverage on all activities.  • Performed general working sprint functions of a front end engineering team related to development of screens and business logic, and code coverage unit testing.  Technologies: AngularJS, RequireJS, Jasmine, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Agile Development, Node, Grunt, Bower, JavaScript Build Stack Environment Senior SME Consultant/Architect Vanguard - Charlotte, NC August 2014 to December 2014 • Subject Matter Expert on a 48 million dollar agile software project to convert a java server based web application for institutional investment plans to a Client-Side AngularJS single page application.  • Coordinated with all corporate level front end developer leads and management to recommend general direction and problem solving techniques focused primarily around AngularJS application code base size and memory management.  • Implemented specific AngularJS and D3 solutions for data visualization along with Jasmine testing.  • Performed general working sprint functions of a build engineering team related to automated testing, code coverage and enforcement.  Technologies: AngularJS, D3, Jasmine, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Agile Development, Maven, XML, Eclipse, SVN Consultant/Programmer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC May 2013 to August 2014 • Serving as client-side framework developer coding the first fully mobile web deployment of the Bank of America consumer web application. Focusing on AJAX and all aspects of Cross Origin Resource Sharing and American's with Disabilities Act.  • Converting business wireframe to mobile web presentation with CSS/HTML5/JavaScript/JQuery across all browser technologies.  • Focused on researching and developing new approaches for B of A framework including AngularJS, Node.JS, Socket.IO, nginx web server proxies, Apache Cordova, and others listed below.  • Deployed modular components designed for mobile device web browsers for internal API teams with Angular 1.x and Enber with Handlebars.  • Code and test of new server-side J2EE plugins specifically written to support mobile web and on-line banking teams.  Technologies: HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Handlebars, Ember, CSS3, AJAX, Angular JS. Android, iOS and WinPhone 8 SDK. Perforce source control. J2EE. Spring Framework with Apache Tomcat/Maven Research Associate University of North Carolina September 2008 to April 2012 • Served as Application Architect during software deployment for First Responder Emergency exercises with campus police. Primary duties included producing data visualizations of campus specific business requirements, using custom coded canvas, desktop and SVG renderings.  • Developed 3D applications for iOS and Android platform. Integrated mobile platforms with RPC servers, databases, Apache web servers.  • Proficient in production of custom coded 3D Visual Analytics tools for display of large temporal-spatial datasets with a cross platform focus using OpenGL, GLES2.  • Created cross platform reporting tools for browsers running on all platforms with HTML5 Canvas, SVG, and/or WebGL.  • Maintained Postgre SQL database for a team of developers. Produced Web based Oracle10x application for student distribution analysis.  • Custom embedded applications using 9DOF sensor fusion for indoor asset tracking with remote monitoring.  Technologies: Python, Java(Android), PHP, VTK, C/C++, HTML5, JavaScript(Node, Three, Dojo, JQuery, D3, Kinetic), CSS3, AJAX, Django, PostgreSQL, QT4, PySide, SQL, NoSQL, PL/SQL, GWT(Google), WebKit, Pyjamas, Python for Android and iOS. Owner/Operator Neighbourhood Networks, Inc - Charlotte, NC 2002 to 2007 • Designed and developed an Open Source implementation of a wireless and wired network specifically targeting the residential neighbourhood environment.  • Developed proficiency with the Linux derivatives in the areas of kernel manipulation and compiling, wireless networking, iptable routing and firewalls, TCP/IP, Send mail and User Admin, PTP security with Open RADIUS, clustering with Open MOSIX and many others applications.  • Developed web based Digital Video Recorder scheduling and management consoles for administration of a fully functioning test environment of a 5 nodes. Consultant/Programmer Ciber, Inc - Charlotte, NC 1998 to 2002 Software Designer/Engineer at SABRE Inc. for the US Airways Financial Department and Ticketing Database. Y2K Support First Union Bank and Web Back End development at IBM Charlotte.  Technologies: Linux, HTTP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS. Software Developer/Design Architect CSC, Inc. Formerly PMSC, Inc - Columbia, SC 1995 to 1998 • Developed Client Server Software for the Insurance Industry.  • Lead architect data warehousing. SDLC. GEICO transaction support for 3 million transactions per day.  Technologies: Windows API in OS2 & Microsoft Windows, MVS, COBOL, C/C++, DB2, CICS, TCP/IP, SQL, JCL, Java. Engineering Department Supervisor Springs Industries, Inc - Lancaster, SC 1991 to 1994 • Supervised a large multi-craft maintenance team on 3rd shift at the largest textile finishing plant in the US.  • Reduced equipment downtime by 50%. Nuclear Trained Electronics Technician United States Navy 1982 to 1990 • Served 8 years as a Reactor Operator in the Reactor Controls division on a nuclear submarine.  • Maintained equipment associated with a naval nuclear propulsion plant.  • Achieved supervisory watch/maintenance status on the reactor plant. Education M.S. in Data Visualization University of North Carolina - Charlotte, NC 2009 to 2012 B.S. in Computer Science and Mathematics University of South Carolina Upstate - Spartanburg, SC 1994 to 1995