PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Developer Atlanta, GA A Senior Developer with over 15 years of experience developing, customizing and maintaining websites including  e-commerce, with a recent focus on responsive sites. Versed in all facets of web development, including personally  meeting with clients to discuss their goals and needs in having a web presence, research and analysis, design,  development, testing, and implementation of code and applications. Highly proficient in graphic design and  artwork. Has been both a team leader and member, and knows what it takes to get things done. Work Experience PHP Developer Acertus May 2018 to July 2019 contract)  ? Worked primarily with the interfacing transportation management system to provide  customizations and maintaining the carrier and customer-facing applications  ? Facilitated version control & branching using GIT and PhpStorm, and Laravel  ? Assisted with quality testing & analysis, coding and troubleshooting efforts Software Engineer We Are Alexander September 2018 to January 2019 contract)  ? Developed websites and web applications for clients utilizing Angular, HTML5, Node, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, and MySQL  ? Facilitated version control & branching using GIT and Bitbucket, and Amazon AWS and FTP  ? Assisted with quality testing & analysis, coding and troubleshooting efforts Senior Web Designer/ Developer Biomedical Systems/ERT June 2016 to March 2018 Worked at developing UX design based on project requirements for web applications  ? Built graphics, CSS, HTML, Angular, and worked within Visual Studio, Adobe Photoshop and Balsamiq  to provide look and feel for company software projects, applications and sites  ? Created style guide standards for look and feel, colors, fonts, logos, and reports  ? Implemented mobile standardization using Bootstrap and CSS Senior Programmer Analyst Edward Jones January 2016 to June 2016 contract)  ? Developed mobile website for users utilizing JavaScript, CSS, Angular, HTML5 and Bootstrap  ? Aided the Business Technology Team in development and support for applications and sites  ? Assisted the UI/UX team with developing UX design, coding and troubleshooting efforts Developer/Support Engineer CenturyLink 2014 to 2015 contract)  ? Aided in customer implementation of applications using PHP, Java, Node and Ruby  ? Rebuilt the www.appfog.com website using PHP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, and Wordpress (for the blog section)  ? Maintained and supported AppFog PaaS Cloud Server platform  ? Provided web server maintenance, server monitoring, problem diagnosis and implementing  solutions while providing excellent customer skills for customers and clientele worldwide Front- end Developer/Designer/Editor 2GuysTalking Podcast Network 2012 to 2014 Met with clients to discuss website and digital asset needs  ? Worked at developing clients' UX designs based on requirements  ? Created third-party websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, Adobe Photoshop and other testing and optimization tools  ? Performed Search Engine Optimization and conducted Usability Testing  ? Edited podcasts, commercials, bumpers, radio imaging, IDs and audio files using a wide variety of software tools, including Acoustica Mixcraft, Adobe Audition, Audacity Web Developer Savvis 2012 to 2012 contract)  ? Developed SavvisDIRECT ecommerce website using PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Adobe  Photoshop, Magento, MySQL and Drupal  ? Determined the look and feel of the CMS as well as the shopping cart by collaborating with the design team based on customer studies Webmaster/ Developer US Auto Protection 2011 to 2011 Redesigned the company website, which involved back- end coding and front- end design  ? Utilized HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XHTML, Adobe Photoshop, phpMyAdmin and PSPad  ? Built the ecommerce platform using PHP and MySQL Web Developer Home Decorators Collection 2010 to 2011 contract)  ? Redesigned and maintained the e-commerce website, which included back- end coding and front- end design using JavaScript, PHP and MySQL  ? Conducted bug fixes and troubleshooting technical issues  ? Added new functionality using PHP, JavaScript, CSS and MySQL Internet Marketing Manager Graybar Electric Company, Inc 2008 to 2010 Met with customers and company division heads to discuss website and digital asset needs  ? Developed, designed, and facilitated the public website  ? Created database-driven Content Management System using PHP and MySQL  ? Implemented other microsites using Drupal and Wordpress using CSS and JavaScript for navigational  menus  ? Performed Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM) to raise company  in SERP ranking and increase traffic to website  ? Created and sent out email newsletters to electrical supply market customers  ? Partnered with Advertising/Marketing department in creation of graphical elements and PDFs, as well as other traditional print and internet avenues  ? Provided statistical reporting and analytics for website traffic  ? Worked with e-commerce team to integrate shopping cart and login elements  ? Created alternate sites for mobile devices using PHP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS Web Developer Tacony Corporation 2004 to 2008 Maintained, updated, and created public and intranet sites for 12 divisions including consumer and dealer websites for companies such as Baby Lock and Simplicity  ? Created database-driven website pages and graphics using ASP, ASP.Net, HTML, Adobe Photoshop, and SQL and used CSS and JavaScript for navigational menus  ? Developed web applications for Image Uploader, Thumbnailer, and Content Management Systems  built in ASP and PHP  ? Maintained e-commerce websites using Classic ASP, .NET and PHP, as well as SQL Server and MySQL  for the back- end  ? Built microsites using Joomla and Wordpress and created monthly customer newsletters  ? Partnered with Advertising/Marketing department in creation of graphical elements, PDFs, and print  pieces to maintain consistent branding Education Commercial Voice-Overs University of Missouri St. Louis - Des Peres, MO Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, CODING, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, PHP, LARAVEL, VB.NET, XML, AJAX, ASP, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, IIS, ASP.NET, OPERA