Front- End Development Manager <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Development Manager Web Developer / Software Engineer Jacksonville, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Development Manager TIAA Bank - Jacksonville, FL September 2016 to Present TIAA Bank's IT and internal marketing teams create and manage 100's of digital assets and platforms to support customer-facing applications, internal tools/services and countless marketing initiatives. My primary role as FE dev manager is to direct a team of developers from both a technical and strategic perspective. Additionally, my day-to-day always includes plenty of time contributing code and proving out technical concepts in practice.    Formerly EverBank, the institution was acquired by TIAA and has undergone a complete rebrand as TIAA Bank. From a technical standpoint, this included a rebuild of nearly all digital properties and applications. My role in this as the front- end manager was to architect a flexible, extendible tech stack that would be used in both public and authenticated customer- facing applications. I played an integral role in the technology evaluation and decision-making process and hired and managed 10 additional team members during this period. Never one to step away from the code, I remained in the trenches with my team throughout the entire process. Consultant Jason Hulbert - Jacksonville, FL November 2015 to Present I bring years of professional experience and a broad spectrum of design and development skills to the table. Previous roles have introduced me to a variety of team structures and processes which allow me to easily adapt and prove value within most environments. Having kept a foot in both design and development throughout my career, I understand that both practices are critical and must work together. From concept to launch, I can help stay on budget and ensure an exceptional level of quality. Tech Lead UNION (union.co) - Charlotte, NC November 2014 to November 2015 The Tech Lead is primarily responsible for guiding technology decisions and development efforts. By providing both strategic oversight and hands-on development, I supported my team in creating world-class platforms and digital marketing assets that regularly matched or exceeded clients' business goals. The Tech Lead is also responsible for bridging the gap between design and technology - turning rich brand experiences into definitive technical requirements and quality code.    Clients: Bojangles, Camel, Kyle Busch, Hendrick Motorsports, Discovery Place Senior Developer / UX Designer Overground (overground.com) - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to November 2014 www.overground.com    My role at Overground was focused on websites and applications driven by consumer  data. An important aspect of lead-to-revenue marketing is creating exceptional online  experiences. WebsiteBiz sought to expand their capabilities and services to support this  fundamental concept. During my time there, I established a creative department and helped  define a vision of how these new capabilities would compliment other areas of digital  marketing. Secondarily, I led a complete rebrand initiative in both brand messaging and visual  creative direction.    Clients: Bank of America, Biltmore Estate, Source Technologies Senior Developer / UX Designer Worthwhile - Charlotte, NC February 2013 to June 2013 I was brought on as Senior Interactive Designer in the newly opened Charlotte office (2013).  Our team was small and nimble so my responsibilities were divided among strategy, design and  development. My role was focused on improving front- end development practices and bridging the  gap between technology and design.    Clients: Nascar Hall of Fame, Agility Recovery, Mint Museum Senior Interactive Designer Mythic - Charlotte, NC February 2009 to February 2013 Mythic is highly adaptive, full-service agency specializing in brand story creation. As Senior Interactive Designer, I was involved in most aspects of design and development within the fast-paced, agency environment.    Clients: Time Warner Cable, United Healthcare, Ally Financial, TIAA, and SunTrust Bank... Senior Designer Channel V Media - New York, NY November 2008 to February 2009 Channel V Media specializes in building brand awareness by addressing perennial needs (user  experience, content creation, book publishing and lead generation) and digital experiences  (social media, web strategy and audience generation). Education BFA in Advertising Design Savannah College of Art and Design 2007 Skills Devops (3 years), Javascript (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Management (2 years), Application Development (10+ years), PHP, Git, MySQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jason-hulbert-5391bba Additional Information Web/Hybrid Apps:  Angular 2+, AngularJs, React, ES6, Typescript, Cross-browser/device HTML/ CSS, Preprocessors, Cordova/Ionic Framework, API integrations     Testing:  Karma, Protractor    Back End:  PHP, Node.js, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, CouchDB, REST apis    Dev Ops:  Build Systems/Tooling, Virtualization, Deployments, CI    Servers:  Linux (numerous flavors)    Wireframes/Prototypes:  Foundation, Bootstrap, UIKit, Axure, UX Pin, Adobe XD, Protoshare