Designer & Photographer Designer &amp; Photographer Full Stack Digital Designer/Portrait Photographer Dallas, TX Extensive 10 years of digital marketing, graphic design and photography experience on a wide range of creative projects. Following user-centered design principal to create concepts, wireframes, prototypes to end-product; along with knowledge in front- end development: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, WordPress and Analytics. Developed brand awareness through marketing materials, websites, apps and social medias for clients in retail, professional services, and e-commerce industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer & Photographer Kenny Chan Studio May 2016 to Present Passionate artist who delivers photography and videography services to wide variety of clients from modeling agencies, fashion brands, editorial to commercial e-commerce assignments. From concept to completion with results that meet client objectives.  Lead Product Designer & Front End Developer The Halo Group - New York, NY May 2013 to May 2016 Worked closely with agency partners on integrated campaigns for clients such as HESS Express, St. George's University, Olives from Spain, Liebherr Appliances, SUNY and Speyburn Single Malt Whisky. Creative lead in research, vision, and design for implementation. Creative direction and implementation of promotional materials, email campaigns, direct marketing campaigns, rich media ads. From information architecture, designs to front end development on websites and applications. Provided detailed instruction to team members, successfully monitored the status of projects and developed creative design solutions. Mid-Level Designer & Front End Developer Loewy Design - Melville, NY May 2011 to May 2013 From creating user experience deliverables, including information architecture, wireframes, designs to front end development on websites. Also take leads on creative process and collaborated with a team of design- ers and developers to provide the clients' need. Graphic Designer IMM Interactive/ Social Steals/ Copeac - New York, NY February 2010 to February 2011 Conceptualized and redesigned corporate web sites. Create web sites, landing pages, banners, email blasts and social medias for advertisers and publishers. Led online creative process in New York Office for web design initiatives. Also created corporate promotional videos for trade shows and web purposes. Graphic Designer LivePerson - New York, NY June 2009 to September 2009 Designed and produced flash banners, microsites, web sites, landing pages, banners, and email blasts. Worked closely with marketing manager at the B2B marketing department. Graphic Designer USA Weekend - New York, NY February 2008 to June 2008 Designed and developed print materials such as magazine layouts, advertisement and sell sheets. Also created all marketing materials including corporate identity, catalogs, advertising, packaging and graphics. Collaborated compelling advertising materials for clients including Kraft, ABC, Time and more. Education B.F.A in Graphic Design New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY 2009 Skills UI/UX Designer (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Design (10+ years), Photography (10+ years), Adobe, Lightroom, Adobe Premiere, Marketing, Photoshop Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Adobe Creative Cloud: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Acrobat, Fireworks, Flash, Premiere, AfterEffects, Omnigraffle, Axure, Sketch, Invision, Origami, Framer