Quality Engineer III Quality Engineer III Graphic Design, Web Development, Quality Assurance, Natural Resource Mgmt. Santa Rosa, CA I am looking for creative, web, software development, and environment-related work in San Francisco, California, the North Bay Area, or remote. I am a self-starter and am accustomed to working with minimal supervision, autonomously, but also enjoy working in a team environment; to meet the requirements of any job with the highest level of productivity and success. Currently, I am completing certification in full stack web programming, GIS, and as a State of California Certified Naturalist. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Engineer III Adobe Systems - San Jose, CA June 2019 to Present Contractor through Pro Unlimited for black box and automation testing (Selenium with Python) of Creativecloud.adobe.com web application with focus on Search feature and Search component integration in Adobe Creative Cloud flagship products such as InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, After Effects, Premiere Pro, and Dreamweaver, specializing in Accessibility testing. Full-stack Web Developer & Graphic Designer (Freelance) Santa Rosa, CA July 2005 to Present Provide graphic design services for print, web, and video for a variety of clients. Use Photoshop CC for photo editing, video/sound editing with Final Cut Studio or Premiere Pro, After Effects for VFX. Design and layout for print and web using Adobe InDesign, Illustrator, Acrobat, Dreamweaver, and WordPress (PHP, MySQL), plus Git, Eclipse, Xcode, Cloud9, MAMP, RStudio, PHPMyAdmin, and various other development environments for coding.     Provide design, layout, and preflight of a quarterly magazine for the Love Street Press (see PDF samples at http://lovestreetbreezes.org/index.php?page=archive) – a non-profit organization. Freelance IT Consultant/Technician HREF Tools Corp - Santa Rosa, CA July 2004 to Present Provide occasional, on-call, 24/7 IT support and QA at Sonic.net for an offshore web application and domain hosting firm based in Sydney, Australia, including server setup, installation, and removal, software updates, general troubleshooting, virus removal, and cabinet setup and maintenance. Web site testing provided by creating and executing Selenium automation scripts. Field Technician Pepperwood Foundation - Santa Rosa, CA October 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for gathering post-fire tree recovery data for UC Berkeley’s Ackerly Lab, such as, tree species & name identification, tree location, re-growth/mortality analysis, percentage of living canopy, and DBH measurement; while hiking on steep, loose, rocky terrain with exposure to poison oak, ticks, and rattle snakes from below, and danger of falling wood from above. GIS Mapper Sonoma State University (NWIC) - Rohnert Park, CA August 2017 to May 2019 GIS Mapper for the Northwest Information Center at SSU, under California Parks and Recreation Dept. — Digitizing shapes and creating maps for highly sensitive and confidential prehistorical, historical, and archaeological survey reports for 18 counties in northwest California using ESRI's ArcGIS and ArcMap software as well as Google Earth Pro, etc., for the Office of Historic Preservation and other agencies and corporations. Front- end Web/Graphic Designer Santa Rosa Junior College - Santa Rosa, CA February 2017 to May 2019 Provide part-time graphic design & layout, printing, for on campus distribution of fliers and posters..., plus web design, animation, and occasional video production for Student Health Services Dept.     Daily use of Adobe Creative Suite, InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, etc., employing Drupal for CMS.    Spearheaded design and production of mindfulness-related outreach materials for print and web.    Certified via Red Cross for CPR and First Aid, as well as, Mental Health First Aid via the National Council for Behavioral Health. Senior Quality Engineer (Direct hire) Power2Practice.com - Santa Rosa, CA September 2015 to February 2016 Functional and back- end testing of a JavaScript-based web app for integrative medical practitioners and their patients. Wrote bugs, test cases, and suites using Jira, Testrail, Confluence, and Git. End to end testing of medical billing module including backend for SFTP insurance claims submission to Emdeon One. Performed data validation using PGAdmin with PostGreSQL. Completed HIPAA training for compliance with federal patient information security standards. Agile team environment with daily scrums... Contractor through ZeroChaos Adobe Systems - San Jose, CA April 2015 to August 2015 Automation Tester - Manual testing and writing/running of automated scripts for Adobe Media  Optimizer, a JavaScript and AngularJS web app for marketing/ad campaign management. Developed scripts using Selenium, Python, and ProtractorJS for end to end, use case, and workflow test coverage. Wrote test plans in Wiki and test cases/bugs in Jira. Enjoyed 3 week sprint cycles in an Agile environment. Tests executed using Eclipse with Webdriver in Firefox, Chrome, and Safari. Used Git for source control. Technical Lead /Senior Quality Engineer (Contractor to Permanent Employee) TiVo - Alviso, CA April 2010 to January 2014 Responsible for test design and leading the testing of system software and hardware for TiVo DVRs and video streaming devices. Provided help as needed testing HTML 5-based HDUI and 3rd-party apps (Hulu, Amazon, Netflix, Pandora, Spotify...) as well as network testing over WiFi, MoCA, Ethernet... Performed cURL-based API testing for specific features of TiVo’s cloud-based service. Provided atomized steps to the automation team for automation of various low-level test processes. Developed test plan (in Testopia) for verifying UI performance during degraded network connectivity using a Soekris router, and related backend API testing via cURL. Provided daily release support, post-build testing, and change list/fixed bug emails to QE Team via Jenkins and Perforce. Tracked new feature development and hot issues through Jira and Bugzilla. Achieved high performance in spite of frequently shifting priorities and diverse deadlines of many concurrent software and hardware projects. Contractor through Maxonic Adobe Systems - San Francisco, CA March 2009 to January 2010 Quality Engineer - Scrum team member for testing of Photoshop.com web and mobile apps on  Windows Mobile, iOS, and Android devices, and various web browsers. Attended daily Scrum standup meetings for intense but highly successful completion of 9 releases in only 10 months. App achieved millions of downloads and top rating in the App Store. Contractor through Volt Apple - Cupertino, CA March 2008 to June 2008 QE for Aperture, a professional digital photography processing and editing tool. Lead for 3rd party plug-in testing, including Facebook and Twitter plugins. Prepared simplified test cases for automation team to automate. Awarded top prize in team photography contest for Best Composition. Education State of California Certified Naturalist in Natural Science Santa Rosa Junior College - Santa Rosa, CA September 2018 to June 2019 AS goal for dual major in Computer Science and Natural Science Santa Rosa Junior College - Santa Rosa, CA 2014 to 2019 Certificate in User Experience (UX) Design General Assembly - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to September 2017 Motion Pictures & Television Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA 2005 to 2007 Writers Program UCLA - Los Angeles, CA 2004 to 2005 Skills Quality (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Selenium (1 year), Unix (10+ years), GIS (1 year), Adobe Cresative Suite (10+ years), MS Word (10+ years), MS Excel (10+ years), JIRA (2 years), Bugzilla (3 years), Photography (10+ years), Typography (10+ years), Game Development (Less than 1 year), Game Design (Less than 1 year), Cartography (1 year), JavaScript (2 years), PHP (2 years), SQL (2 years), Microsoft Word, Troubleshooting Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tahart https://www.behance.net/thommo Certifications/Licenses XML DTD Design Present Gained a certificate in XML DTD Design through ElementK.com online school. User Experience (UX) Design September 2017 to Present This course is an extremely dense, deep dive into User Experience Design. I highly recommend it no matter what kind of a designer you are or want to be. UX Design is like the umbrella that covers all aspects of human-centered design and the science behind it. Groups NBLUG - North Bay Linux Users' Group September 2016 to Present The Linux Users' Group of the North San Francisco Bay, California. North Bay GIS User Group October 2015 to Present North Bay Geographic Information Systems User Group SFCutters April 2005 to Present San Francisco based group for video and film editors. Santa Rosa Gold Diggers November 2014 to Present Gold prospecting group in Santa Rosa, CA. Sierra Club January 2012 to Present Environmental protection and restoration of natural habitats. Geology Club at Santa Rosa Junior College January 2015 to Present General Assembly Alumni August 2017 to Present Group for students who have completed certification in one of General Assembly's courses. Additional Information OTHER INTERESTS & EXPERIENCE  I enjoy playing with electronics and taking things apart to see how they work. I also enjoy golf, hiking, gardening, volunteering, and prospecting/mining for gold and gems, as well as, photography, writing, illustration, game design and development, and cartography...