Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Website Designer - American Institutes for Research Lanham, MD Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer Beaconfire RED - Arlington, VA April 2015 to Present • Lead front- end development initiatives for a number of non-profit associations including National  Audubon Society, Foundation Center, Center for Constitutional Rights, Legal Services Corporation,  Oceans Conservancy and Community Partnership for Arts and Culture.  • Serve as technical lead on a number of projects including National Audubon Society’s Birds Tell Us (http://www.birdstellus.org/) and Kresge Foundation’s Detroit Reinvestment Index  (https://kresge.org/dri2017/) websites.  • Develop and customized themes for various content management systems including WordPress, Drupal and EZ Publish.  • Assist with the development of email, forms and landing pages in a number of CRMs including  Convio, Engaging Networks, Blue State Digital, NetResults and Salsa.  • Work with software engineers to develop UI solutions for various web related problems.  • Participate in webinars and focus groups to improve company marketing efforts. Owner P.D. Rittenhouse Design Solutions - Lanham, MD 2002 to Present Focus on logo, print and web design/development.  • Create numerous corporate packages including various corporate and branded identities, letterhead, business cards and websites for various businesses.  • Develop responsive, standards compliant web applications. Senior Website Designer American Institutes for Research - Washington, DC 2014 to April 2015 Redesigned and developed the AIR Supported Technology website (http://supported.airast.org/) utilizing Bootstrap and WordPress.  • Assist with the development, deployment and maintenance of AIR portal websites utilizing WordPress.  • Lead projects focused on consolidating the organizations various help guides and technical documentation into a single sourced product serving both web and print versions and utilizing Madcap Flare as the authoring platform.  • Trained clients on using WordPress to manage their site content. Senior Website Development Specialist P.D. Rittenhouse Design Solutions - Arlington, VA 2009 to 2014 Developed web sites built on SharePoint and WordPress platforms.  • Served as lead designer/ developer on the TechAdvantage website project for 4 consecutive years.  • Proposed, designed and enforced a UI/UX standard across NRECA web sites and mobile applications to ensure a consistent look and feel.  • Exploited the platforms provided by the content management systems to add new functionality and user options to NRECA's web sites.  • Participated in requirements gathering, design, status reviews and process meetings.  • Translated end-user requirements into technical specifications and use those specs to design Web sites that are technically fresh and vital.  • Troubleshot and administered sites, to ensure they meet user requirements.  • Tested and implemented web sites and applications that support business goals and then supported these web sites and applications once they were in production.  • Provided graphic design services by developing graphical elements for web site, posters and logos.  • Assisted with video streaming and edited video for NRECA Annual Meetings and other events.  City of Takoma Park, Maryland  | Takoma Park, MD Media Specialist P.D. Rittenhouse Design Solutions 2004 to 2009 Developed and maintained city web site.  • Provided graphic design services for various city departments.  • Assisted with filming and producing various cable programs.  • Created flyers, logos, brochures, presentations and graphics for city cable channel and various events.  • Maintained cable bulletin board.  • Scheduled cable channel programming.  • Served as Photographer for city newsletter. Education Master of Business Administration in Marketing American Intercontinental University 2006 Bachelor of Fine Arts in Visual Communication American Intercontinental University 2005 High School Diploma in Arts & Humanities Laurel High School 1999 Links http://pdrittenhouse.com Additional Information SKILLS  HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, WordPress, SharePoint, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, Adobe Premier, Adobe After Effects, Axure, Git, Mercurial, Command Line Tools (i.e. node.js, grunt.js, vagrant), Agile Methodology, Madcap Flare, Microsoft Office, Web Accessibility