Associate Program Director Associate Program Director Associate Program Director Austin, TX I'm an experienced program and project manager and a certified Scrum Master. I most recently led project management at Beyond, a design and technology agency, in their Austin studio, where I led and supported strategic, creative, and technical teams, delivering digital products and experiences for clients like 21st Century Fox, Facebook, and Mailchimp. I'm currently seeking a new role as a program or project manager. Work Experience Associate Program Director Beyond - Austin, TX January 2018 to April 2019 • Led project management for Beyond Austin, ensuring operational soundness of the Austin studio through superior process development, reporting, project tracking, financial management, and resource management.  • Managed more than a dozen Agile projects, successfully delivering digital products including elearning platforms, websites, and a cloud storage platform.  • Created project plans, led iterative planning and delivery cycles, set expectations within project teams, regularly assessed status against goals, and reset expectations when necessary.  • Partnered and built strategic relationships with internal and external stakeholders, team members, clients, and peers in order to meet project objectives and drive business growth.  • Drove Homebase, an effort to optimize and automate internal tools, processes, and onboarding to ensure Beyond met contractual obligations to our client Google and appropriately documented these requirements for all projects.  • Worked with stakeholders at various levels within Beyond and client organizations to manage projects, monitor operations, bolster cross-functional communication, and improve transparency.  • Coordinated cross-functional teams, promoting collaboration and communication amongst team members and facilitating teamwork to solve problems and deliver high quality work on aggressive timelines.  • Products and programs included: Facebook Blueprint elearning platform, Mailchimp elearning platform, OJO Labs site redesign, 21st Century Fox cloud storage platform, Bynd.com, Google Homebase tool and process automation and alignment.  • Skills used: Agile project management, Google Drive, Google Sheets, Google Slides, Excel, Jira, Asana, Trello, InVision, Intellum, WordPress Sr. Producer (Sr. Project Manager) T3 - Austin, TX September 2016 to December 2017 • Managed 30+ projects, successfully delivering digital products including chatbots, mobile apps, and websites.  • Owned the portfolio of technical projects for our client Allstate.  • Evangelized Agile project management best practices to the T3 Engagement Management team to expand adoption of Agile project management across clients and project teams.  • Created project plans, led iterative planning and delivery cycles, set expectations within project teams, regularly assessed status against goals, and reset expectations when necessary.  • Partnered and built strategic relationships with internal and external stakeholders, team members, clients, and peers in order to meet project initiatives and drive business growth.  • Coordinated cross-functional teams, promoting collaboration and communication amongst team members and facilitating teamwork to solve problems and deliver high quality work on aggressive timelines.  • Products and programs included: Allstate QuickTrip mobile app, Allstate insurance help chatbot, Allstate Our Story, Allstate Newsroom, Allstate Disaster Help Center, Allstate.com redesign of key content  • Skills used: Agile project management, waterfall project management, Google Drive, Google Sheets, Google Slides, Excel, Word, Jira, Zeplin, InVision, WordPress, iOS development, chatbot development, AWS, React, user research, usability testing, UX/UI design, a/b testing, animation, product marketing, pivot tables, Adobe Premiere, Photoshop, Google Analytics, New Relic Project Manager CDI Corp - Austin, TX August 2012 to September 2016 • Led 30+ projects, successfully delivering digital products including websites, chatbots, and social media content.  • Built broad programs to support initiatives for our client Intel, including: a web CMS migration program, Intel Developer Zone delivery and development program, and social media publishing team.  • Created project plans, set expectations within project teams, regularly assessed status against goals, and reset expectations when necessary.  • Partnered and built strategic relationships with internal and external stakeholders, team members, clients, and peers in order to meet project initiatives and drive business growth.  • Coordinated cross-functional teams, promoting collaboration and communication amongst team members and facilitating teamwork to solve problems and deliver high quality work on aggressive timelines.  • Managed a team of 6-8 project managers and content managers.  • Products and programs included: social media publishing team, Intel.com CMS migration team, Ask Ivy Intel HR help chatbot, Intel Cloud Developer Zone website, Intel.com consumer, product, and LAR sites  • Skills used: Agile project management, waterfall project management, Microsoft Project, Sharepoint, Excel, Visio, Jira, ServiceNow, Adobe Attask, CQ5, Drupal, Documentum, chatbot development, pivot tables, Photoshop, Google Analytics, Sprinklr, Opal Project Lead (Jr. Project Manager) CDI Corp - Portland, OR July 2010 to August 2012 • Managed 20+ Intel.com global web launches, leading US-based development efforts and coordinating internal delivery for all major US Intel.com projects to Intel geos for localization and development.  • Coordinated daily operations and training for web developers and tech leads.  • Products and programs included: Intel.com global consumer and product sites  • Skills used: Waterfall project management, Microsoft Project, Sharepoint, Word, Excel, Visio, Jira, ServiceNow, Adobe Attask, CQ5, Drupal, Documentum, chatbot development, Photoshop Front- End Developer CDI Corp - Portland, OR February 2008 to July 2010 • Provided front- end development support for Intel.com web launches and maintenance using CSS, HTML, and Javascript.  • Products and programs included: Intel.com Latin-America Region, Intel.com global consumer and product sites  • Skills used: Sharepoint, Word, Documentum, Photoshop, HTML, CSS, Javascript Education Masters in Radio-TV-Film University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX Bachelors in Radio-TV-Film University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX Skills EXCEL (9 years), POWERPOINT (10+ years), WORD (10+ years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years), PREMIERE (3 years), Time Management (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), training (9 years), Microsoft Excel (9 years), Documentation (10+ years), Project Management (9 years), Program Management (7 years), Communications (10+ years), JIRA (6 years), Asana (2 years), Cross-Functional Team Leadership (9 years), Team Management (9 years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), Agile (3 years), Process Improvement (9 years), Process Management (9 years), Data Analysis (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master August 2017 to Present