UI / Front End Web Developer UI / <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI / Front End Web Developer * Over 12 years of development experience in various technologies of which 8 years in developing User Interface for Web Applications using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and the rest of it in C++/C# development.  * Hands-on experience designing and developing Single Page Applications using AngularJS and Angular 2/4 in both financial and e-commerce domains.  * Experienced in Responsive and Dynamic User Interface application development using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, AJAX and JSON.  * Hands on experience in using UI-Router to create nested routing structure to create the view for rendering different AngularJS templates.  * Familiarity with task runners Grunt and Gulp for managing projects and repetitive tasks. Familiarity with Node Package Manager (npm) for installing libraries such as @Angulario/cli, Angular, Angular-material, jQuery, Bootstrap, Gulp, etc.  * Experience with Database development and implementation using RDBMS systems such as SQL Server, MySql, and Informix. Working knowledge of NoSql database MongoDB.  * Working experience in SDLC methodologies, such as Agile Scrum, and Waterfall. Work Experience UI / Front End Web Developer Bank of America - Newark, DE April 2017 to May 2019 Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational financial services company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. It is ranked 2nd on the by assets. As of 2016, Bank of America was the 26th largest company in the United States by total revenue. The goal of my project was to assist customer agents in providing Card Management services as a Single Page Application. The goal of my other project was to assist customer agents in Balance Transfer App by converting the javascript / jquery widgets into components using javascript, jquery, and Handlebars scripting. This provided the customer agents with 2 applications for use on their customer portal.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Card Management services Project and Balance Transfer Component Conversion Project as a Front End Web Developer.  • Initial development was done with Angular 2.0 using typescript. After requirement adjustment code was convert back to using AngularJS along with object oriented typescript to make the HTML5 User Interfaces dynamic.  • Worked Closely with Business System Analyst to understand the requirements for the UI Modules prior to being built.  • Created responsive website using company's in house responsive design libraries.  • Used AngularJS and HandlebarsJS to implement login authorization module which dealt with registration and login.  • Worked on making RESTful method calls such as Get and Post to Java services backend to pull up user account data.  • Used $http in AngularJS for consuming RESTful web-services.  • Used AngularJS routers like "UI Router" to establish routing between nested html views.  • Used AngularJS to create custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in User Interface in Card Management System.  • Worked on Single Page applications using UI-Router for navigating through the pages based upon state of html view. Also was able to share data between scopes.  • Used Angular UI-grid to create tables with templates on headers and cells.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Precompiled the Handlebar scripts into template js files using Gulp build scripts.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Applications were tested on cross browser e.g. Internet Explorer, Google Chrome.  • Worked in Agile/Scrum SDLC environment. Gave daily status reports as to status of current project during latest sprint.  • Incorporated UX design stylings into templates for use in applications.  • Coordinated with QA for testing, production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Performed UBuild uploads of code to servers. Also performed UDeploy of builds to several test environments.    Environment: AngularJS, Angular 2.0, UI_Router, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Gulp, Babel, UBuild, UDeploy Lead Software Developer RLA Communications LLC - North Bergen, NJ April 2016 to March 2017 The goal of the project was to create a (RF) planning tools for the clients to access during network planning. Worked on backend design of database using SQL with SqlServer2008. Also worked on front end UI using jQuery, javascript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.    Responsibilities:  • Worked Closely with Business System Analyst to make sure all the requirements of the UI Modules were satisfied.  • Using grunt build, precompiled the SASS files into CSS files.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Developed Tabbed pages using AJAX with jQuery and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user.  • Used various methods to manipulate HTML, CSS using jQuery as well as making the webpages dynamic using Ajax, JSON and XML.  • Worked on making RESTful method calls such as Get and Post to Backend Services to pull up / Insert user account data.  • Tested Applications for cross browser compatibility e.g. Internet Explorer, Firefox, Google Chrome & Safari.  • Worked in Waterfall SDLC environment. Gave daily status reports as to status of current project tasks.  • Ensure design consistency with client's development standards and guideline.  • Worked with Qunit for unit testing javascript code.  • Worked on Backend development using C# with ASP.NET.  • Used Entity Framework attached to SQL Server to create class objects for use in accessing databases using ASP.NET.  Environment: HTML CSS , Javascript, grunt, C# , C, AJAX, Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL server 2008, Qunit. Senior Software Engineer Black & Veach - Paramus, NJ August 2015 to April 2016 Worked on several web design projects involving HTML /CSS /C# / ASP.NET /Javascript / JQuery / SQL. Worked on several backend queries of FCC database to perform search for potential interferers. Worked on a few projects to convert several RF engineering planning tools over to web services. These included line of site coverage tool, and Frequency Data Sweeps charting tool.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed client side UI using HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed many Responsive Web Pages Using Foundation CSS and CSS gradients for the design of Menus.  • Performed RESTful Web Services like GET and POST requests in Ajax of XML, JSON using jQuery.  • Developed Unit Test Cases using Jasmine, & Involved in Unit & Integration Testing of the application.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.  • Used JQuery to Traversed through DOM using parent class for various manipulations of DOM.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML (HTML5), and CSS/CSS3..  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS precompiler.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used NPM for installation of different modules.  • Used Node.js for testing javascript code.  • Performed back end sql queries using encrypted database connections using ASP.NET  • Developed Line of Sight polygon application based upon a given site location. It was developed on the local intranet using C# ASP.NET with .NET framework 3.5 on VS2008.  • Worked on weekly import of FCC Frequency data into SQL Server 2005. This was done using C# with ASP.NET with .NET Framework 3.5 on VS2008. This data was used for Frequency License searches based upon on location, range and Frequency range.  • Developed Field Measurement Comparison Charting Tool using C# winforms with .NET framework 3.5 along with OxyPlot graphing toolkit.  • Developed application with Charting tool to display Frequency signal level data read in from input file. This was done using C# winforms using .NET framework 3.5 and Oxiplot charting toolkit.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL server Senior Software Engineer RCC Consultants Inc - Woodbridge, NJ April 1997 to July 2015 Provided software support and administered the upgrading of radio frequency (RF) planning tools for the Telecom Public Safety Division. Expertly handled the licensing of Comsite suite of products, while providing access to internal and external customers on Terrain and Land Use databases for ComsiteDesign. Directed the development and implementation of RF engineering propagation tools, integration of features such as report output, and diagnosis of issues specific to different operating systems. Presided over internal and external training and support on radio propagation tools. Developed tools for RF planning using Visual Studio 2008 and Visual C++. Used SVN code versioning tools for branching and checkins of code.    Responsibilities:  * Led Team to design and develop various tools and applications, which included the following:  • 1. Developed Frequency signal level charting tool to display signal levels of field data over a specified frequency range;  • 2. Developed LTE propagation models to demonstrate signal to noise ratio and max allowable data rate;  • 3. Developed ComsiteDesign application export to Google Earth KML for displaying overlay of signal coverage on Google Earth map;  • 4. Developed Microwave/SCADA link design tool to identify if microwave links were obstructed by Terrain, Land Use or buildings.  • 5. ComsiteDesign application Line of Site tool to determine bounding polygon from each Site's Latitude, Longitude.  * Facilitated the implementation of software licensing for ComsiteDesign application software.  * Offered hands-on support with the design and development of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) frequency search tool, utilizing line of sight calculation as bounding polygon; as well as their search and import tool for RF planning.  * Developed Visual C++ application to perform RF Engineering studies. Worked on several propagation models specified in IEEE papers such as Ochumura Hata Davidson adaptive, Longley Rice, Carey 6602 Contours, LTE Signal to Noise Ratios, LTE MADR (Max Allowable Data Rate).  * Enhanced RF planning tool that was developed on Solaris OS. Code was written using C++ and compiled using makefiles to bundle all of the C++ objects into an executable.  * Performed unit testing of code to confirm proper output at keep locations in code.    Environment: C#, C++, C, Visual Basic, Visual Studio 2008, Microsoft SQL server 2005, ASP.NET, Solaris OS Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ Skills SHAREPOINT, JIRA, MICROSOFT OFFICE, PHOTOSHOP, ADOBE PHOTOSHOP