Senior Web UI Developer Senior Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web UI Developer - Flexera Software San Rafael, CA I am currently looking for REMOTE opportunities. I have over 20+ years of experience building software on a variety of different platforms. Web application development has been my main area of focus for the latter half of my career. I am a full stack developer, all of my server-side experience has been in the java technologies world. On the front end, I’m a javascript developer, and I'm proficient with Vanilla javascript as well as a variety of javascript frameworks such as ExtJS, react, node.js, jQuery, and angular. Work Experience Senior Web UI Developer Flexera Software - San Francisco, CA March 2012 to June 2019 Lead UI Engineer for Flexera's Software Composition Analysis web application (Code Insight). Designed, architected and implemented a next generation version of the Code Insight web user interface from initial concept. Responsible for all UI related project planning, story estimation and resource allocation. Created a single page application MVVM architecture including all layouts, data modeling, view components and controllers. Created automated test suite for end-to- end testing of the application. Developed an Ajax service framework and view resolution handling using Java Spring MVC. Implemented secure REST APIs using Jersey/Spring with JWT authentication. Mentored junior engineers.    Environment: ExtJS MVVM, React/Redux, Java (Spring, Hibernate), HTML5, JavaScript, CSS/Sass, MySql, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Apache Tomcat, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Git, IntelliJ, Windows, Linux, node.js Senior Front End Software Engineer Innotas - San Francisco, CA June 2010 to March 2012 Designed and implemented a workload modeling feature and a report/dashboard creation feature for a project management web application. Acted as team lead and mentor to junior engineers. Developed JSON data structures and new backend services to support UI requirements. Created integration test cases, and assisted remote QA team to develop a full regression test suite for all new functionality.    Environment: ExtJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java, Oracle, Windows 7, Apache Tomcat, ANT, IntelliJ, Subversion Senior Software Engineer Computer Associates, Inc - Petaluma, CA January 2007 to May 2010 Key member of the software engineering team working on a project/portfolio management web application that featured integrated project/portfolio planning, staff/resource planning, and time and cost management. Worked on reengineering the entire user interface using GXT. Implemented an interactive gantt widget for use within the project planning user interface. Customized grid interactions within resource allocation widgets.    Environment: Java, PHP, GXT, JavaScript, XML/XSL, CSS, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows 2000, Apache Tomcat, ANT, IntelliJ, StarTeam, JIRA Java Developer Capital One - Novato, CA December 2005 to December 2006 Worked on a web application that linked directly to the Greenpoint Mortgage loan database to provide real time views and access to loan data. Designed and implemented an email alert system using JSP/Java to notify clients of required loan actions. Implemented numerous JSP pages for collecting and displaying loan data. Created and installed Oracle database tables, triggers and procedures used by the application. Wrote numerous test cases, and the technical specification and troubleshooting documents for the project.    Environment: Java/Spring Framework, JSP, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Oracle, Windows 2000, Apache Tomcat, ANT, Eclipse, Clearcase Software Developer MarketTools, Inc - Mill Valley, CA February 2005 to December 2005 Provided software development and support for a web based application designed to capture and report live survey data. Main responsibilities were to design, implement, integrate and test JSP pages for building and deploying surveys. In addition to developing business layer java components for handling session management and real time reporting.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, SQLServer, Windows 2000, Apache Tomcat, ANT, JBuilder, SourceSafe Software Design Engineer Alcatel USA - Petaluma, CA April 2000 to January 2005 Worked as a key member of the software engineering team developing server side software for a Digital Loop Carrier system. Solely responsible for the analysis, design, implementation, unit testing and integration of all core software components that provided event dispatching and error/alarm management services within the application. This includes all interfaces and functionality (Java classes, RMI, JNI) and associated object data modeling (XML). Designed relational database schema for storing errors/alarms in the system database. Created documentation for software components such as requirements analysis documents, use cases, test cases, and functional design specifications.    Environment: Java (JNI, RMI), IDL, IOCM ORB, XML/XSL (Xalan), VxWorks/VxSim, Unix, Windows NT, JUnit, JTest, ClearCase Software Engineer Nortel Networks - Raleigh, NC October 1996 to March 2000 Developed software for Nortel's DMS-100 Class 5 switch. Assigned code ownership of the Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) software feature. Developed enhancements to the existing ACD software including a new call routing log mechanism. Wrote requirements and design documents. Participated in document and code reviews for all ACD features.  Environment: C++, UNIX, ClearCase, Emacs Programmer/Analyst Chemware, Inc - Raleigh, NC September 1995 to September 1996 Provided development and support for a laboratory information management system. Designed and implemented reporting software used to publish laboratory results from an Oracle database. Created SQL and PL/SQL scripts for the creation of Oracle database objects such as tables, views, packages, primary keys, constraints, and indexes.  Environment: C++, PLSQL/SQL, Oracle, Windows, Unix, SourceSafe Education Master of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC May 2001 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Computer Science St. Andrews University - Laurinburg, NC May 1995 Skills React (2 years), Javascript (10+ years), Angular (1 year), Node.js (3 years), Java (10+ years), ExtJS (9 years) Additional Information I am currently looking for REMOTE opportunities.