Plumbing and Paint Sales Associate Plumbing and Paint Sales Associate Graphic Design Illustrator Programmer Bloomingdale, IL Over 5 years experience as a Graphic Arts professional in both digital and traditional mediums. From conceptualizing and creating corporate branding for real estate startups to animating original creatures and effects for several indie games, I have a wide breadth of experiences and can adapt to any unique challenge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Plumbing and Paint Sales Associate Menards - Glendale Heights, IL March 2007 to August 2017 I advised guests in choosing the correct tools and products for their home improvement projects. I was in charge of product sales deliveries and special orders. I also kept inventory, down stocking and up stocking as needed. Facing products and cleaning our work area.  Key Accomplishments:  • Taught guests about complimentary colors, and achieving certain moods for their rooms through thoughtful use of color theory.  • Trained and lead 4 team members. Website Graphic Arts Designer Collaboration Theater Company - Chicago, IL May 2005 to March 2007 Helped create and design promotional materials for web and print marketing campaigns for theatrical  plays. I also assisted in general administrative office duties.  Key Accomplishments:  • Networking with different artists and creative organizations  • Helped in creating a consistent visual theme for each play on the company site and printouts. Front- end Developer Chicago Fit 4 Life - Chicago, IL May 2005 to January 2006 Consulted with a personal trainer to create a web site for his business. Created company logo and online branding. Designed web site to provide online shopping and purchases of fitness items to enhance their brick- and-mortar business.  Key Accomplishments:  • Developed, designed and created new website. Maintained by client.  • Experimented and utilized custom typography Education B.A in Interactive Media Columbia College Chicago - Chicago, IL Skills Painting (3 years), Illustration (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), CAD (Less than 1 year), Digital Photography (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Javascript (5 years), Indesign (5 years), Corel Draw (8 years), SEO (2 years) Links https://www.mountaintopworkshop.tumblr.com https://mushindaqua.newgrounds.com/