Front End QA Tester - Upwork Contract <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> QA Tester - Upwork Contract Front End QA Tester - Upwork Contract Atlanta, GA Work Experience Front End QA Tester - Upwork Contract Altare Publishing - Edgewater, NJ April 2016 to January 2018 Walked through testing of all sites (minimum of 100 urls) using different browsers and different devices; used CrossBrowserTesting app for those devices that were not owned; Recorded testing, Tested sales video, sales funnel, sales cart, logging in and access to members areas, reported and documented issues using JIRA; Created test cases, test plans, device verification spreadsheets, software operation documents Software Engineer III (QA) - Lead Nextgen Healthcare Information Systems - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to July 2015 Software Testing: Design, write, and execute manual test cases; Analyze specs and user cases; Research pertinent information related to the assigned scope of work; Identify test cases that are suitable for automation, Develop, implement, and execute automated test cases; Identifies, document, coordinate resolution of defects through to closure; Participate in peer reviews of workflow testing; Create Test Plans and reports; Responsible for project leadership tasks; Implemented test cases using SQL queries; Participated in daily SCRUMs in Agile environment; Increased knowledge of Healthcare front and back office procedures; Contractor Visionaire Partners - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to February 2014 Slalom - Coca Cola Contract  Software Testing: Review SDLC artifacts including user stories, requirements, and functional specifications; Agile environment, responsible for executing the QA / UAT (user acceptance testing) effort, test execution, test documentation, defect management, regression testing, develop test scripts, test planning, and analysis of user stories Contractor Visionaire Partners - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to August 2013 MTS Telecom Expense Management  Software Testing: Create automated test scripts for web based application using TestComplete 8; Develop test plans and functional testing outlines; Debug test scripts for TestComplete problems and execution errors; Access and log defects in the Visual Studios Team Web Access; Perform manual testing and update defect cases; Update Release Notes for product Contractor Tescom - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to July 2012 SAIC - CDC Projects  Software Testing: Tested applications for the CDC such as eGratis, EPB, and PRAMS projects; Executed manual test for web based application; Developed test plans and test scripts using TestRail; Generated test scripts directly from mockups; Completed manual testing of state surveys; Created the application user's guide for customers; Accessed and logged defects in the Fogbugz defect tracking system; Attended daily scrums and tested in Agile environment; Review product requirement documents and functional specifications; Interacted with Business Analyst and Software Developers to review defects and for product demonstrations Web Tester Tescom - Atlanta, GA April 2011 to July 2011 Contractor)  Definition 6  Website Testing: Tested several websites for major clients; Validated HTML/CSS syntax; Conducted navigational testing; Verified data content; Completed compatibility testing across 6 major browser versions, OS compatibility, printing, and mobile versions; Database and server testing; Performance testing Software Dev and Engineering March 2009 to April 2011 Daily scrums in Agile environment; Developed Ada code for the Network User Console Interface (NUCIF) and Pilot Vehicle Interface (PVI) projects in Rhapsody; Developed C++ code for the Common Software Interface (CSI) project on Unix platform; Conducted formal code reviews and walk-throughs; Created Software Change Reports using Dimensions; Performed investigations and produced software test evaluation reports  Software Testing: Created unit test for NUCIF and PVI project using VectorCast; Performed  Lab qualification testing; Setup and configure lab equipment for testing environment; Manipulated test data in database using SQL; Perform regression and functional testing; Use of bug-tracking system to track software problem reports  Software Design: Created detailed designs for NUCIF in Rhapsody; Designed software forms for CSI in Visual C++  Documentation and Estimations: Reviewed Requirement Work Packages and all software documents;  Converted docs from Quicksilver to Word; Created work estimates for Integration Test Plans Sr. Embedded Software Engineer Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company - Marietta, GA May 2003 to April 2011 WC-130J Aerial Reconnaissance Weather Officer Software Dev and Engineering May 2006 to May 2009 Developed code using Delphi for ARWO Mission Manager projects such as Systems Automated Test Program, ICAO Directory, and Message Viewer.  Software Testing: Designed test scenarios from ARWO requirements; Created and generated automated test scripts using TestComplete tool; Review and developed test code using Ada for SKE software; Perform regression and functional testing; Use of bug-tracking system to track software problem reports  Software Design: Designed UML use cases & sequence diagrams identifying software updates & modifications for a collective customer project (COSSURM) Lead UMS project by creating schedules C27J Ground Maintenance Systems (GMS) May 2003 to May 2006 May 2003 - May 2006)  Software Dev and Engineering: Developed functionality to provide file services and system mgmt of the GMS product. Designed and created code for Usage Monitoring System (UMS) functionality of GMS using C and 4GL. Developed SQL code for interface between GMPAP and Ingres database tables. Active participant in design and coding of fault detection and isolation customer specific processes. Assist Systems Engineers with scripting task and installation of GMS. Generated scheduled software builds. Performed software code reviews and walk-throughs. Lead UMS project by creating schedules for documentation and coding, assigning engineers to specific coding task, actively monitored performance of work process by receiving weekly status and code completion reports, and provided consistent project reports to the Program Manager and Chief Engineer. Generated and monitored progression of code updates, software problem reports, and change documents.  Formal Software and Systems Integrated Testing: Performed Software and Systems Formal Quality Testing of GMS monitored by QA Engineers. Generated GMS manual test cases and procedures based on requirements. Created functional and regression test procedures.  Technical Documentation: Created Software Requirements Specifications, Design Documents, Software and Systems Test Document, software traceability matrix Software Developer Exchange-America, LLC - Alpharetta, GA July 1999 to November 2001 Full life-cycle software development (requirements, design, code & test): Created functional requirements and software design specifications. Documented software code using Javadoc and Ccdoc (HTML) format to be retrieved by the company's intranet. Established Java and C++ code used in Basic product release. Analyzed and provided problem resolutions for work request pertaining to incorrect functionality, data corruption, and unfriendly user behavior. Designed and implemented application objects using XML and UML. Maintained code using MKS Source Integrity and CVS Configuration Management Tools. Completed Software Quality Testing by executing test along with QA Engineers. Supported 24/7 operation of product by trouble-shooting high priority technical issues.  Server and Database Testing: Conducted regulated server performance testing. Created software programs for optimized database testing. Developed software programs for multi-threaded database testing. Tested multi-tier POET database by creating programs which sent/retrieved data to and from the database using Object Oriented Query Language (OQL) statements  System Administration/Security: Performed daily backup of system by zipping and securing files.  Website Design/Development/Testing: Active participant in the design and development of several web pages used on the company's website. Developed and tested product transactions and user interactions with the website Systems Integration Engineer, C-130J Program Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company - Marietta, GA June 1998 to July 1999 Relational Database Development: Executed performance tuning of the engine fault isolation sector of the Ground Based Data System (GBDS) by using SQL to create and alter tables. Created SQL scripts used to populate database tables needed for verification test.  Systems Testing: Analyzed data recorded by the Nacelle Interface Unit in order to create and modify fault detection & isolation algorithms. Catalogued engine data in various stages of flight to test the functionality of a specific area of the GMS called Engine Monitoring System (EMS). Corrected system problems and errors that occurred by adjusting engine parameter tolerances. Routinely performed verification procedures used to test all functions and areas of GMS. Completed Formal Quality Testing along with QA Engineers. Created and executed test plans from development phase through implementation phase for all engine-supported data. Developed test cases used to verify proper operation of data structure and proper functionality of GMS and EMS. Created functional, load, and systems integration testing.  Technical Documentation: Developed functional requirements and testing methodologies for the Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA), GBDS database, and Engine Monitoring System. Identified software discrepancies by generating Integration Test Problem Reports Education Bachelor of Science in Electronic Engineering Technology Savannah State University - Savannah, GA June 1998 Skills Sql, C#, C++, Delphi, Html