Web & Digital Producer/Support Web &amp; Digital Producer/Support Web & Application support Maitland, FL Corporate cultured, team player, excellent people skills, easily adapt to new systems and technologies, positive, energetic,  out-of-the-box thinker. Self-taught, ability to come up with creative solutions, keeping it simple.    Vast work history with larger companies, owned a web solutions business, helped internal and external clients reach their  business and marketing goals. Daily practicer of Agile methodologies and proficient in the use of tools such as Jira, Confluence,  Service-Now.    Dedicated to automation, improving processes, best practices and increasing efficiencies. Ample experience in different IT fields  including DevOps Engineer, Web Development, NOC Engineer, Helpdesk Support and System Administration.    Passionate about media and film-related industries. Producer, writer, director. Good experience with Adobe premiere, Photoshop,  Audition and After Effects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web & Digital Producer/Support UNITED SYSTEMS INC - Maitland, FL January 2006 to Present Converted an e-commerce platform to an Online Ordering System, still in use by clients nationwide  ? Built several e-commerce sites and business web sites  ? Designed websites, business cards, postcards, menus and signs  ? Managed hosting and Linux dedicated web servers  ? Communication and client support DevOps Engineer ELLUCIAN January 2016 to August 2018 Worked closely with The DegreeWorks team as I was in charge of the development of automations to support  continuous integrations, continuous testing, and continuous deployments to their infrastructure. (Application Servers,  Web Servers & RDS) A successful two-year effort with great work relationships.  ? Worked with automation/configuration management using Jenkins  ? Worked with Git as the major source control, AWS as the hosting solution.  ? Used Jenkins and Maven for build management, for software automation, implemented various code check software  such as CheckMarx to perform some preliminary security/bug tests.  ? Used Ansible to perform configuration management, made good use of roles and playbooks for efficiency.  ? Used Docker container to launch and install prebakes to generate the AMIs which later on would be launched using  Terraform on the AWS network.  ? Implemented various jobs for post-launch testing and security checks.  ? Good use of Cloudwatch built-in metrics and custom metrics. Implemented several log management tools agents such as Splunk, Logic Monitor through automation.  ? Extensive knowledge of Jenkins, Git, AWS CLI, Ansible, Terraform  ? Bash Scripting and Automation.  ? Experience with Groovy Jenkins Pipeline as code Business Owner - Front- end Web Developer ESPINNERS January 2014 to February 2017 Built and maintained wordpress client sites for various sized businesses (small to enterprise)  ? Coordinated tasks between developers, data entry, SEO specialists and content writers.  ? Planned and executed web marketing solutions  ? Provided technical support and updates 24/7 NOC Analyst 24/7 ELLUCIAN February 2010 to December 2016 Focus on automation and API integration  ? Troubleshoot and provide second level support  ? Using API, HTTP POST and JSON, stripped 3rd party monitoring alerts, customized to our needs and generated  records in our ticketing system  ? Stripped and re-arranged our Status Page to be displayed on headquarter screen with our branding  ? Developed web forms to integrate requests into Service-Now ticketing system  ? Automated custom reports using API and Web scraping technique  ? Built a live update system using Powershell & PHP  ? Developed solutions for other departments  ? Installed, maintained and secured LAMP  ? Researched, negotiated, installed and tested new monitoring platform  ? Integrated 3rd party software with our current tools  ? Use of the following tools: VSphere, Putty, PHPMyAdmin, FileZilla, Notepad++ System Administrator & Help Desk support RETALIX, StoreNext January 2001 to October 2005 Server Administration with help desk support, rotated weekly 24/7 on call  ? Small help desk department within a large company: 1000 + desktops Microsoft based system  ? Shared printers, Laptops, Networking, Telephony, Tags system, Exchange Server, Check Point, Hardware, Software  Networking support Tech support/Tutor CLAL INSURANCE November 1999 to November 2001 Bezeq International. | ISP Support    ? Taught new software to agents, one-on-one and in groups; supported failure issues and other problems  ? Provided computer lessons - MS Office, dedicated software and basic computer operation  ? Internet connection setup, solved problems over the phone, High call volume. Education Business Open University Tikva city high school