Lead Product Designer Lead Product Designer Lead Product? & UX Designer New York, NY ? Persistent problem solver with an ability to collaborate with and lead cross-functional and diverse teams of developers, designers and product managers. Experience with Agile/Scrum and similar iterative development methods. Experience with design systems.  ? 15+ years of experience in architecting, designing and developing digital products and platforms.   ? Extensive experience working within design agencies and with in-house product design teams, developing data-driven and UX research based scalable products for mobile, web and immersive technologies. Work Experience Lead Product Designer Grailed - New York, NY April 2019 to Present • Led the creation of a design system, including pattern library and a standardized design process with a strong focus on data-driven UX research and user testing in a two-sided marketplace.   • United siloed designers into a collaborative design team, that operates and excels based on a standardized design process including internal design reviews, QA, documentation, and co-education to improve product design consistency, quality, and team scalability.   • Consulted  the company on their journey to compliance with accessibility guidelines (AA+) across all digital products.  • Created a user experience competency model including evaluation and assessment rubrics to improve the management, growth, and hiring process for the design team. WebXR Creator, Mozilla Tech Speaker, Mentor WebVR/XR Consulting/Development - New York, NY June 2017 to Present Host of the official A-Frame NYC Meetup & the WebXR New York Meetup | Freelance/Self-employed, NYC  • Helping startups with UI/UX design and front- end development for immersive experiences on the web.  • Building prototypes and POC projects to explore accessibility needs in WebXR.  • Member/contributor of the W3C immersive web working group, focussing on inclusivity & accessibility in VR.  • The host of the WebXR New York Meetup and host of the official A-Frame NYC Meetup, a workshop-style meetup that focuses on building a strong community around the open source WebVR framework (aframe.io) Co-founder and CXO (Product) Virtuleap - Lisbon June 2018 to March 2019 • Collaborated on biometric algorithms leveraging modern neuroscience research and machine learning to translate body language in VR, AR, and 3D environments into psychographics and demographics.   • Worked on pilot projects with companies in both the enterprise and consumer sectors.   • Lead design and development an edutainment app called the Attention Lab, which features a series of gamified experiments that are powered by our tech in order to teach players about how their brains work. Design Director Studio.zeldman - New York, NY June 2016 to March 2019 Responsible for all UI, UX and information architecture design decisions   • Established bespoke visual vernaculars for each client through style tile development   • Played an instrumental role in influencing team to develop effective content strategy for major clients  • Responsible for conducting user research by auditing web content structure and evaluating site analytics (through heatmap data evaluation)   • Produced semantic, responsive, and standard compliant front end templates and worked directly with back- end development team for seamless implementation. Co-Founder, Lead Designer & Front- End Engineer Byte Dept. Inc - New York, NY May 2010 to April 2016 Designed an award-winning mobile and web application that aimed to connect consumers to 180+ food trucks in 16 major cities around the US and Europe.  • Designed a mobile app that was featured in the Apple Store as "App of the Month."   • Solely managed the production process on a wide spectrum of large-scale, cross-browser and cross-platform web applications.  • Consulted, supervised and managed a team of 12+ employees and freelancers.  • Produced and managed production of high-profile banner ad campaigns.  • Provided leadership to primary design and production staff. Web Designer & Front- End Developer Langton Cherubino Group - New York, NY April 2006 to April 2010 Inaugural in-house web design and developer for traditional print branding and advertising studio.  • Played an instrumental leadership role in the studio's expansion into digital by creating their first in-house web design department.  • Responsible for all web development implementation and consultation.  • Supervised offshore development teams in a fast-paced, deadline driven environment.  • Designed, built and produced CMS templates, web sites, Flash microsites/promotional games, animations and digital sales materials. UI/UX Designer & Animator SIEMENS Mobile/BenQ - Munich, DE August 2005 to December 2006 Concepts & Innovations Division, Mobile Devices & Handheld Electronics  • Designed GUIs, user journeys, case studies and animated prototypes for concept designs   • Designed icon libraries and developed fonts with a focus on readability for color restricted small screen devices Education MFA in Design, Computer Science, Branding, Marketing University of Applied Sciences Munich - Munich, DE Skills User Experience Design (10+ years), HTML/CSS/JS (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Information Architecture (10+ years), Responsive Design (10+ years), Accessibility (6 years), WebXR, Web-based VR/AR/MR (4 years), Design Direction (10+ years), Design Systems (UI Framework, Pattern Library) (4 years) Links http://rolanddubois.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/rolanddubois/ Certifications/Licenses Mozilla Tech Speaker March 2019 to Present Organized several events and monthly meetups/workshops to demystify web-based virtual reality, made software contributions from components, to accessibility prototypes/experiments. I collaborate with startups, artists, designers and members in the WebXR community to onboard them to available tools and frameworks for spatial computing (esp. A-Frame) and learn about their needs while advocating a strong focus on inclusive and human-centric user experiences.