Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Apple Inc ! Contacts    Front- end web developer, employed by Infosys and working for Apple at +1 (408) 913-0210  onsite. I have experience, working on the development / enhancement of t.jayaganesh@gmail.com  the Apple Online Store for the last 8 years with a good knowledge of  how an e-commerce site works, optimizing, enhancing and also taking Work Experience Front End Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA November 2014 to Present Git  Work with the Business team directly to gather complete information  IDE (Textmate, VS Code) about the requirements.  Analyze the requirements and prepare engineering requirements Jira  specifications.  Jenkins  Analyze the technical challenges for implementing the requirements.  Involved in the end-to- end Solution architecture, design and development of a Responsive Web Application using JavaScript,  ReactJS, CanJS, jQuery, and SASS.  Write Front End code based on the final designs (comps), keeping  accessibility, scalability and pixel perfection in mind.  Write Unit and Integration Test cases.  Schedule meetings with offshore team to share the requirement and explain the work process and the timeline.  Provide warranty support after project completion.  Tech Stack: JavaScript, ES6, CanJS, React, jQuery, JSON, HTML 5, CSS 3, Mustache Technology Lead Infosys Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2012 to November 2014 Technical Lead iGATE Patni - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2006 to April 2012 Designed the Prototype for the requirements.  Prepared the design document and Test Case for the requirements.  Implementation of business logics required to plot the reports and charts through Stored Procedures, Functions and Views, using  PL/SQL for Oracle and T-SQL for MS SQL Server databases.  Responsible for Functional and Regression testing.  Adhering to the client?s specific coding standards, verifying codes before sending them for AQ Approval and working on the feedbacks.  Involved in building & deploying the application package.  Tech Stack: Java, JSP, XML, Struts, Davisor Chart, T-SQL, PL/SQL Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Pondicherry University - Puducherry, Puducherry August 2003 to June 2006 Bachelor of Computer Science Education in Computer Science Education Pondicherry University - Puducherry, Puducherry August 1999 to May 2003 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WEBPACK, JSON, jQuery, SQL, CSS, WEB DESIGN, SASS, USABILITY, USER EXPERIENCE, MENTORING