Front End Developer, Full Stack Developer, UI/UX Designer & Graphic Designer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>, UI/UX Designer &amp; Graphic Designer Front End Developer, Full Stack Developer, UI/UX Designer & Graphic Designer - AspenRoot Malden, MA Work Experience Front End Developer, Full Stack Developer, UI/UX Designer & Graphic Designer AspenRoot September 2010 to Present • Hand-coded HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, SASS, Vanilla JS, jQuery in front end development. C# & PHP for the middle. SQL back.  • Leveraged responsive design via Bootstrap and custom code across the gamut of mobile devices and varied monitor resolutions.  • Employed SASS as CSS pre-processor.  • Leveraged Node.js and Gulp for task-running.  • Utilized full stack development in the creation of new web applications and websites and the maintenance thereof in ASP.NET and ASP.NET MVC using C# and Visual Basic. Also in ColdFusion.  • Worked with ENTITY FRAMEWORK. Code first. Also Database first.  • Leveraged Telerik Kendo UI in ASP.NET MVC development.  • Wrote stored procedures and manipulate data in SQL.  • Retrieved data, accessed APIs and manipulated page elements via AJAX.  • Integrated third-party modules, scripts and platforms.  • Designed look and feel of responsive websites and web applications in Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Created wireframes and prototypes.  • Created custom web graphics: static and animated banner ads, emailers, buttons, icons and backgrounds.  • Cut graphical page elements from layered master files with Photoshop.  • Designed business cards, brochures, flyers and posters with Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Ensured cross-browser compatibility with current web standards.  • Tested functionality of completed work.  • Created module documentation.  • Collaborated remotely with a team.  • Interfaced directly with the end client. Lead Front End Developer Perficient March 2016 to August 2016 • Lead developer, the pivot point between the design team and the content management team. Responsible for front end organization, architecture, code standards and web servers.  • Hand-coded HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and jQuery UI for front end development of an enterprise-level intranet site for the Kroger companies.  • Implemented Bootstrap as the responsive framework.  • Utilized SASS for CSS pre-processing and organization.  • Leveraged Node.js and Gulp for task-running.  • Employed GIT and SourceTree for source/version control.  • Integrated third-party plug-ins, modules and scripts.  • Performed cross-browser/device compatibility testing.  • WCAG 2.0 AA accessibility compliance integration.  • AGILE development methodology.  • Remote and on-site collaboration.  • Direct client interaction. Front End Developer, UI/UX Designer & Flash Designer Caffeine Interactive December 2004 to September 2009 • Conceptualized, designed, and built modern UI's in Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, HTML, DHTML, CSS2, XML, and JavaScript for clients in the sailing industry, skiing industry, tourism industry and creative industry.  • Re-designed existing client's websites in Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Hand-coded HTML4, CSS2, XML and JavaScript.  • Merged new code with existing code in applying new designs to existing content (facelift).  • Cut graphical page elements from layered master files with Photoshop.  • Created custom web graphics: static and animated banner ads, emailers, buttons, icons and backgrounds.  • Designed and coded email newsletters/advertisements.  • Designed and programmed in Actionscript 2.0 stand-alone Flash applications, Flash banner ads, Flash intros and full Flash websites.  • Ensured cross-browser compatibility with web standards of the time.  • Tested functionality of completed work. Freelance Film/Video Media Production January 2001 to December 2004 Production Manager/Coordinator  • Hired personnel and coordinated scheduling.  • Managed up to 10 Production Assistants at a time.  • Managed departmental budgets and controlled petty cash.  • Developed and maintained relationships with local and national vendors.  • Acted as the liaison between production companies and state and county officials and law enforcement. Education Bachelor of Science in Radio/Television/Film Production Northwestern University - Evanston, IL 1998 Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, RAZOR, PHP, SVN, VISUAL BASIC, XML, AJAX, ASP, COLDFUSION, DHTML, DREAMWEAVER, ASP.NET, HTML5, MVC, SASS, Jquery, Node Additional Information Skills  Development: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Gulp, GIT, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC Razor, C#, Visual Basic, AJAX, DHTML, XML, SQL, PHP, ColdFusion, Actionscript 2.0    Software: Adobe CS (Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash, InDesign), Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, SVN, SourceTree, Team Foundation Server, Final Cut Pro, Microsoft Office Suite, SnagIt, FileZilla, Adobe Acrobat Pro    Other: Graphic design for web and print, film and video camera operation, lighting, video editing, client relations, writing, organization, project management, vibrational energy healing