Senior Frontend Developer Senior Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Columbia, MO I'm a web developer, designer, and accessibility advocate, and am currently looking for remote positions as a full-stack or front- end developer, accessibility specialist, team lead, or strategist.    I've been led by my passion for learning and a desire to build projects that are accessible to people with disabilities. In the past nine years, I have consulted, designed solutions, websites, branding, and/or coded for 125+ clients, always focusing on the client's goals and the people using the product.     I love solving complex problems that challenge me to learn, code, and design better than I ever have. I'm looking for a wonderful, talented team who is passionate about making a goal-focused, accessible product. Work Experience Senior Frontend Developer got2go2 September 2018 to Present Working with a small team of developers, I'm responsible for the front- end  implementation of a quickly-moving startup. We use Vue with a custom-built  API to power all instances of our progressive app product.  Key responsibilities:  - Integrating a complex map using Leaflet, Map tiler, and Vue to maintain a persistent, performant state on the app  - Customizing web pack for an ideal development and production build  - Building maintainable, useful Vue components  - Improving performance whenever time allows  - Building an accessible product from the start The University of Texas Austin - Center for Media Engagement - Austin, TX September 2015 to Present Remote  The Engaging News Project researches democratically-beneficial and commercially-viable ways for journalists to engage with their readers. I  strategize, design, develop, and maintain the online tools that the Engaging  News Project has identified as beneficial via their research.  Major Project - Quiz Creator  Read about it: http://jeremyjon.es/portfolio/the-quiz-creator/  See it: https://engagingnewsproject.org (Click "Quiz Creator" link & Register)  Code: https://github.com/engagingnewsproject/engaging-quiz  Responsibilities  - Back- end Development (PHP, JS)  - Front- end Development (PHP, JS, HTML5, CSS, SCSS)  - Design (UX, UI)  - WordPress Theme and Plugin Development  - Research project design for development and data collection.  - Create project proposals (including gap analysis and feature descriptions)  and oversee their implementation. Owner, Designer March 2009 to Present My web design and consulting company. This is the position that is the focal  point of most of my work. I specialize in custom designs fully coded in html/css  then adapted to Wordpress or other high-quality CMS's. I also work frequently for marketers looking to implement split-testing and analytics to improve  conversion rates on targeted goals. Lead Web Developer Texas Monthly March 2017 to September 2018 1 year 7 months)  Remote  Contracting as Texas Monthly's lead web developer, I've led and worked on several major projects for them including:  - Migrating and consolidating TIMBUKTU.com into Texas Monthly.com, including  restructuring and merging data.  - Added a video channel  - Led web development on a major Texas Monthly.com redesign with the agency Up statement.  - Added Google AMP support  - Many, many customizations  - Basically being the sole developer (server, database, back- end, front- end) for all of Texas Monthly.  We The Trees, LLC - Permaculture Crowd Funding Co-Founder and Lead Designer September 2011 to August 2017 6 years)  International  Brand and business development, research, lead design, usability, and coding (CSS, SASS, HAML, SLIM). Working on a small team to create and  maintain the first environmental, social, and education (permaculture) focused  crowdfunding website. Web Services Consultant Online News Association October 2016 to December 2016 3 months)  I filled in for ONA as a remote, temporary consultant, developer, and designer, while they were searching for a permanent person in the DC area to work in  their office.  My responsibilities included:  - WordPress management  - Logo design  - Server set-up  - Github  - ONA17 Branding  - Anything else web and/or design they needed. Design Director & Co-Founder Messenger Pigeons January 2012 to June 2015 3 years 6 months)  Messenger Pigeons is dedicated to keeping an aerial perspective on your  content delivery, making sure your ideas find their way to your clients in a fast, cost-effective manner.  Messneger Pigeons builds hand-crafted, user-friendly Wordpress websites.  We also help you stay on top of your brand through strategy, copy writing, design, photography and videography.  Small creatures take flight! Photographer Phelix Photography 2010 to May 2015 5 years 5 months) Designer & Front End Developer CrowdfundHQ June 2012 to August 2014 2 years 3 months)  Lead design and front- end development work mainly using HAML / HTML & CSS in a Sinatra powered platform with git version control. Founder Kirksville Permaculture Education Center February 2010 to April 2011 1 year 3 months)  Starting and managing a nonprofit organization focused on providing free  education, sharing resources, and building community.  The Covert Cupboard Owner, Manager July 2008 to April 2011 2 years 10 months)  My wife and I founded an organic, artisinal bakery while I was in college. We  provide handmade sourdough breads using old-world techniques and recipes. Education Master's in Elementary Education Truman State University - Kirksville, MO May 2008 to December 2008 Bachelor's in English Truman State University - Kirksville, MO August 2004 to May 2008 Skills Graphic design (6 years), Javascript (7 years), CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), Accessibility (3 years), PHP (7 years), Wordpress (9 years), Vue (2 years), Front End, Front-End, UI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeremydavidjones?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BTFLfH7V9T2Wxqrv3g8xJbA%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile