UX Specialist UX Specialist UX Lead Architect & Designer (NN/g Certified) Carrollton, TX PORTFOLIO  www.UIUXpertise.com    SKILL (years)---  • Certified Scrum Master   • Nielsen Norman Certified UX Design & Management   • HTML 4 & 5 (13)   • CSS 2 & CSS 3 (8)   • JavaScript & JQuery (3)  • Bootstrap 3 (1)   • LESS & SASS (2)   • Adobe AEM (1)   • Sketch (4)  • ProtoIO (3)  • Wordpress (5)  • Axure (4)   • Omnigraffle (4)  • Illustrator (8)   • Ecommerce (5)  • Jira (5)  • Marketing (11)   • Scrum & Agile (2)  • Project Management (8)   • Dreamweaver (10)  • MS Office (15)   • Photoshop (13) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX Specialist UIUXpertise - Dallas, TX May 2018 to Present Working with a variety of clients on a freelance basis. UX Lead 7-Eleven - Irving, TX May 2017 to May 2018 Job Description  As the 9th member brought onto 7-Eleven’s 1st ever in-house digital team I was task to create executive proof of concept for the “potentially to be created” UX Team. Acting as the sole architect, designer and digital creator of marketing designs and prototypes to both build the 7-Eleven Franchisee Mobile App and create the financial case for increased funding within the 7-Eleven digital department.     As the sole implementation architect and design member of the UX team (all others being execs or devs) I was task with total short-term strategy, conception, creation of the franchisee app and its associated executive & training material along with both recruitment and screening of 7-Eleven's new UX team.    Through my direct and sole architecture & design efforts the UX team bloomed from me as the “Army of One” to a team of a nearly a dozen with funding blooming from a nest of $3M to $50M for execution.    In my conclusion with 7-Eleven I was honored with spearheading the User Experience for 7-Eleven’s 1st usage of Augmented Reality w/Marvel's Deadpool® 2 digital ARX. I worked hand-in-hand with an incredibly talented overseas Augmented reality team to seamlessly merge the 7-Eleven vision and standard into both the AR world and Marvel® Universe.     Job Duties & Responsibilities  ·      User Experience Strategy and Implementation  ·      Having a close collaboration with stakeholders, PMs & developers throughout the entire lifecycle of the project.  ·      Constantly utilizing a meticulous eye for detail in assure world class architecture & design, employing a vast array of skill sets (both coding, design, interaction and socialization) to create better user experience   ·      Overall Strategy, Team Development, Architecture, Design & Prototyping  • Understanding of the bigger picture of UX yet being able to specify, define and execute into smaller consumable goals and deadlines thru a litany of intricate details and resource challenges as to allow for the seamless success of the 7-Eleven mobile brand identity and impact.   • Define visual interfaces that adhere to and extend the defined wireframes and specifications  • Architect, design, define and communicate end-to- end scenarios, interaction models, and screen designs to stakeholders & executives  • Lead designer in Augmented Reality (AR) for Marvel’s Deadpool 2 advertisement and customer engagement.   • Work with project management and stakeholders to create digital experiences on time and on budget  • Consult and collaborate with mobile customer product application during the feature requirement creation phase, roadmap planning, feature ideation and other strategic planning sessions  • Create prototypes for interactions and flows as needed  • Champion product initiatives and business cases to executive management team for prioritization and development; act as a key product expert, evangelist, and advocate for initiatives, programs, and projects.   • Collaborate with cross-functional stakeholders to gather, synthesize, and codify market requirements and define product roadmaps.   • Define, document, and articulate detailed product and business requirements for new products and major enhancements, including but not limited to: functional, non-functional, and reporting requirements and use cases in the form of user stories and acceptance criteria.  •  Ensure all 3rd party design meets 7-Eleven UX standards, specifications and quality  Tools Used    Mindly  SimpleMind  Omnigraffle  Sketch  Invision  Photoshop   Illustrator  Jira & Confluence Lead UX Designer Citi - Irving, TX July 2016 to May 2017 Direct the visual appearance and assure alignment with Citi style guide of all new features and enhancements on new Citipay mobile application. Act as the user-advocate during the development process, subjecting early-stage designs to usability testing or expert review, and offering implementation suggestions from a user-centered perspective. In addition further act as “go to” with in-depth knowledge of user interface best practices and standards. Use research-related services, theories and methods to support/implement all feasible recommendations. Sr. UI Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pasadena, CA June 2015 to July 2016 Designing and UI development utilizing the latest in responsive development into enterprise level CMS integration. Development in a fast past Agile Scrum environment producing extensive intuitive designs and best practice development. Lead effort in rapid prototyping, design sessions and front- end coding. Responsible for design and front- end develop of the new KP.org utilizing extensive HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript & JQuery. Lead UX Designer Adobe - Washington, DC October 2015 to December 2015 Assist in the designing of cutting edge revolutionary software utilized in conjunction with Motorola hardware which intakes video footage (police body & vehicle cameras) and stores, organizes and systematically disseminates video evidence via FOIA request. Sr. UX Designer Loan Mart - Encino, CA October 2014 to April 2015 Web Site, Landing Page Designs, Marketing Material (Facebook and emailers). Solely responsible for merging corporate ideals to design with development functionality with a consumer facing centric mind. Solely responsible for creating intuitive user-centric experiences that support the behaviors, needs and goals of my specific customer base users as determined through sheer data-driven research and usability testing. The lead intermediary between marketing team and back- end development team.    • Utilizing Omingraffle and Axure for rapid prototyping and simplistic design translation to stakeholders (including all upper-level management)  • Front- End Development: Practical Pixel-by-Pixel perfection in translating corporate design to functional website/landing page utilizing HTML, CSS and JQuery.   • Design responsibilities include the creation of Wireframes, clickable & actionable prototypes and Hi-fidelity designs  • Introduced and implement Wordpress theme manipulation and design to enhance SEO, usability and scalability.   • Story boarding and sketching of prospective designs and processes  • Front- End Development: Practical Pixel-by-Pixel perfection in translating corporate design to functional website/landing page and design in rendering the occasional percentage based 960 flexible grid or responsive design.   • Responsible for design and front- end develop of the new www.800LoanMart.com (currently in production), www.800loanmart.com/Espanol/ and best practices standards in marketing branding utilizing HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript & JQuery.  • Leading change management efforts to fit the Agile Development Methodology.  • Create main assets for the prototype and final design utilizing Photoshop & Illustrator.  • Works with lead UX Researcher to determine UX Testing Strategy and Test Cases and SEO optimization.  • Observed Testing and modified prototypes as needed. UX Developer Farmers Insurance - Los Angeles, CA June 2013 to September 2014 UX, Web Site & Landing Page Design expert charged with adhering to extremely specific corporate design development based on extensive style sheet and strict guidelines. Excel in fast past Agile Scrum environment producing extensive yet intuitive design. Lead effort in rapid prototyping and design sessions. Extensive prototyping via Omingraffle and Axure Sole responsibility to merge ideal design with development functionality with a consumer facing centric mind. Development HTML (3 & 4) & CSS (2.0 & 3.0) utilizing JS and Jquery where necessary. The primary intermediary between design team and development team.  and implementation for the all assigned projects.    • Front- End Development: Practical Pixel-by-Pixel perfection in translating corporate design to functional website/landing page and design in rendering the occasional percentage based 960 flexible grid or responsive design.   • Responsible for design and front- end develop of Farmers.com and new marketing branding utilizing HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript & JQuery, and Adobe CQ (AEM)Determined the overall UX Strategy, Approach and implementation for the all assigned projects.  • Lead change management efforts to fit the Agile Development Methodology.  • Determined workloads and assigned tasks to various team members on a weekly basis.  • Design responsibilities included the creation of Wireframes, clickable & actionable prototypes and Hi-fidelity designs  • Personally charged with continually team and goal adaptation in 2 week sprints.  • Mentored 7 team member group in UX Design and Axure Rapid Prototyping and Omingraffle.  • Lead in making critical design decisions for overall project direction.  • High performance in Agile scrum environment working with stakeholders, developers and fellow designers to create best in class standard in mobile and web development.  • Maintain constant communications via Jira (& Confluence) for minute-by-minute updates Design and Develop based on strict corporate guidelines while maintaining consistent brand imaging and marketing   • Used Axure to create multiple HiFi prototypes from wires and visual design comps.  • Lead UX Designers to understand user flows and interaction decisions.  • Made critical recommendations to change flows and designs where needed.  • Created main assets for the prototype and final design utilizing Photoshop & Illustrator.  • Worked with UX Researchers to determine UX Testing Strategy and Test Cases.  • Observed Testing and modified prototypes as needed. Front End Developer USC - Los Angeles, CA March 2013 to July 2013 • UI Lead in complete front- end develop of new USC website utilizing HTML 4, HTML 5, CSS 2, CSS 3 & JQuery  • Redesign, where necessary, look and feel of new website depending on user centered appeal  • Template and standardize new USC website using advanced functionality and implementation of all the latest standard web practices   • Design responsibilities included the creation of clickable & actionable prototypes and Hi-fidelity designs  • Coordinate with design company to enhance and drastically increase user experience and conversion  • Redesign and customize, where necessary, look and feel of new website, landing pages and microsites in coordination with constant redesign (enhancement) of prototype using Omingraffle   • Work in Agile and Scrum environment maximizing the efficiency of processes and launches company wide  • Collaborate to address needs and known issues with Art Department, Business Analyst, Project Coordinators and Marketing Analyst in brainstorming and design studio sessions in order to articulate design and development in the most efficient and effective methodology or technology available.  • Collaborate with peers and team leads in office, domestic and abroad to assure timely deadlines and project fulfillment. Freelance www.Sensationo.com September 2010 to April 2013 Job Description: Designed and maintained marketing material for web and print including websites, picture editing, product design, emailers, web banners, motion graphics, flyers and presentations.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • Created, designed and managed 20+ websites  • Professional editor and photo manipulator specializing in beauty & restoration. Editing over 200 photos within individual cliental  • Responsible for completing small to large scale web sites from the ground up in often times EXTREMELY tight deadlines  • Project Preparation:  -Coordinate with clients in disseminating business web site needs  -Conceptualize Design and Site Needs  -Rely to clients web specifications and needs via Wire Framing utilizing Microsoft Visio, DreamWeaver, or Photoshop  • Website Management:  -When necessary, coordinate with onsite web manger as to needs of backend production  -Maintain functionality and aesthetic appeal of company websites  • Responsible for trouble shoot and problem solving both technical and non-technical issues on a day-to-day basis  • ecommerce Management:  -www.shops.com (site manager and co-scripter)  -www.cars.com (CarAuctionPro© implementation)  -Maintain functionality and aesthetic appeal of company websites Art Director Encore Ads - West Hollywood, CA January 2010 to September 2010 Job Description:  Created compelling and marketable designs (and works of art) via in-depth knowledge of marketing study, design theory & the latest software knowledge while acting as design lead and head resource to a team of designers.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • Took a leadership role on projects, pursuing assets, decisions and consensus in order to drive projects to completion.  • Created, edited and enforced new technical and design standards which immediately and directly increased overall design productivity.  • Direct liaison between, President, VP of Operations and Analytics Department.  • Created emails, flyers, microsites, web sites and web banners  • Utilize drive and vision to determine emerging graphics technology and pushes to adopt these technologies in ongoing environment  • Marketing & Landing Page Master!  • Responsible for high-level design and implementation of various aspects of their online presence, such as web user interface design, page layouts, promotional landing pages email campaigns, Flash banners, advertisements and other online components for their services, as well as occasional print pieces.  • Personally responsible for an increase in productivity of over 115% (measured by sales, prospect conversion, production speed, product implementation and design quality)  • Captures advanced technical knowledge and skills, such as interactive design, user experience, marketing techniques and consumer demand, and applies them to business objectives  • Helps foster an open and productive atmosphere within the Creative Services Team  • Deliver hand-coded CSS/HTML files to development team for development  • Manage multiple concurrent projects and manage their relative priorities.  • Keep current with technical trends and make recommendations for adoption of new technologies, processes, tools, and user interface approaches.  • Keep current with design and content trends among competitors and best-practice sites, and make recommendations for new features and design elements.  • Personally completed over 65 designs and several variations of each (both for processing and marketing). completing small to large scale web sites and microsites from the ground up in most times EXTREMELY tight deadlines  • Personally advertised, scouted, hired and released employees   WEB & GRAPHIC DESIGNER ($50/HR) Freelance www.DesignSalutions.com February 2008 to January 2010 Job Description: Designed and maintained marketing material for web and print including websites, picture editing, product design, emailers, web banners, motion graphics, flyers and presentations.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • Created, designed and managed several dozen websites  • Professional editor and photo manipulator specializing in beauty & restoration. Editing over 200 photos within individual cliental  • Responsible for completing small to large scale web sites from the ground up in often times EXTREMELY tight deadlines  • Project Preparation:  -Coordinate with clients in disseminating business web site needs  -Conceptualize Design and Site Needs  -Rely to clients web specifications and needs via Wire Framing utilizing Microsoft Visio, DreamWeaver, or Photoshop  • Website Management:  -When necessary, coordinate with onsite web manger as to needs of backend production  -Maintain functionality and aesthetic appeal of company websites Flash Designer Disney - Burbank, CA August 2007 to February 2008 Job Description:  Created compelling and marketable animation and design for internet and intranet (internal) purposes.    • Work in team environment in order to project coordinator from concept to completion  • Design graphical images and design layouts for team implementation on grand scale Internet environment (for internet and intranet purposes)  • Flash Design website and module interfaces utilizing Action Script, Flash, DreamWeaver & Photoshop CS3  • Establish ever-changing needs of clients on a weekly basis via video and telephone conferences while maintain rapport and up selling product designs and program functionality whenever possible. National Field Engineer STRYKER - Deerfield, FL August 2005 to July 2007 Job Description:  Installed and configured digital imaging hardware and associated software and then training doctors, nurses and technicians on usage in orthopedic offices throughout the United States.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • PACS user interface design & sales  • Responsible for completing installation, configuration and product training in EXTREMELY tight deadlines throughout the United States  • 100% travel, self-management and accountability (including but not limited to personal flight, hotel, meal, and corporate meeting arrangements)  • Responsible for pre-installation procedure of first hand process identification and specifying client technical needs for specific orthopedic offices throughout the United States  • Project Preparation: Perform site surveys throughout the United States to individual orthopedic offices in order to establish, record, communicate, and relay site technical necessities for digital equipment installation and conversation.  • Project Management: (On site) Perform high level site specific coordination (logistics and P.O.A.'s) with assembly, shipping, site administrator and any 3rd party technicians to personally coordinate, facilitate, and complete installation of Stryker hardware and software  • Installation: Solely accountable for small to large sized office networking and installation and configuration of office networking hardware & peripheral devices including; IBM/APC business racks, Servers, RAID cans, NetBay Viewer, KVM's, Switches, Printers, Scanners,  • Configuration: Configure digital imaging software (OfficePACS/OrthoPad), UPS backups, TCP/IP protocols, and IP Schemes & Addresses  • Training & Rapport: Throughout the United States, establish a profound professional relationship with doctors, nurses, medical staff, and office administrators to train all hospital personnel in the usage of digital imaging software and/or emergency medical system  • Responsible for trouble shoot and problem solving both technical and non-technical issues on a day-to-day basis in offices throughout the USA.  • Responsible for being the SOLE median between sales persons, upper-level management, clients, office administrators, doctors & technical staff Product Specialist (aka UI Designer) CarTHINK - Boca Raton, FL September 2004 to August 2005 Job Description:  Created compelling banners and designs based off of car sales software utilized on various websites (including cars.com, wheeldeals.com, ebay motors, etc.) to help used car dealers sell more efficiently and effectively online while reaching a broader audience.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • The primary consultant, designer and developer for all web, collateral, and media based corporate imaging (e.g. web design, graphic design, print design, presentations, and written & orally communicated material)  • Developed and/or enhanced flyers, headers, websites, templates, magazines, mailers, and banners using Photoshop, Fireworks, DreamWeaver, Flash, Html, and ActionScript 2.0  • Incorporate and Implement patented "Car Auction Pro" software into several ecommerce websites including www.cars.com, www.wheeldeals.com, and several other car sale sites.  • Directly responsible for the creation and enhancing of oral presentations, written communications, flyer design, and software enhancement utilized by President and Vice President of corp.  • Direct cold call sales and up-sales generating over $60,000 in company revenue  • Directly responsible for maintaining customer rapport and increasing sales revenue via an ongoing dynamic relationship with CarTHINK clients.  • Technical support for cliental, including website enhancements and features  • Enhance website designs utilizing advanced photo editing software (i.e. Photoshop, etc.)  • Design of Flash presentations, web site structure and implementation Web Master Housewall Garage Systems - Hialeah, FL July 2002 to September 2004 Job Description:  Designed and maintained marketing material for web and print including websites, picture editing, product design, emailers, web banners, motion graphics, flyers and presentations.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • Assistant to President and Founder of Housewall Garage Systems  • Design all in-house print material and web marketing (including website, land pages, email creatives and banners)  • Facilitated VP and VP of Operations in day-to-day task  • Primary focus on increasing productivity & efficiency throughout the company and in Founder's personal challenges Systems Analyst/Programmer InChannel Communications - Miami, FL July 1999 to July 2002 Job Description:  Lead customer compliance and rapport builder. Review designers & developers production to assure customer needs are fulfilled and concerns are met.    Job Duties & Responsibilities:  • Develop and refine internal tools (Web Development and DB Management) utilizing MS SQL, Basic VB.Net skills, Java Scripting, CSS, and Hand Coded HTML  • Project management and remote training/tech support of customers to utilize CRM software.  • Problem solving and preventative maintenance utilizing Terminal Services and FTP  • Lead, QC and QA projects developed by design and development team  • Manage configurations and stock content for internal systems  • Office networking of computers, printers, and peripheral devices  • Manage technical support team and head of customer development, product sales, site designs, and remote sites Education BA in Management of Information Systems FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY - Miami, FL 2000 to 2002 AA in Marketing Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 1998 to 2000 Skills Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch, Zeplin, Omnigraffle, Axure, Wordpress, AEM, Adobe Creative Suite, Graphics Design, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript (10+ years), sketch (4 years), User Experience, Axure, UX, Omnigraffle, Wireframe, User Interface, Javascript, Adobe, UI Links http://www.uiuxpertise.com Certifications/Licenses Neilsen Norman February 2019 to Present Certified UX Master Strategist as of March 1st Additional Information Recently relocated to Dallas, TX. Senior UX Designer with extensive development experience. Over 15 years of user experience design and 3+ years of hardcore user development in a fast pace silicon valley - currently agile scrum - environment. However there too is a passion and commitment to greatness that for me goes far beyond just my technical know how. With that passion for greatness comes an intangible and indefinable amount of other attributes; not least among them is a prideful attention to detail.     For as long as I can remember, I’ve been intrigued at how the mind works, specifically how perception is used to conquer the Rubik’s Cube of human interest and interaction. I’ve never stopped asking “why” and “how” thus in seeking those answers user experience and interaction had become much more than my career it’s my OBSESSION!! Moreover, that obsession coupled with the tenacity and intellect to learn has molded me into Fire-Breathing Unicorn Pegasus of the digital realm.    With my over 15 years of experience in marketed, designed and/or developed for everything from humbly funded start-ups to full fledged Fortune 500 Companies. I’ve lead teams as small as 5 and worked as the sole presentation expert in a corporation of over 20,000 employees. My architecture and design paradigm is simply to employ a holistic, strategic and creative approach to create intuitive user-centric experiences that support the behaviors, needs and goals of my specific customer base users as determined through sheer data-driven research, usability testing and what I like to think of as a “high user comprehension.”    Just a few of the companies I’ve worked with include Disney, USC, Farmer’s Insurance and Kaiser Permanente (the biggest hospital on the West Coast). While I could certainly take you on an entertaining journey of my experiences with those companies, and more, I know your time is very valuable so I’ll save that for another day. I thank you for taking a bit of time to review my submission. I look forward to speaking with you very soon.    Best Regards,  Ezra Masters  www.Sensationo.com  323-285-0885