Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front end developer - MFS • 4 years + experience in Software Development, Analyzing, Designing and Implementation of web and mobile applications.  • Experience in application development, integration, debugging & troubleshooting  • Deep interest in UX experiences, have sound understanding of concepts related to visualization and user appeal.  • Experience in development and debugging of cross browser compatible applications using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS along with various libraries and frameworks.  • Experience in writing REST APIs in Node.js  • Well versed with various phases of software development life cycle.  • Experience with Agile methodology.  • Familiar with revealing module pattern and Prototype design pattern. Work Experience Front end developer MFS March 2018 to Present MFS Investment Management is an American-based global investment manager, formerly known as Massachusetts Financial Services. I was working on the migration of their website from a Non-CMS to a CMS (AEM).    Responsibilities    • Helped the client in transforming their website from a HTML + CSS + JS (jQuery) & back- end one to one built on a CMS (Adobe Experience Manager 6.2).  • Followed the Component-Driven Development (CDD) methodology to write HTML + CSS + JS components in AEM which can then be placed by the website authors to create the required behavior.  • Implemented the UI for login and registration functionalities - two of the most important functionalities of the website along with the integration of services written in Node.js.  • Developed the components keeping Internationalization (i18n) in mind.  • Helped in the implementation of the analytics on the website using DTM (Dynamic Tag Management) which is a part of the Adobe Marketing Cloud for tracking the visitors.  • Followed the Agile methodology and worked closely with BAs and testers using JIRA as a platform for tracking stories and bringing them to completion on target times.    Client: Goldman Sachs  Project: Alternative Investments & Manager Selection (AIMS)  Role: Front end developer    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in New York City. (AIMS) Group provides investors with investment and advisory solutions, across leading hedge fund managers, private equity funds, real estate managers, public equity strategies and fixed income strategies.    Responsibilities    • Worked on the creation of a Single Page Application (SPA) - a dashboard for tracking the assets of the users.  • Familiar with Angular CLI for creating services, components, modules, etc.  • Divided the application into multiple feature modules acting as logical divisions to decrease the complexity of development.  • Created reusable components that were used in multiple places across the application.  • Created services to consume the back- end API and these services were then injected in the components to populate charts.  • Implemented the routing in the application.  • Created forms using template-driven and reactive approaches to engage the users, validated user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback.    Miscellaneous    • Created website rajatkhare.com  • Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer.    • Built unit conversion application 'UnitCon' for Windows phone, which received good ratings and also received Microsoft certificate for it.  • Created a web application 'Keyboard dictionary' located at https://rajatkhare619.github.io/keyboardDictionary which shows the meaning of random words starting with the key pressed on a keyboard.  • Created a reminder application (https://reminder619.firebaseapp.com). This is a web application that can be used to send messages to various platforms primarily acting as a means of a reminder for important tasks. Front end developer Allianz October 2014 to February 2018 Allianz is a financial services company with headquarter in Munich, Germany which provides insurance in health, housing and other areas. I was working on an internal web application that displayed the sales figures of various products.    Responsibilities    • Developing major portion of Claims processing section  • Correlating with the back- end team  • Creating custom reusable modules and directives  • Unit testing of the modules  • Making sure that the app is responsive on both desktop and mobile    Client: Accenture  Project: Accenture Mindful Performance (AMP)  Role: Hybrid application developer    AMP is a program to bring business performance and wellbeing to consultants, leaders and support staff. In a high pressured, always on, information overloaded environment the program objective is to train techniques and strategies to enhance focus, prioritization, performance and resilience in a busy work-life.    Responsibilities  • Developing complete features (UI and logic)  • Quickly creating JSON stubs for faking the backend until backend services are not    • Making sure that the application is accommodated in devices (Android and iOS) of different sizes and resolutions using media queries  • Coordinating with graphic designers and translating the requirements specified in the Visual Design documents to actual code in HTML and CSS with high precision  • Creating web applications effectively while following the separation of concerns (SoC) principle using Angular to keep the code modular    Client: Michigan Office of Retirement Services  Project: Accenture Retirement Mobile Applications (ARMA)  Role: REST API developer    ARMA is a collection of mobile applications for various iOS and Android devices focused on helping employees of the public sector (State government, police force teachers, librarians, etc.) plan and manage their retirements. It is similar to some banking and loan apps in that it displays account summaries & details, and enables users to do certain calculations.    Responsibilities  • Integration of user-facing elements developed by front- end developers with server side logic  • Following the convention of proper HTTP method names like GET, POST, PATCH, DELETE, etc.  • Design and implementation of REST API for various features like signing up of new users, logging users in, deletion of accounts, etc.  • Unit testing of the APIs to make sure endpoints are correct. Education B. Tech. in Computer Science Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN Links http://rajatkhare.com Additional Information Technical Skills    Web languages Vanilla JavaScript (ES5+), TypeScript, HTML, CSS  Angular1.x, Angular2+  JS frameworks    CSS frameworks Bootstrap  Hybrid application frameworks Ionic 1    Code editors WebStorm, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Brackets    Issue Tracking Tools JIRA    Version Control Tools Git    Database MongoDB  Backend technologies Node.js, Express.js, Nodemon  Testing tools Mocha, Chai, Supertest  Other Tools Chrome Developer Tools, Angular Material, Postman