Developed an Internal Client - Customer Service Admin Application Developed an Internal Client - Customer Service Admin Application Developed an Internal Client - Customer Service Admin Application Boston, MA Work Experience Developed an Internal Client - Customer Service Admin Application She said He said media llc September 2016 to February 2017 React Js, Redux, Sass, Material Framework, MSsql. Sr front end developer respistory.com June 2014 to December 2016 Javascript, Knockout.js, Angular.js, Ember.js, Ajax, jQuery, react.js, ember.js, tree.js HTML5, CSS3, lazy loading, GIT, Cold Fusion, boostrap, Adobe Experience Manager.  Coded and implemented respistory.com, http://www.bdunscripted.com/, brovana.com, http://www.bevocalspeakup.com. team lead, full front end stack Sapient Nitro March 2016 to August 2016 React Native, HTML5, CSS3, javascript, node.js and watchman environment.  Also set up Jenkins build server for IOS, Android and React Native Liberty Mutual January 2016 to March 2016 Developed and built an app for their client Arabella insurance.  HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular Js, express, node JS, gulp, sequializer. (MEAN Stack) http://www.distractology.com  React - Redux, Sass, Node, Developed an Interactive quiz for Liberty Mutual.  http://jackmorton.sshstech.com:3000 Boston Financial Data Services January 2014 to June 2014 Javascript, Knockout.js, Ajax, jQuery, ember.js, HTML5, CSS3, local storage, GIT, JAVA, boostrap.  Designed, Coded and implemented an exchanges solutions for mutual funds. Developed all front end and ui from wire frames to function application. Novartis June 2013 to December 2013 Javascript, Knockout.js, ember, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstarp, HTML5, CSS3, local storage, svn, .NET,  Designed, Coded and implemented a CELN web app, that allowed to view list and content of experiments for the chemist use.    • Loomis Sayels (January 2013 - June 2013)  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, knockout js, Ember.js, HTML5, CSS3, web apps, svn, mongo db  Design Microsoft sql db, implemented a web app that allowed employees to follow news and colleagues. I also Implemented an administration too  • MIT. (October 2012 - December 2012)  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery, backbone, boostarp, Mobile, knockout, HTML5, CSS3, Ipad iphone web app.  Implemented a prototype front end for a grading application, Agile, svn, guit, Rails. Harvard Business School January 2012 to October 2012 Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, HTML5, CSS3, FBML Ipad iphone app.  Implemented and designed mobile website, Developed home page carrousel HTML5 jquery CCS3, Microsoft sharepoint.  http://www.exed.hbs.edu  http://m.exed.hbs.edu PHT Inc April 2010 to December 2011 Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, css3, sql lite, cake php, web app, Ipad Iphone app, agile environment ruby on rails.  Implemented a web app to be used on iPad, Iphone, and android devices.  http://leapfrog.sshstech.com (this is an HTML5 webkit project only works on chrome or safari)  http://leapfrog.sshstech.com/webcakeservice/ (PHP Cake, Jquery)    • Pinkberry.  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, FBML Ipad app.  Implemented an Ipad application to interact with pinkberry facebook fan page.  http://pinkberry.sshsmedia.com    • CDFmax.  Javascript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, php, Wordpress.  Worked with the ui front end and backend of wordpress to implement the templates as well and dynamic and static content.  http://www.CDFmax.com    • Gogreenwingreen.com site for Tank designs  Javascript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, php, mysql.  Worked with the ui and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages.    • Texbooks.com.  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, php, smarty.  Worked with the ui and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages. And created the web cart.  http://www.texbooks.com    • Goby.  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML, php, smarty.  Worked with the ui and implemented templates as well and dynamic and static content search pages.    • Graytogreenadventures.com.  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS, HTML.  Designed and Implemented the page from the ground up, implementing design on html, ajax, jquery and css  http://www.graytogreenadventures.com  • ACI Worldwide.  Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, css, HTML.  Designed interactive menus for banking web applications. Designed the UI and programmed the menus that drive the applications for the intranet applications.  • Bostonmunch.com  CSS, Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, HTML, php, wordpress, mysql  Designed, programmed the whole site from the ground up.  http://www.bostonmunch.com Business and Economics Research Faculty Kayak Inc March 2007 to March 2009 March 2007 - March 2009)  CSS, Ajax, javascript, Velocity, JQuery, JQuery-UI  Used jquery css, java and velocity templates to implement ui components on the search results pages, like the slider controls, and the caption system for the search results.  www.kayak.com    • Second Rotation Inc.  CSS, Ajax, javascript, Ruby on Rails, Flex  Created and developed, pricing widgets on AJAX, jquery interfacing with the back end on ruby on rails back end, also implemented an interface for displaying results page interface with rapid ruby on rails development front end.    • TimesHealth.co.uk  CSS, Javascript, php, mysql.  Coverted and produce the site for the magazine, from the traineo.com engine platform.    • N2N Coomerce,  Victoria Secret online store  CSS, javascript, AJAX, and demandware scripting language, In charge of front end development and ui design.  www.victoriasecret.com    • Harvard Business School.  Online Friends Survey  Business and Economics Research Faculty.  http://survey2.hbs.edu/mp/?hid=ty67zz  https://survey2.hbs.edu/mpj/margarita.php  Designer, Developer and Producer / Manager, php, smarty, css, javascript, Ajax    • Barebonz Entertainment.  www.barebonz.com  php, php smarty templating, AJAX, UI web 2.0, mysql and flash, action script, CSS, AJAX, Smarty, PHP, Javascript, I also Managed and Directed the project    • www.geek.com  Price Grabber Widget, AJAX, php and XML, Developer    • Red Sox  Internal Ticket system. Intranet Only, AJAX, JavaScript, C# , MSSQL  UI Designer, Developer, Manager, Google Map  Ajax, Java Script, Google API    • www.mexaboston.com  PHP Fox, php, smarty, Ajax. UI web 2.0  Designer, Developer, Manager, Producer  • www.berkleemuisc.com  TCL, AJAX, DHTML, JavaScript, postgresql  UI Designer, Developer and producer  • www.superlowmuisc.com  php, mysql and flash, action script, CSS  Designer, Developer, Producer  • www.proaudiodesign.com  php, mysql, Java script, ajax CSS and all back end admin page  • www.modernista.com  php developer  • www.humanmedia.org  php mysql, xml, ajax, css, javascript  Developer, Producer  • www.otisahearn.com  php, mysql open realty  Developer, Project manager / Producer  • www.cedarmearcohaset.com  php, flash, mysql  Designer, Developer, Producer  • http://www.longwoodcondominiums.com/  php, flash.  designer, developer, producer  • www.thepenmark.com/  action script and flash  designer, developer  • www.sixbluejacks.com  php, mysql, java script  developer, producer  • www.gspx.com  php, mysql, flash, nuke phh, ajax,  producer, manager, developer.    • BKJ Productions,  Worked on customizing custom packages, like OS-Commerce for non profit www.humanmedia.org, Open-Reality, (www.otisahearn.com ) , Also worked with Flash Action, www.thepenmark.com, www.cedarmearcohaset.com    • Modernista!.  Napster Ad Website. Responsible for the coding of php and mysql and flash also integrating Invision bulletin board into the site.    • Barebonz Entertainment LLC  Responsible to Support technology Setup the mysql-php database driven side of the website for their artists. www.barebonz.com www.superlowmusic.com  Implemented VPN and secure access to the internal LAN, also developed a reporting tool for online record sales and Online royalty reports for artist all of this on the web and user access controlled. IT Director Professional Audio Design Inc 2000 to 2003 In charge of designing, managing, supporting the intranet, and accounting systems. Other responsibilities included maintaining internal hardware and software, network management, and costumer service support on IT related issues. Skills include: Asp, C#, and .net integration with dynamics accounting system, also PHP, Java, MySQL database development, management and installation of Microsoft 2000/2003 server, Linux 7.0, Macintosh OS X server, Apache Server, Mysql server, ftp server, DCHP server, MSSQL 4D server. TCP/IP, Routers, DNS, 802.11 and VPN networks connecting the Developed dynamic report queries from MS SQL and Horizons Reporting tool into dynamic Intranet generated websites  SSL encryption generated websites on ASP and PHP  implemented Backups and Security of the LAN and VPN WAN between the corporate in MA and offices in NYC and LA    • Massachusetts Communication College,  (Assistant Engineer) Digital post and Analog Studios. Managed deployment of Macintosh workstations for MIDI, audio recording, and digital post production on Windows 2000 servers.    • Concepto Radial 94.4 FM(Mexico City).  Chief Production and Audio Engineering. Designed and help to install the Broadcast System (antenna, Transmitter and Studio). Other projects included installation of Web server (Apache) and LAN.    Other Abilities or Skills  Music producer, music writer, sound design, music for commercials, music production for Boston Local Rock Bands and LA are bands.    Speaks: Spanish, French Education Master Harvard Extension School 2004 Bachelor of Arts in Music Production and Engineering Berklee College of Music 2000 Bachelor in Electronic Engineering Systems and Computer Science Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey - Mexico City, MX 1996 Skills Bilingual