Senior Developer / Server Admin Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Server Admin Senior Developer / Server Admin - Prime Advertising Inc Plymouth, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer / Server Admin Prime Advertising Inc April 2017 to Present At Prime Advertising I develop our ADA Compliant websites. As well as manage, maintain and update 7  servers that power ours and over 300 clients sites. Along with those duties I am the go to problem  solver. I manage and work in tandem with a team of 14 developers in India.    • Prime Advertising is a multi-facited full circle advertising agency. I work with many banks, chambers and local authorities.    Environment: Concrete5, Wordpress, .NET, MVC 4, Responsive Design/CSS, Jquery, Javascript, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Adobe Creative Suite, Apache, PHPand many more. Frontend Developer DKS Systems Inc November 2015 to April 2017 At DKS I was charged with designing and programming a custom microsite / portal for a multi level  group of of borrowers and lenders. This portal served as a reporting center as well as allowing for the management of customers, payments and reporting.    • DKS Systems is a client focused company that develops custom solutions. Not the usual website  farm you typically see in the industry.    Environment:.NET, MVC 4, Responsive Design/CSS, Jquery, Javascript, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Apache, PHP. Contract Developer / Designer / UI / UX Inquis LC October 2014 to October 2015 At Inquis my duties were to design and development of a brand new product targeting the Real Estate  investment market. A data driven site built around a custom subscription based service.    • Inquiso is a new product on the scene. The product rivals Spokeo and PeopleSmart in terms of accessibility and reliable data.    Environment: Umbraco, .NET, JSON, MVC 4, Responsive Design/CSS, Jquery, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Adobe Creative Suite. Contract Web Developer Hutman Inc July 2013 to September 2014 At Hutman I was the only on site developer, working in concert with two remote developers. Along with complete development from front to back on a wide array of sites, I was also involved in planning,  strategy and customer relationship.    • MetroSuperSaver was a client I worked with. The project was to build a mobile friendly coupon  site. The site geo locates you either by GPS/Hotspot on mobile or IP address on computer to present you with local deals.    Environment: Concrete5, Responsive Design, PHP, Jquery, JS, HTML, HTML5, Mobile CSS, CSS3, AJAX, MVC4, DNN, WordPress, GIT, Redmine. Lead Front- End Developer FourCubed LLC / page10 Group September 2010 to August 2013 As Lead Front- End Developer, I worked with the client from the very beginning, collaborating with the client, BA, PM and programmers to accurately predict the project cost, scope and requirements.  Through client reviews and client specific industry research, I helped deliver a solid end product that is  user friendly and fits the client's needs best. I have a clear understanding of UI/UX design and implementation. I have collaborated and been involved in projects ranging from basic public facing  informational websites to ecommerce solutions, nationally used Rails application/site that handles  emergency requests in place of call center personnel.    • 2-1-1 was a big project I worked on while at Page10. 2-1-1 is a resource for the community in case of natural disasters. The sites intention was to take the load off of the 2-1-1 call center and  provide focused contact information right on the site.    Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Flash, PHP, JavaScript, Jquery, HTML, CSS3, Dreamweaver, ASP .Net, Liquid, Ruby, Rails, Joomla, Drupal, WordPress, DNN Partner / Web Developer Cool Blue Technologies Group January 1999 to January 2011 I worked with clients to form concepts for website and marketing projects. I was the creative and technology force in the development of the client project from start to finish. Also, I consulted with  clients on multi-faceted Marketing / Deployment strategies. My goal is to design a site that is not only  pleasing to the eye but will also provide superior functionality. I was not only developing the ad  campaigns and developing the web sites; I was also running the daily business and management aspects of the company.    • Love From Minnesota was a great project. The task at hand was to not only have a site with a blog, but also to have and online store for each of their 3 businesses (Love From MN, Love From  Chicago and iCandy Sugar Shoppe). The online stores were integrated with their internal P.O.S.  that exist in the brick'n'mortar stores. Thus, keeping all inventories in sync across the board.  This project was a hybrid build of OpenCart/ Wordpress/Custom Code.    Environment: ASP .NET, HTML, CSS, Flash, PHP, JavaScript, CMS, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop CS3, Illustrator  CS3, InDesign, Visual Studio, Joomla 1.5, DNN. Front End Developer / Project Manager ATVI Worldwide- Atomic Shopping November 2005 to February 2008 As Project Manager, I dealt one-on-one with the client. From orchestrating the project as a whole, to insuring that client needs and requirements were meant. I planned project flow from concept to the end  deliverable. I also created scope of work, functional specifications, estimates and application  documentation. I conceptualized, designed and developed internal and client projects. I developed  custom ASP / XHTML templates for use with proprietary code. I trained and mentored junior developers.  I advised management regarding web capabilities and limitations. I was also very involved in building a very successful Affiliate Marketing division, as well as establishing and maintaining affiliate partner  relationships.    • While at ATVI Worldwide, I helped engineer and build the 1st descending Auction website and TV  show in the country. This was a huge success and brought in money over seven figures. Senior Designer / Owner AdMedia Digital / Print Advertising June 2001 to October 2005 AdMedia was a multi-faceted print and digital advertising company. I helped manage and perform Pre- press Design for three full service printing facilities, a large format and vehicle wrap shop. I also  introduced the first rolling/mobile billboard trucks in the Midwest. These were innovative custom built  trucks with automatically rotating billboards. Completing the circle with website design and consulting.  Designing and developing new marketing mediums as a passion started here.    • While with AdMedia I pioneered and patented the very first indoor Digital Advertising systems  in lobbies and restrooms.  • Also designed and built the first Tri-Vision rotating billboard trucks in the Midwest. Education Associate Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Json, Php, Ruby, Rails, Ajax, Asp, Angularjs, Mvc, Sass, Apache, Linux, Unix, Flash, Database, Mysql, Vmware, Javascript, NET, Drupal, Java, Angular, Front End