Associate, Customer Service, Sales Associate, Customer Service, Sales Associate, Customer Service, Sales - SANTA FE Santa Fe, NM Work Experience Associate, Customer Service, Sales SANTA FE April 2019 to Present Worked with customers, often sick ones, to help them find a solution to their problem in a timely manner. Handled large and often complicated  transactions and consistently aided them in feeling a little better on leaving the store. Lead Designer and Developer SANTA FE January 2017 to Present Run art studio for interactive entertainment. Produce music, 3D models, games, and graphics for interactive storylines while garnering feedback  from the masses. Products include "The Penguin and the Dragon", on Android; as well as "Gravitroids", "Six More Weeks of Winter", and  "Flatlander", all produced entirely within tight timeframes for jams, available on Itch.io. Less well-received projects include "The Oregon  Trailer" and "Stairwell of Destiny", generally also available on Itch. Some  recent work can be found at:  https://vikinghelmet99.itch.io  https://frontiermedicineentertainment.wordpress.com/  https://soundcloud.com/michael-oberlin-1  https://sketchfab.com/vikinghelmet99  And chronicled on:  https://www.patreon.com/frontiermedicinegames  Discord: https://discord.gg/3ryAvf4 Staples / PC Repair Technician, Customer Service, Sales SANTA FE November 2016 to May 2017 Worked on both selling and repairing consumer technology, as well as demoing and marketing it, until the close of the store. Handled time  management of repairs and communication with other parties across the company. Set up marketing material and demo machines, cleaned and  organized displays, and worked with clients and customers to determine  their needs and the most effective match for those needs. Inventory Management, Customer Service, Sales SANTA FE June 2011 to November 2016 Did daily inventory and handled product placement, marketing, and counts; assisted contractors in finding products and supplies which  would meet their needs and design constraints.    Other history of note: Lead Web Developer, Marketing SANTA FE April 2008 to May 2009 Worked on web presence and websites for a number of clients in New  York City, Santa Fe, and Maryland. Picked up some projects which had  been either mismanaged or abandoned by previous teams, and got them  running. Front- End Developer SANTA FE April 2008 to June 2008 Handled image splicing and XML under contract for SantaFe.com, as well as front- end materials and ad placing. Developed optimal back- end  software for automating more repetitious jobs and increasing  productivity in a small office; such as one piece that automatically  trimmed edges of a scanned image to meet the site's page format without sacrificing content. DJ, Newscaster, Program Operator 91.1 WZBT Gettysburg - Gettysburg, PA January 2005 to August 2006 Did biweekly radio show for college station. Focused on big beat, hip hop, and Asian underground genres, with occasional forays into others. Held  newscast at half-past the hour. Job required a lot of creativity and focus  while under a deadline of only minutes, as well as public speaking, the ability to project, and enunciate clearly. Entertainment Journalist The Pickett News - Hagerstown, MD May 2003 to August 2003 Wrote weekly pieces for newspaper on entertainment companies in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Washington D.C., and West Virginia. Timeline  was typically two or three days tops before it needed to be in the hands  of the editor; including doing interviews, compiling notes, and writing the actual article. Featured works were the Miss Maryland Pageant, and the  Gettysburg Tourism Bureau. Science Journalist, Entertainment Journalist The Bullet - Gettysburg, PA January 2002 to May 2003 Wrote pieces translating the terminology of one target audience to that of a broader one for art, biology, physics, chemistry, and psychology  symposia. Most well-received works included covering a symposium on  the biochemical effect of a familiar environment on the brain of a recovering cocaine addict; and the gallery of John Sims, which compared and contrasted "Southern Pride" against the diversity of southern  culture today. Also covered multiple entertainment events including an  interview of the band Tonic. Studio Assist, Secretary Childhood - Gettysburg, PA 2001 to 2001 Grew up under film-industry couturier. Familiar with the operations of a costume and clothing studio, from design to implementation; clothing  construction; job constraints; and operations of typical movie set. Also  familiar with resource allocation for a task, and some peripheral  familiarity with movie editing processes.    ? Sound Engineer Silver City, Bayou Bandits - Gettysburg, PA 1998 to 2001 Handled sound engineering and stage setup for two bands in the tristate  area, focusing on classic rock and Cajun folk music. Ran lines, positioned  speakers, did some equalizing and mixing for indoor and outdoor  environments. Education B.A in Physics Gettysburg College - Gettysburg, PA August 2001 to May 2006 Skills MARKETING, ADOBE CS, C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, SOUND ENGINEERING, JAVA, 3D DESIGN, AUTOCAD, BLENDER, Customer Care, Customer Support, Customer Service, CSR Awards Putnam Mathematical Exam, Second Place 2001-12 Received second-place on the optional Putnam Mathematical Exam at Gettysburg College, during Freshman Year. Only person to beat me was a senior Math major. Dean's List, Fall 2000 - Fall 2001 2001-12 Top 100 students at Gettysburg College, for three semesters.