Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Wells Fargo Advisors • 3+ years of experience in UI Development, Web Development, Web UI analysis, Web design, coding, testing and implementation.  • Active involvement in designing and developing real-time projects/enterprise applications, starting from the requirements analysis/design stages and through the whole Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, and Bootstrap for  Presentation and worked with SASS and LESS as CSS3 preprocessor.  • Expertise in developing responsive web applications using Bootstrap and Media Query.  • Extensive knowledge in JavaScript and used JQuery as a JavaScript library and also used JavaScript framework like Angular 1.5 to Angular 6.  • Extensive experience in working with Angular 4 framework with its super effective MVC architecture to implement it on various Single Page Applications (SPAs).  • Experience in working with Restful Web Services and implementing Restful API's.  • Experience in producing dynamic-interactive data visualizations using D3.js, High Charts, Charts.js and Google Charts.  • Worked extensively on Grunt, Gulp, Yeoman, Bower, NPM like developing tools.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility amongst major browsers like Chrome, Safari, Firefox and IE.  • Concrete experience in software configuration management using version control systems like SVN and GIT.  • Good experience of Agile and Waterfall Project Management Methodology. Work Experience Front End Developer Wells Fargo Advisors March 2017 to Present • Participated in the complete SDLC process via Agile methodology.  • Developed Customer module as Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 4 MVC Framework, which simplifies JavaScript object bindings with HTML elements.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript.  • Used mixins and functions in LESS to make the customer module more maintainable and extendable.  • Developed the Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap components like Grids, Wells, Tables, Drop-downs and Pagination.  • Used Angular 4 to create the custom component library which can be used by all the other teams to implement their business requirement and tasks.  • Created various Angular Services and used Dependency Injection to inject them into Angular to enable AJAX calls and created custom Angular Directives to create own HTML tags and include some functional behavior to those tags.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Involved in Creating and Consuming RESTful Services using Node.js and Express Framework.  • Carried out unit testing of Angular 4 component using debugging tool like Jasmine.  • Used Github repository to run the Jenkins job for Continues Integration.  • Used Version One to perform Agile Methodology. Front End UI Developer Shrika Infotech - IN June 2014 to December 2014 • Worked on Frontend development with CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS on various projects for company's clients in Agile Development method.  • Introduced and encouraged teams to use automated scripts with grunt and gulp to automate common tasks which increased team member's productivity by great margin.  • Worked in a team to develop RESTful web-services using Spring MVC-Hibernate and NodeJS-Express.  • Developed business logic including connecting web-applications to server with REST web-services.    PROJECT  Lamar University Virtual Map  • This project will mainly emphasize the effects of new buildings added to Lamar University campus. It will provide students guidance around campus and give them a better understanding of Lamar University programs.  • Navigation to the different buildings of the university with shortest path.  • The avatar-based navigation game for the Lamar University campus can be a platform for Lamar University that serves numerous purposes alongside its main goal of navigation. Education Master's of Science Computer Science Lamar University - Beaumont, TX Bachelor's of Engineering in Computer Science in Engineering Gujarat Technological University Skills HTML (1 year), BOOTSTRAP (2 years), TYPESCRIPT (1 year), HTML5 (1 year), AJAX (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Java Script, ExtJS, AngularJS, Ajax, J SON, Bootstrap, JQuery, NodeJS (Intermediate), ECMAScript6, TypeScript and Ionic Framework (basic), Angular 1.x, Angular 4.    Web-Tools Bower, Yeoman, Webpack, Grunt and Gulp  IDE's and Tools Web Storm, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Sublime, NetBeans, Git Hub, Git Bash, WebPack  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer tools, Firebug, Bugzilla, Batarang, Web inspector  Web/App Servers HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat 7.x/8.x  Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Testing Frameworks Jasmine and Karma  Version Control GIT and SVN  Database MYSQL, Oracle