Contractor Contractor Web Developer with eCommerce experience Jackson, MI I am an experienced eCommerce Web Developer with experience in the Magento eCommerce platform. I also have more than 18 years of web development experience mostly focusing on front and back end development including PHP, User Experience Design and SQL development.    I have also worked for many years in the communications field including graphic design, fundraising, event planning, public relations and other tasks. Work Experience Contractor JaTango, llc - North Royalton, OH February 2019 to May 2019 Contract Magento Developer and DevOps Manager. Contractor Self-Employed - Jackson, MI September 2017 to April 2018 I recently worked as the Tech Lead on the Kitchfix website project developed on the Magento 2 platform. My duties include Magento development work utilizing PHP, Javascript and MySQL, code reviews, code and database deployment, research, client training and project management. President & Creative Director March 2005 to August 2017 Description: Provided overall leadership for the company that included project management, budgeting and client relations. I also develop websites for small business, non-profits and political clients using a multitude of platforms, programming languages and emerging technologies. My recent projects utilized open source technologies such as the Magento e-Commerce platform, Word Press CMS, jQuery, MySQL and CSS3 and Social Media platforms. I also design a wide array of printed material for business and political clients. Magento Developer Jamersan, LLC November 2016 to July 2017 Description: I worked on a development team utilizing the Magento Enterprise Edition 1.14.2 to develop Magento eCommerce websites for our clients. My duties include back- end, front- end and database development work. I am also developing custom modules to meet the requirements of the client. Lead Developer Discount Party Supplies - Jackson, MI December 2013 to August 2016 Description: My position as Lead Developer is to work on all development aspects of the e-Commerce business. My regular tasks include new Magento development, custom PHP application development and all front end development utilizing responsive design techniques and jQuery and CSS. Other tasks include writing technical documentation and training staff members to use the systems correctly. I also maintained and managed all of the network infrastructure and all computer and printers. I also used Agile web development techniques and utilized SQL Server to analyze company data. PHP & Front End Developer - Contractor Orbitform Group - Jackson, MI November 2012 to December 2013 Description: I was brought in to develop a brand new CRM system for the nationwide network of sales representatives for the Orbitform Group. This system was completely built from the ground up utilizing PHP, jQuery, MySQL, CSS, and HTML. This project also had large amounts of data that needed to be imported into the system on a regular basis. Vice-President/Creative Director Advantage Associates - Lansing, MI November 2011 to November 2012 Description: Developed websites for variety of clients utilizing Photoshop, Word Press and custom PHP programming to achieve success. Designed and developed printed material for many types of clients and utilized my skills in audio and video editing for various projects including podcasts. Contractor/Magento Developer Cohesion Business Technology - Cleveland, OH April 2011 to November 2011 Description: Through Cohesion Business Technology, I worked as a Magento/PHP developer for the United Cloud Division of Suarez Corporation. Utilizing the Magento e-Commerce Platform and PHP, I developed custom modules related to the new field of social shopping. I also was assigned other website development projects. Software Engineer Grand River Interactive - Ann Arbor, MI August 2010 to March 2011 Description: Developed e-Commerce websites utilizing the Magento Enterprise Edition platform. I used PHP, CSS, HTML and jQuery in the development process. I also utilized MySQL and other data tools to prepare, import and verify large amounts of product and customer data for each project. IT Manager Albion District Library - Albion, MI September 2007 to March 2010 Description: Responsibilities included configuration, maintenance and deployment of PCs, printers, network equipment and servers on a multi-platform environment. Work with the Library Director on IT policies, budget and procurement issues. Maintain and develop library website, provide staff training on software and hardware and graphic design. Education Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI May 2001 Bachelor of Arts in Telecommunication College of Communication Arts and Sciences Skills PHP (10+ years), Magento (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Public Relations (10+ years), Community Relations, Indesign (8 years)