Sr. Software Engineer / Scrum Master Sr. Software Engineer / Scrum Master Sr. Software Engineer / Scrum Master - CAMP Systems Inc Hauppauge, NY • Over 8 years of diverse experience in working with teams, involved in giving comprehensive IT solutions, which include Analysis, Design, Document, Development, Implementation and Testing of Client/server/Internet/Intranet Systems for various Business requirements using Microsoft Technologies (C#. Net, VB.Net, Asp.Net & Ado.Net). Well versed in client server environment, three tier environment and N-tier environments.  • Conversant with HTML, Java Script, jQuery, VB Script, CSS/CSS Preprocessors, Ext JS and AJAX  • Key strengths: ASP.NET, C#, VB.Net, Classic ASP, ADO.NET, WEBSERVICES, OOAD, SQL SERVER (2005, 2008), Oracle 10g/11g, Crystal reports, DevExpress, Active Reports, and SSRS.  • Extensive exposure to distributed development using Web Services, Remoting.  • Experience in writing SQL statements, Stored Procedures, Triggers, DTS packages, SSIS, Installation of SQL Server 2000/2005, Oracle databases and NoSQL databases.  • Experience Security Implementation and Threat Modeling for Applications. Used SSL, MD5 and Server Certificates in the applications.  • Good understanding and command on LINQ, Entity Framework and NHibernate.  • Worked on Waterfall, Agile, SCRUM and V-Model Methodologies. Having Good understanding of CMM model.  • Experience in monitoring system performance and providing solution to improve performance. Used mainly Microsoft Application Center Test (ACT), SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard for Performance Tuning.  • Administrative experience with SQL Server, IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0 and Web Hosting.  • Excellent team member with good analytical, team managing skills, problem solving, planning and interpersonal skills, highly motivated and enthusiastic. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer / Scrum Master CAMP Systems Inc - Ronkonkoma, NY April 2014 to Present Participated in daily scrums and bi-weekly sprint planning meetings. Transitioned to become our team's scrum master and helped team members take tasks based on their skill sets and volunteered when needed. Worked with the scrum masters of other teams when resources were needed to be shared for ours/their tasks. Used JIRA for stories and bug tracking.  ? As a scrum master followed Agile principles while working with our clients' project managers to delegate resources to issues as they arose. Participated in UAT and Production deployments.  ? Mentored developers, business analysts, and assisted them in finding solutions to issues and ensured they followed coding standards.  ? Supported new clients' onboarding through performing data migration as well as software integration into Company's enterprise application. Provided active support for new clients' legacy application until the completion of onboarding.  ? As a SCRUM Team member provide LEVEL 2/TIER II application support geared towards Company Systems' enterprise application suites.  ? Support consisted of providing bug fixes, application enhancements, and user story completion within Sprints to eliminate issues from Company product backlog at an optimal velocity.  ? Employed Agile Methodologies to ensure rapid iterative software development.    ? Worked with JavaScript/Ext JS framework extensively for enhancements/bug fixes needed for single page applications. This included developing RIA (Rich Internet Applications), performing Asynchronous calls for data retrieval/process execution from the server, pagination of retrieved data, front end presentation, and client side Validations.  ? Utilized RavenDB for storage and retrieval of JSON data objects needed at various junctures of Firm's applications.  ? Created Object/Relational mapping for new applications using nHibernate and Entity Framework to promote rapid application development.  ? Developed and fixed the business components in C#.NET for Firm's newer applications. Debugged and enhanced Firm's classic/legacy application in Classic ASP/VBScript along with VB.NET. Debugged existing stored procedures, functions and triggers as well as write new ones in PLSQL.  ? Created new reports as well as maintained existing reports using the following tools available in the .NET environment: SSRS, DevExpress, Crystal Reports, and Active Reports. Web Application Developer Nexteppe Business Solutions - Bohemia, NY May 2013 to April 2014 Daily responsibility included writing/updating/maintaining data import and data export applications in C# and SQL/TSQL to ensure various car dealerships' data feeds successfully import to Nexteppe's database and export to various car dealerships and their web providers' standards.  ? Develop web widgets' front end and back end from scratch, based off of creative assets, to market clients' products, which were deployed on hundreds of car dealership websites using latest web technologies such as JSON, JQuery, XML, HTML 5, CSS3, C#, and ASP.NET.  ? Develop easy to use custom web applications to help Nexteppe's support staff perform their everyday duties.  ? Maintain software and client websites with ASP.NET, C#, and writing stored procedures in TSQL as needed. Writing and consuming web services to help in compiling inventory information. Technical Implementation Consultant EtQ Inc - Farmingdale, NY August 2012 to April 2013 Responsible for configuration of compliance workflow applications using EtQ Reliance suite of software.  ? Traveled to customer's site to perform requirement translations to software specifications along with implementation for domestic as well as international clients.  ? Configuration of EtQ's Reliance on customer's systems included application of various technologies including Jython/Python, SQL, JSP, HTML/CSS and JavaScript. Web Content Specialist Bath, and Beyond - Farmingdale, NY January 2012 to April 2012 Responsible for converting static content pages into HTML/CSS to prepare for migration of website content from legacy web environment to ATG.  ? Conversion of full Photoshop documents to HTML/CSS templates.  ? Perform regular website content updates and utilizing Adobe Scene 7 along with Liveclicker for image and video management.  ? Assist with technical programming/documentation in JavaScript (jQuery), ASP (VBScript) along with database updates. Front End Developer Acxiom - New York, NY July 2011 to December 2011 Created/customized dynamic e-mail campaigns using in house CMS, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  ? Responsible for front- end development for web or e-mail projects. Which utilized the use of Photoshop and Illustrator for layout, mock-ups, and creative assets.  ? Cross browser and platform testing in Internet Explorer 6+, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and contributed bug fixes.  ? Responsible for generating analytical reports using in house CMS. Data / Application Engineer AppCrown LLC - New York, NY June 2009 to December 2010 Installed AppCrown/Salesforce.com applications and customized the solution to client's specifications.  ? Loaded and cleansed data from various Content Relation Management (CRM) systems, such as Goldmine, Smarsh, ACT!, into salesforce.com.  ? Installed upgrades of AppCrown applications to multiple production regions. Web Development Assistant B&B Sheet Metal Inc - Long Island, NY May 2007 to December 2008 Responsible for processing website orders and provided technical assistance to customers.  ? Assisted in modifying and updating website using PHP/MySQL, HTML, CSS, and company's CMS.  Created weekly sales flyers using Adobe Photoshop / Illustrator and prepared weekly e-mail blasts. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science SUNY College at Old Westbury - Old Westbury, NY Skills C#, C++, Git, Javascript, Silverlight, Python, Reporting tools, Vb.net, Visio, Vb 6, Vb 6.0, Xml, Xml/xsl, Xsl, Xslt, Ajax, Asp, Dhtml, Dns, Iis, Jira, Scrum Master, Scrum, Agile Scrum Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:  Programming Languages: C#, JavaScript, VB.NET, VB 6.0, PLSQL/T-SQL/MySQL, Python/Jython, Java, and C++  Internet Technologies: ASP.NET (WebForms/MVC), Classic ASP, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, jQuery, Ext JS, XML/XSL/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10G/11G, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, RavenDB, MS Access and DB2.  Enterprise Servers: IIS, SQL Server, Sharepoint  Version Control: Git, TFS, Vault  Testing Tools: NUNIT, Application Centre Test  Reporting Tools: SSRS, DevExpress, Crystal Reports 9.0/XI, Active Reports  Protocols: TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, TELNET, and SMTP, SOAP  Operating Systems: WINDOWS NT/2000/2003/XP/7/8, UNIX & LINUX  Other(s): Adobe Photoshop CS5, SiteCore, Silverlight, WSS, MOSS, Visio, COM, DCOM, COM+, UML, MS Visio, SSIS, Sass/LESS, Compass, and Toad/SQL Navigator 6.5