Product Owner, Technology Innovation Group, Marketing Experiences Product Owner, Technology Innovation Group, Marketing Experiences Product Manager Leader Los Angeles, CA Throughout my career, I've been a designer, developer, writer, researcher, manager, marketer, and strategist. As a result, I have the ability to manage multi-disciplinary projects and navigate complex challenges. I enjoy building exciting projects that drive results and are at the forefront of the industry. The best results come from an honest understanding of human behavior.     • Product Management (Strategy, Roadmap and Prioritization)  • Project Management (Scheduling, Scope, Resource Management)  • Agile and SCRUM  • UX Design  • User Stories, Requirements, and Specifications  • Wireframing, Prototyping  • Data Analysis, Market Sizing  • Evaluating Third Party Systems For Product Integration  • User Research, Testing, and Surveys    TOOLS:  Sublime Text 2, Trello, JIRA, Slack, Microsoft Office Suite, myBalsamiq, Sketch, Google Analytics, Optimizely, CrazyEgg, Git, Github, Version, Quip, Premiere Pro, After Effects, Lightroom, Photoshop     HARDWARE:  Canon DSLR, green screens, Macbook Pro, iMac, iPhone    LANGUAGES:  HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, PHP Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Owner, Technology Innovation Group, Marketing Experiences Walt Disney Studios - Burbank, CA March 2019 to Present Lightform  Working with multiple groups throughout Disney, my team designed, executed, and consulted on Lightform installations for various events and demonstrations. Our first execution took the project national with installs in IMAX theaters across the country.    Toy Story 4 AR with Regal Cinemas  Pixar, The Walt Disney Studios, and the StudioLab bring playtime to Augmented Reality with the brand new Toy Story 4 AR Experience exclusively in the Regal Cinemas App for iOS devices. Bring characters from the new film into your world and see posters come to life with Pixar's first-ever AR activation. This execution was trending in the Apple App Store 6/14-6/17.  Head of Product Game Show Network - Labs/1800N0TH1NG - Santa Monica, CA March 2017 to Present GSN Labs/1-800-N0TH1NG is a new media lab building immersive products and content with a focus on gamification. We explore where game mechanics can be applied to help people play, connect and create at scale.     • Owns product vision, roadmap, and key metrics to foster, sustain, and grow engagement across all applications.  • Oversees all design and development of social mobile applications.  • Manages off-shore team priorities and execution against defined goals.  • Defines and implements release plans and continual improvements to the product.  • Completes competitive analysis, researches customer needs, and establishes product value proposition to establish market fit across all projects.  • Conducts and evaluates results of on-site and external user testing on all mobile properties.  • Evaluates digital products in the OTT and live broadcast space, user generated content, and streaming services such as YouTube, Twitch, Facebook Live, Twitter, Cheddar, DIRECTV NOW, Hulu, Netflix, VUDU, and Snapchat).    Tools: Apple Developer Tools, Facebook Developer Tools, AdColony, Leanplum. Google Drive, Wowza, WebRTC, Kurento, PubNub, Pusher, Pushwoosh, Zeplin, Moqups, Jira, Github, AWS, Unity, Branch.io, Adjust, Survey Monkey, Mailchimp Designer, Developer, Project Manager Seventy Seven June 2006 to Present • Design and hand code SEO friendly online interfaces for small businesses, agencies, events, portfolios, e-commerce, blogs, etc.  • Design and hand code email marketing solutions  • Direct social media and SEO strategy for clients   • Print design: business cards, brochures, car wraps, books, billboards, display advertising, stickers, direct mailers, letterheads, etc.  • iPhone app design  • Mobile web design and development Product Manager eSalon - Culver City, CA September 2016 to March 2017 • Works inclusively, collaboratively, and cross-functionally to design & implement the right solutions for eSalon clients.   • Develops strategies and roadmaps for products in support of corporate goals and objectives  • Holds a deep understanding of customer experience, identifies and fills product gaps as well as generates new ideas that grow market share and increase LTV  • Scopes and prioritize activities based on client and business impact  • Works closely with engineering to deliver with quick time-to-market and optimal resources  • Detailed requirement gathering and writes specifications to be used by UX / UI and Engineering  • Supports product implementation, deployment, and ongoing optimization Senior Technical Producer Defy Media - Los Angeles, CA April 2014 to September 2016 Responsible for managing multiple Defy Media products throughout the product lifecycle by gathering and prioritizing requirements, defining the product vision, and working closely with product owners to deliver successful products. Developed product roadmaps based on maximum revenue opportunities.    - Clip Portal  Planned, managed the development, launched, and maintain a new user-facing video management platform that generated $10 million dollars, equal to 20% of the company’s bottom line, in the first year. This product automated the work of the content programming team.    • Lead an agile development team of 3 Shanghai-based developers and 2 QA engineers using Jira for task management and Confluence for product documentation.  • Write functional requirements, create wireframes, use cases, user stories, and review test plans to ensure business performance requirements are met.  • Lead the QA team in creating test plan requirements each developmental sprint as well as decreasing regression work-load with automated testing cycles.    - MVP Player  • Planned, managed the development, launched, and maintain a branded custom video player integrated into the Clip Portal, decreasing ad drop off by 60%.    • Define and administer the product optimization roadmap based on customer feedback, market research, Google Analytic, LiveRail, and ComScore tracking.  Identifies, defines, and documents business needs and objectives, current operational procedures, problems, input and output requirements, and levels of systems access.    • Using a rev-share business model, we built an internal tool for our programming team to create and maintain video embeds for publishers.    - ZenDesk  • Managed and directed the third party system integration of ZenDesk across company properties and business units with resulting in a 52% decrease in customer service spend. Product & Marketing Designer/ Developer ZipRecruiter - Santa Monica, CA September 2013 to April 2014 • Design and hand code SEO friendly online interfaces integrated into a Perl MVC framework  • Complete wire-framing, site mapping, and mock-ups based on UX strategy  • Design and hand code email marketing solutions with MailChimp  • Landing page optimization and A/B testing Front End Web Developer Digital Target Marketing - Merrillville, IN March 2012 to September 2013 • Created design solutions for e-commerce, lead-generation, and live event marketing websites  • Hand coded front- end interfaces in HTML/CSS/JS and integrated my code into a custom ASP.net MVC framework  • Collaborated with a team of back end developers, account managers, media buyers  • Responsive email marketing template design and development  • Display advertising campaign design  • Managed multiple projects and time-sensitive deadlines Web/Graphic Designer & Digital Strategy Manager Diversified Marketing Strategies - Crown Point, IN September 2011 to March 2012 • Designed and developed B2C and B2B websites from sitemaps, wireframes, and mockups to fully functional products  • Hand coded front- end interfaces in HTML/CSS/JS and content management systems such as Wordpress  • Server-side setups for all client websites  • Designed print collateral, direct marketing pieces, branding, display advertising Art Director & Digital Strategy Manager Karmin's ClipIts - Northwest, Indiana, US June 2007 to June 2008 • Art director of locally distributed seasonal print publication  • Created design/layout and coordinated all art/advertisements within publication  • Developed websites from start to finish with client meeting, site mapping, wire-framing, branding, design, development, and publishing  • Covered any digital photography needs with our clients Education Bachelor's Skills Project Management (10+ years), Product Management (10+ years), JIRA (6 years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Product Development (10+ years)