Interaction Designer & Front- end Engineer Interaction Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Engineer Product Manager, Interaction Designer & Front- end Engineer Manhattan, NY With 10+ years of experience in product development, I still get excited about delivering innovative and powerful feature sets while working with creative, talented people. Highly collaborative, analytical, organized, curious, and hardworking. Let's build something great together! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Interaction Designer & Front- end Engineer J.P. Morgan Chase - Jersey City, NJ 2018 to Present - Executed design sprint to ideate and form product vision, user story map, and prioritized roadmap for new advanced data visualization features around portfolio performance attribution.  - Wrote user stories with detailed acceptance criteria, UI wireframe mockups, and scope boundaries.  - Collaborate with backend team and business team to groom and align on backlog definition, estimation, and release planning.  - Worked closely with other engineers and designers to deliver features while maintaining conceptual integrity and adapting to evolving business constraints.  - Designed, prototyped, and implemented new UI for editing tree-based asset allocation models so that investment portfolios are more intuitive and easier to manage.  - Introduced team to Scrum ceremonies and modern agile practices. UX Design Apprentice - Various Projects Toodledo July 2017 to July 2018 - Visual redesign for productivity and expanding market share. See portfolio.  • OkCupid - User research and design for new matchmaking interface to improve customer experience and customer success while leveraging current infrastructure and data model.  See https://medium.com/@genez/better-matchmaking-on-okcupid-59d4723d5326  • Language Study Super Squad Accelerator - designed, prototyped, and piloted a dual-immersion language study social game using low-tech tools. Team Lead (Volunteer) Landmark Worldwide - San Jose, CA 2016 to 2017 Ran a business unit that sells and produces live seminars to the general public.  • Led business unit to highest quarter performance rating in four years by upgrading communication infrastructure, building KPI dashboards, facilitating meetings using Scrum practices, and coaching leads in project planning techniques. Co-founder & Producer The Love Atlas Talks 2016 to 2016 - 2016  • Recruited and collaborated with film crew and talent for content development of an educational video series. Apprentice Filmmaker - Various Studios King of Hearts, Inc 2015 to 2016 • Editor for award winning short film "King of Hearts, Inc."  • Played a variety of roles, from production assistant to camera operator to editor.  • Clients included Legendary Pictures, State Farm, and Stanford University. Software Engineer Marchex, Inc - Seattle, WA 2012 to 2016 Marchex Call Analytics Team. Full-stack application & web development on a real-time VOIP, data analytics, reporting, and audio recording platform. Technologies included: AngularJS, Node.js, Enterprise Perl, PostgreSQL, Redis, Asterisk, FreeSWITCH, jQuery, Java, JSON-RPC, XML-RPC, RESTful JSON APIs.  • Established a unified backend API language by designing new APIs and adapting existing APIs to new greenfield UI.  • Modernized customer private label experience by shepherding 500+ customers through a migration path onto a newer system, significantly improving customer satisfaction as well as reducing manual workload on our client services team, and cleaning up the codebase.  • Enhanced team productivity and knowledge-sharing by running a weekly forum for the engineering team, covering software architecture, coding practices, and process improvements.  • Reduced rate of bugs in production by 50% by establishing rigorous code reviews and test plan reviews on the team.  • Ongoing mentorship of junior developers and new hires for quick ramp-up and productivity. Professional Organizer Simplify Experts - Seattle, WA 2012 to 2013 • Collaborated one-on-one or with a small team to help clients declutter their homes and offices and set up a better system for managing possessions and paperwork.  • Researched and recommended a CRM solution to allow company to scale as it grew in clientele and employees. Software Design Engineer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA 2007 to 2011 Microsoft Lync Team. Responsible for implementing various protocol level features using C++ in a COM/ATL platform for VOIP and other media channels. Standard protocols included RFC 3261 (SIP), RFC 2327 (SDP) and RFC 5245 (ICE).  • Enabled richer media configurations and improved call quality and setup time by upgrading ICE protocol implementation to a newer version while remaining backwards compatible with multiple previous versions of our product.  • Patents for protocol extensions - advanced media features - US 20100183136 and client future-proofing - US 20110154222.  • Integration of unified media stack between Microsoft Lync and Windows Live Messenger.  • Added richer application logs to better diagnose and debug various call issues.  • Collaborated with server team in China to integrate system-wide call quality metric upgrades.  • Improved overall system stability by designing and implementing a fault injection mechanism to simulate rare error scenarios.  • Various client-side optimizations that led to cost-reductions of 1 man-day per workday for the company.  • Helped drive call setup success rates in extreme load scenarios from 95% to 99.5%.  • Shipped Microsoft Lync 2010 and Office Communicator 2007 R2. Web Developer & Prototyper UC Berkeley - Berkeley, CA 2003 to 2007 Hand selected by a computer science professor to work on a new online lecture delivery service for the department.  • Designed (in collaboration with RealNetworks) presentation system based on RealPlayer's SMIL API, allowing synchronization of multiple media streams for an immersive user experience.  • Implemented website in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. See wla.berkeley.edu. Education B.S. in Computer Science UC Berkeley Skills Prototyping, Mapping, Javascript, Typescript, Perl, Front End, Bootstrap, CSS3, Front-End, React, Product Management