Data Processor Data Processor Computer and Network Technology, Customer Support, Restaurant Manager, Microsoft Office Tacoma, WA Recognized by administrative leaders, clinicians, and peers for Communication skills, Quality Assurance review and practices; technical customer service. A focus on issue resolution and creating a good experience for the client. Doing client’s issue follow-up.   Practicing Relational Leadership; group facilitation, technical documentation and report writing; as well as the instruction and coaching of small groups. Information Systems professional with 17-years performing as an Analyst, technical Lead, Developer, Database Administrator, Project Manager, Data Processor, Call-Center group Manager, Restaurant Assistant Manager, and Technical Help-desk Customer Service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Processor Pierce College, Fort Steilacoom - Lakewood, WA August 2018 to March 2019 Performed specialized data support tasks using the Student Management System(SMS). Responsibilities included configuring and maintaining the online course catalog, and performing as the gatekeeper for current quarter and future quarter class schedules being published to the online student registration application.  • Managed routine reports utilizing the SMS data; for student, faculty and staff support.  • Project management of quarterly preparation for the upcoming quarter(s).  • Generated and administrated Faculty IDs for the faculty's access on the SMS.  • Service Desk support of Administrative Assistants and Division Managers for course and class configurations in compliance to standards.  • Utilized Microsoft Office, Word, Excel, and Outlook. Chaplain (part-time) Marketplace Chaplains USA (part-time) - Tacoma, WA November 2015 to August 2018 Provide Chaplain care services to Commercial Businesses in Tacoma, Washington region. Chaplain care was offered as a part of the contracting company's Benefits package to their employees. Very limited part-time work. Lyft Driver (self-employed) Self-Exmployed - Tacoma, WA April 2017 to March 2018 For Hire, Personal Car & Driver. Similar to taxi service, except self-employed. School Bus Driver (part-time) First Student, Steilacoom, Washington - Steilacoom, WA October 2016 to April 2017 Pickup and delivery of students for multiple “Home to School” routes.(part-time) CDL Class B Front- end Cashier, Garden Sales Associate (part-time) Home Depot - Tacoma, WA August 2016 to October 2016 Cashier – Garden, Front- end, and Contractors. Customer Service in Garden, Home and paint departments. Stocking, arranging items display on shelves, area cleaning. Information Intelligence Developer, IS Decision Support Analyst MultiCare Health System - Tacoma, WA June 2006 to December 2014 Information Intelligence Developer III, IS Decision Support Analyst III. Duties: Co- developed and maintained 2,000+ Clarity reports (Epic EMR).  Provided technical documentation and was the instructor of How-To utilize many of the reports.  Administration of User Access-Rights, and configuration of their security rights on reports database.  Technical Manager and Lead of outside Reporting Consultants (contractors).  Technical Support Customer Service. Recognized for my customer service. Adviser and participant on multiple data related committees. IS Reporting Consultant, Epic Reporting Project Lead & Application Coordinator RSA IT Staffing/ Technology Transfer-- at University of Texas Medical Branch - Galveston, TX 2004 to 2005 • Led a cross functional team of four IT individuals for Design, Build, Validate implementation phase of Epic System's Electronic Medical Record / Electronic Health Record - Clarity database; for operational, clinical, financial reporting.  • Training of permanent staff, including Epic EMR, Project Management and related applications training.  • Technical interactions with Administrators, Department Heads, Physicians, Nurses, Clinicians and other Business professionals. Application Support Analyst, Network Systems Analyst Portland Adventist Hospital, IS NW Region - Portland, OR 2000 to 2004   IT/IS Network operations support and customer service. Electronic Medical Record(EMR) Reporting, reports database administration, and reports development.    Corporate Information Services local Project Lead, of our region's deployed applications inventory of 180+ applications.    Developed corporate policies, procedures and project plan proposal for our region to address Computer Life-Cycle and Data Life-Cycle issues. Was adopted as a model at the corporate level for the West coast IS enterprise.    Managed local enterprise PC and data life-cycle.   Coordinator for on-hand inventory to meet IS Network's daily operation needs. Overview of current inventory, projects future requirements, planning and forecasting, locating vendors and submission of purchasing requisitions in a timely manner – near JIT.    Supervised, scheduled and coordinated the projects of independent contractors within I.S. department.    Team Lead for compliance to a Service-Level-Agreement (SLA), maintained 99% response rate in a medical environment.     Administrated the Network and Server team's On-Call schedule. Escalation Group Manager (Tier 2.5) \\ Mentor (Tier 2) \\ Technical Support Representative (Tier 2) Stream International - Beaverton, OR 1998 to 2000 My team's contract was supporting a High-Speed cable, Internet Service Provider (ISP).  • Developed, initiated and managed a strategic core "Escalation Group" (Tier 2.5) within an ISP's contract operations at a national-coverage Call Center.  • Accountable for team's Service Level Agreement metrics and Quality Assurance metrics.  • Utilization of Remedy - Help Desk ticketing and resolution application. Query design and creation of reports. Coded SQL database queries for generation of management reports.  • Technical knowledge of ISP functionality and computer systems; Customer Service skills. Home & Garden Clerk (part-time) Fred Meyer, Johnson Creek - Portland, OR December 1997 to June 1998 Customer service in Home and Garden departments. Stocking, arranging, product inventory, seasonal items display and Cashier. Store greeter. Used a pallet-jack and certified for driving the forklift. Assistant Manager Elmer’s Pancake & Steak - Portland, OR August 1990 to August 1992 Assistant Manager of 300 seat Restaurant and bar/lounge. Hiring, training, and firing. Supervision of 14?hostesses, 4?bus staff, and 3-dishwashers. Education Master's in Pastoral Leadership, Theology, Counseling A.W. Tozer Theological Seminary/Simpson University - Redding, CA September 2010 to August 2015 Bachelor's in Education, Pastoral Leadership, Counseling Multnomah School of the Bible - Portland, OR Associate in Computers, Electronics, Communication Spokane Community College - Spokane, WA Skills System Administrator (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Active Directory (3 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Attention to details (10+ years), Determine Critical Path of Project (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), TCP/IP (3 years), DNS (3 years), Help Desk Ticketing (10+ years), DOS (9 years), Windows (8 years), Word (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Data Entry, Management (2 years), problem solving (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), Detail Oriented (10+ years), Training (8 years), Restaurant Management (2 years), Cashier (1 year), Sales Associate (1 year), Call Center Team Management (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Class B CDL