Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Charlotte, NC Mr. Edmonds is a Software Professional who possesses good knowledge in web and graphic design, media and website maintenance as well as continue to grow in new web development applications. He has developed and maintained web sites which he has designed with customers and instructed them how to use them. He is an insurance agent licensed in multiple states and a financial advisor. He also has experience as a customer service representative and business retention specialist. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Web A Step Higher - Charlotte, NC May 2016 to Present • Designed and developed views/templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap  • Tested and maintained web sites and content that enrich and optimize the exchange of information and produce effective communications  • Provided expert assistance in the design, presentation, development, and launching of new web pages as well as maintaining previously developed  • Used a variety of graphics software applications such as Photoshop to design web templates  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility Customer Service Representative Apple Care+ Call Center - Kelly Services - Charlotte, NC April 2018 to February 2019 ·       Listening attentively to customer needs and concerns  ·       Provide client support remotely by following processes which will identify if the issue can be quickly fixed, or if it needs to be escalated to a higher-level client support representative.  ·       Assist external users of the client’s products or services by answering questions and solving problems involved in their use. Customer Service Representative Conduent Call Center - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to January 2018 • Listening attentively to customer needs and concerns • Provide client support remotely by following processes which will identify if the issue can be quickly fixed, or if it needs to be escalated to a higher-level client support representative.  • Assist external users of the client's products or services by answering questions and solving problems involved in their use. Licensed Insurance Agent New York Life - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to June 2017 • Assisted individuals, families, and businesses meet their insurance and financial goals • Attend meetings, seminars, and programs to learn about new products and services, learn new skills, and receive technical assistance in developing new accounts.  • Interview prospective clients to obtain data about their financial resources and needs, the physical condition of the person to be insured, and to discuss any existing coverage.  • Call on policyholders to deliver and explain policy, to analyze insurance program and suggest additions or changes, or to change beneficiaries. Customer Service Representative Convergys Call Center - Charlotte, NC May 2016 to May 2017 • Listened attentively to customer needs and concerns; demonstrate empathy while maximizing opportunity to build rapport with the customer.  • Provided client support in a call center setting, via phone or e-mail by following processes which will identify if the issue can be quickly fixed, or if it needs to be escalated to a higher-level client support representative.  • Assisted external users of the client's products or services by answering questions and solving problems involved in their use. Front- End Web Developer Compass Group - Charlotte, NC October 2015 to January 2016 • Developing SharePoint 2013 master pages and page layouts as well as creating web parts • Design of UI & workflows with master pages, CSS, JavaScript, SharePoint Designer files and features.  • Using HTML5 and CSS3 to design, develop, test and maintain web sites and content that enrich and optimize the exchange of information and produce effective communications • Provided expert assistance in the design, presentation, development, and launching of new web pages as well as maintaining previously developed Front- End Web Developer Maryland State Court of Appeals - Annapolis, MD June 2015 to August 2015 • Designing, developing, testing and maintaining web sites and content that enrich and optimize the exchange of information and produce effective communications • Provided expert assistance in the design, presentation, development, and launching of new web pages as well as maintaining previously developed • Provided website support and website planning and deployment Front- End Web Developer National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) - Springfield, VA January 2011 to March 2015 • Developing Sharepoint masterpages and page layouts as well as creating web parts • Designed, developed, tested and maintained web sites that enrich and optimize the exchange of information and produce effective communications using HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap • Worked in a Agile development framework to provide end-to- end development • Used a variety of graphics software applications such as PhotoShop to design web templates • Maintains website technical documentation to assist with website maintenance and upgrades Front- End Web Developer National Security Agency (NSA) - L-3 Communications GSI - Fort Meade, MD June 2000 to November 2010 • Designed, presented, developed, and maintained web pages to display gathered information from a variety of sources pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript • Aided in the design and distribution of newsletters using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, and Creative Suite • Developed and maintained GUIs for data transfer applications using PHP • Tested software as well as trained users on GOTS products and the web pages he developed • He developed briefings to be presented to upper management that defined the duties of different branches • In over six years of operations his duties grew from supporting one office to a branch with multiple offices to a division with over twenty branches. Education B.S. in Electrical Engineering Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD 1997 Skills Bootstrap (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), JavaScript (10+ years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (4 years), PHP (10+ years), SharePoint (4 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), UNIX (10+ years), UI, Angular, Front End, Front-End, React, Android, Git, MYSQL, CSS, Jquery Additional Information SKILLS:  ? HTML5 ? CSS3 ? JavaScript ? SQL ? Bootstrap ? PHP  ? GitHub ? Adobe Creative Suite ? WordPress ? SharePoint ? UNIX