ORDER EXPEDITING ORDER EXPEDITING Magna, UT Seeking employment in a field related to computer sciences, data entry, management or warehouse.  Furthering skill-sets obtained through education and life experiences. Be a part of a team focused on assisting others and overcoming challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORDER EXPEDITING Amazon.com - Salt Lake City, UT October 2018 to March 2019 Labeling, organizing and sorting of packages for fulfillment. SHIPPING AND RECEIVING Condies Foods - Salt Lake City, UT November 2017 to August 2018 Filling orders for 3rd parties, operating palletizing robots, labeling, loading semi-trucks. BOOK-KEEPING/MANAGEMENT/I.T. Haxton Manor - Salt Lake City, UT December 2016 to October 2017 Book-keeping, Scheduling, Data Entry, Basic maintenance of property, management of cook & cleaning staff, Customer Service, Inventory/Finances and I.T. as needed to maintain company network/wi-fi. INVENTORY CONTROL/SHIPPING MANAGER THE KURA DOOR SPA - Salt Lake City, UT November 2016 to March 2017 Inventory control and scheduling deliveries of linens to the spa, Salt Lake Clinic Plastic Surgery  and Paul Mitchell school of hair design. Accuracy was critical and time constrained. I also participated in deliveries when necessary via operating company cargo vans. IN-LINE FILLING TECHNICIAN CYTOZYME LABORATORIES - Salt Lake City, UT September 2015 to November 2016 Setting up and operating large scale in-line filling machines, mixing and pumping hazardous chemicals accurately according to formulation. Data entry, label-making and quality control. FREELANCE FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER SELF EMPLOYED - Salt Lake City, UT June 2014 to September 2015 Primarily consisted of taking designs provided by a graphic artist and "cutting" them into a functional dynamic website. Intermediate PHP,Javascript and SQL were also utilized. Experience with some content management systems (Drupal,Wordpress,Joomla) JUNIOR DBA/I.T LEAD FEATURE FILMS FOR FAMILIES - Salt Lake City, UT March 2010 to March 2014 Managed help tickets and troubleshooting for 3 offices. This included a wide range of responsibilities including;  ·    Maintaining/Updating company website.  ·    Creation of reports using SQL, Microsoft Crystal Reports and Excel/Access  ·    Understanding the foundations of Linux/Unix systems.  ·    Repair of onsite hardware/stations. Updating of any applicable software.  ·    Installation of new workstations and running ethernet cabling  ·    Software updates to RAID arrays, including EMC boxes and hot-swapping failing hard disks.  ·    Installation of Oracle Database Client on various machines and administering related user rights.  ·    Setting up of email accounts via outlook and granting user permissions to network shares as needed.  ·    Debugging of in-house software for development teams.  ·    Much more! BRANCH MANAGER FEATURE FILMS FOR FAMILIES March 2006 to March 2010 Branch manager of customer service department. Duties included: hiring/firing of employees, payroll, handling escalation and save team calls, management of PTO and promotions of said employees. CUSTOMER SERVICE SUPERVISOR Feature Films for Families - Salt Lake City, UT March 2003 to March 2006 Supervised a team of 15 agents, handled Tier 3 escalation/save calls. Listened to agents for quality assurance purposes and recommended employees for reprimand if quality assurance needs were not met. CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE FEATURE FILMS FOR FAMILIES - Salt Lake City, UT March 2001 to March 2003 Customer relations, including collections and “save team” positions which entailed coercing customers into maintaining a relationship with our company. Also worked with collections and accounts receivable. Education In process of obtaining BS in Computer Science And Software Engineering SALT LAKE COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2012 to Present HIGH SCHOOL DIMPLOMA June 2000 Skills Database administrator, Database, Oracle, Sql, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Raid, Crystal reports, Customer service, Phone skills, Typing, 100 wpm, Payroll, Billing, Collections, Customer service representative, Sales customer service, Service department, Helpdesk, Data Entry, Word, Excel, Data Entry Operator, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Information Technology, Management (5 years), Forklift Operator (2 years), Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Food Safety July 2016 to July 2020 Food safety permit. Obtained to get an edge over other candidates when seeking position of bed & breakfast manager. Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p-v2q0we5-yzwzx2 Data Entry — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to accurately input data and effectively manage databases. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rvwyagglorzunihc Data Entry Clerk — Expert July 2019 Maintaining data integrity by detecting errors. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iefgxcvxyra-btvd Scheduling — Proficient July 2019 Cross-references agendas and itineraries to avoid scheduling conflicts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/svhuzg796r3pftrk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills & Abilities  Management  ·    2006-2010 Branch manager of customer service department. Duties included: hiring/firing of employees, payroll, handling escalation and save team calls, management of PTO and promotions of said employees.  Sales  ·    2003-2006 Sales representative and accounts receivable. Duties consisted of handling customers’ accounts regarding billing and subscriptions also including upselling of new products and features pertaining to accounts.  Communication  ·    Several years customer relation experience, including collections and “save team” positions which entailed coercing customers into maintaining a relationship with our company.  Leadership & TECHNICAL  ·    2010-2014 Lead helpdesk/Junior Database Administrator for I.T. department. Managed help tickets and troubleshooting for 3 offices. This included a wide range of responsibilities including;  ·    Maintaining/Updating company website.  ·    Creation of reports using SQL, Microsoft Crystal Reports and Excel/Access  ·    Understanding the foundations of Linux/Unix systems.  ·    Repair of onsite hardware/stations. Updating of any applicable software.  ·    Installation of new workstations and running ethernet cabling  ·    Software updates to RAID arrays, including EMC boxes and hot-swapping failing hard disks.  ·    Installation of Oracle Database Client on various machines and administering related user rights.  ·    Setting up of email accounts via outlook and granting user permissions to network shares as needed.  ·    Debugging of in-house software for development teams.  ·    Much more!     Miscellaneous applicable skills  ·    Touch typing abilities in excess of 90 WPM.  ·    Well-rounded computer knowledge spanning several decades.  ·    Exceptional people and phone skills.  ·    Very quick learner & works well with others.  ·    Eager to learn more and works well under stress.