Front end Vue.js Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> Vue.js <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Vue.js Developer - CenturyLink Atlanta, GA • Around 9+ Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Worked with User Interface applications and highly transactional and scalable applications using HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS, JSON and BackboneJS  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section.  • Experience in User Experience (UX) design and development, User Interactive (UI) Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Vue.js, Angular.js, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Node.js and React.js.  • Excellent knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Experience in writing AngularJS code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using AngularJS.  • Designed front- end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules. Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  • Experience in NodeJS modules like grunt, bower, express, mongoose and integrate with design and requirements to implement modules.  • Extensive experience in developing single-page applications using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using web design tools like Bootstrap. Overcame challenges like data migration from NoSQL or MongoDB.  • Implemented test driven development using Testing tools like Grunt/Gulp.  • Used WebStorm for client-side and server-side development with NodeJS.  • Used GIT, SVN for Version controlling, error reporting and project management tools JIRA.  • Worked on Unit test by Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application with Angular 4&5 and JavaScript.  • Used Jasmine as testing framework and Karma as test runner to perform unit testing and it is written entirely in Typescript and meets the ES6 specification.  • Experience in complete software SDLC which includes requirement, coding, design, analysis, testing, using Agile, Test Driven methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end Vue.js Developer CenturyLink - Dallas, TX November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with VUE JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Components, directives, controllers and HTTP Request  • Experience in Vue.JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication  • Manipulated DOM, handled events and applied animation effects with Vue.js.  • Built single page application using Vue.js components.  • Solved data issue using DOM update cycle with Vue.js.  • Resolved form validation with Vue Validate.  • Automatically updated table data with Vue data binding.  • Used GIT for version control, JIRA for bug tracking and Confluence for project management  • Created custom directives for re-usable components.  • Used Photoshop for creating wire frames.  • Developed Single page applications (SPAs) using AngularJS.  • Developed page animations using CSS, jQuery and AngularJS.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Vue.JS, Agile, Jira, Vuetify.JS, Nuxt.JS, Angular4, Quasar, Node.JS, Mongo. DB, GIT, Web Storm. UI Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developing the front end using JS framework front- end web technologies including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and templating engines.  • Working in Photoshop design comps developing HTML/JS/CSS based web sites, including testing and debugging cross-browser.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server  • Developed a completely new Greenfield web app for a high-profile project Using Angular2.0, D3 JS and Web pack, Angular CLI.  • Created/Modified Angular 2 components, by using Typescript we create the bigger projects and converts to JS files to modify or creating new JS  • Using web scripting languages like NodeJS and Yarn for interaction between client side and server-side technologies.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4like new if else syntax, ng-templates, and form validators.  • Used Rest-Client and Rest-Template proxy setting for connection outside AMEX systems  • Followed SCRUM Agile methodology that includes iterative application development, weekly sprints, daily stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.    Environment: Dust JS, Angular 2,4, Node JS, D3 JS, Typescript JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Agile, Responsive web design, Gulp, Bower, NPM and Web Services UI Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX December 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, AJAX and JSON.  • Built client side with web development techniques including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery mobile upon cross platform mobile development.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Used Dynamic HTML for Web documents to look and act like desktop applications or multimedia productions.  • Extensively worked on applications using JSON, XML Objects with MySQL. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used ReactJS to abstracts away from the DOM function, giving a simpler programming model and better performance.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Created reusable components with well-defined interfaces by using ReactJS.  • Worked with ReactJS keys, while dynamically created components on lists which are altered by the users and set the key value to keep your components uniquely, identified after the change.  • Used test cases like Jasmine, Karma, Enzyme to provide and setup teardown code for before each function and after each function specifications.  • Worked with BA's to discuss technical requirements based upon business requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, SASS, REST, SVN, GIT, Gulp, DOM, ReactJS, Redux Saga, XML, Sublime, Bitbucket, WebStorm, ES6, jQuery, Webpack, GIT, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Jasmine, Grunt, Agile & SCRUM. Web Developer Choices Counseling Services - Valparaiso, IN January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Created package.json for Bower and NPM and extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Developed and performed test cases using jasmine and Karma in the unit test, and used protractor and Http-server for the End2End testing  • Extensive experience using Bootstrap for layout and involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Developed server-side JavaScript using NodeJS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Linux/Unix, JavaScript, jasmine and Karma, jQuery, AJAX JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, NPM. UI Developer ING Vysya Bank - New Delhi, Delhi February 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery.  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery  • Used SVN for version control and defect tracking.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Responsive design, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Frond End Developer Augusta - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Created HTML5 and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Scripting.  • Defined the site layout and developed Wireframes using Adobe Illustrator.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (8 years), CSS (9 years), jQuery (9 years), Front End, Angular, UI, React, Front-End, User Interface, Angularjs, Java, Bootstrap, Node, HTML5, CSS3 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies-HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, D3 JS, Angular JS/2.0, Vue.js, Backbone JS. Typescript, Node JS  Methodologies-Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Application/Web server-Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere(8.0), J Boss  IDE's-Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Web Storm, Note pad ++  Version Controls-SVN, Visual SourceSafe(VSS), GIT, Tortoise GIT  Data Base-MongoDB, MYSQL  Tools & Utilities -ICM, DDCT, Jenkins, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, NPM