Web Designer, Graphic Designer & Front End Developer Web Designer, Graphic Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer, Graphic Designer & Front End Developer - Petfooddirect.com Philadelphia, PA Maintaining an optimal and up-to-date level in my knowledge and contributions to the web, always taking on new and changing technologies. Continuing in the search for the best solution for the graphic and interactive aspects of each project. My work is always directed towards the satisfaction of the client and the success of their business in the marketplace.  Current role: Web & Graphic Designer / Front End Developer Work Experience Web Designer, Graphic Designer & Front End Developer Petfooddirect.com - Plymouth Meeting, PA December 2010 to Present Pet360.com  Plymouth Meeting, PA    1. Graphic design and redesign of website and corporate image.  2. Planning, design and code for new web and mobile interfaces.  4. Coding in HTML / HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax ( front end development).  5. Coordination with systems engineers on optimal implementation of design and code.  6. Quality control of SEO standards.  8. Design and coding of different web graphic items like newsletters, web stores, home splashes, etc.  9. User interface mobile architecture, design and code. Web Designer & Graphic Designer Bogotá (Colombia) 1998 to Present During the final semesters of my university studies, I began to work on independent projects with clients in various fields, generating different solutions depending on the necessities of each company.  This has given me much experience in planning, interaction, development and finalization of projects.  I have worked with many important companies across North and South America. Web Designer, Graphic Designer & Front End Developer Rentalo.com - Miami, FL April 2007 to December 2010 Miami, FL / Bogotá (Colombia)    1. Graphic design and redesign of corporate image.  2. Planning new interfaces.  3. Participation in development of new structures for site navigation.  4. Coding in HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, front end Miami, FL / Bogotá (Colombia).  5. Coordination with systems engineers on implementation of design and code  6. Validation of projects with World Wide Web Cosortium (W3C).  7. Quality control of SEO standards.  8. Monthly design and coding of newsletters. Web Designer & Graphic Designer Multimind Group & Internet Total - Miami, FL March 2004 to March 2007 Bogotá (Colombia)    1. Graphic design and development for web sites, front end development.  2. Flash designer and coder.  3. Interaction with engineers to revise and achieve effective and high-quality final products.  4. Logo and print design for various clients. Web Designer & Graphic Designer EForcers February 2002 to October 2003 Bogotá (Colombia)    1. Graphic design and development for web sites.  2. Flash designer and coder.  3. Design and development of interfaces for software.  4. Icon design for software interfaces.  5. Print design. Web Designer & Graphic Designer Cyanco Interactive Solutions July 1998 to March 2000 Cali (Colombia)    1. Graphic design and development for web sites.  2. Flash designer and coder.  3. Design and development of multimedia presentations.  4. Video editing.  5. Print design.    FREELANCE PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Education web design Escuela Departmental de Bellas Artes Links http://www.javierescobar.tv Additional Information Expertise:  Design, interface design, user interface, user interface architecture planning, mobile interface design, mobile interface code across different operating systems (Responsive Design), multimedia design, animation, Fireworks, PhotoShop, HTML 5, CSS 3.0, JavaScript customization, blog customization, Flash, Swift 3D, Illustrator.    Clients among others:  International: UNDP, Pfizer, Novartis, World Vision, Parmalat, Gillette, Duracell, Ecocert, Supertex Adidas, Arena, Rentalo.com, Petfooddirect.com, NationalPetPharmacy.com, Terra, Carlos Pinel, The Lone Group, Hollywood Station, Aventura Magazine, Addison house furniture, Naturmedik, Lafrancol.  Colombia: Universidad de Los Andes, Asocel (Asociación Colombiana de Celulares), CAFAM, Grupo Aval, Metro Cuadrado, Elempleo.com, Integra Seguridad, Cellstar, Publicar, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, Corporación Autónoma Regional de Chivor, COPOCHIVOR, Seguridad eléctrica, Naturalbelle, Estrategias corporativas.    SKILLS  Software Level Years of experience  Dreamweaver High More than 10 years  Flash High More than 10 years  Fireworks High More than 10 years  Adobe Photoshop High More than 10 years  Freehand High More than 10 years  Swift 3d Intermediate More than 5 years  Sound Forge Intermediate More than 5 years  Premier Video Editor Intermediate More than 10 years    Programming Languages Level Years of experience  HTML / HTML 5 High More than 10 years  CSS / CSS 3.0 High More than 7 years  ActionScript Intermediate More than 10 years  JavaScript / Jquery / Ajax Intermediate More than 5 years  PHP Beginning More than 5 years    Other Level Years of experience  Planning Mobile and architecture interface High More than 1 year  Planning and organization of web projects High More than 5 years  Interaction with clients High More than 10 years  Animation High More than 10 years  Creation of corporate images High More than 10 years  Video High More than 10 years  Illustration High More than 5 years  Prints High More than 5 years  Photography High More than 10 years