Sr. UI/UX Developer Sr. UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/UX Developer - Power Design, Inc Providence, RI • Having 9+ years of experience with specialization in development, and customization of software applications, to deliver robust and scalable enterprise scale systems for corporate clients using J2EE technologies.  • Strong experience in working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML,HTML5, XSL, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Node.js, Backbone.JS, React JS.  • Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of Portals and UI Applications including HTML, CSS3 and  • Expert knowledge in Flex, Photoshop, Illustrator, Macromedia Dreamweaver and Flash in a PC environment.  • Well versed in concept building, information design, visualization, testing web based applications.  • Good knowledge on various terminologies like Software Developmental Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in SOAP response converted to Json message using inbuilt policy.  • Good knowledge about Object Oriented JavaScript concepts and JavaScript patterns  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • In-Depth knowledge/Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Good knowledge in Backbone.js and Responsive Design.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, My Baits, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  • Worked on IDE's like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  • Developed protocol transformation from XML from/to JSON.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend (Java) code AJAX and JSON. Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY AJAX calls and update the DOM  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON  • Experience working on JSP.  • Experienced in Responsive Web Design.  • Managing Mongo DB using MMS monitoring tool.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE),JSP, Java Servlets (including JNDI), Struts, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on Windows.  • Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles and Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web, including browser-safe palettes and file size management  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3and MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js , React Js etc.  • Good Experience in working with Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, CSS Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, underscore.js, My Baits, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  • Worked on IDE's like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  • Experience in Node Js for implementing good responsive design.  • Used Backbone.js and React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like React JS.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and React JS.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, Backbone Js, JSON and HTML5.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Strong knowledge in Agile Development and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Experience and expertise in angular 2 by developing individual components.  • Experience and expertise working on validations by using angular 2 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/UX Developer Power Design, Inc - Saint Petersburg, FL September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and extensively used table less design in CSS for positioning.  • Work with Visual and UX Designers to translate visual concepts into functional online experiences, microsites, and other digital media.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js.  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end UX design such as web pages, graphics.  • Used routing schemes to develop single page applications (SPAs) using Angular route.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Involved in consuming Restful APIs and processing JSON data for rendering in UI.  • Worked with clients to develop layout, color scheme for their website and implemented it into a final Interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) from Angular.JS factories and services.  • Defined new validations through Angular.JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the application independent components like sticky header for window or table, custom dropdowns, tables, checkboxes, radio buttons, notifications, chevrons, graphs, date pickers , pagination etc.  • Designed and developed Single page Application with Controllers, Model and Views of Angular Js / Angular 2 framework.  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user transaction grid in Angular JS2.0.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions.  • Used Jasmine unit testing for JavaScript and Angular JS code.  • Worked on RESTFUL Responsive Design which would support most of the devices as well.  • Worked on Adobe tagging to capture the Metrix for UI elements based on requirements.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing of the application.  • Developed various functionalities such as search, pagination, filtering.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, LESS and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Developed a real-time collaborative module in node.js that enabled users to create real-time block diagrams.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.    Node JS Responsibilities:  • Daily programming with Node.JS, Angular, Bootstrap.  • Worked on Prototyping and Implementation using Java, Node JS and AWS with Slacker platform.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed internal services using Java and Node.js  • Developed Milk Music backend API services by using Node Js.  • Developed large scale, real-time, live blogging server and UI using Node.js and Angular.js.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS3, Java, Dojo, JavaScript, React JS, Responsive Design (RWD), Node JS, Backbone.js, AngularJS 1.5/2, Mongo DB, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON, Jasmine. Front End Developer Molina Healthcare, CA March 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Developed various reports and charts using HTML Canvas, HTML SVG, D3JS, and SVG by passing JSON objects and arrays as input both for mobile and web applications.  • Implemented Sunburst graph using D3JS with SVG elements.  • Wrote application level code to add functionality to the perform client side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating AngularJS with Bootstrap, which is further integrated with WebServices.  • Enhancing the UI with a foundation in fundamental UX techniques allows me to create very user-intuitive presentations that give the user a sense of the flow of information, the hierarchy of content, as well as providing greater accessibility with clean HTML5 syntax and 508 accessibility standards.  • Brought the HTML and CSS of an existing web site to the latest web standards.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag & Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Added ARIA attributes to search content to relate dynamic server-side information to screen readers and for greater keyboard accessibility.  • Checked for cross-browser compatibility issues in regards to HTML and CSS layouts in IE 6 and up, Firefox, and Chrome using Firebug and Chrome and IE Developer Tools.  • Installed Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Gulp.  • Worked on responsive web designing (RWD). Application is supportive for large, medium and small devices using Bootstrap.  • Developed various components using backbone.js.  • Used several Javascript frameworks like Angular js, Backbone JS for MVC on front end.  • Followed JIRA, which is work tracking tool. Used to update JIRA each and every stage as per the development i.e., ready to develop, build, test, approve.  • Used Yeoman generators to develop, test, and build high quality web applications.  • Developed the unit testing scripts using Jasmine for testing the JavaScript code and automation of the tasks with Grunt/Gulp.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs.  • Collaborated with other team members and stakeholders.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Used Jenkins to build the code and worked on DDCT & ICM tools (Content management tools) for the deployment purpose.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, ECMA Script CSS/CSS3, SASS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Bower, GIT, Agile. UI developer MLSListings - Sunnyvale, CA December 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Co-ordination with BA group for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements.  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Worked with designers to create mock-up's for the client screen according to the provided wireframes.  • Used Node.js to create event driven pages.  • Developed UI on mobile web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and JSON.  • Developed custom Node.js proxy used to send requests to clients APIs, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide functionality for the user interface.  • Worked on the application developed using HTML, CSS, JSON, spring.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Objects) and SQL queries to support system functionality.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing JQuery library.  • Used JS Test for testing framework for developed JavaScript.  • Developed administrative pages using Node.js.  • Used JQuery plug-in to implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features.  • Worked closely with the UI Designers using flash to create web designs.  • Developed web presentation layer using front end technologies according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Managed the Subversion branching strategy for a few applications by creating Release branches, Development branches thus ensuring the integrity of Trunk.  • Worked with Firebug to locate the issue through different browsers.  • Responsible for checking cross-browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers.  • Used Photoshop for image editing and website design.  • Worked extensively with the backend team to integrate the HTML code into JSPs.  • Developed the custom data grids upon JQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQuery UI Library.  • Performed unit testing and integration using JASMINE.  • Led workflow resolution, automating process by effectively routing information to appropriate queues with sufficient flexibility to handle exceptions.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: JDBC, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, HTML5, JUnit, JSON, ESB, JMS, CSS3, Jasmine, NodeJS, Web Services. Web Developer Ryder Systems Inc. MI February 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the preparation of prototype and demos of the project and presented before the client to check that it meets their requirements.  • Optimized images for web page display, and feature item slides using Adobe Photoshop.  • Maintained page layouts, navigation, presented designs and concepts to the clients and the managements to review.  • Cooperated with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Created database tables and manipulated data using MySQL.  • Used JSON to store and access the data in a search pages.  • Developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls through JQuery method.  • Applied XML into transferring administration data to the back end.  • Validated the user input using JQuery validation plugin.  • Implemented a lightweight customizable JQuery plugin for styled appearance.  • Resolved Cross Browser Compatible Issues for different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox and Opera.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, SQL, SVN, Photoshop, XML. Web Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Philadelphia, PA June 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed JQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization prototypes, navigation, page layouts and interaction.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Developed interface to display report data using JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  • Used various JQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using JQuery plugins  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Optimized images for web page display, and feature item slides using Adobe Photoshop.  • Deployed the application using IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Served as the Lead Developer for the team of eight.  • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Business Services using the Servlets and Java.  • Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extreme programming methodologies for replacing the existing code and testing in J2EE environment.  • Developed java classes for business layer.  • Developed frontend layout and intro for home page using Fireworks.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.  • Extensively used images of the product for web and catalogue.  • Web Application Developed using Web Technologies 2.0.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  • Using SVN for version control.  • Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse, MySQL, Photoshop and IBM Web Sphere Application Server. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (9 years), Subversion (8 years), SVN (6 years), Front-End, React, UI, Angular, Front End, Angularjs, Jquery, User Interface, Java, HTML5 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web / Application Servers: IBM Websphere6.0/7.0, Apache Tomcat 4.1, and Weblogic10g/11g  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, PHP, JSP, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML  Database: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Mango DB  JavaScript Libraries: ExtJS,2.0/1.0, Backbone.js, Node.js, Require.js, React.js, Angular 1.5, Angular.js  2.0, Express.js  Tools and IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans, ANT build tool, Tortoise SVN and JUNIT    Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000/XP, UNIX.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP and SOAP.