Front End UI/UX Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI/UX Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI/UX Web Developer - 535media, LLC Holly Springs, NC Work Experience Front End UI/UX Web Developer 535media, LLC - Warrendale, PA September 2016 to Present Front End Developer for a Pittsburgh based digital media agency. Predominantly build custom WordPress themes, and custom WordPress plugins. Primary resource for web interface development within 535media's Web Development  team. Review project goals and design highly usable, intuitive and interactive interfaces for a wide array of internal and client sites. Responsibilities include the development of clean, interfaces for a broad range of clients. Create mock  ups, wire frames, and graphical designs to support the goals of development projects. Quickly generate design  alternatives and iteratively refine storyboards, wire frames, mock-ups, and live prototypes. Plan for and implement  web based mobile-friendly and/or responsive designs. Drive the evolution of design and development standards and implement style guidelines and code base to be used across web projects. Design, code, test and deploy multiple  email campaigns for a variety of internal and external clients. Utilize SecondStreet and MailChimp to deploy emails  based on custom, targeted user queries. Implement Google Analytics and Google Webmaster tools for tracking  purposes on all new site builds. Optimize all sites with Google Page Insights and other online tools to maximize page  speed and reduce load times. Use Elastic Beanstalk with a Git repository to maintain version control across the multiple developers working on various projects. Also use other Git repositories for other projects. Designer/Visual Developer Brunner - Pittsburgh, PA May 2015 to March 2016 Designer / Visual Developer that provides design and client side production development while also exploring new  tools and efficient ways for the visual development team to work. Work within complex project management process- es and work within an agile methodology and serve as a mentor to junior team members. Tasked with thinking  conceptually, grasping the bigger marketing picture and executing flawlessly. Equally comfortable discussing user  experience. Create, support and execute dynamically driven websites and digital assets (emails etc.). React and adapt  to ever changing and aggressive timetables. Work with the team (creative and development) on process and improve- ments to digital production. Communicate and exhibit knowledge of layout principles and aesthetic design concepts  using current standards and design trends. Collaborate with team members on creative programs and design concepts  that meet the business objectives of the organization. Be responsible for multiple projects from concept through completion; provide quality control over assigned projects. Research new technologies, innovation and development  best practices. Work with project management team to understand resource skill-sets, estimating, timelines and change management. Initiate development of production strategy, including client-side technical specs, functional  specs and production specs. Organize the design of project functionality, architecture, UI, content and navigation, while visually integrating and enhancing elements associated with the client-side build. Senior Web Developer Mullen Advertising - Pittsburgh, PA November 2011 to March 2014 Senior web developer Mullen Advertising 2013 to 2013 Helped in all  facets of planning, wire framing and building various elements to bolster clients web presence. Built microsites,  Facebook pages, as well as full web sites for clients including The American Diabetes Association, Magellan GPS,  Bowers & Wilkins and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield. Built and tested HTML emails for clients such as The Universi- ty of Miami, Saladworks, as well as our internal enewsletter. Troubleshoot and find usable, and workable solutions to maximize client needs. Developed new features mainly using a LAMP stack, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery,  to help clients web sites to have a more user friendly, responsive, web experience including design, cross browser  compliance and optimization. Utilize best practices as much as possible. Worked on building out a rebranded web  sites and moving the entire sites over to WordPress. When clients needed a digital presence, I was involved, which allowed for me to have a very broad skill set. Web Developer Lance Armstrong Foundation/ LIVESTRONG - Austin, TX July 2007 to July 2011 Web designer/ developer for a non-profit foundation whose mission is to make cancer an international priority. Was  responsible for all things that touch the web including maintaining livestrong.org with monthly traffic of over  560,000 pageviews, as well as building new, additional websites. Built and maintained all the web 2.0 initiatives for the foundation including Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, and YouTube with an enormous user base and traffic. Built a  custom Twitter feed used internally for visitors to see what employees are Tweeting about. Built and maintained all  email communications sent by the foundation, including building queries based on specific demographics for each  email campaign. Redesigned advocacy, Team LIVESTRONG, and the general LIVESTRONG enewsletters, to keep a consistent look and feel for all fundraising, cancer awareness, athletic events and advocacy based emails. Implement -  ed Google Analytics and used the tracking software built into the CRM to track and analyze data and report back to supervisors. Developed and built various web graphics including banner ads, flash ads, video editing, and traveled to events to take photographs. Edited print designs for various collateral pieces. Troubleshoot and problem solve  workarounds for the limits of current CRM/CMS system. Built and maintained livestrongblog.org and smokefreetexas-  .org for the foundation on the WordPress platform. Managed third party vendors to insure an on-time and on budget  project completions. Education Digital Media Design Technology Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX 2000 to 2001 Journalism/Photography McLennan Community College - Waco, TX 1995 to 1997 Additional Information skills  Macintosh/PC  • Adobe Creative Suite • Google Webmasters • LAMP Stack • PHP/SQL  • AngularJS • GitHub • Microsoft Office Suite • Salesforce  • AWS • HTML5/CSS3 • Numerous CMS/CRM • Sketch  • Balsamiq Mockups • JavaScript • Numerous Email Vendors • Various API's  • Bootstrap • jQuery • Optimizely • WordPress