Front- End Web Developer III <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Front- End Web Developer III Austin, TX I am a Front- End Web Developer, with a focus on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. You can see my recent projects on my Github account: https://github.com/Alixers505    Coding Skills And Tools:   - AEM and Base CMS's  - HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  - Sass  - Gulp/Parcel and Yarn/NPM  - VSCode, Intellij, Sublime  - Photoshop  - BrowserStack testing for cross-browser compatibility  - Git / Github  - Rally / Jira    Some experience working with jQuery, Vue.js, React.js, Node.js, Handlebars.js, Express.js, and others. Work Experience Front- End Web Developer III Endeavor Business Media - Austin, TX March 2019 to Present In the spring of 2019, PennWell was acquired by Endeavor Business Media. As a FED, I complete development requests for UI changes, defects, and redesigns. We utilize Jira for web support, Basecamp for feature development, and Github and Travis for CI/CD.    My current project work for Endeavor utilizes the company built CMS called Base. The frontend is built on HTML, CSS, Sass, BootStrap grid, JS, and Marko.js.    • FED Stack: HTML, CSS, Sass, JS, Marko.js, Bootstrap grid  • Environment: Docker local and Base CMS  • Tools: VS Code, Git Tower, Github, Jira, Basecamp  • Organizations: https://github.com/endeavorb2b Front- End Web Developer III Pennwell (now Endeavor Business Media) - Austin, TX October 2014 to March 2019 As a FED, I completed development tickets for UI changes, defects, and redesigns. My tasks included converting responsive/mobile-first development, cross browser testing, internal consults, creating test cases, peer review, and educating Product Managers on effective uses of components within our CMS.    My previous project work was in the AEM CMS environment utilizing HTML, CSS, Sass, BootStrap, vanilla JS, and jQuery, incorporated with Jenkins package management and Git version control. At PennWell, I both maintained legacy content and created projects from scratch.    My largest contributions in this position:  • Converting 30+ websites to use Mobile First responsive design and Sass  • Establishing front- end best practices and style guidelines  • Upgrading the login component (React)  • Creating new header and footer components for the next-gen sites  • Creating a data-viewing prototype utilizing Vue.js    FED Stack: HTML, CSS, Sass, vanilla JS, Vue.js, jQuery, React  Environment: AEM CMS   Tools: IntelliJ, SourceTree, BrowserStack, Git, Rally  Senior Administrative Assistant Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology - Okmulgee, OK August 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities  As the Senior Administrative Assistant for the Vice President of Institutional Advancement, I maintained office organization, coordinated meeting schedules, facilitated travel arrangements, and assisted multiple departments within Institutional Advancement--including Marketing, the Economic Development and Training Center, and International Affairs. I interacted with students, staff, and faculty on a daily basis to provide information, and served as a resource to visitors unfamiliar with campus.    Accomplishments  I organized the electronic filing system, updated and expanded the contact lists, inventoried and organized the kitchen, copy room, and conference center, and worked on updating the conference room decorations. During United Way fundraising, I facilitated and organized the construction of a gift basket for the campus raffle fundraiser. I also worked with a member of the State Department of Agriculture to host a conference on campus in early February, and I was part of the delegation constructing the Super Saturday event which occurred in early April '14.    Skills Used  Organization  Time management  Customer service Multiple Positions QuikTrip - Tulsa, OK October 2004 to May 2013 Payment Systems Specialist  As a payment systems specialist, I worked with customers and store employees to resolve payment related issues, specifically involving rewards programs, prepaid cards, pumpstart cards, and checks. I also monitored Facebook posts and addressed customer concerns through this venue.    Night Assistant Manager and Roaming Assistant Manager  As an assistant manager for the QuikTrip corporation, I managed the store during varying shifts, which included overseeing clerks, creating product orders, assisting customers, and performing cash audits.    Clerk  As a store clerk, I worked in the QuikTrip stores to assist customers, clean, and maintain store products. Education Bachelor of University Studies in Creative Writing and Education Oklahoma State University - Stillwater, OK 2009 to 2014 Associate of Arts in English Tulsa Community College - Tulsa, OK 2007 to 2009 Skills HTML5 (6 years), CSS3 (6 years), Javascript (3 years), Sass (6 years), Front End (6 years), Vue.JS (Less than 1 year), Node.js (Less than 1 year), jQuery (2 years), AEM CMS (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), Responsive Design (6 years), Cross Browser Compatibility Testing (5 years), Gulp (2 years), React (Less than 1 year), Parcel (Less than 1 year), Marko.js (Less than 1 year), Base CMS (Less than 1 year), Github (6 years), CI/CD (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/alysha-buselt/69/aa3/473/ https://github.com/Alixers505 Assessments Problem Solving — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wl9a0gbtoxvbjxoi Critical Thinking Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/x8lbc5azpa4mv8mp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Please view my linked in profile for my full work experience and expertise, and my github account for recent projects. You can find both urls in the "Links" section above.