Analyst Analyst Analyst - UST Logistical Systems Simpsonville, SC Energetic, creative, and organized analytical thinker effective in working with others to provide exemplary customer service experiences. Flexible and adaptable to meet the requirements of the task at hand; Educationally well-rounded with a variety of work experiences that lend well to diversifying my application of techniques toward outside-the-box problem-solving. Experienced in both digital and traditional work environments with excellent organizational skills for both, respectively. Work Experience Analyst UST Logistical Systems - Greenville, SC December 2017 to Present I meet with application users to document and communicate expectations and guidelines, generate ad hoc, monthly and quarterly reports, and develop dynamic, automated, and variable reports utilizing Python, SQL Server, and Power BI. I also design wireframes and prototypes, then implement those designs into the front- end using Angular and Sass. Performing research and application testing with APIs, web-scraping, and browser automation are also among my specialties in this position. Doorman The Heritage Condominiums - Columbia, SC January 2008 to Present As doorman, I greet guests, residents, and contractors into the building as well as guard the keys, doors, and deliveries of the residents. I watch cameras and record the goings-on of the building. The Heritage currently uses my method of organization of the residents' personal information. Also, I was offered the Head Doorman position in 2010, but I declined the offer in order to pursue further education. Front- End Developer Severien - Columbia, SC June 2017 to December 2017 Planned and designed wireframes, developed simple UX/UI prototypes using jQuery, and implemented those designs into the front- end for web applications with the end goal of integration with the Laravel PHP framework. Also created the front- end and back- end functionality of various forms used by the vendors at the SC State Fair. ACE Certified Personal Trainer Personally Fit - Columbia, SC May 2015 to June 2017 As a personal trainer, I weekly trained 20+ clients with diverse careers, backgrounds, exercise experience, and pre-existing injuries and conditions to exercise safely in order to meet their goals using a variety of methods and equipment. For my certification, I maintained continuing education in order to stay on top of current exercise trends and science-based research. Art Teacher The Heritage Condominiums - Columbia, SC January 2015 to June 2015 Prepared, organized, and led diverse groups of people of varying artistic experience to paint and finish paintings of varying difficulty within a 2-hour time limit while still giving an entertaining experience and ensuring that no customers were left behind. Education Master's in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Work at Home December 2018 to June 2020 AS, AA, Web Development in Web Development, Science, and Art Midlands Technical College - West Columbia, SC January 2007 to June 2017 Bachelor of Fine Arts in Fine Arts University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC August 2008 to December 2010 Skills HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (2 years), TYPESCRIPT (1 year), PHP (1 year), System Analyst (1 year), T-Sql (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), JQuery (2 years), AngularJS (1 year), Angular 4/5 (1 year), MySQL (1 year), SASS (2 years), Foundations 5 (2 years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (5 years), Indesign (5 years), Sql Server, XML, SQL Additional Information Skills  • Proficient with: T-SQL and SQL Server, MySQL and PHP MyAdmin, HTML, CSS3, SASS, jQuery, Bootstrap and Foundations 5, Visual Studio, Power BI, Word, Excel, Photoshop, and Adobe XD CC.  • Moderately skilled with: Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, PHP, AngularJS, Angular 4/5 Adobe InDesign, and Adobe Illustrator.  • Platforms: Windows 10 and Mac.