Logistics Operations Manager Logistics Operations Manager Logistics Operations Manager - Landstar Chicago, IL Work Experience Logistics Operations Manager Landstar December 2017 to Present Business Development  ? Acquired, setup and managed Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations major account for our operations team  that resulted in an increase of $100,000 in sales in just 3 months to end 2018 and continues to grow  ? Built a relationship with Pepsi Logistics and Worldwide Express to add more customers to our portfolio of business that helped me achieve the top sales performer of 2018 within our operations team  Negotiation  ? Negotiated pricing of freight moving across the US and Canada with customers including Amazon, Tesla and Caterpillar along with brokers and agencies on a daily basis  ? Keep our operating budget in line with business needs  Leadership  ? Mentor and train new team members with an emphasis on working together to achieve our sales goals Technical Services Specialist United Center October 2006 to Present Lead analyst for Stats Inc. NBA SportsVU player tracking system for the Chicago Bulls  ? Part of Bulls and Blackhawks day of game staff to assist media and technical services team with A/V  troubleshooting, setups and teardowns Digital Services Manager and Developer Choose Chicago July 2012 to October 2017 Leadership  ? Managed our content, development and design teams to achieve the transition to a full responsive site of the  3,500+ page choosechicago.com  ? Led a team of 5 social media managers during the 2015 and 2016 NFL Drafts using Spredfast as our social  listening and responding application  Digital Marketing and Strategy  ? Managed and analyzed Google Analytics information to drive further understanding of web behaviors and recommended changes to website based on data  ? Strategized with OTA (Expedia) to develop and implement remarketing campaigns to past guest and web visitors  Email Marketing  ? Implemented and utilized email automation software platforms (Distribion, ExactTarget, and SubscriberMail) to send over 250,000 emails per year  ? Developed and created HTML branded emails for the organization and partners  Web Design/Development  ? Collaborated with our internal Marketing team and FCB (Foote, Cone & Belding) to launch multimedia  components, graphics and page designs for choosechicago.com  UI/UX  ? Managed relationship with CMS/CRM provider (SimpleView Inc.) to improve appearance and user experience of choosechicago.com  ? Used current web methodologies including HTML5, CSS and JavaScript to enhance user experience of choosechicago.com  ? Conduct overall quality assurance of web functionality and advertising integration Contract Front- End Web Designer / Developer Insurance Auto Auctions November 2011 to July 2012 Developed and designed new enhancements to Auction Center, the premier online auction platform for live  online auto auctions on ASP.net framework using CSS3 and HTML in an agile development environment  ? Instrumental in creating the first UX test for IAA, creating wireframes for the development team to prototype a working model to test users  ? Conducted interviews of users to test how well tasks were written to determine if they were suitable for use on the website  ? Used online tools to collect data for user tests that tracked what they clicked and how successful they were in completing various tasks Interactive Web Producer at Chicago Tribune October 2007 to November 2011 Built TribuneMediaGroup.com in 3 months while continually interfacing with development team to review  wireframes, UX design and final design comps. Within 3 months after the website launched it brought in over  $200,000 in incremental revenue.  ? Designed the overall presentation/look of the Tribune Tower interactive screen, working both with colleagues  from advertising as well as coordinating with an outside vendor on implementation. The screen was sold several  times, generating approximately $10,000 in incremental revenue for the company  ? Designed impactful Facebook FBML Welcome pages for ChicagoNow, Chicago Tribune, Printers Row Lit Fest,  TribNation, and ChicagoPOINTS, among others, driving significant increases in fan count and cross-traffic to Tribune websites  ? Designed, built and deployed the Navy Pier Passport promotion microsite, one of the first true  revenue-generating creative projects for our team which yielded an additional $5,000 in incremental revenue  ? Managed new online subscription offers and premium web content for existing subscribers  ? Created and developed email marketing for various advertising clients and internal initiatives Social Media Director - Freelance Creative Powers June 2011 to August 2011 Directed the social media presence for various Creative Powers clients, most notably Zigman Sales, an optical  product/service company, including Facebook pages and LinkedIn profiles Facebook Consultant - Freelance LiquidThread July 2011 to July 2011 - July 2011 (1 month)    ? Audited Facebook pages for Beam Brands to ensure functionality of apps  ? Recommended changes that could be made and best practices that could applied to enhance pages and increase "likes." Web Designer/ Developer GDMI.net June 2007 to September 2007 Developed, designed, and managed 4 client websites and over 25 landing pages  ? Maintained and managed company blog, including monitoring content posted by users  ? Acted as liaison between client and project managers to ensure development process ran smoothly  ? Trained, directed, and managed interns who developed new white papers for gdmi.net to be used for lead  generation Internet Content Manager Feld Entertainment November 2004 to June 2007 Developed, designed and managed 3 highly trafficked websites: SupercrossOnline.com, Arenacross.com, and FreestyleMotocrossOnline.com  ? Created and implemented all web advertising on motorsports websites including affiliate web advertising for the Dew Action Sports Tour, a joint venture between Live Nation and NBC/Universal  ? Collaborated with major sponsors such as Amp'd Mobile, CBS Sports, SPEED TV, Honda, Toyota, Circuit City, and Progressive Direct to ensure proper usage of their web advertising standards  ? Managed and implemented all video on Supercross TV multimedia video player at SupercrossOnline.com  ? Produced Supercross LIVE! audio webcast at Amp'd Mobile Supercross Series (now Monster Energy Supercross  Series) events with an average of 40,000 listeners every week  ? Developed monthly fan club e-newsletter with a readership of over 81,000 people  ? Worked with Circuit City to create Navigate to the Front, a micro site sweepstakes through SupercrossOnline.com which generated 32,231 new subscribers to weekly newsletter database  ? Analyzed traffic and generate statistics for web advertising using DoubleClick Dart For Publishers and DART tags  ? Reported monthly web statistics for all property websites using Omniture Site Catalyst  ? Trained, directed, and managed 4 interns to create web advertisements and new page templates for SupercrossOnline.com, FreestyleMotocrossOnline.com, and Arenacross.com Web Designer Best Seats Tickets September 2004 to November 2004 Design / develop new company web presence and sell tickets to sporting, theatre, and concert events Education Bachelors of Fine Arts in Multimedia / Web Design Illinois Institute of Art 2001 to 2004 Skills advertising (10+ years), Creative Direction (Less than 1 year), CSS (5 years), Digital Media (Less than 1 year), Digital Strategy (Less than 1 year), HTML (5 years), jQuery (Less than 1 year), Lead Generation (Less than 1 year), Management Consulting (Less than 1 year), Marketing (9 years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (Less than 1 year), SEO (Less than 1 year), Social Media Marketing (Less than 1 year), Team Building (Less than 1 year), Testing (Less than 1 year), UI (5 years), Usability (Less than 1 year), USABILITY TEST (Less than 1 year), user experience (5 years), USER INTERFACE (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/mikeparadiso Additional Information Specialties  Team Building, Leadership, Management, HTML, CSS, Email Marketing, Google Analytics, Project  Management, Social Media, Adobe Creative Suite    Skills & Expertise  Email Marketing, SEO, Social Media Marketing, Digital Media, Adobe Creative Suite, Social Media, Google Analytics,  Advertising, Online Advertising, Web Analytics, Omniture, Usability Testing, User Experience, Management Consulting,  jQuery, IAX, Creative Direction, Integrated Marketing, Facebook, Blogging, Lead Generation, Web Development,  e-Newsletters, Digital Strategy, Content Strategy, HTML + CSS, UI testing, Public Speaking