Senior UI developer Senior UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior UI developer - Capital One Schaumburg, IL • 13 plus years of experience in web development using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX. Server site scripting with PHP, ASP, ASP.NET and database engines MySQL, SQL Server. Desktop development using Visual Basic, C++, C#.  • Experience with Web Full Stack development through frameworks such as Code Igniter etc.  • 2 Years of experience using Angular JS 1 & 2 in front end development and as an integrator with Umbraco CMS.  • Over 5+ years promoting the use of Methodologies for software development such as SCRUM, UML, SDM, UX, UI.  • Experience working in an agile environment, focused on test-driven development with an emphasis on delivering working software for stakeholders.  • 2 years of experience using React JS for web development.  • Over 5+ years of experience with CMS for solutions with Word press, Shopify, Drupal.  • 2 years of experience working with node.js and angular.js  • Experience with front- end development for responsive web sites, native IOS and Android App development, hybrid IOS and Android App development with frameworks such as Cordoba and Ionic.  • Experience with large-scale distributed systems and web oriental architectures.  • Experience with project management and documentation through Time tables, RFP, bug tracking evidence and recollection, use cases, user manual, installation instructions (if required), budget planning and justification, commented code.  • Strong experience in Technical lead activities and team building skills.  • Strong experience with Project Management Tools & Software Management such as Primavera EE, Primavision.  • Experience with Facebook API, Twitter API, YouTube API and Google Maps API for websites, IOS and Android.  • Experience with Proactive research of new technologies such as Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality.  • Experience in Version Control management with GitHub.  • Strong experience in 360º digital marketing strategies including Google Analytics, SEO, SEM, SMM, e-mail marketing and e-commerce.  • Hands on experience in modern server side programming such as NodeJS.  • Strong business analytical skills for Budget estimation, analysis, design, maintenance, testing and user requirements.  • Experience with unit testing using Jest and Tape for UI, React and Node components. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI developer Capital One - Chicago, IL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • UI development using React with Redux for complex banking applications  • Integration of React UI with Node backend  • Creation of mock server data and responses for testing before pushing to QA  • Unit testing using Jest and Tape Frameworks  • Working in an agile environment using SCRUM as main methodology  Projects  • Develop front end components and back end validations for all processing applications made by the main Capitalone.com website Senior UI developer TrustWave Holdings - Chicago, IL December 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Work with data science team and transform the requirements into automation software pipeline.  • Create flow charts, entity relationship diagrams and technical documentation for each project.  • Extract and analyse metrics for measuring all the web and mobile applications performance.  • Evaluate third party solutions for integration into existing or future projects.  • Translate client requirements into a technical requirement finding the best solution and tools for solving it  • Define data and project structure to best fit into the Marketing department needs to build high level performance reports.  • Define data schemes for web projects for optimal communication with most common browsers.  • Design and develop client side APIs and libraries to interface with server, cloud storage and compute platforms.  • Design and present new visual proposals for optimum performance of web and mobile apps while following the UI/UX rules.  • Design and implement enhancements for Data Bases, web apps and mobile apps.  • Develop web based UI and back end to facilitate data ingestion, storage, annotation and visualization.  • Evaluate and integrate third party tools.  • Support, maintain and help document software functionality.  • Develop a new front- end web application, consuming multiple back- end services.  • Implement third party solutions into existing solutions.  • Automation of data insertion into Salesforce from landing pages and web apps.  • Integrate social media APIs for marketing purposes.  • Data migration from old content managers to more recent technologies.  • Implement web marketing's best practices in web projects such as SEO and SEM.  Projects  • Company Website and Rebranding  • Front end development for the company's website (www.trustwave.com),backend structure and emailing campaigns  • Work closely with the Director of Marketing, Web Services and Marketing web team to develop and implement various web marketing properties and tools.  • Use of Angular 1, Angular 2 and React JS to configure and develop back end over Umbraco CMS  • Working on general site enhancements and improvements across all the client's web properties.  • Writing documentation and guides based on our processes.  • Converting comps into Static HTML and working with UI/UX to help generate  • Generate clean, reusable and well document code.  • Reviewing SEO best practices regularly.  Architecture: Umbraco CMS, Angular JS, React JS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML  Tools: Git, Azure, Visual Studio Code, Gulp and Node Senior Front- End Developer MyVoga Mexico January 2010 to October 2016 Company designed to create successful, custom, innovative digital products from the initial concept through full product launch using web apps, mobile apps and lead web technology for solving every single one of customer's need.  Responsibilities:  • Front end development using HTML5, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Back end development with Word Press, XML, PHP, .NET  • Database design and integration with MySQL and SQL server.  • Running tests on websites before and after deployment.  • Mobile apps development for IOS and Android.  • Project documentation according to SCRUM methodology  • SCRUM Master with agile methodology with team leads of development.  • Full cycle methodology (SCRUM) implementation for all developments.  • Research for new business opportunities with new technologies such as Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality.  • Research on new frameworks to reduce development time such as Code igniter, Shopify and Angular JS.  • Data extraction and data mining for BI used as statistics for Business Owners for decision making.  • SEO implementation and analysis for websites.  Projects:  SAMSUNG -Online survey and result analysis system  • Front and back end development for the company's online survey system and the data mining system for data analysis.  • Technologies involved: Front end development with Responsive CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS. Back end development using RAS Services with PHP to communicate with MySQL database engine.  Coca Cola -Black Coffee release  • Frond and back end development of the official release web site of the Black Coffee brand along with the it's web brochure.  • Technologies involved: Responsive CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5, Angular, JavaScript, JQuery, RAS Services and PHP. Word Press as CMS  Xmas Wall Interactive poster  • Front and back end development for last year's Christmas interactive poster for brand exposure on retail sites  • Technologies involved: Node JS and IOS Swift for Bluetooth communication with the RAS services. PHP as back end language and MySQL as database engine.  Johnson & Johnson Mexico - Brazil World Cup 2014 Game campaign  • Development of web app for the Brazil 2014 World cup used to decide the winner of a full paid travel to live the full event.  • Technologies involved: RASS Services with PHP as back end communication with MySQL database engine. Front end development with Responsive CSS, LESS, SASS, JavaScript and Drupal as CMS  Efecto total - Join Efecto Total Project  • Front end and back end development used to register at the web app and start using the app for calorie burn counter, exercise programs and result display  • Technologies involved: Word Press as CMS, Facebook Login and API along with RAS services in PHP for communicating with MySQL database engine. Communication with mobile devices with Node JS, JQuery and JavaScript  Gato Salvaje e-commerce, E-commerce website  • Front end and back end development ready for e-commerce  • Technologies involved: Shopify as CMS and e-commerce platform. Liquid, JQuery and JavaScript as front end languages  Vivant-Mexico e-commerce, E-commerce website  • Front end and back end development ready for e-commerce  • Technologies involved: Shopify as CMS and e-commerce platform. Liquid, JQuery and JavaScript as front end languages  Web Portfolio:  • Samsung Statistics (http://descubretest.com/resultados) - responsive layout, front end and back end programming with CSS, JQuery, PHP and MySQL  • http://www.efectototal.com - responsive layout, front end with Node JS, JQuery, HTML5 and CSS3, Facebook connect and RAS services based on PHP.  • gatosalvaje.myshopify.com - Shopify E-commerce website with HTML, CSS, Liquid and JavaScript  • vivant-mexico.myshopify.com - Shopify E-commerce website with HTML, CSS, Liquid and JavaScript  Mobile Apps Portfolio  Efecto total  • https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.efectototal.main  • https://itunes.apple.com/mx/app/efecto-total/id944598978?mt=8&ign-mpt=uo%3D4 Ford MX April 2009 to January 2010 for e-Commerce  Responsibilities:  • Daily maintenance for all B2C websites in ASP and SQL server (upload new content, bug resolution)  • Strategy generation for new or on-going projects working along the business assigned responsible.  • Code standardization according to the established paradigms.  • Project releasing with documentation according to methodology (SDM): RFP, Use Cases, Key Indicators, Bug Tracking, Budget Justification, and User Manual.  • Front end and Back end development for web projects and internal software using ASP.NET/C#/C++  Projects:  Company's Website Redesign  • Front end and back development including mayor modifications to website such as car's 360 views from the inside, budged planner for car buyers, used cars online display.  • Technologies involved: HTML5, JavaScript, LESS, SASS, JQuery and PHP / ASP as back end communication with SQL Server database.  E-commerce integration in website  • Front end development including new e-commerce experience for the user with accessory selection and assemble, insurance information and budged planning and checkout procedure.  • Technologies involved: Front end development with HTML, JavaScript and CSS, LESS, SASS, JSON and XML to communicate with PHP / ASP.NET RAS services and store information in SQL Server database engine.  Portfolio  www.ford.mx - Maintenance and bug solving in ASP.NET and SQL Server Web developer ASTEK International March 2005 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Define, analyse, developed websites and desktop Software  • Generated mock-ups and wireframes.  • Requested management for handling troubleshooting on websites.  • Front end development using Flash, FLEX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX  • Back end development with ASP and PHP with MySQL integration  • Regular meetings with clients for time table and project revision.  • Translation of clients' requests into technical language for development.  Projects:  Emocion Deportiva  • Front end development and daily maintenance for the online website which included updating website's information, adding new sections and including e-commerce platform.  • Technologies involved: Front end development with HTML, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and back end development using ASP.NET and PHP  Bayer Mexico Intranet  • Daily maintenance to Bayer's intranet keeping information up to date and adding new sections and medical brochures to the site. Also keep a track and helping users registering and entering the portal.  • Technologies involved: Front end development using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and back end development using RAS Services with PHP  Bacardi  • Planning and development of internal System Sales Point Census, MIDA and Satellite for Sales force bonus calculation, payment, route planning & product distribution.  • Technologies involved: Front end development using JavaScript, Ajax, XML and JSON, back end development using PHP to store data in SQL Server database.  BASF, Chemical Company  • Front end development of BASF's intranet to help employees getting an easier navigation for finding company's resources such as policies, manuals, contact numbers, etc.  • Technologies involved: Front end development using JavaScript, Ajax, XML and JSON, back end development using PHP to store data in SQL Server database.  Portfolio:  • https://www.emociondeportiva.com - Daily maintenance and content management  • https://www.bayerconecta.com - Daily maintenance and content management  • Bacardi Sales Point census - Website + CRM + Web services for customer visits management. UI design, UX development, front- end development, back- end development.  • Bacardi MIDA - Website + Report manager for product displacement management. UI design, UX development, front- end development, back- end development, web-services, database architecture, database jobs.  • Bacardi Satellite - Intranet for internal web-based solutions. Front- end development, back- end development, database architecture, web services.  • BASF Intranet - Intranet for internal use only. Front and back development with data base communication for content management. Education Bachelor's in Cybernetics and System Engineering Certifications in Cybernetics and System Engineering Certifications LaSalle University Mexico Skills Android studio, C#, C++, Front-end, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Visual basic, Xml, Ads, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, Cms, Android, Html5, Ios, Angular, Javascript, Node, React Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming  • Front- End: HTML5, React JS, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS3, XML, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap  • Back- End: PHP, ASP.NET, GitHub  • Desktop: Visual Basic, C++, C#, Unity  • Mobile: Native IOS with Xcode and Android with Android Studio  • Databases: MySQL, SQL Server  • CMS: Word Press, Drupal  • E-Commerce: Shopify, Banwire, Conekta  Social Marketing  • SEO: Google Analytics, AdWords, implementation in websites  • SEM: Google AdWords Facebook Ads  • SMM: Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn campaigns, Social Media insights  • Social Media: Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram  Design: Software: Photoshop, Illustrator