Enterprise UI/UX Expert/ CEO Enterprise UI/UX Expert/ CEO Enterprise UI/UX Expert / CEO - Betta Innovations, LLC Atlanta, GA A UI/UX Specialist, Mentor, and Leader  EDUCATE / VALIDATE / ADVOCATE  I SPECIALIZE IN APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT FOR ENTERPRISE ORGANIZATIONS.   ? PROVIDE C-LEVEL LEADERSHIP IN BUILDING EFFICIENT, EFFECTIVE, AND FUN ENTERPRISE UI SOLUTIONS.   ? MENTORING HOW TO DESIGN FOR DEVELOPERS, TO TEACH HOW TO DESIGN AROUND CONSTRAINTS OF DEVELOPMENT PLATFORMS.   ? FOLLOWING FUNDAMENTAL BRANDING, USER-EXPERIENCE (UX) / USER INTERFACE (UI) PRINCIPLES, AND MAINTAIN USER CENTER DESIGNED (UCD) PRACTICES REDUCING DEVELOPMENT TIME AND IMPROVING OVERALL USER RETENTION.  ? AN INNOVATOR FOR DEVELOPING DESIGN-DRIVEN CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION PRINCIPLES, BUILT AROUND DEVELOPMENT PLATFORMS AND PRACTICES WITH A PROVEN 40% REDUCTION TIME OF APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT Work Experience Enterprise UI/UX Expert/ CEO Betta Innovations, LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present Betta Innovations is a User Experience Design lab in Atlanta, Georgia. Betta creates an in-house learning culture by inviting local talent from design and developer communities to collaborate and create custom frameworks. By cultivating diverse perspectives, we make the overall user experience "Betta." Betta is Providing mentorships and internships to the creative community and creating design-driven technology.  Mentoring Projects:  Monthly meet-up Learning Enterprise UI/UX  Wed Night Learning UI/UX Meetup at Betta Innovations  UX Designing for Development  Design with Development in Mind Enterprise UI/UX Specialist / Consultant NCR - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to April 2018 The Project: A UI/UX Specialist consultant for product development in a four-week effort to create a prototype for a C-Level solution for NCR Services.  The Challenge: Provide a client dashboard as a resource to Financial Institutions to gain insight on their ATM (Automatic Teller Machine) and gain insight into the performance of their overall network of devices. To lead corporate stakeholders by managing project discovery and produce wireframes, high-fidelity prototype, and completed user scenarios of MVP services. Lead the development team with expert design perspectives and oversee project timeline and goal.  My Impact: Management and delivery of a high-level proof of concept prototype. Lead planning and architecting methodologies to meet a 30-day incubation timeline. The Hiring department awarded a 250k budget for the development of MVP application. Enterprise UI/UX Specialist / Consultant Wells Fargo - Atlanta, GA 2017 to December 2017 The Project: As a UI/UX Specialist consultant on product development, identify problematic user interface challenges and lead the creation of a branding guideline, developer template, and code components libraries to enhance product development.  The Challenge: A complete analysis of the entire project revealed a lack of attention towards any UX or UI principal. Direct the branding and style guidelines for the application development team and act as a senior level advisor for business leaders on department UX strategies and processes. Provide senior leadership with guidance on all ongoing design and development, create a standard and procedure for department UX /UI mentoring.  My Impact: Delivery of custom design to development methodology resolved budget conflicts through the cost-effective implementation of design principles that transformed products into profitable, productive solutions. Project teams were able to improve the overall design and user experience and improve quality, saving hundreds of hours of developer time. Sr. UI/UX Designer, Architect Comcast - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to August 2016 The Project: Provide an expert level of service using UI/UX methodology to enhance the development of high-level concept applications used by leadership for Comcast Central Division and mentor developers on UX / UI principals. Act as a senior advisor to C-Level management, lead five development teams in our division, creating new design-driven applications and updates to legacy web / mobile products to current standards.  Work with company stakeholders to develop internal products to enhance productivity and user retention. Managed the responsibility for building user-centered focus on new or improved workflows and designs. Oversaw the development of end-user workflows for complex web and mobile applications by creating more interactive and creative ways to deliver massive amounts of data to users. Cultivate cross-division relationships by working closely with stakeholders throughout the development process. Clarify and architecting UX solutions, workflow logic from concept to deliverable in a cost-effective product solution.  The Challenge: Support an entire Application Development Team of 20+ developers, four managers, and one director to deliver high-quality applications that were productive and profitable. Support apps that save time and money, but also help improve the overall customer experience. C-Level advisor on the integration of emerging methodologies to reduce inefficiencies.  My Impact: Provided strategic guidance over branding, application UX / UI architecture, and managed C-Level expectations of overall user satisfaction. Lead design and development into a managed custom technology platform built in a templated, open source technology optimization for product development. Proved to save 40% of product development time when deploying this methodology throughout the department - a cost savings of 100's of thousands of dollars a year. The use of a sustainable project platform that has been in use for over four years.  Applications chosen and implemented throughout all Comcast divisions.  ? SMIT Tool: This tool was designed to help field techs swap customer modems.  ? Equipment Return Tool: is a customer service IOS app that was designed to help customer service reps in Comcast locations with returning customer equipment to Comcast. UX UI Specialist Consulting as Reagan Taylor Stewart LLC - Atlanta, GA January 2010 to June 2015 Atlanta, GA)  UX / UI consulting services for start-up and small commercial web and mobile applications. Managing multiple small client projects. Providing cost-effective solutions to help save time and money with development prototypes. Managed market research and user data for product research. Optimized and synthesized data for content and application architectures.  Content Streaming Network For Enterprise Client - Atlanta, GA  The Project: Consult on the prototype development of a streaming CDN (Content Delivery Network) application for internal use.  The Challenge: Provide technical leadership of project development for a customized version of a content delivery network: lead design and track usage of the internal product.  My Impact: Oversaw and lead the design and UI development of a hybrid application that would work across devices. Technical lead for development to produce an early cloud concept. Provided insight to increase usage by 44%.  Real Estate Development - Atlanta, GA  The Project: Consulting on the research-driven product development of a real-time property location and surveillance security application.  The Challenge: Oversee the research and design and act as a point of contact for project development. Modify UI by adopting modern UX principals.  My Impact: Lead a team of designers to produce high quality, user-friendly product interface. Increased overall satisfaction for the user by simplifying users experience. Research produced proved UX methodology worked for the client's application. SR. Mobile Application UI Developer / Contractor VML - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to May 2015 The Project: Creative UI/UX Development Consultant of a mobile application for Dell server securities.  The Challenge: Manage user interface(UI). Provide direction based on my previous experience to the information architecture and navigation of a mobile/web hybrid app. Provide design and development leadership and insight for the project. Manage repository and asset deliverables. Operationally support an agile development environment.  My Impact: A Hybrid application that would work across devices and provide real-time security insight and alerts to Centers Server security teams. Cost-savings product for data centers for server security. Sr. UX / UI Specialist Matrix Resources - Atlanta, GA July 2007 to August 2009 800 Million Global Engineering Software Manufacture  The Project: Provided C-Level insight on global corporate re-branding and design projects.  The Challenge: Manage, in-depth technical direction, including being the point of contact for support development and issues for the European and North American based operations.  My Impact: Based on my experience overseeing the design and technical migrations to multiple content platforms and developed cost-optimized solutions. Controller of budgets by negotiating pioneering technology to resolve budget conflicts.  Built a new customer support portal and optimized the design process. Mentoring designers and developers in a customized templated platform. Sr. Front- End UI Design & Developer Northrop Grumman - Atlanta, GA June 2005 to July 2007 Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)/ E-Health Communications  The Project: Under E-Health Communications Division, maintain the approved content publication across multiple media delivery channels (Web, RSS feeds, and Podcasts).  The Challenge: Establish professional guidelines on products and the usability of the product deliverables - lead departments in prelaunch stress testing of final products providing valued insight on modifications.  My Impact: Acted as a technical lead on a multimillion-dollar Global CDC project to Completely rebrand CDC.gov, design, and development of all web media. Providing Insight on design to development challenges. The creation of a sustainable technology platform and methodology that has been in use for over ten years.  Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)/ Emergency Preparedness  Non-Event Mode: Lead the technical operations, including maintenance and updates to existing CDC Emergencies Preparedness web media publications. Involvement with stakeholders, SME's to manage supported content. Accountable for updating Emergency and Preparedness information for the public.  Non-Event Mode: Maintaining a 24hr presence in the DEOC (Directors Emergency Operations Center). Mentored teams by providing Divisional Cross-Compatibility training for emergency and preparedness web portal and technically providing guiding leadership with regular events and event planning drills for readiness.    Skills:  Operational  ? A proven leader for cost-effective solutions,  ? Design to development methodologies  ? Motivated mentor to deliver productive and profitable digital media products    Technical  ? Design: Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch, Invision, DotNet, Java / Opensource  ? Productivity: SharePoint, MS Office, Jira, and More Education Diploma in Web Development and Business Programming in Development and Business Chubb Institute - Alpharetta, GA Multimedia and Graphic Design Art Institute of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA Additional Information Skills:   Operational  • A proven leader for cost-effective solutions,  • Design to development methodologies  •  Motivated mentor to deliver productive and profitable digital media products  Technical  •  Design: Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch, Invision, DotNet, Java / Opensource