Front- End Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer WordPress Developer/Business Analyst Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer tdbstudio - Washington, DC November 2001 to Present Skills: WordPress, HTML, CSS, PHP, Adobe Photoshop    Provides full life-cycle development for a variety of clients in the metropolitan New York and Washington, DC areas, including:    • National Children’s Campaign http://nationalchildrenscampaign.org/   • Washington Jazz Arts Institute (http://www.wjai.org)  • Donna Schroffner Piano Studio (http://www.donnapianostudio.com)  • Redesigned the website for Suited For Change  • Website maintenance for the Greater Washington Women’s Network (Jan 2007-Jan 2008)  • Development and management of content, utilizing Interwoven TeamSite product for the 92nd Street YMCA.  • Development and organization of a photo library and photo editor for the United States Tennis Association. Business Analyst Scimentis, LLC (Site: National Cancer Institute) - Rockville, MD July 2018 to April 2019 • Documented business requirements in Confluence for a project with a division of the National Cancer Institute.   • Created technical requirements in JIRA tickets for the development team.   • Created a UAT Test Plan in JIRA for the preparation of User Acceptance Testing.   • Created test script tickets in JIRA for budget formulation, budget execution, projects creating processes.  Intranet Consultant International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) - Washington, DC May 2017 to September 2017 • Worked on a small team revamping IFPRI intranet.   • Gathering Requirements - Several interviews of staff and form documentation  • Extracted business processes to be put into process diagrams  • Creating a solutions checklist Web Manager American Diabetes Association - Crystal City, VA September 2016 to March 2017 • Approved content submissions through Convio website, creates wireframes for special projects(diabetes web portal powered by IBM Watson),   • Created overlays to support marketing campaigns.  • Processed vanity url requests  • Created webforms, etc.)  • Created responsive content for the site. Senior Web Producer University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD June 2016 to August 2016 UMUC.edu 2.0 Web Migration Project    • Worked as part of the production team to create page shells, migrate content assets, content elements and pages into CommonSpot(CMS).  • In addition, helps with the QA process and production fixes. Senior Web Content Editor Office of the Chief Technology Officer, District of Columbia Government - Washington, DC August 2015 to May 2016 Portal Responsive Design Project (over 100+ websites):    • Audited and edited content including tables, iframes and apps to make sure they were responsive.  • Checked content on several mobile devices including tablets, various smart phones, small laptops and large screens. Senior Web Content Editor Office of the Chief Technology Officer, District of Columbia Government - Washington, DC August 2014 to April 2015 District of Columbia Public Schools Content Migration Project:    • Worked with a web team to construct sitemaps,   • Content preparation (editing) and content migration to the newly design Drupal website.   • Content included over 5000 pages and publications. Web Content Editor Office of the Chief Technology Officer, District of Columbia Government - Washington, DC April 2010 to August 2014 Portal Content Migration Project (over 100+ sites):  • Served as an OCTO liaison to help lead agencies through the web migration process  • Prepared content for migration (editing)  • Constructed sitemaps  • Migrated content into two different CMS during the project (Open Text and Drupal),   • Prepared sites for launch Web Manager International Women's Media Foundation - Washington, DC August 2005 to January 2010 www.iwmf.org    • Performed daily website maintenance, Supported the backend of the website and custom CMS  • Developed HTML email templates for email communications (i.e. newsletter, invitations)  • Created graphics and web banners for the website, Developed and managed the SharePoint  • Intranet and Board Extranet, Liaison between the web development team and IWMF staff for the redesign of the IWMF site  • Developed the Intranet site using MS SharePoint. Education Certificate in Web Design The Learning Center July 2002 B.M. in Music Composition & Theory New York University May 1998 Skills HTML 5 (3 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JQuery (Less than 1 year), Javascript (4 years), Wordpress (5 years), Photoshop (10+ years), PHP (2 years), JIRA (5 years), Confluence (1 year), Drupal (4 years), testing (3 years), Excel (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Powerpoint (5 years), SQL (2 years) Links http://www.tdbstudio.com http://www.effectualhealth.com https://www.drupal.org/case-study/dcgov http://wjai.org http://nationalchildrenscampaign.com