T Touch Groomer T Touch Groomer LEADER CREATIVE COMMUNICATION TEAMWORK Lindenhurst, IL I enjoy work that involves direct contact with the public that consists of a variety of duties. Excellent customer service is my trademark. Highly organized and friendly personality that thrives in a team environment. Experience in the hospitality and many other fields. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to speaking with you...  Thank you.  Christy:) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience T Touch Groomer Main Stay Therapeutic Farm - Richmond, IL January 2012 to Present Front End Associate Bed Bath & Beyond - Gurnee, IL November 2018 to May 2019 Assist customers with their shopping experience. Work in a team environment to ensure quality customer service. Bartender and Beverage Cart Girl:) Golfvisions - Gurnee, IL June 2017 to August 2017 Took excellent care of guests needs:) Lead Visual Merchandiser Masterpiece Flower Co. - Deerfield, IL March 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities  Customer Service...team building physical job. Lead a team to merchandise annual flowers to ensure a beautiful environment for marketing and sales.    Accomplishments  Was put in a lead position early in the season that continued. Added beauty to a retail environment.    Skills Used  Physical strength and aesthetic eye for detail. Outgoing personality ensured a friendly retail rapport with customers. Bartender Oliverii North - Antioch, IL March 2015 to May 2017 Took excellent care of guests in an upper scale Italian establishment. I work best in a high traffic bar. The bigger the crowd the better. I have been in the food & beverage field on and off for the past 20+ years with the energy & enthusiasm of a teenager. If you are looking for a responsible well qualified bartendress, please call me. I have open availability at the moment. Restaurant Server Lake House - Lake Villa, IL May 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities  Guest relations and satisfaction through food and beverage service.    Accomplishments  I met some really great people. I enjoy working with the public and making a difference with my positive attitude and friendly disposition.     Skills Used  Communication and teamwork Visual Merchandiser/Merchandiser Macy's - Gurnee, IL October 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities  As a Visual Merchandiser I maintained the aesthetics for a retail environment. Followed directives to ensure displays were executed and produced in a timely manner. Set the store up for the holidays. Worked as a merchandiser as well, using my organizational skills and creativity, constructed orderly and visually pleasing displays for the products.    Accomplishments  I am highly organized, detail oriented and efficient all while maintaing a positive and upbeat attitude. I was a valued teamplayer.    Skills Used  Physical and intellectual ability.  Communications  Logical and analytical problem solving  Creativity  Attention to detail Color Design Mull Painting and Decorating - Fox Lake, IL March 2012 to July 2012 Responsibilities  Helped clients decide on color schemes for interior/exterior of their homes. Executed those projects to satisfaction.    Accomplishments  Good attitude and teamwork. Went above and beyond to get the job done.    Skills Used  All Apartment and Grounds Developer Overhill Properties - Chicago, IL March 2002 to September 2008 Responsibilities  Each day was different depending on projects at the time. Landscaping and aesthetics of courtyard. Kitchen design and execution. Color design and paint execution to bring rental units up to date.    Accomplishments  Can do attitude. Always learning something new    Skills Used  Creative aethetics. Communication and teamwork Manager/Bartender MJ's Ustabees - Gurnee, IL August 1996 to September 1999 This was my family's Pub. I managed and also bartended. Was the most fulfilling position I have EVER held. I treat guests like family. I am moving to Phoenix early July and would love to discuss the opportunity to join your team. Property Manager Marling Management, Inc - Libertyville, IL August 1990 to September 1993 Responsibilities  Typed and coordinated leases. Handled all property maintenance through contractors. Tenant relations. Budgets and all else to keep all in check.    Accomplishments  Great satisfaction working for a professional yet family oriented business. Daily growth and overcoming challenges through creative problem solving. My ambitious and positive outlook affected all that I came in contact with.    Skills Used  Communication. Creative problem solving. Teamwork. Education Real Estate License Certification in Real Estate and Business CLC - Grayslake, IL 1991 to 1992 Warren Township HS - Gurnee, IL 1985 to 1989 Skills Organizational Skills, Time Management, training Groups Groomer at Main Stay Therapeutic Farm January 2012 to Present I groom and care for therapy horses