Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Barclays Manhattan, NY • Result-driven IT Professional with 10 years of extensive experience in designing & developing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery and Meeting W3C standards.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience, Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object-oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js 2.0 &1.0x, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, React.JS and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.js 1.0 & 2.0, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • High-level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Skilled in architecting and automating the build process for production, using task runners or scripts  • Proficient documenting the code inline using JSDoc or other convention.  • Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js 1.0x, Angular.js 2.0, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, DOM, Gulp, Python, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Good experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS).  • Expert in working with cutting edge front- end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, (X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  • Expert in resolving User Interface issues using various front- end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js1.x, Angular.js 2.0 and AJAX.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL Web Services  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Barclays - New York, NY June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular 4/5, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4/5.  • Designed the front- end applications, User Interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies likeHTML5/CSS3, Angular4, Angular5 and bootstrap.  • Worked with Angular4/Angular5 framework in front end development that implements MVC pattern.  • Worked on various projects in B2B, B2C websites using Angular4/Angular5 framework involving - Angular Directives, Components, Filters, Factory, Service, Angular Forms, and Angular Expressions.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS)  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [ Common core things including form validation], @angular/router [Routing for the entire app]  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components  • Implemented Node.js router to make cross-domain requests to API services: Spotify API, GitHub API, MongoDB  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSONresponse and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation  • Solid knowledge of API authorization flow  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4  • Used Git for managing source code    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Bootstrap4, Angular 4/5, REST API's, Node JS, NPM, MongoDB, Git, Agile Sr. Frontend / UI Developer SWBC - Houston, TX June 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Effectively communicated with business partner and settled down the business requirements.  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared for the Project Design and Plan Document.  • Responsible for frontend UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery Plugin, etc.  • Utilized the features of Angular2 of to present effective web design.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Designed and developed a web application by using Angular4 as front- end and using Web API to receive and pass data to backend.  • Worked on Responsive Web design (RWD) using bootstrap which adapts the layout to the viewing environment by using fluid, proportion-based grids, flexible images and CSS3 media queries.  • Developed HTML Templates with help of handlebars.  • Took advantage of the responsive utilities of Bootstrap framework to ensure the web page displayed properly on different devices, including desktop, laptop, tablets and smart phones.  • Extensively used the build Tools like GRUNT and Jenkins.  • Created User Controls, Web Forms and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM Tree and manipulated the nodes in the Tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Implemented Ajax for better user experience by dynamically providing asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used NPM, GRUNT for UI Task runner and mastered in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  • Used GIT for version control and JIRA for Bug Tracking.  • Worked on Unit testing the application using JUnit and also in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  • Worked extensively on AngularJS in creating Controllers, Client and Server-Side Validations are done by Ajax calls using $http and JSON parser.  • Developed Tabbed pages using Ajax and AngularJS for quick view of related content, scores, top stories and headlines.  • Wrote Jasmine Unit Tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Performed client-side and server-side Unit Testing with Jasmine, Mocha and Chai assertion library in a Test-Driven development environment.  • Used Polymer Framework for App Elements: Elements for building full web apps out of custom modular elements (i.e., app routing and storage) Iron Elements: Elements for building the core functionality and structural layout of a web app  • Created Angular 2 custom pipes to format the data before displaying it to the user.  • Used Angular 2 Forms API to get the data from the user.  • Use Node JS Mongo DB and NPM Package Manager for installing dependencies.  • Used Node JS to run the application in a web server in staging environment.  • Have worked on Angular2 components and Angular 4.0 and worked on POCs.  • Participated in code reviews and given suggestion to other developers.  • Interacted with RESTful Web services using Angular 2 Http Module.  • Optimized the performance of the application using Bundling and Angular2.  • Worked in Agile Model and participated in sprint daily and retrospective meeting.  • Interacted with service developers to consume the RESTful API's.  • Using CSS pre-processor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Developed models to persist data in MongoDB using Mongoose Driver.  • Transformed the Angular 2 response using Angular 2 observables.  • Used CSS3, Bootstrap, to make the application responsive and Rich.  • Implemented Custom Directives and structural Directives using Angular 2.  • Wrote codes on Typescript and ES6 to implement Angular 2 Components.  • Worked with views, handlebars and different concepts related to Ember framework.  • Wrote Typescript classes to construct angular 2 components.  • Created custom pipes using angular 2 before displaying it to the user.  • Used Directives for angular cross component interaction.  • Interacted with restful services using angular 2 Http modules.    Environment: Angular 2/4, AngularJS, TypeScript, Polymer Framework, Jasmine, Mocha, JavaScript, XML, MySQL, jQuery, Grunt, JUnit, Git, Jira, Ajax, Jenkins, Karma, JSON, SASS, LESS, REST API, HTML, TDD, PHP UI Developer Nokia, Sanjose CA January 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • The project is built upon the Single Page Application (SPA) criteria.  • Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • For new website features wrote Angular.js controllers, views and services.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery and NodeJS.  • Modularized front end CSS and JS code with SASS.  • Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js  • Implemented Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server-side code and also implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development.  • Involved in Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls.  • Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery.  • Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application.  • Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Developed server-side REST style web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Frequently met with the project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking and Hands on experience in Python for the automation of some tasks.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Require.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery UI, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex, MVC, Rest Web Services, JSON, XML, SEO, MySQL Server, Eclipse and Windows UI Developer Frontend - Washington, DC January 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding.  • Developed Java utility classes for common application functionality like database access, error logging and configuration file  • Responsible for developing the pages using JQuery, AJAX, and JSON to parse on data on the frontend on the fly.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implemented the design of web pages and provided user roles using JSP, JSTL, HTML, AJAX  • Developed Clinical Trials and prescribing information modules using Ajax and JavaScript technologies like DOJO.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX, AngularJS and JAVA.  • Implemented chained select plug-in for JQuery with JSON processing and callback feature, chain multiple selects with ease.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Implemented different validation control on the webpages using JavaScript.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Responsible to track different versions of files using VSS.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript 1.8, JQUERY 1.3, AJAX, JSON, XML, Tomcat Apache Front End/UI Developer Target - Dallas, TX November 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using JQuery AJAX framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Generated UI mock-ups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash.  • Involved in developing the Validations across the application using JQuery Validator plug in.  • Participated in defect review meetings with the team members using Bugzilla, Firebug, and Google's element inspector.  • Involved in implementing the UI to support all the major browsers.  • Worked with partners and clients at every stage of implementation of the integration, for instance to gather requirements, finalize analysis, review completed implementation, UAT and sign-off.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, agile and Windows. UI Developer TECO - Tampa, FL August 2008 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  •        Developed UI of webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript validations and XML.  •        Responsible for developing CSS3 classes to GUI web page forms and controls.  •        Designed and developed internet web applications using JavaScript, CSS3 and jQuery.  •        Took initiative to improve one of the application's page by redoing the entire HTML and JavaScript. Made improvements to the page loading time by 20% and eliminated 30% of the elements from the page.  •        Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  •        Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  •        Developed web pages with the applications like username, login, password using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax according to the client requirement for online billing.  •        Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  •        Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites  •        JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON, XML. Education Bachelor of Science Hawassa University 2004 Skills Gui, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, React, UI, Front-End, Angular, Front End, Angularjs, User Interface, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, Node Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammed-muhabba-362750186 Additional Information Technical competencies:    UI Technologies: HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, Core Java, GUI, Responsive Web design, JSON ,Gulp ,Grunt , SASS ,LESS ,Media queries, XML, GULP,GRUNT ,SASS, LESS ,Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, JQuery UI, Angular.js, Node.js, Angular 2, Typescript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, IDE, HTML  Editor: Web Storm, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Eclipse, Atom, Edit Plus  Web/App server: Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server  Database: ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MySQL  Operating systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7, Win 8  Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML