Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer Ardmore, PA A Front- end Developer who combines technical expertise with business operations experience to deliver impactful client solutions. I am a collaborative partner with experience working in fast-paced environments, and am continuously seeking to learn new skills and stay abreast of evolving technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer UserVoice - San Francisco, CA August 2011 to Present • Built and maintained all Marketing websites.  • Implemented complete redesigns of UserVoice.com in 2012 and 2016.  • Increased organic sales leads 22% through enhanced UI of the product signup form.  • Built and analyzed A/B tests with Optimizely and Google Optimize presenting findings to key stakeholders to inform website changes.  • Developed processes in Pardot for scalability of building and tracking of marketing campaign landing pages.  • Retrofitted a headless CMS (Contentful) into our Marketing site to enable the entire team to make content updates.  • Built incident management process to aid in quickly solving and communicating issues with key stakeholders.  • Built reports (via Heap, GA, and Salesforce) to help the team make data-driven decisions on website efforts.  • Managed the building of key Sales indicator charts for quarterly Revenue Team meetings in Mode.  • Analyzed the Sales and Marketing tech stack and made recommendations for streamlining.  • Built and maintained multiple micro-site’s and blogs for various teams. The technologies included WordPress, Hugo, MiddleMan, Octopress, ExpressionEngine, and Assemble.  • Worked with the Engineering team to create and release new product features in the Rails app.  • Worked with both the Sales and Support teams to help clients with custom design implementations and technical consults. Developed modular templates to reduce implementation time.  • Reported and fixed bugs within the product. Front- End Developer Matrix Group International? - Arlington, VA September 2007 to July 2011 • Slice design comps into interactive web pages.  • Work on multiple projects for a variety of clients.  • Provide consults and time estimates to the new business team for proposals and budgets.  • Work with the development team to ensure semantic and valid coding.  • Perform audits of coworkers code to ensure quality and durability.  • Provide prompt responses to client questions and concerns.  • Collaborate with team members to advance company knowledge of best coding practices.  • Travel to client sites to provide on-site support.  • Provide client training on Content Management Systems, Google Analytics and basic HTML.  • Perform routine HTML and graphical updates.  • Assist in the hiring process of Front- End Developers. Education Bachelor of Arts in Graphic Design McDaniel College - Westmister, MD 2001 to 2005 Skills HTML (7 years), CSS (7 years), Git (4 years), Javascript (4 years), JQuery (4 years), Sass (4 years), Static Site Generators (4 years), Wordpress (3 years), React (Less than 1 year), Ruby (1 year), Rails (1 year) Additional Information Specialties: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, MiddleMan  Functional: Git, WordPress, Expression Engine, Gulp, Pardot, Salesforce  Familiarity: Angular, React, PHP, Ruby on Rail