Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer - Navistar Inc Lisle, IL • Currently having more than 4 years of experience as a Front- End Developer.  • Experienced in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology.  • Experienced working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Developing web application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Proficient in developing SPA using Angular JS and expertise in Angular JS Controllers, directives, factory and service  Resources Routing and events.  • Proficient in Angular 2/4 directives, Components, Pipes and Injectable.  • Proficient to create web application using Angular 6.  • Proficient in ReactJS and working with React Redux architecture for complex state management and using React-Router and ES6 to develop Single Page Applications.  • Extensively worked on CSS preprocessor like SASS and LESS.  • Sufficient experience in developing responsive web page or application design with Media Query and Bootstrap.  • Extensive Expertise in Team Foundation Server (TFS) and GIT as a Version Control.    Technologies and Frameworks: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, ES6, JSON, Typescript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJs, Angular 2/4/5/6, ReactJs  Database: MySQL, MSSQL  Tools and Technology: Sublime 3, Notepad++, Atom, Microsoft Visual Studio  Operating System: Mac OS, Windows, Linux Work Experience Frontend Developer Navistar Inc - Lisle, IL July 2018 to Present • Current project is One View Future (OVF) and in this project we provide eight solutions into one ID.  • We merge Remote Diagnostic connection, Repair Advocates, Parts Information, Service Information, Service Partner, Fleet Charge, Accelerator Tablet and Education Portal.  • We combine Social ID, Navistar ID and MSTS ID into one ID. This application supports multilingual feature and it is available for English, French and Spanish language.  • Workflow Designed professional web applications with the help of upgraded and latest web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that takes after W3C Web Standards and are program good.  • The Application is made responsive using CSS and its preprocessor like SASS, Bootstrap, and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using Angular 6.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume RESTFUL API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Expertise in breaking down the DOM Layout, Java Script works, Cascading Styles crosswise over cross-program utilizing Fire Bug.  • Developed the system under Agile Methodology to be able to keep track of progress through weekly sprints.  • Pair Programmed with a remote developer on the company.  • Highly Proficient in unit testing with TDD. Frontend Developer FutureNet Group - Detroit, MI March 2017 to July 2018 • Current project is Document Workflow Service with a shared document service dashboard for the Information.  • Designed professional web applications with the help of upgraded and latest web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, ES6, ReactJS and Ajax that takes after W3C Web Standards and are program good.  • The Application is made responsive using CSS and its preprocessor like SASS, Bootstrap, and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router concept.  • Experienced with asynchronous redux implementation of custom middleware using action creator.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Expertise in breaking down the DOM Layout, Java Script works, Cascading Styles crosswise over cross-program utilizing Fire Bug.  • Developed the system under Agile Methodology to be able to keep track of progress through weekly sprints.  • Pair Programmed with a remote developer on the company.  • Highly Proficient in unit testing with TDD. Color Guessing Game December 2016 to February 2017 • Develop an addictive, fast-paced, color picker mini game which drives people crazy over color and time.  • Used tooltips that supports animated effects and making responsiveness for different device. California - Tourist Camp September 2015 to November 2015 • An Angular.js Yelp clone using Campsites. This application allows users to login, add photos, reviews and upload Camp grounds around. User can also view and comment other people's campground.  • Made Tourist Camp to practice CRUD and making RESTful routes with Node.js. Likewise, I needed to coordinate  A SQL database, which ended up being exceptionally cool. Front end Developer Atyanic Software - IN June 2013 to February 2015 • Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to management for review.  • Implemented Single-Page Web Application Using AngularJS and used controllers, filter, directives, factory and services for routing and events.  • Well managed, developed, maintained and deployed applications in response to business needs.  • Developed JavaScript to manipulate DOM in client's web applications.  • Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Applications to make it look more intuitive.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs.  • Involved in team meetings to co-operate UI team as well as end user clients to understand requirements in new implementation and involved in daily and weekly scrum meetings. Document Archive System 2015 to 2015 • Developed an innovative, practical tool which is a highly flexible web-based system allowing archiving and managing hard Paper document to efficiently facilitate daily business transaction of government and semi government organization.  • Utilized ASP.NET, C#.NET and SQL Server to design system for beneficial for saving paper, time, space, cost. Education Master of science in Electrical & Computer Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication Gujarat Technological University June 2014 Skills Javascript, React, UI, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, Angular, Node, CSS3, Bootstrap Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/JayuD Additional Information Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Scrum    TECHNICAL SKILLS