Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Lead Ferret Inc Los Angeles, CA • 2+ years of experience with Web Application Development with a focus on Front End Development.  • Extensive experience in Web application, User Interface Development, Client Co-ordination including professional experience in  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax and Angular 2/4.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Good working knowledge of Responsive Web Design(RWD) using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Hands on knowledge of EcmaScript6 (ES6) arrow functions, constants, block-scope variables, class inheritance. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front- End Developer Lead Ferret Inc - Los Angeles, CA July 2017 to Present • Used Angular 2/4 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Bootstrap.  • Used Media Queries (Responsive Web Design) techniques and Bootstrap to enhance user's behavior based on screen size,  platform and orientation.  • Used ES 6 for development of applications.  • Created Typescript reusable components, Pipes, Directives and services to consume REST API's using component-based  architecture provided by AngularJS 4 framework  • Experienced in working with Iterative Agile Programming methodologies. Front- End Developer Meridian Software Technology - Gujarat, IN January 2013 to July 2015 • Used Model View Controller framework such as Angular JS framework for creating Single Page Application.  • Responsible for creating front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS,  JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client- side validation using Form Validation JS.  • Worked with bootstrap to create Responsive web designs for multiple departments/pages.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user  interface and REST-FUL Services using AJAX ($http) to perform GET and POST data to backend servers.  • Developed custom directives in Angular JS that could be re-used like a template across the application and can be re-used to manipulate DOM across the application.  • Followed the (TDD) Test Driven Development with writing unit test cases in JASMINE for Angular. Education Master of Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication Gujarat Technological University August 2009 to June 2013 Skills Bootstrap. (2 years), HTML (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (2 years), CSS (2 years), AngularJS (1 year), Angular 2/4 (1 year) Links https://github.com/hardik114 Additional Information SKILLS  Web Development: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Typescript, AngularJS  Software Tools: Visual studio, Notepad++, Eclipse, Sublime, Chrome Developer Tool  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid (Agile-Waterfall)  Platforms: Windows, MAC OSX, and Linux  02