Front End Developer, Neon <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Neon Email Developer, landing pages, websites, html emails, responsive New York, NY Front End Developer with extensive experience developing responsive websites, landing pages, and html emails. Client work consists of various consumer and pharmaceutical brands. Possesses an expert's knowledge of the following technologies: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery. Extremely detailed oriented. Self-starter able to function in deadline driven environments. Familiar with older browser (IE 6,7, 8) quirks and appropriate workarounds. Work Experience Front End Developer, Neon FCB New York - New York, NY August 2013 to Present Utilized knowledge of HTML/CSS/Javascript to develop responsive websites/html emails for various pharmaceutical companies such as Novartis, United Therapeutics, and Zogenix.  Key Accomplishments  - Developed responsive (mobile ready) websites and emails.  - Used HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript to develop projects Front End Developer Grey Group New York - New York, NY October 2012 to June 2013 Utilized advanced knowledge of HTML/CSS/Javascript to develop landing pages/html emails for RadioShack.com. Responsible for ensuring all landing pages were cross browser compatible. Used knowledge of latest technologies and best practices to produce clean and error free code.  Key Accomplishments  - Fixed code compatibility issues regarding Jquery & Prototype in RS's CMS.  - Provided quick turnaround for urgent projects. Front End Developer BBDO - New York, NY October 2011 to October 2012 Developed HTML emails and newsletters. Developed landing pages for ad campaigns. Responsible for cross browser compatible websites.  Key Accomplishments  - Worked with Creative Directors to Develop online ad campaigns for Lowes, Fed Ex, AT&T, and Hyatt.  - Developed 9 HTML emails for Citibank's Private Pass campaign each week for 8 months.  - Developed HTML email template for Visa's NFL Sunday campaign.  - Developed landing pages and html emails for AT&T ad campaigns. Front End developer Integrated Media Solutions - New York, NY August 2011 to October 2011 Utilized knowledge of HTML/CSS/Javascript to develop websites for various clients.  Developed Flash AS2 ad banners.  Key Accomplishments  - Developed 15 cross mail client compatible HTML emails in 4 business days.  - Produced time line and AS2 based flash banners for American Laser and Clear Choice  ad campaigns. Front End developer Integrated Media Solutions August 2011 to August 2011 Applied knowledge of HTML/CSS/Jquery to develop microsite for Journey to the Exo Planets Ipad Application.  Key Accomplishments  - Completed microsite in 2 business days.  - Microsite was instrumental in Ipad app receiving FWA mobile of the day award. Front End Developer MundoCom - New York, NY July 2011 to July 2011 Developed PSDs into HTML emails and online newsletters for clients. Responsible for emails rendering successfully across major email clients.  Key Accomplishments  - Developed 2 html emails in 1 business day.  - Redeveloped previous emails that weren't rendering across email clients. Front End Developer Old Mutual - New York, NY April 2011 to July 2011 Utilized HTML/CSS to develop PSD files into W3C compliant web pages. Responsible for site being cross browser compatible.  Key Accomplishments  - Hand coded 13 pages of company's in 14 business days.  - Developed image slider, pagination effects, and tab functions using Javascript and Jquery. Front End Developer Shared Book - New York, NY March 2011 to March 2011 Worked with designers to develop website pages for Shared Book and their affiliate sites.  Key Accomplishments  - Used HTML/CSS/Javascript to develop 3 pages for company's education site Academic Pub. AcademicPub.com. Front End Developer Groove Shark - Gainesville, FL February 2011 to March 2011 offsite)  Developed websites, landing pages and ad campaigns for Grooveshark.com.  Key Accomplishments  - Javascript, Actionscript/XML were used to create an engaging experience.  - AS3 and XML were used to create an interactive video player. Front End Developer Inventus Design - New York, NY November 2008 to February 2011 Handled projects from concept to completion. Developed websites and landing pages, for startups in the entertainment, culinary, publishing and fashion industries. Front End Developer Interactive One - New York, NY March 2008 to November 2008 Developed landing pages and banner ads for Blackplanet.com & Migente.com.  Key Accomplishments  - Designed and developed flash banners for BlackPlanet.com and Migente.com  - Utilized HMTL/CSS to develop landing pages for BlackPlanet.com, HelloBeautiful.com, and TheUrbanDaily.com's campaigns. Education Certification Parsons New School December 2012 Bachelors of Arts Long Island University 2002 Links http://coombsconnect.co.nf Additional Information Skills    Programs: Adobe Photoshop CC  Languages: HTML5/CSS3, Javascript, Responsive Design, Photoshop