UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Century Link Denver, CO • 10 years of experience (including 2 years of onsite experience in US) in IT Industry with good knowledge in System/Web User Interface / User Experience Analysis, Web Designing and Development with HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Web 2.0, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Flash, Adobe Flex, Adobe Photoshop etc.  • Having experience of Microsoft Silverlight and Adobe Flex based RIA web application development.  • One year of experience in working with AngularJS, Node JS, NPM, Grunt, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS as part of technology migration of Flex based web modules to Angular framework.  • Expertise in Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Information flow diagram, Visual & Graphic Design, multi-screen RIA/RUI design and development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Ability to Analysis, Design and develop an applications with many Open Source tools and technologies like JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, NPM, Grunt, AJAX, Bootstrap, LESS etc.,  • Able to generate effective and concise requirements artifacts to facilitate the transfer of stakeholder needs to application development staff  • Experienced in the process of product analysis, comparison and recommendation using internal and external resources as well as making cases for off the shelf solutions versus custom built applications  • Proficient in reengineering the process and improving it to make the business effective and efficient. Have also involved and contributed a lot in converting the requirements into effective business design.  • I have involved in different phases of system implementation such as Requirements / Usability Analysis, Information Architecture, Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Visual & Graphic Design, Front- End Development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Capable to lead the User Interface Development team. Work Experience UI Developer Century Link - Denver, CO October 2010 to Present Control Center is a free, secure, self-service Web portal that provides access to critical tools enabling easy, safe and fast management of invoices, network configuration and statistics and trouble reporting. Control Center is a robust online reporting tool that can help improve your operation by delivering useful knowledge and greater insight into your business. The portal's simple navigation and business-friendly resources help users across your organization find the information they need quickly and easily -- at the level of detail needed. All without complicated training.    UI team responsibilities included Usability Analysis, Wireframe Prototyping, Visual Design, Front End Development and Integration with backend data and services.    Responsibilities:  • HTML5, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, LESS, CSS 3 based front end UI design and development  • Front end development and architecture using Angular JS.  • Converted Flex projects into HTML5 project by using Node JS, Angular JS  • Mapping business requirements to application features and the most suited technology to provide business value  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Front- End Research and Development, Integration, Bug Fixing and Launch & Maintenance.  • Leading the User Interface Development team in the current project.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the stack holders to identify the user requirements and the user experience to achieve the consistency in the proposed application.  • Analyzing and demonstrating the user centric design and customer experience to the stack holder with the newly proposed application design  • Estimating the effort for the implementing the changes.  • Researching and identifying the well versed open source tool to implementing the cross browser application to achieve the web standards.  • Developing / Integrating static pages into the existing and proposed system  • Performing code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support  • Fixing the post production issues in the application    Environment: HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, Grunt, CSS 3, LESS, Action Script 3.0, Serena Dimensions, Caliber, HP Quality Center, SharePoint portal. Front- End Developer AT&T September 2009 to September 2010 The R2-D2 tool will serve the day-to-day diverse needs of users supporting, monitoring and managing the suite of Retail applications as a centralized, integrated, multi functional "Go To" application. The tool will allow for a secure and controlled access to a variety of features while minimizing dependency on resources and unnecessary maintenance of other tools or ad hoc scripts.    Responsibilities:  • Front end UI development using Microsoft Silverlight, HTML, JavaScript, CSS 3.  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Requirements Review, Usability Analysis, Information Architecture, Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Visual / Graphic Design, Front- End Development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Creating wireframe prototype and visual design for the multi-application screen.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the stack holders to identify the user requirements and the user experience  • Analyzing and demonstrating the user centric design and customer experience to the stack holder with the newly proposed application design  • Preparing / Reviewing the high level and low level design and UTP documents  • Estimating the effort for the implementing the changes.  • Researching and identifying the well versed open source tool to implementing the multi screen application to achieve the web standards.  • Develop / Integrating static pages into the existing and proposed system  • Leading the user interface development team in the current application  • Performing code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support  • Fixing the post production issues in the application    Environment: HTML/HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, Action Script 3.0, CSS 3, Adobe Flex, Microsoft Silverlight, Microsoft Expression Blend Web Developer Mutants Technologies Pvt. Ltd September 2006 to September 2009 Mutants Technologies is a website Design & Development Company offer services like Website Designing, Website Maintenance, Website Redesigning, Website Development, Hosting, Graphic design for the web and print, Database Development, Branding and Logo Development, Flash, Multimedia Development and SEO.    Responsibilities:  • Created wireframe prototype and visual design for the proposed application.  • Wireframe Prototyping, Visual Design and Front End Development  • Analyzed and demonstrated the user centric design and customer experience to the stack holder with the newly proposed application design  • Analyzed the requirement documents and get the design concerns clarified with the stack holders  • Prepared / Reviewed the high level and low level design and UTP documents  • Developed / Integrated static pages into the existing and proposed system with the W3C Web standards  • Played senior role in the user interface design / development team  • Performed code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the cross browser / performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support    Environment: Adobe Collections, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Photoshop Front End Developer Aptara Inc January 2005 to September 2006 Aptara, Inc. is a US-based media company specializing in digital content development. It is headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia. Aptara's services include content production, digital publishing, data conversion, editorial services, eLearning and technology development, legal content solutions, and business process outsourcing (BPO). Its customers include publishers, information aggregators, professional societies, universities and corporations worldwide    Responsibilities:  • Visual Design and Front End Development  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts  • Front End Development    Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Action Script 3.0, XML Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Architecture IGNOU - New Delhi, Delhi 2001 to 2004 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, NPM, Grunt, AJAX, CSS 3, LESS, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Flex, Adobe Flash, Photoshop.  Scripting Language: JavaScript, Action Script 3.0  Web Dev Framework: JQuery, AngularJS, Node JS  Wireframe / Prototyping Tools: Adobe Collections