Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Advanced information technology solutions Charlotte, NC • A qualified developer with 3 years of experience in developing web applications in Front- End UI Development and management skills with a global organization.  • Experienced in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing the application.  • Actively participated in team meetings.  • Having comprehensive knowledge in software Analysis, Design and Development of web applications and product development in Front- End technologies like Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery UI, JSON and Bootstrap 4 used for Responsive web design.  • Knowledge in some of the web technologies like Angular, NodeJS.  • Experience in creating dashboards in Tableau technology  • Excellent experience in creating Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Dynamic Screenshots.  • Used AXURE, Balsamic for creating Wireframes for Web Development.  • Involvement in using various IDE's, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, WebStorm, Sublime, Adobe Photoshop.  • Experience in preparing User manual and documentation of the project.  • Knowledge in Developing Single Page Applications using React and Redux unidirectional flow.  • Knowledge in Building reusable and customizable components using React.js  • Familiarity in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in WordPress tool and in installing WordPress Plugins.  • Experience in dealing with GoDaddy (a web hosting service).  • Adapted Model-View-Controller(MVC) frameworks for developing web applications  • Hands on experience in developing cutting edge Web based Application for Data Capture and customization using HTML/CSS, JavaScript Framework.  • Experience in CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Involvement in testing the applications and documenting them.  • Involved in testing the application as per the requirement.  • Developed different GUI screens using HTML and user validations using JavaScript/jQuery.  • Strong implementation knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis and Design using Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Experience in development of SPA (single page applications) and a responsive web page.  • Having knowledge in Content Management System.  • Knowledge in GIT for version controlling and JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions.  • Knowledge in SDLC, Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) Methodology, Iterative, Waterfall, and Object-Oriented Application Design and Programming.  • Ability to work independently in a fast-paced environment.  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good communication skills and quick learning ability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Advanced information technology solutions - Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present Dallas, TX  Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, angular JS, WebStorm.  Role: Front End Developer  Duration: October 2017 to till date  Description: Website is designed for embroidery junction. It takes pride in creating only the highest quality custom embroidery.  Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis the Clients New Requirements and enhancements.  • Designed wireframes for the website.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  • Involved in using Angular JS.  • Involved in documenting to the new changes.  • Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  • Used JavaScript for user interactions in pages.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons. Front End Developer Marshall University - Huntington, WV January 2017 to May 2017 Duration: January 2017 to May 2017  Description: Website is designed for the division of computer science to effectively view and access events occurring around the university. This website provides the alumni with various features such as User registration, Building & Updating Profile, search other member profiles, register for events at university, posting job opportunities and view job posts, Updates of latest news related to university and alumni.  Responsibilities  • Initially Involved in analysis the Clients New Requirements and enhancements.  • Designed wireframe for Registration, login, profile and alumni news pages and researched other websites to design alumni news page.  • Studied a new tool (UX Pin) for constructing a prototype.  • Made changes in prototype according to the client's requirement and recreated all the wireframes according to the client's requirement.  • Designed the wireframes for Job posting page, reset password page, Give away gifts (internet users), News page (internet users) in UX Pin tool.  • Watched tutorials related to WordPress.  • Researched other tool (bootstrap) for themes to develop website.  • Installed plugins related to page being designed.  • Downloaded pictures for slide bar in homepage and edited according to the requirement through Adobe Photoshop.  • Explored other websites for additional information to the web pages.  • Involved in bug fixing.  • Edited pictures (pixels) for the slide bar in home page.  • Researched the other websites for designing the contact us Page.  • Researched the plugin (WP news and scrolling) for creating news page.  • Designed the contact us page and news page for the website.  • Collected information regarding the university news to put in the website.  • Coded manually for other fields (mobile, street, city, zip code, Major, Degree, and Graduation Year) that are required in the update profile page.  • Effectively participated in testing the webpages in the project.  • Involved in Documenting the project and user manual. Front End Developer Marshall University - Huntington, WV January 2017 to May 2017 Huntington, WV  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Notepad++.  Role: Front End Developer  Duration: January 2017 to May 2017  Description: The project involved creating a website for the client Boys and Girls club of Huntington which provides tutoring, Homework help, art, Academic enrichment, and physical fitness to children in that area. They have many events aimed in helping children as well as providing them with the opportunity to learn and grow.  Responsibilities  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap, JavaScript(ES6).  • Tasked to create a diagram showing the navigation of the website, including the new pages requested by the client.  • Developed the functionalities using waterfall Methodology.  • Worked with color designs that suitable for the website.  • Helped with the layout of the front page. Some parts had to be reorganized.  • The original website does not have a footer.  • And suggested that we add a footer and use that as a 'Contact' area for users to see, since it will be on every page.  • Analyzed current version of website and suggested we gather more social media information such as Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, etc.  • Helped in designing Links, about and contact pages.  • Involved in testing few pages of the application.  • Participated in documenting the project as well as user manual. Tableau Developer Huntington, WV August 2016 to December 2016 Description: Online Super Store dataset describes about the online sales of a store during the years 2009 to 2012. The dataset contains three tables which include Order, Returns, and Users  Responsibilities  • Initially collected Data set from Online source.  • Imported data into Tableau tool and generated reports as per client suggestion.  • The goal of this project was to develop Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau desktop and created action filters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets.  • Created reports through (tree Map, Box plot, histogram, scatter plot, bullet graph, pie, bar graph).  • Involved in documentation of the project. Front End Developer Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Initially got trained and developed proficiency in languages such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript technologies  • Gathered the information that is related to the project.  • Participated in team meetings.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked with the programmers for project requirement analysis.  • Used CSS for styling and develop the design required by the client.  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Tasks done by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Front End Developer Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to March 2015 Duration: January 2014 - March 2015  Description: Who wants to be a millionaire is an online quiz which enables the user to win money based on the number of questions answered.  Responsibilities  • Involved in creating initial home page and also login page.  • Gathered the information that is related to the project.  • Created pages using HTML, XML and JavaScript.  • Gathered questions to put in the project.  • Participated in testing the application. Java Developer Suspicious Message Detection - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to December 2014 Description: Suspicious email detection is a kind of mailing system where suspicious users are identified by determining the keywords used by him/her. The keywords such as bomb, RDX, are found in the mails which are sent by the user. The status of mail is shown by identifying the keywords as "good" or "bad".  Responsibilities  • Developed the application using java and connected the database through JDBC ODBC connections.  • Involved in fixing the bugs. Education Master's in computer science Marshall University 2016 to 2017 Bachelor's Osmania University 2011 to 2015 Skills HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), XML (1 year), HTML5 (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skill Set  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, SASS, jQuery UI, Bootstrap 4, AJAX, AngularJS, JSON  XML Technologies: XML  Scripting Language: JavaScript  JavaScript Framework: Knowledge on AngularJS, Node JS.  GUI Tools: Net Beans, Sublime Text 3, Brackets, Notepad++, WebStorm  Dreamweaver, Visual Studios  Version Control Tools: GitHub  DBMS/RDBMS: MySQL, Oracle10g/11g    Methodologies: Agile and Waterfall  Others: MS Office, Word press, MS Dynamics AX (Creating of  Tables, relations, indexes, views and forms), Tableau, SAS, JIRA, Balsamic, Illustrator, UX Pin,  Operating System: Windows 7/Windows 8, Linux