Software Quality Engineer Software Quality Engineer Oakland, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Quality Engineer February 2016 to Present API Testing  ? Develop test cases using tools such as TestNG, Java, Jenkins,  Selenium along with internal tools that helped test the sites  load speed, page requests and vulnerability.  ? Weather Underground Site testing.  ? Bug Tracking Quality Assurance  ? Test front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure  cross-browser compatibility. Front End Developer Weather Channel - San Francisco, CA January 2013 to February 2016 In addition to the responsibility I held at Weather  Underground, I began to working with Android and discovering  how weather can be implemented in automobiles.  ? I worked on the API team and helped build code samples for our API "How to Page."  ? API discovery and Weather Underground site maintenance. Front End Developer Weather Underground - San Francisco, CA October 2010 to January 2013 Design and develop single page applications (SPA) and weather  widgets for newspapers and other media outlets.  ? Weather Underground site maintenance.  ? Created scripts that would perform nightly data dumps for clients  ? Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently  complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.  ? Maintain client relations. Front End Developer Ancestry - San Francisco, CA February 2010 to September 2010 Worked on the search team, building HTML/CSS landing pages.  ? Create new products around user feedback  ? Page development from design to test and to deployment. Front End Developer SFGate - San Francisco, CA November 2007 to December 2009 Created HTML pages from Photoshop mockups.  ? Write Bash and Perl scripts for site automation and maintenance.  ? Page design and redesign using industry best practices. Content Engineer ( Front End Developer) Macys.com - San Francisco, CA October 2005 to January 2007 Web page development from design to test and up to production deployment.