Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - XO Communications Dallas, TX • Over 8+ Years of professional exposure in Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript and JavaScript Frameworks like and Angular 4.0/ 2.0/ 1.x, jQuery and jQuery UI, NodeJS, React JS, DOM, DHTML, AJAX, MySQL and Mongo DB.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) Functions.  • Very Good Experience working in Angular4.x/2.x (data binding, Custom Directives, expressions, Single Page Applications).  • Experience in building SPA's using Angular framework.  • Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around User Interaction Models, Workflows, Wireframes, Screen Flows, Mockups and Prototypes.  • Experience and strong knowledge working with HTML 5.  • Good experience in CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and CSS pre-processor like SASS.  • Experienced in making use of expanded HTML5 semantics and popular HTML5 APIs (e.g. audio, video, SVG).  • Experience in using Babel+ES6, Bootstrap and Web-Pack for Single Page Application development.  • Experience working with Node.js (Grunt, Bower, Express, HTTP, FS)  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. "CRUD (Create, read, update, delete)" features using NodeJS, ExpressJS as my middleware.  • Familiar with NoSQL Database Design, Analysis and Development like MongoDB.  • Proficient in designing and developing web front end, with sound understanding of Object Oriented Programming Concepts and component-based, object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands on development expertise in front end GUI Layer.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Developed a web application by using Angular4 as front- end by using Web API to receive and pass data to back- end.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and for project setup with scaffolding features.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Built Angular 4/2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular 4/2 component router for navigation, Angular 4/2 services to connect the web application to back- end APIs made use of ES6 features.  • Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  • Implemented Angular, Bootstrap, LESS, and many JQuery plugins wrapped in Angular directives.  • Used Nodejs for adding dependencies to project.  • Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using CSS and Angular.  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involve In daily stand up meetings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer XO Communications - Dallas, TX June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in all stages of software development life cycle including Analysis, development, implementation, testing and support  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS  • Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Used jQuery framework for UI centric Ajax behavior  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables such as wireframes, screen mock-ups and interface design. Extensively used Angular UI form-grid and UI components  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plugins like data picker, bootstrap select etc.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js.  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end UX design such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, LESS and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate etc.,  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Developed the custom data grids upon jQuery framework to deliver the business data  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  • Worked on debugging JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome  • JavaScript debug. Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Jasmine Karma framework.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers to check if they are Cross browser compatible  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Implemented generating the verification hash code using crypto package on Node.JS and Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Used Git Subversion to implement version control System.  • Used JSON for data exchange and Rest Services to interact with spring controller.  • Wrote stored procedures, views, cursors and triggers using SQL.    Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, Angular Js, Bootstrap, XML, D3.Js, JQuery, SASS, GIT, Eclipse, SOAP, Ajax, Node JS, Gulp, JSON, Rally, Firebug, SQL, Oracle, Windows Sr. Front End Developer Texas First Bank - League City, TX August 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of the websites  • Developed websites using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Google Maps API(JavaScript Library), XML and Ajax  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Implemented RESTfull Web Services for other applications to communicate  • Design, developed and updated the user interface using CSS, JavaScript and Dreamweaver  • Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript  • Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  • Defined text alignment, borders, positioning and many other typographic characteristics  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Used AJAX for asynchronous communication between client and server.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Design HTML prototypes, visual interfaces and interaction of Web-based design and hand code CSS.  • Created several patterns of representation using different MVCs.  • The Angular JavaScript framework for building web applications is highly efficient to use with Laravel PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Dynamic content management at client side using AJAX, JavaScript, DHTML.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS, JSF and Spring Controller.  • Extensively tested the websites, identified the bugs using Firebug and fixed them.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization prototypes, navigation, page layouts and interaction.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked closely with the programmers for project requirement analysis.  • Created new static model pages with cross browser compatibility features.  • Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server.  • Created required Views, Indexes and Clusters.  • Designed report previews for PDF and Excel using SQL Stored Procedure.    Environment: CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Google Maps API, SQL Server. Sr. Front End Developer Bungie Studios - Seattle, WA November 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:    • Developed the look, feel, concept, and informational architecture of a retail website according to the requirements of the product manager and client while staying within the company's standard  • Designed server-side pages and static web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Implemented enterprise-level standards for the Installation, Configuration and Management of LINUX servers and to design and select the pertinent hardware to support server  • Responsible for operational support and incident management of Linux server.  • Utilized PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (Cross-Platform), HTML, XHTML, CSS to modify existing website, replaced existing functionality with new code.  • Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS layouts.  • Implemented custom authentication and role-based authorization in JSP to authenticate the users.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Developed site according to client specifications with HTML and Dynamic Cross-browser JavaScript.  • Installed and extended existing jQuery plugins as well as the jQuery UI library.  • Created and deploying new features to sustain and amend existing applications  • Designed Graphic web applications using Flash and Photoshop.  • Wrote SQL queries for database storage  • Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Migrated all content to Content Management Systems.  • Tested site and debugging code for cross-browser and cross-platform performance.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Web Standards, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, Cross-platform, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, CMS. UI Developer Classmates.com - Seattle, WA February 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:    • Designed the website and created/developed web interfaces.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS.  • Worked on Responsive Design to make website Responsive for Desktop and Tablets.  • Used composer for PHP package management and used multiple packages for Database  • connectivity, authentication, markdown parsing and other common tasks.  • Worked on customizing PHP themes and configure themes with custom plugins.  • Also helped build custom MVC architecture based (Slim framework) PHP web applications from scratch.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using AJAX, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Developed UI using Angular JS for rich user interaction.  • Implemented an Angular like template system, rendered data with separated template.  • Refactored application to use Angular JS for a simpler user-friendly view and for better  • performance.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing the apps, controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application  • Working knowledge by passing the AJAX, XML, Http Requests to server and populating in cases to JSON.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI Development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS.    Environment: HTML, XHTML 2.0, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, Query, JSON, AJAX, Flash, GIT, SASS, Angular JS Framework, Bootstrap, MVC, Web API. UI Developer MSC Software Corporation - Sunnyvale, CA April 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented chained select plugin for jQuery with JSON processing and callback feature, chain multiple selects with ease.  • Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  • Used the jQuery widgets like Accordion and Date picker.  • Hands on experience in working with SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Exposure to Application Servers like Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Used jQuery, AJAX and JSON to process response data from RESTful web services for updating UI.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using JavaScript.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • As a team member, was a part of Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, SQL, jQuery, XML, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS, Windows XP, MS Office Eclipse and SVN Education Master's