Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Choice Hotels International • Over 7+ years of experience in developing Rich UI Web Applications.  • Well versed in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery UI, API Query, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Practical experience with MVC Architecture using AngularJS  • Hands on experience in responsive web design using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Experience in applications involved with AJAX, Object Oriented Javascript & JSON  • Experienced in creating cross browser compatible pages using Modernizr.  • Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in debugging and trouble shooting with the use of Firebug.  • Great understanding of Web2.0, Javascript and W3C Standards.  • Highly skilled in exceptional writing, interpersonal communication, teamwork and hands-on troubleshooting.  • Over 6 years of experience in Developer Forms & Reports 4.5 & 6. Work Experience Front End Developer Choice Hotels International - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to Present • Front end development using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery Lite.  • Worked within a Scrum team environment on AngularJS project using Git as the source code version  control system.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmine & Karma.  • Involved in the Site Optimization team. Front End Developer US Bank - Houston, TX January 2013 to June 2015 • Designed and Developed front- end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Develop and test across multiple browsers, platforms, and devices, including smartphones and tablets.  • Work closely with web and mobile designers and translate their designs into websites, apps, and interactive experiences  • Designed Responsive Web pages using Media Queries.  • Designed and Developed Web application using CSS pre-processors (SASS)  • Implemented techniques to improve perceived and actual page load time.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of AngularJs custom directives validation controls.  • Written JavaScript unit testing using JASMINE test framework.  • Incorporate progressive enhancement and feature support for cross-browser compatibility.  • Involved in full software development lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Involved in user experience sessions and design discussions to enhance the designs and provide input on the layouts.  • Test, debug, and build code that works across multiple browsers    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs and SASS Front End Developer Safeway - Phoenix, AZ January 2011 to January 2013 • Developed dynamic pages in Eclipse using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed and designed various screens and their architecture in accordance with the specifications.  • Worked on all aspects of Web applications including testing, debugging, maintaining and deploying.  • Handle multiple projects simultaneously and make appropriate technical decisions based on experience and context.  • Worked with back- end developers to enhance the functionality of web applications.  • Translated style guides and designs into functional user interfaces with assurance of cross browser compatibility.  • Developed code to fetch data from back- end and populate on UI using AJAX and JSON.  • Fixed bugs and provided support for the application.  • Tested and fixed web pages using firebug.  • Designed web pages as per client's requirements.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, Eclipse UI Developer Dex Media - Santa Monica, CA March 2008 to December 2010 • Designed UI, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Project management, and Version control.  • Work closely with an Agile team of Product Managers, Quality Assurance Engineers, Designers, and fellow Software Developers to build consumer and internal websites.  • Integrated backend codes using JQUERY, JSON, AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Implemented applications using JavaScript and MySQL.  • Used JQUERY for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Created the database tables to store the user's details.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, XML, MS-Visual studio, CSS, and SQL Server. Web Developer TBI-NITC, Kerala - IN January 2007 to March 2008 • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Performed Validations using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed Web Pages in HTML, XHTML according to style sheets.  • Used Html, CSS, Eclipse, and JavaScript to develop front end web pages.  • Designed innovative and creative solutions to meet current and future needs.  • Extensively used Microsoft Visio to create OOAD diagrams for the database and application structural design.  • Worked with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project.  • Designed and develop creative intuitive user interfaces that address as per clients requirements    ENVIRONMENTS: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and Tomcat Apache. Computer Programmer Al Ain Ahlia Insurance Co - Abu Dhabi January 1994 to December 2007 • Created more than 50 Insurance, Financial, Fixed Assets, HRMS & Payroll reports for the company using Oracle developer & forms  • Involved in the entire design, development & implementation of HRMS & Payroll system.  • Responsible for testing & implementation of all the upgrades & patches  • Well versed with the Microsoft windows & Office, installation & training  • Handling support for all the servers (Windows, Unix)  • Used to do all the application training & support for all the users  • Have been managing all the routers, switches & Firewall (Cisco, Sonic wall)  • Responsible for all the hardware & software purchases for the company  • Responsible for data migration from version 7 to 9 of the Insurance & Financial application  • Involved in the migration of the complete Insurance & Financial application from Cobol to Oracle  • Led the design and development of software upgrades and the deployment of new services and products.  • Added user accounts, troubleshot issues with users.    ENVIRONMENTS: Cobol, Oracle, Developer Forms & Reports  Employer Details:  Pro- Tek consulting  Business Developement Manager  Mahesh Kumar  mahesh@pro-tekconsulting.com  Gtalk: maheshprotek@gmail.com  818-518-9733 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Database: Oracle 9, 10 & 11  Operating System: Windows, Mac OSX, Unix, Red Hat Linux  Software: Developer Forms & Reports, SQL, TOAD, MS Office  Citrix, Xenapp  UI Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON,  Twitter Bootstrap, Angular JS  IDEs/Tools: Eclipse IDE, Sublime 3.0, Firebug  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server