Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - Nielsen Fort Lee, NJ Highly motivated front- end web developer with excellent communication skills and over  10 years of experience in a variety of development environments producing hand coded cross-browser compliant code, with a pixel perfect attention to detail and a strong desire to learn Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Developer Nielsen - New York, NY May 2012 to Present Full time 40 hours per week)  • Acted as a primary UI developer for all company initiatives in Nielsen IAG.  • Architected and actively participated in the current development of Nielsen's new survey portal (poprewards.com) utilizing Require.js for a modular Backbone, and connecting it to an internal and public RESTful API to deliver a responsive Single Page Application that is optimized for both phone and desktop views.  • Designed and implemented a mobile version of rewardtv.com taking it from the beta version to the final release with a heavy focus on usability, performance, and mobile first approach, including but not limited to, responsive pages and conditional loading of elements based on client dimensions.  • Worked closely with design, panel and engineering teams to design workflows and interactions for new company initiatives such as vendor integration of the RewardTV.com's consumer facing survey portal, and creating a facebook app version of the survey game. Front- End Developer Shutterstock Images - New York, NY February 2011 to May 2012 Full time 40 hours per week)  • Acted as a main front end developer on initiatives to improve shutterstock's customer sign-up and subscription process including, but not limited to, a/b testing the pricing and checkout pages, with a heavy focus on usability, code optimization and performance.  • Worked as a sole UI resource for an agile development team consisting of 3-4 developers, 2 QA engineers, visual designer and product owners.  • Collaborated closely with design and user experience teams to design workflows and interactions for product features and enhancements.  • Responsible for overall front end performance and cross-platform and browser compatibility (IE 6,7, 8, Firefox, Safari, Opera). Web / UI Developer Nielsen IAG - New York, NY May 2008 to February 2011 Full time 40 hours per week)  • Developed m.rewardtv.com for iPhone and Android, with a focus on AJAX, WebKit CSS and other rich internet features and functionality.  • Assisted in streamlining the logic and created prototypes for Nielsen's NCP cross domain initiative utilizing flash persistence, cross domain, cross platform tags to consolidate pixel tracking from different divisions to a single ID.  • Developed a corporate media player widget from ground up to showcase NIAG's Top Ad, IPP and Hybrid product, and integrated it with Clearspring and AddThis API with a custom built grabbit functionality. Front- End Developer IAG Research - New York, NY August 2006 to May 2008 Full time 40 hours per week)  • Applied an advanced knowledge of HTML, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and modules.  • Acted as a primary front- end developer for creating the Trivia Game Scheduler / Player components for RewardTV.com with an emphasis on code optimization, usability and scalability.  • Contributed user interface design mockups for several initiatives including rapid prototyping for different stages of the development process.  • Led front- end projects to a timely and successful completion.  • Built a corporate media player utilizing AS3 from ground up. Front- End Developer WhenU.com - New York, NY May 2005 to June 2006 Full time 40 hours per week)  • Efficiently developed the front- end components of web applications (ie. Web pages, Client-side JavaScript, XML/XSL templates)  • Coordinated with Design / Client side teams on creating new web pages.  • Acted as a technical resource for the front- end development of all company products such as SearchBars, Installer UI and pop-up creative.  • Maintained and updated the contents and layouts of company website. Consultant FTI Consulting - New York, NY January 2005 to March 2005 Full time 40 hours per week)  • Worked closely with senior consultants in retrieving and analyzing evidence of fraud and money laundering on a case involving a leading global investment bank..  • Performed data analysis and prepared reports for senior consultants and managers to present to the client.    COMPUTER Operating System: Microsoft Windows 10, 7, XP, 2000, NT, 98, 95, 3.1, Dos Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Bernard M. Baruch College - New York, NY August 2004 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (9 years), JQuery (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS: Programming Languages: HTML(5) / DHTML / XHTML, CSS(3), XML / XSL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Backbone.js, Java, JSP, SQL, PHP, Actionscript 2 / 3, FLEX  DBMS: MySQL, MS SQL  Software: Eclipse, Sublime, GIT, Smart CVS, Flash Develop, Adobe Flash MX / 8 / CS3 /  CS4, Adobe Photoshop, Paint Shop Pro, SQL Navigator, Toad, MS Office Suite