Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- End Developer - Prudential Financial Washington, DC Creative Senior Front- End Developer with over 15 years of experience developing complex projects for a broad range of industries. Accomplishments include the development of high traf?c web and mobile sites, branding, mobile strategies, IOS and Android apps, and data driven Angular applications. Expert in building User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible. Extensive experience in also designing user interfaces for applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer Prudential Financial May 2016 to Present • Develop responsive customer-facing web and mobile based applications.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular and React.   • Worked in an agile team to migrate legacy websites to the MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node).  • Collaborated with back- end developers to build and integrate restful API services into our Angular/React applications.  • Managed a small group of offshore front- end developers to help increase team's overall capacity for quick deadlines.  • Coordinated sessions with design teams on feature implementation and user interaction.  • Presented new digital products to business forums.  • Coordinate with all Business analysts and application architects to maintain knowledge on all functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.   • Deployed multiple applications utilizing many of the AWS services such as EC2, Lambda, S3  • Won '2018 Prudential Innovation' award for best company wide team of the year.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular, React, TypeScript, HTML, SCSS, Bootstrap, JSON, Core Java, J2EE, Node, Git, Bitbucket, Express, AWS, Jenkins Front- End Developer Acotel Group Inc., Bucksense Inc - New York, NY July 2008 to May 2016 • Websites: www.acotelinteractive.com, www.bucksense.com, www.skillsweet.com, www.flycell.com  • Develop and maintain the Front- end of web and mobile sites for all of Acotel's global brands. Specialized in responsive designs that included advanced javascript animations, custom music players and interactive gaming.  • Spearheaded the development and relaunch of the companies flagship websites while working directly with a team of developers in India, Italy, Brazil, Turkey and Spain.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular ,HTML, PHP, Smarty, SASS, Bootstrap, JSON, SQL, Git, Bitbucket, SVN Web Developer | Flash Developer Netwave Interactive Marketing - Point Pleasant, NJ May 2007 to June 2008 www.netwaveinteractive.com  • Created highly dynamic websites for a broad range on clients handling the projects from conceptual design to a fully functional website.   • Coordinated development/design sessions directly with clients in order to better understand their needs. Digital Director | Front- End Developer Website X Designs, LLC - New York, NY May 2006 to June 2008 Directed and built numerous interactive web sites from start to finish for small and large companies. Provided marketing support through the development of interactive banner ads, informational web pages, interactive email advertisements, brochures, and illustrations. Education Bachelor's North Carolina A & T State University - Greensboro, NC September 2003 to May 2007 Skills Bootstrap (6 years), C# (3 years), Git (4 years), HTML5 (7 years), javascript (10+ years), Angular (4 years), React (2 years) Links http://www.joshuaellis.name Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Angular, React, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, SASS, JSON, D3, Highcharts, C#, PHP, Git, Subversion, Adobe Creative Cloud, Bootstrap, Sketch, Invision, GSAP animations