Sr. Front End Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - ClockFour ? 8+ years of development experience in creating efficient and secure websites and applications.  ? 5 years of experience in developing Responsive Single Page Applications using frameworks like, ReactJs, Redux, backbone, Bootstrap, Handlebars.  ? Leverages passion and superior analytical skills for solving complex technical problems.  ? Always accessible and active participant in technical discussions for finding the best solutions not just in terms of performance but also maintenance.  ? Strong Interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work in a team as well as independently.    Languages: JavaScript, PHP, PLSQL  Web Technologies: jQuery, Backbone, ReactJs, Redux, NodeJs, ES6, Handlebars.js, Bootstrap.js, OnsenUI, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Optimizely, JSON, LESS, SCSS  Tools: BitBucket, GitHub, Jenkins, JIRA Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer ClockFour May 2017 to Present • Envisioned and implemented AdGenerator project for USBank. Using Node server, chromium puppeteer, I created Ads (JPEG) for 300 USBank Clients.  • To create these Ads using photoshop would take around 1 week. By Automating this process, it took 2.5hrs for Generate more than 2000 images. This helped our team to generate marketing Ads for clients with very little cost.  • Worked on developing USBank's Trancore project. Trancore project is to show all their credit cards information in one APP/website.  • I created pages for transaction data, Payments, Alerts, Services, Contactus using ReactJS, Redux and Node.    Environment: JavaScript, ReactJS, redux, Node server, Bootsrap4, OnsenUI, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, SCSS, CSS3, GIT Sr. Front End Developer Toys"R"US April 2017 to July 2017 Tasked with developing and maintaining toysrus.com marketing pages. Responsibilities include SEO, dynamic content changes, managing marketing emails.  • Developed ToyBox (Toy of the Year) page using ReactJS, Redux, Node, SCSS and API's.  • Developed Toys'R'US marketing pages like hottoy List, BigBook (2017-year top sales page) and MovieHQ pages.  • Created Toys 4 Puerto Rico donation page and implemented payment processing using Node server. It raised donation of $36,000 for Puerto Rico kids.  • Worked on building a CMS for Great Deal store (GDS) and flashsale pages. This CMS was built easy enough to update the page within few seconds without an outage. This was critical for business during holiday season when the content/deals change every few minutes/hours.  • Optimized the marketing page using lazy loads and caching.  • Developed an interactive game using createJS.    Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, redux, node, Bootsrap4, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, SCSS Sr. Front- End Developer Gartner June 2014 to May 2017 Gartner Search Engine is responsible for reactively delivering valuable content like research documents, peer connect forum data, Webinar Data and Analyst details to the clients depending on their search term, previous activity and their entitlement.  • Worked closely with business in developing Gartner's responsive single page search engine using Backbone, Handlebars, Jquery, bootstrap, LESS, CSS3 and RESTful API's • Created an in-house web analytics which helps the team to calculate the rank, relevancy, abundant rate and value of the document.  • Developed an internal dashboard App to show the weekly analytics data using ReactJs and NodeJS.  • Increased the page load performance by decreasing the load calls on the first page load and increasing REST Calls.  • Leveraged Optimizely to do A/B testing for relevancy and UI changes.  • Used Twitter Typeahead API for the Typeahead and added custom spell checks.  • Reduced the redundant code by using the OOPS concepts.  • Along with the SOLR search engine, complex algorithms are used to fine tune the relevancy and ranking of the documents.  • Search Engine project uses AGILE/SCRUM software development process. JIRA is used to track our stories.  • Actively participated in code reviews to get highly efficient and maintainable code.  • Created the PeerConnect Meetup project, which is used in Gartner Symposiums.  • Presented data with Highcharts and DataTables.    Environment: JAVA, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone, Handlebars, Bootsrap2, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, LESS, CSS3, SVN, Hippo, teamsite Front- end Developer Snagfilms.com February 2011 to June 2014 SnagFilms.com offers the broadest collection of great independent movies   • Developed a Cross Browser Compatible and secure website using jQuery, Handlebars, Backbonejs and RESTful API's as the backend.  • Utilized HTML5 features like Video support, Validations, Placeholders, Web fonts, Gradients.  • Google Analytics is used to Measure visitor Traffic and SEO standards are maintained.  • Optimized the page load by caching and minifying the script and template pages.  • Developed the Social theater project. It's a virtual theater where users can watch movie together and also chat with people. Facebook Api's are used for the user login and data.  • Created an Election campaigning portal called "Snag the Vote 2012, ".    Environment: Javascript, jQuery, Backbone.js, Handlebars, js, Bootsrap.js, 960 Grid, JSP, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, CSS3, Tomcat, Git Web Developer IHS Herold April 2010 to February 2011 This project helps the analyst to do the analysis of company valuations, strategies, transactions and trends. It also gathers and provides independent transaction valuations and tools needed for comparative and independent assessments of transactions.  • Developed new applications and tools for clients using Oracle PLSQL • Worked on a tool for financial analyst which collects and displays information about Mergers and Acquisitions from various sources • Developed a module to show the transactions between the companies, valuations, related transactions according to the selected comparatives.  • Created a tool to allocate the products to the clients according to the RCV.  • Supported existing internal and client-facing applications currently in use.  • Created ad-hoc reports and data queries for analysis and maintenance purposes using Oracle queries.    Environment: Oracle PLSQL, Javascript, Prototype, Jquery, Ajax, JSON, HTML, CSS, LINUX. Web Developer Sarah Jane Brain Foundation February 2009 to April 2010 This is a non-profit organization for the brain injured children. My role in this project is to create a website where people can send their donations and can read about brain injuries.  • The main goal for this project is to develop a web site and maintain a database of brain injured children and financial donors.  • Created a Website which provides all information regarding brain injuries • Worked on the Mass mailing system.  • Created E-mail templates.  • Developed a dynamic survey form using AJAX and PHP. Survey questions are dynamically changed according the user answers for the previous questions.  Environment: PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, Dreamweaver Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Bowling Green State University - Bowling Green, OH Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Sir C.R. Reddy College of Engineering