Angular/ Front End Developer Angular/<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular/ Front End Developer New York, NY ? Overall 10+ years of experience in Development, Testing and Deployment in the World Wide Web technology.  ? Work closely with entire team to create and maintain the front end code for features including Developers, QA, web producers, content creators, and designers.  ? Experience in working Web applications based on .Net, PHP and Java Technologies using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS Preprocessors (LESS) and AngularJS.  ? Experience in creating Responsive websites using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap and CSS Preprocessors (SASS/LESS)  ? Experience in creating UI components like table, forms, dashboards etc using HTML5, Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS.  ? Experience in Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework with .Net and Java / SQL backend.  ? Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  ? Worked on the projects using nodejs as server and using package manager tools like bower.  ? Worked on projects using .Net, Object Oriented PHP 5 / MySQL and Java based back end development environment.  ? Experience in converting Photoshop design images to HTML pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Javascript and Bootstrap which are responsive based on the devices like mobile, tablet, and desktop.  ? Build client side applications using JavaScript, AJAX, and JSON.  ? Deep functional knowledge and hands on experience in using Web Services like REST and SOAP.  ? Experience in working on applications with node.js  ? Worked in Agile Environment using the SCRUM meeting and sprint planning.  ? Ability to create design the UI/UX components using wireframe tools like Balsmiq, Proto.io, Visio.  ? Familiar with d3 js for creating visualizations and worked on some sample projects.  ? Good knowledge of relational databases (Oracle, Mysql, Sql Server), version control tools (Sub version, Git)  ? Experience in applying different Search Engine Optimizations techniques to improve page rank.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to manage teams. Work Experience Angular/ Front End Developer Pearson - New York, NY September 2017 to Present This project is Pearson's Enterprise Management Systems, it is an internal web portal to manage the device downloads on ipads, that are used in various schools across US.    Responsibilities:  ? Creating AngularJS templates that can be loaded using partials in AngularJS.  ? Worked on creating controllers and filters that are custom to specific requirements.  ? Used different AngularJS packages as dependencies like angular-bootstrap, angular-route, angular-resource etc  ? Created custom directive as per the app requirements.  ? Developed angular components to consume data from web server, using $http, $q etc services from .Net Web Api from JSON files.  ? Creating responsive custom attributes for Breakpoints in the app using $emit, $broadcast, $on, $timeout.  ? Created Event Handlers as per the need task.  ? Used dependency injection to inject services for the Rest and custom services  ? Worked on creating web pages and modifying them according to the design specifications.  ? Making sure it works properly on latest browsers of Internet explorer, chrome, and FireFox.  ? Used github as the version control tool.  ? Creating custom directives for Responsive images, Responsive Text, Responsive item lists using $window, $watch, $log properties in Angular.  ? Using Batarang, Scope Inspector and responsiveness measuring tools while developing.  ? Attending daily scrum meetings and working on completion of User Stories in Sprints.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angularjs 1.2, .Net, AJAX, jQuery, , C#, Visual Studio 2013, Github, Batarang, AngularJs Scope Inspector, responisvedeisgnchecker, Chrome Developer emulation, Firebreak addons, Opera Mobile emulator, Jenkins, SASS, Compass, Windows 8, Source Tree. Front End Developer Pearson - New York, NY January 2015 to September 2017 This project is about the web portal that is used to manage the content for the schools across US.  Responsibilities:    ? Implementing routing for the different pages and adding new pages for routing using angular-route.  ? Created reusable angularjs html templates using custom templates.  ? Created custom directives as per the use cases.  ? Worked on creating custom components as per the business need.  ? Created custom filters like arrays-difference filter, capitalize filter etc.  ? Worked on creating test cases using Karma.  ? Used dependency injection to inject services for the Rest and custom services.  ? Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.  ? Using Github for version control and integrating the code development of the app.  ? Writing modules for the application using npm node modules.  ? Creating connections to the server and retrieving details about the servers using Nodejs.  ? Configuring server defaults and controlling setting up socket details.  ? Creating the Client that connects to a Networked Server using Node.js.  ? Attending daily scrum meetings and working on completion of User Stories in Sprints.    Environment: HTML5, AngularJS, nodejs, bowerjs, Java, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, karma, github, Eclipse, Java, JBoss, Spring OAuth2, SQl Server, J Windows 8, Source Tree. Front End Developer Designory - CA January 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the HTML5 Pages development on the Backbone JS, Marionette JS, and Require JS framework.  ? Creating Javascript View pages using the Backbone JS, Require JS, Underscore JS and Marionette JS frameworks.  ? Creating HTML responsive web pages for the tablet and desktop using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and preprocessors sass/less, which are compatible with different web browsers and tablet.  ? Developing the code using Subversion SVN and updating the new version code to the repositories.  ? Working with Mac operating system on MAMP server.  ? Developed standards-compliant HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript for the project, focusing on mobile, tablets and desktop.  ? Working with client side frameworks such as JQuery, Modernizr.  ? Working with side-by-side in cross-functional teams to create pixel-perfect web pages, sites and applications.  ? Working with technology, project management team (s) to develop and implementing product in accordance with client expectations.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Web standards, ECMA Script, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, Backbone JS, Marionette JS, Require JS, Jasmine, Underscore JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Modernizr, MAMP server, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Bridge, Subversion (SVN), Mac OS, MAMP Sr. Web Developer Ray Business Technologies August 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed standards-compliant HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript for various client projects, focusing on mobile, tablets and desktop.  ? Utilized PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (Cross-Platform), HTML, XHTML, CSS to modify existing website, replaced existing functionality with new code.  ? Worked on Agile development methodologies for the application development.  ? Created custom directives as per the application need.  ? Developed Image Galleries and most of the server side scripting in PHP using LAMP server.  ? Refactored several messy implementations (HTML, PHP, JavaScript) that weren't dynamic, and therefore had lot of code duplication, into much cleaner, more maintainable, dynamic versions without duplication.  ? Developing cross browser websites using Bootstrap and CSS pre-processors like sass and less.  ? Designed server side pages and static webpages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and PHP.  ? Managed and mentored junior developers through development life cycle.  ? Designed layouts for websites using Adobe Photoshop and Flash objects.  ? Developed Social networking (Flickr, Facebook, Google+, YouTube) API's  ? Developed Drag-and-Drop user interfaces, WYSIWYG (TinyMCE) editors using JavaScript.  ? Identified and implemented missed SEO opportunities that increased site traffic exponentially.  ? Designed Asynchronous web pages using AJAX.  ? Worked on perforce, used for the version control.  ? Migrated static content to a Content Management System (Plone)  ? Developed JQuery plugins based on various JavaScript frameworks like prototype.js, YUI, Mootools.  ? Maintained database using MySQL.  ? Developed code in Cross Platform implementation.  ? Documented all work and process of development with timelines and milestone markers.  ? Performed Unit, Integration and System testing.  ? Tested code on Windows and Macintosh platforms.  ? Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Web standards, ECMA Script, ActionScript, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, Bootstrap, Mean Stack, AJAX, nodejs, jQuery, mootools, Prototype.js, YUI, Cross-platform, JSDoc, QUnit, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, Fireworks, Omnigraffle, CMS (Wordpress, Drupal, Plone), Perforce, Facebook API, Flickr API, Google+ API, YouTube API, Yeoman, Grunt, Bower, Subversion (SVN)    Ray Business Technologies  Ray Business technologies (www.raybiztech.com)  Sr.Web Developer    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Requirement analysis, gathered all possible requirements and involved in breaking the requirements into exact implementation details.  ? Involved in Designing, Coding and deploying the code into different environments.  ? Created interactive demos for website using table-less layouts.  ? Developed wireframes and semantic web mockups.  ? Designed interactive web pages with HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Python and JavaScript.  ? Implemented best practices of W3C and other web design standards.  ? Interacting with the managers and create/modify prototypes as per the business requirement.  ? Delivered presentation to the client as well as the team for integrating the website into CMS.  ? Developed Photoshop Banners, Images and converted PSD's to HTML5 and CSS3 pages.  ? Designed most of the API documentation using JSDoc and performed QUnit and JQnit tests.  ? Code layouts using HTML, XHTML and CSS adhering to web 2.0 standards.  ? Developed standards-compliant HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript for various client projects, focusing on smartphones, tablets and desktop.  ? Worked on WYISWYG editors.  ? Worked as a client-side specialist with JavaScript, CSS, HTML and server-side PHP scripting.  ? Researched JavaScript development strategies. Created functioning prototypes with jQuery and a PHP back- end in order to demonstrate development strategies and the feasibility of various plug-ins.  ? Replaced YUI Library with the jQuery library. Wrote original jQuery plugins.  ? Performed Unit, System and Integration testing.  ? Reviewed site for bugs and issues and logged bugs when found and resolved bugs.  ? Implemented Cross Browser Scripts in cross platform environment.  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Web standards, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, JSDoc, QUnit, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, CMS  Ray Business Technologies  Vehicle Tracking System  PHP Developer    This project is a Vehicle Tracking Web Application which is used to track the vehicles using Google Maps API and PHP, HTML. This application gives the exact location of a vehicle and tracks its entire course of its travel. The application also displays various reports to analyse various scenarios of vehicles traversing.  Responsibilities:  ? Different types of maps are developed to view the exact location of the vehicle using the GPS Tracking Device.  ? Database created in Xampp to store the vehicle and coordinate values.  ? Created the layout for the application using HTML.  ? Integrated with the GPS Tracking device to monitor the path of the vehicle continuously.  ? Created maps to calculate the distance travelled, the area which it has traversed.  ? Created reports using the PHP to displays information of the vehicles.  ? Provide requirement specifications, design documentation, application code, test cases and scripts, test results, user documentation, training material, and implementation plans.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Web standards, ECMA Script, ActionScript, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, mootools, Prototype.js, YUI, Cross-platform, JSDoc, QUnit, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, Fireworks, Omnigraffle, CMS (Wordpress, Drupal, Plone), Facebook API, Flickr API, Google+ API, YouTube API, Subversion (SVN), Git    Ray Business Technologies  Theinitiativesgroup.com  PHP Developer  The project is use full for conducting assessments to employees in the organization. So companies have to register into our site. Here mainly three types of assessments Simple, General and Both. In Simple an higher level employee can conduct an assessment to their lower level employees and same level employees can be but not lower level to higher level, General Each employees can conduct an assessment himself only, In Both will come to both scenarios. The report will send in Excel sheet format and it could be downloaded to any employee.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed server side pages and static web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and PHP.  ? Utilized PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (Cross-Platform), HTML, XHTML, CSS to modify existing website, replaced existing functionality with new code.  ? Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS layouts.  ? Developed site according to client specifications with HTML and Dynamic Cross-browser JavaScript.  ? Installed and extended existing jQuery plugins as well as the jQuery UI library.  ? Designed Graphic web applications using Flash and Photo Shop.  ? Wrote SQL queries for database storage  ? Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  ? Maintaining optimizing and tuning database performance and underlying schemas.  ? Developed backend interfaces between databases and the companies Apps API in PHP.  ? Developed stored procedures using best practices and industry recognized design patterns.  Environment: Php, Wamp 2x, Mysql 5x, Sql Server 2008, Ajax, HTML, Java Script    Ray Business Technologies  www.happinesssale.com  PHP Developer  This is a website for online e-commerce site for selling all electronic devices. There is already a web application which was developed in Magento. This is Mobile app for that site which was developed using the jQuery Mobile and Phonegap.  Roles and Responsibilities:    ? Setting up the environment for the development using the Phonegap and jQuery Mobile.  ? Creating different layouts for the Mobile using jQuery mobile.  ? Used Phonegap API's in developing the App.  ? Created user login and authentication forms for the app.  ? Writes clean code following standard guidelines for the project and including comments describing blocks of code and develops stored procedures, triggers, and views using T-SQL on SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Integrated the data with the server of the existing Web Application.    Environment: jQuery Mobile, Phonegap, Ajax, jQuery, PHP, MySQL, XAMPP, Adobe Dreamweaver    Ray Business Technologies  www.royalenfield.com  PHP Developer    This is the motorcycle community website. The main aspect of the project is to make the Royal Enfield users, more interactive in to the website. It consists of different modules namely Registration, Number plate Rating, Site Search, Knowledge Base, Query Management System, Rider Wants Rider and Bulletin Board.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed server side pages and static webpages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and PHP.  ? Utilized PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (Cross-Platform), HTML, XHTML, CSS to modify existing website, replaced existing functionality with new code.  ? Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS layouts.  ? Developed site according to client specifications with HTML and Dynamic Cross-browser JavaScript.  ? Installed and extended existing jQuery plugins as well as the jQuery UI library.  ? Designed Graphic web applications using Flash and Photo Shop.  ? Wrote SQL queries for database storage.  ? Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements  Environment: PHP, MySQL, XAMP, Ajax, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver PHP Developer Global ERP Solutions - Ahmedabad, Gujarat December 2007 to August 2009 Responsibilities:    Online bidding application was developed for Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. System facilitates users to bid for the special courses based on their points for certain time limits. Testing scope is the performance of the system and data integrity.    ? Designed server side pages and static web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and PHP.  ? Utilized PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (Cross-Platform), HTML, XHTML, CSS to modify existing website, replaced existing functionality with new code.  ? Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS layouts.  ? Developed site according to client specifications with HTML and Dynamic Cross-browser JavaScript.  ? Installed and extended existing jQuery plugins as well as the jQuery UI library.  ? Designed Graphic web applications using Flash and Photoshop.  ? Wrote SQL queries for database storage  ? Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  ? Migrated all content to Content Management Systems.  ? Tested site and debugging code for cross-browser and cross-platform performance.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Web Standards, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, Cross-platform, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, CMS    Global ERP Solutions  Inventory Management System  Tech on wire  This project is used to provide information to efficiently manage the flow of equipment's, effectively utilize people and equipment, coordinate internal activities and communicate with customers. This does not make decisions or manage operations; they provide the information to managers who make more accurate and timely decisions to manage their operations.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for evaluating, developing, deploying, monitoring and supporting database systems.  ? Supervised and mentored the database scheme development team.  ? Setting standards and best practices for application development.  ? Assessing application specifications and develop intuitive stored procedure interfaces.  ? Extracting complex datasets across multiple databases and tables accurately and efficiently.  ? Testing, debugging and suggesting performance improvements to new and developed SQL.  ? Maintaining optimizing and tuning database performance and underlying schemas.  ? Developed backend interfaces between databases and the companies Apps API in PHP.  ? Developed stored procedures using best practices and industry recognized design patterns    Environment: HTML, CSS, Web Standards, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, Cross-platform, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, CMS Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills    SKILLS TOOLS & TECHNOLOGY  Scripts/ Languages .Net, AngularJS, nodeJS, C#, PHP5, HTML5, XML, SQL, PLSQL, JAVA, JSP, Java Script,  Front- end - (IDE) Eclipse, Net Beans, VB 6.0, Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver, Visual Studio, Xcode  Database MySQL, Oracle 10, MS Access 97/2000, Microsoft SQL Server  Tools & Technology MS Office 2003, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Bridge, notepad++, DOM, Subversion (SVN), GIT  Web Technologies Wordpress, Magento, HTML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Google Maps API V3.  Mobile Technologies Xamarin, Xcode, JQuery Mobile, Phonegap, jQuery, Ajax, HTML5, Android, IPhone.  Framework Zend, Drupal, Magento, Backbone JS, Marionette JS, Require JS, AngularJS, nodejs, Underscorejs, Sencha Touch  SEO/SEM/SMO On/Off Page Optimization, Paid SEO, Social Media optimization.  Client Side Scripting Javascript, VBS, jQuery  Application Server/WEB Services Apache Web Server, IIS 6.0, SOAP, REST full, MAMP  Operating System Windows 9X, 2000, 2003 Server, XP, Vista & Seven, Ubuntu Linux, Unix, Mac OS