Project Management, Account Management Project Management, Account Management Organized planner and problem solver with 10+ years experience working on digital products. San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Management, Account Management Monkeybrains.net - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to December 2018 • Independently managed 1000+ commercial projects which contributed to more than 50% of company revenue.  • Planned the scheduling resources for all work, up to three months in advance, remaining mindful of priorities and competition for resources.  • Maintained internal and external stakeholder communication, throughout entire project life cycle, to ensure smooth project implementation and execution.  • Ensured completion of projects by deadline, anticipating and resolving challenges along the way.  • Calculated budgets and quotes based on customer requirements, time requirements, and long term goals for the project.  • Identified areas of improvement in process and organization, proposed software enhancements where needed and solicited feedback from other departments.  • Created necessary paperwork including detailed proposals and contracts.  • Wrote internal and external documentation including web copy, training materials, and customer communication materials.  • Regularly updated shared communication database with key project details and documentation.  • Doubled customer leads through redesign of the company’s website including UX, front- end development and content. Front- End Developer Independent Contractor - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to May 2014 • Dolby Laboratories - Added pages and features to their responsive, in-house style guide.  • Insightly.com - Created a responsive redesign of their CRM using Bootstrap. Front- End Developer CBS Interactive - San Francisco, CA March 2010 to February 2012 • Worked with the Product, Marketing, Engineering and Design teams to create engaging web products driven by our user’s values.  • Participated in the redevelopment of the entertainment review site Metacritic.com.   • Contributed to ongoing site enhancements and features for popular gaming site GameSpot.com. Front- End Developer Loomis Group - Contract - San Francisco, CA October 2009 to March 2010 • Created an accessible (Section 508) company website for this interactive media agency.   • Developed digital marketing pieces, for various clients, including Sony and Samsung.   • Catered content to target audience through implementation of A/B testing. Front- End Developer PopularMedia - San Francisco, CA June 2008 to October 2009 Created a number of microsites to generate leads for clients such as Guthy Renker, Def Jam, Advanta, Kohls, and the American Academy of Chefs. Front- End Developer SFGate.com - San Francisco, CA May 2007 to May 2008 Worked with the Production and Design team to complete their site redesign offering enhanced usability, greater access by mobile devices as well as an updated look and feel. Our team achieved this by standardizing css-based templates and modules. Front- End Developer Tagged.com - San Francisco, CA February 2003 to November 2006 • Led the front- end effort to create this social networking site from the ground up.   • Site was viral in under one year. Skills HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), UX (5 years), Project Management (5 years), Product Management (5 years), CRM (5 years), Responsive Web (5 years), Hiring (5 years), Training (10+ years), JIRA (2 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Google Docs (5 years), Bootstrap (1 year), Cross-Functional Team Leadership (5 years), Customer Relationship Management (5 years), Collaborative Problem Solving (10+ years), Scheduling, Customer Service, Sales, Estimating, Outlook